DTGO Corporation Limited Communication on Progress January December 2019 Our Commitment Dear stakeholder, As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact for the last three years, I would like to reaffirm our commitment to its 10 principles in human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. This latest annual communication of our progress describes our actions in 2019 to further integrate the Global Compact principles into our strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Thippaporn Chearavanont Ahriyavraromp Chairman of the Executive Committee Organizational Profile Vision & Mission DTGO Corporation Limited is a social purpose business that is passionate about helping solve social and environmental issues through its business as well as its social contribution. Since its establishment in 1993, DTGO has contributed to wide range of social development programs with a primary focus on underprivileged children. VISION To be a global, evolving, and living organization that fosters a community of smart and good-hearted people who care for the world at large. MISSION  Nurture children in need of a better quality of life  Conduct business successfully with ethics and integrity  Be a community full of warmth and happiness  Be a dependable place for every member  Foster every community member to live a happy life with ethics and integrity Social Contribution The DTGO Do Good Group is a circle of non-profits that efficiently and effectively implement programs with administrative services and facility management provided and fully funded by DTGO Corporation Limited. The group’s prime purpose is to optimize program outcomes, value for beneficiaries, and the use of resources from donations and other contributions. The DTGO Do Good Group encompasses a wide range of philanthropic activities covering today’s and tomorrow’s sustainability challenges locally and globally. The circle includes charitable organizations such as Buddharaksa Foundation, Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation, Blue Carbon Society, and Buddharaksa Family Association. Social initiatives include The Givers Network and New Heart New World. The DTGO Do Good Group also acts as a gateway for filling the funding gaps of its members and other charities using funds from the 2% of topline revenues that DTGO companies dedicate to philanthropy. Buddharaksa Foundation, a Thailand-registered charitable foundation set up in 1999, has worked with DTGO to spark transformative life changes among underprivileged children and youths in Thailand through helping them gain wellrounded educations that impart both wisdom and compassion. Buddharaksa Foundation’s scholarships currently help 1,008 orphans and children and youths from poor families to stay in education each year. The foundation’s support for raising educational standards in schools and academic institutions also benefits over 10,000 pupils and students each year. Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation Limited, formerly DT Families Foundation, established in Hong Kong in 2016 as a charitable associate of DTGO, works on environmental protection and sustainable development with global partners. Its recent engagement in the ‘Bhutan for Life’ project enhances DTGO’s capacity to address world sustainable development goals with integrated focuses on economic development, ecological enrichment, and community empowerment. Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation, established in Thailand in early 2018 as a charitable associate of DTGO and as partner of Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation Limited, works on public health and early childhood development for vulnerable people in Thailand. Businesses DTGO aims to add value and enhance well-being in all its business operations. The group also dedicates 2% of its topline revenues to social causes. DTGO’s business falls into 3 main areas: Property development led by Magnolia Quality Development Corporation Limited (MQDC), a company dedicated to pushing the boundaries of property development to change society for the better through trend-setting design as well as innovative thinking in the interaction of behavioral psychology and materials and system technologies. Design and construction management led by DT Design Corporation, an integrated architectural design firm committed to improving people’s quality of life by incorporating the latest innovations and advanced research into its products and services, which range from urban planning to architectural design, interior design, landscape design, and design consulting. D Plans provides professional consulting services in design and project and construction management in China and Thailand. Trading and commerce led by Dees Supreme, an international company focused on developing innovative commerce to sustainably serve evolving global lifestyles. Dees Supreme’s associates engage in a wide variety of advanced technologies such as innovative materials and technological solutions for real estate development. Employee Engagement As of December 2019, DTGO had 831 employees, or what the group refers to as ‘corporate members’. 2017 2018 2019 Number of corporate members 585 731 831 49.50% 54.00% 53.91% Female Genders 50.50% 46.00% 46.09% Male 92.50% 98% 95% Thai 5% <1% 3.01% Chinese <1% <1% <1% Korean <1% <1% Taiwanese <1% <1% <1% Canadian <1% <1% <1% British <1% <1% <1% German Nationalities <1% <1% <1% Singaporean <1% <1% <1% Swedish <1% <1% American <1% <1% Mongolian <1% Bhutanese <1% Myanmar <1% Russian 35 36 36 years old – Female Age (average) 39 39 39 years old – Male 47% 29% 23% Less than 1 year 22% 45% 51% 1-4 years Years of service 20% 16% 15% 5-9 years 17% 9% 9% 10-20 years 1% 1% 1% More than 20 years 6% 4% 6% Baby Boomer 40% 33% 31% Gen X Generations 54% 63% 63% Gen Y 0.4% Gen Z DTGO’s core values provide the foundation for serving stakeholders and benefiting society at large. DYNAMIC Honor our words, honor our time Our words reflect who we are and what we stand for. We commit to our promises. We understand the value of time and cherish every second as we know that time is a precious and finite resource. TEAMWORK Always be helpful Harmony in a team arises when members respect each other and value their differences. By drawing on a variety of talents and strengths, good teamwork enables people to complement and help each other, resulting in success for both teams and individuals. GOODWILL Good thoughts, good words, good deeds A person with a good and caring heart can bring out their own goodwill as well as influence goodwill in others. Goodwill must be exercised through all thoughts, words and actions. OPEN-MINDED Listen and think positively Being open-minded is the key to happiness in life and success at work. It helps broaden our capacities for active listening and positive thinking. Through active listening, one can tap into an endless stream of knowledge. Through positive thinking, one becomes a person of understanding, willing to embrace any new challenge and opportunity. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, and Goals The company’s code of conduct announced in 2014 addresses the basic principles governed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, primarily equality in dignity and rights without distinction of any kind. Emphasis is placed on: privacy, recruitment, employment and human resource management, employee and stakeholder engagement practices. Our business entities have extended their activities to promote and support equality among their stakeholders especially those from disadvantaged groups. The audit team will further ensure compliance through internal control systems. Our charitable associate, Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation helps promote good health and well-being for all by supporting the regional health initiative of the Global Fund and advocacy programs in health. Buddharaksa Foundation, another charitable associate, has continuously worked to promote: the right to education by providing financial support to marginalized children and youths, the right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being by supporting disaster relief efforts and providing assistance to help underprivileged groups gain essential care and access to social welfare. Implementation DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights DTGO 20 February 19 January, 11 January, Ensuring that the UN Corporation 23 March, 15 February, Global Compact’s Limited 18 May, 19 April, principles are (DTGO) 21 June, 2 July, implemented by the 9 August, 16 August, company and all its key 25 December 31 October, stakeholders. 16 November Appointment of Corporate Corporate Social Corporate Social Social Contribution Contribution Committee Contribution Committee Committee. functions to supervise functions to supervise socialand human rightssocialand human rightsrelated programs managed related programs managed by the company, its by the company, its subsidiaries and partners. subsidiaries and partners. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: (Continued) DTGO 5 July 25 January, 25 January, Strengthening Human Corporation 28 February, 27 February, Rights & Good Labor Limited 28 March, 17 April, Practice Policy and other (DTGO) 25 April, 22 May, related policies through (Continued) 7 May, 3 July, Corporate Governance 6 June, 28 August, (CG) E-learning. 10 July, 26 September, 25 July, 18 October, 24 August, 11 December 26 September, 24 October, 28 November, 20 December Appointment of Good Regular meeting of Good Regular meeting of Good Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee. Committee to ensure all Committee to ensure all matters related to human matters related to human rights are properly rights are properly managed through policy managed through policy development (being development and drafted) and implementation. implementation. 15 October Announced and communicated 1) Supplier Code of Conduct and 2) Human Right & Good Labor Practice Policy. 10 October Establishing a network of Group CEO attended the philanthropists focused on ‘Philanthropy Roundtable gender equality. on Gender Equality’ hosted by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) at Fairmont Sanur Beach Bali. 3 July, 13 February, 21 February, Series of projects by 5 May, 15 May, 22 May, members (employees) to 8 August, 16 August, 23 August, support access to proper 9 November 20 November 26 November health provision and living standards for Blood donation activities Blood donation activities Blood donation activities disadvantaged people in by our members by our members by our members society (employees). (employees). (employees). DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: (Continued) DTGO 8 May, 4 April, 28 March, Series of projects by Corporation 9 May, 19 April, 2 April, members (employees) to Limited 15 May, 4 May, 25 April support access to proper (Continued) 26 May, 23 May, health provision and 1 June 13 June living standards for disadvantaged people in Lunch treat by our Lunch treat by our Lunch treat by our society. members for members for members for disadvantaged people. disadvantaged people. disadvantaged people. 14 February, 14 February 16 May, 17 August Fund raising activity Fund raising activity among our members for among our members for charity arranged in house. charity arranged in house. 17 February DTGO's member joined RUN FOR KIDS 2019, whose revenue is to be spent entirely on the activities of the Ronald McDonald House Foundation in Thailand. 28 March Member volunteering for toilet facility improvement at Baan Amphur School. 12 August DTGO members joined the '12 August Half Marathon 2019’ that raised donations for the Queen Sirikit Center for breast cancer, Chulalongkorn Hospital, and Thai Red Cross Society. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Continued DTGO China – 4 June Series of contributions to as a DTGO DTGO China provided reduce the inequality gap subsidiary school supplies for in education. students in Yunnan. Magnolia 11 August Series of contributions to Quality MQDC donated audio reduce the inequality gap Development equipment for the blind in from disabilities. Corporation Wat Marua Khiri Wan, Limited Nakhon Ratchasima. (MQDC) – as a DTGO 9 October subsidiary MQDC donated wheelchairs and funded eyesight tests for the community at Sattahip, Chonburi. 13 January 14 August Series of contributions to 3 September reduce the inequality gap MQDC’s Pattaya MQDC provided 132 and in education. Worldmark project and 123 scholarships to Na Jomtien municipality students who are children hosted a children’s day at of permanent and Pranang Jomtien at temporary employees of Sattahip in Chonburi. Phra Khanong District Over 1,500 children Office and Wattana attended. District Office respectively. 3 September Series of projects to MQDC provided accident support access to proper insurance for 606 health provision and permanent and temporary living standards for employees of Phra disadvantaged people in Khanong District Office. society. Research & 4 November Series of projects to Innovation for RISC co-hosted support access to proper Sustainability TEDxBangkok health provision and Center (RISC) Adventures 2018: Dis + living standards for by MQDC – as Able Technology to find disadvantaged people in a DTGO technology for social society. subsidiary development in various fields. 101 True 20 May Series of contributions to Digital Park by 101 True Digital Park reduce the inequality gap MQDC – as a organized a charity dinner from illness. DTGO raising fund for the subsidiary Princess Sirindhorn Craniofacial Center, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, the Thai Red Cross Society, for treating facial and skull irregularities. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Continued Whizdom by 11 May Series of public MQDC – as a Whizdom Society hosted engagement activities for DTGO ‘How to raise a happy raising child. subsidiary child’ seminar. All year round Series of contributions to Provided 10 reduce the inequality gap accommodation in education. scholarships for students to advance their education. The Estate by 13 September Series of activity to MQDC – as a 13 December encourage giving in DTGO The Estate organized the society. subsidiary ‘Giving 4 Giving Vol. 1’ and ‘Giving 4 Giving Vol. 2' to collect donations from its resident and presented them to Wat Suan Kaew. Dhanin Tawee 1-8 March Ensuring that the Chearavanont DTFF sent its staff to practices related to Foundation attend an International community work adhere (DTCF), workshop on Participatory to human rights formerly DT Monitoring and principles. Families Evaluation. Foundation 4 May 17-18 January Series of contributions to (DTFF) – as a DTFF announced its DTCF participated the 1st reduce the inequality gap DTGO partnership with APLMA workshop with Shoklo from illness. foundation to end malaria in Thailand Malaria Research Unit partner by 2030. (SMRU) and its partners to develop a framework of activities for eradicating malaria in Tak, Songkhla, Yala, Narathiwat, and Sisaket. 31 May 31 January DTFF announced its DTCF contributed USD1 partnership with the million to the Global Global Fund to combat Fund to support malaria malaria at the UBS elimination in GMS Philanthropy Conference, countries. Singapore’s Capella Hotel. 3 July 25 April DTFF joined the panel DTCF sponsored ‘Step discussion on the private Up The Fight: Private sector’s role in Sector Leadership To End eliminating malaria at the Malaria’, a discussion 1st Malaria World featuring 26 organizations Congress in Melbourne, from 12 countries on Australia. World Malaria Day. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Continued Dhanin Tawee 9-10 October Series of contributions to Chearavanont DTCF's president and reduce the inequality gap Foundation committee participated in from illness. (DTCF) the Global Fund’s Sixth (Continued) Replenishment Conference, co-hosted by the French government in Lyon, France. 15 September 5 October Series of advocacy Co-hosted ‘The Givers Co-hosted ‘The Givers activities to reduce the Network 2018, Bangkok’ Network 2019, Bangkok’ inequality gap through to promote collaborative to promote collaborative collaborative giving. giving among givers. giving among givers, providing inspiration talks including Mr. Bill Somerville, who shared his vision of ‘grassroots philanthropy' of helping poor communities, and Mr. Worawit Tantiwattanasap, a doctor who has worked tirelessly for 27 years to help border communities. 12-13 November Ensuring that the DTFF attended UNICEF practices related to social International Council programs adhere to Meeting 2018. human rights principles. Buddharaksa All year round All year round All year round Ongoing project to Foundation BUF carried out an BUF carried out an BUF carried out an provide access to quality (BUF) – as a English teaching program English teaching program English teaching program education in hard-to-reach DTGO for preprimary and for preprimary and for preprimary and areas. foundation elementary students at 14 elementary students at 14 elementary students at 16 partner Border Patrol Police Border Patrol Police Border Patrol Police schools in Chiang Rai, schools in Chiang Rai, schools in Chiang Rai, Nan, and Payao Nan, and Payao Nan, and Payao provinces, Thailand. provinces, Thailand. provinces, Thailand. 1 September All year round All year round BUF and DTFF brought BUF and DTFF brought Three Bhutanese scholars in one Bhutanese scholar in two Bhutanese scholars continued their duties to to improve the quality of to improve the quality of improve the quality of English teaching in border English teaching at two English teaching at three schools in Thailand. schools in Thailand. schools in Thailand. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Continued Buddharaksa 6,13,20,21,27,28 January, 6,12,19,27, January, Collaborate with new Foundation 11,25 February, 9,17,23 February, partners to expand (BUF) – as a 10, 17,25 March, 2,16 March, Art4Worth activities to DTGO 1,18,21,22,28,29 April, 11,18,19,25,26 May, reach more foundation 5,6,13 May, 1,2,8,9,15,16,22,23,29,30 underprivileged children. partner 9,10, 17,23,24 June, June, 1, 7,8,15,21,22 July, 6,7,13,14,20,21 July, 5,18,26 August, 3,18,24,25,31 August, 2,8,22,23,29 September, 1,7,8,14,15,21,22,28,29 6,13,20,27 October, September, 3,4,10,18,24 November, 5,6,12,13,19,20,26,27 2 December October, 2,10,17,23,30 November, 1,7,8,14,15,21,22 December BUF conducted the BUF conducted the “Art4Worth” program “Art4Worth” program with the objective of with the objective of developing artistic talent developing artistic talent in underprivileged in underprivileged communities to help communities to help children gain confidence children gain confidence and self-esteem. and self-esteem. 9, 13,16 February BUF Art4Worth program brought 600 children from Dhammajarinee School and Wat Sa-Keaw School to the Low Fat Art Fes festival to experience a variety of artistic perspectives for creating their own work. 16-18 February 5-6 April Series of training BUF provided leadership BUF provided leadership activities to enhance the training for 39 scholarship training for 50 scholarship capacity of students. students. underprivileged children. 26 May, 17 July Routine visits by top 1 June management to BUF’s honorary chairman BUF’s honorary chairman implementation partners and chairperson visited and chairperson visited for ensuring access to partner schools: Wat Sa the partner school Wat Sa education. Kaeo School and Kaeo School, providing a Dhammajarinee School, lunch treat for its student which accommodate and also pupils from Bang 1,100+ and 800+ Sa-Dej Wittaya and underprivileged students. Thairath Wittaya schools. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Continued Buddharaksa 18 July Enhance career Foundation BUF provided opportunities for the (BUF) – as a scholarships to underprivileged. DTGO underprivileged youth in foundation Northern Thailand to train partner in primary care for the elderly. 12 April 26 March 25 March Series of projects to BUF provided houses for BUF provided homes to BUF provided homes to support access to proper earthquake victims in underprivileged people in underprivileged people in health provision and Chubu village, Kanchanaburi, Thailand. Kanchanaburi, Thailand. living standards for Kathmandu, Nepal. disaster relief and/or disadvantaged people in 25 may 18 July society. BUF provided homes to BUF provided homes to underprivileged people in underprivileged people in Sa Kaeo, Thailand. Sa Kaeo, Thailand. 18 September 26 October BUF provided homes to BUF provided homes to underprivileged people in underprivileged people in Kanchanaburi, Prachinburi, Thailand. Ratchaburi, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Thailand. 8 November 18 November BUF provided home to BUF provided homes to underprivileged people at underprivileged people in Khlong Sam Wa, Sa Kaeo, Thailand. Bangkok, Thailand. 11 August 2 August 19-23 October Series of contributions to BUF donated THB1 BUF donated THB1 BUF donated reduce the inequality gap million to flood victims in million to help victims of THB100,000 to support a from disasters/crises. Northeast Thailand. the dam collapse in Laos. taskforce from Minburi Polytechnic Technological College to help flood victims in Ubonratchathani. 12 August All year round Series of projects to BUF granted educational BUF granted educational support access to proper funding at Wat Thung funding at Wat Thung health provision and Hiang. The recipients Hiang continuously. living standards for were underprivileged disadvantaged people in monks, novices, students society. and youths. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 1: Continued Buddharaksa 11 September All year round Series of contributions to Foundation BUF partnered with BUF expanded the reduce the inequality gap (BUF) – as a RIECE Thailand to partnership with RIECE in education. DTGO reduce inequality through Thailand from 8 to 14 foundation early childhood education entities to improve the partner in Thailand. quality of early childhood education in Thailand. 12-14 February BUF joined a workshop and signed the 'Partnership School 2' MOU to raise standards and increase innovation in Ministry of Education schools to nurture academic achievement and make schools lifelong learning sources for communities while reducing educational disparity. 3 May BUF signed an MoU with University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce (UTTC) to support at least 10 undergraduate scholarships each year for studying at the Faculty of Early Childhood Education. 14 December Series of contributions to BUF donated a boat to reduce the inequality gap Ladprao community as in urban communities part of community development. 11 December Series of contributions to BUF provided free tickets provide access to positive for 3,335 underprivileged and inspiring content. youth to watch 'Ne Zha' film. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses DTGO 5 July All year round All year round Targeting to audit 18 Corporation Appointment of Audit Appointment of audit Audit team performed an departments/entities Limited (DTGO) Committee. team and the auditing of 9 audit of 11 internal including support entities including support departments/entities and divisions and business divisions and business 14 ad hoc requests. units. units. 3 July All year round Ensuring the DTGO launched DTGO communicated to implementation of Good whistleblowing and stakeholders the Corporate Governance complaints channels for whistleblowing and policy, human rightboth internal and external complaints regulations. related policies and code stakeholders. of conduct Magnolia Quality 24 May All year round Developing MQDC Development MQDC initiated MQDC in collaboration guidelines to be Corporation collaboration with with UNICEF and Baan implemented at every (MQDC) – as a UNICEF and Baan Dek Dek Foundation construction camp site. DTGO subsidiary Foundation to assess the established a well-being living conditions of program at a pilot site. children in construction camp sites. LABOR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, and Goals Similar to human rights principles, labor principles are applied and stated in the company’s code of conduct. Specifically, the emphasis is on ensuring compliance with related laws and regulations for the company’s operations and our stakeholders. This year, the audit team appointment will ensure compliance with all labor principles through internal control systems. In addition, business entities have initiated an activity to promote the well-being of staff and their relations, while our associated charitable entities have social programs to provide opportunities for people in need to prevent potentially abusive circumstances in the future. Implementation DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining DTGO 5 July 19 January, Announcing and Corporation 23 March, communicating Human Limited 18 May Rights and Good Labor (DTGO) Appointment of Good Human rights and good Practice policy by Good Corporate Governance labor practice policy was Corporate Governance Committee. proposed and discussed in Committee. the Social and Sustainability Committee prior to final proposal to Good Corporate Governance Committee. 3 May 12 March, Enhancing 25 June, communication platforms 10 September, for corporate members to 14 October voice their concerns. Live webchat with DTGO executives met executives. members. 4 May, 13 July, 25 August, 28 December Staff meetings 7 February, 24 January, 14-15 January, Ongoing activities to 3 August 28-29 June 9-10 July promote collective Annual corporate Annual corporate Annual corporate employee engagement at meetings. meetings. meetings. all levels. Buddharaksa 16 November 5-6 April Providing a platform for Foundation Buddharaksa Family Buddharaksa Family scholarship students to (BUF) – as a Association was Association initiated 12 participate in managing DTGO established. volunteer projects in their programs/activities by the foundation communities. foundation. partner DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor DTGO 5 July 19 January, 1 March Strengthening Human Corporation 23 March, Rights & Good Labor Limited 18 May Practice Policy and other (DTGO) Appointment of Good Human rights and good Announcement of Manual related policies through Corporate Governance labor practice policy was of Principles of Good Corporate Governance Committee. proposed and discussed in Corporate Governance (CG) E-learning. the Social and and Code of Business and Sustainability Committee Social Conduct of DTGO prior to final proposal to Group of Companies. Good Corporate Governance Committee. 15 October Announcement of Supplier Code of Conduct of DTGO Group of Companies covering business ethics, human rights and labor practices, occupational health and safety and sustainability. 5 July All year round All year round Targeting to audit 18 Appointment of Audit Audit Committee Audit team performed an departments/entities Committee. appointed audit team and audit of 11 internal including support the auditing of 9 entities departments/entities and divisions and business including support 14 ad hoc requests. units. divisions and business units. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor DTGO 5 July 19 January, 1 March Strengthening Human Corporation 23 March, Rights & Good Labor Limited 18 May Practice Policy and other (DTGO) Appointment of Good Human rights and good Announcement of Manual related policies through Corporate Governance labor practice policy was of Principles of Good Corporate Governance Committee. proposed and discussed in Corporate Governance (CG) E-learning. the Social and and Code of Business and Sustainability Committee Social Conduct of DTGO prior to final proposal to Group of Companies Good Corporate Governance Committee. 15 October Announcement of Supplier Code of Conduct of DTGO Group of Companies covering business ethics, human rights and labor practices, occupational health and safety and sustainability. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 5: Continued Magnolia 24 May All year round To include the Quality MQDC joined force with MQDC in collaboration requirement for “no child Development UNICEF and Baan Dek with UNICEF and Baan labor” in the supply chain. Corporation Foundation to promote Dek Foundation (MQDC) – as a the well-being of children established a well-being DTGO in construction camp program at a pilot site. subsidiary sites. Dhanin Tawee 15 September Series of advocacy Chearavanont Co-hosted ‘The Givers activities to reduce the Foundation Network 2018, Bangkok’ incidence of child labor. (DTCF), with inspiration talks formerly DT including from Dr. Families Hannes Schmid, who Foundation shared his social (DTFF) – as a development work to DTGO prevent child labor in foundation Cambodia. partner Buddharaksa All year round All year round All year round Series of contributions to Foundation Provided 603 scholarships Provided 693 scholarships Provided 1008 ensure at-risk children (BUF) – as a for students to advance for students to advance scholarships for students (e.g. underprivileged DTGO their education. their education. to advance their children) are properly foundation education. placed in schools. partner Invited DTGO members Organized two career day to speak as career role events at partner schools. models at 7 career day events at partner schools. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation DTGO January-December 1 March Strengthening Human Corporation Applying newly revised Announcement of Manual Rights & Good Labor Limited employees’ manual with of Principles of Good Practice Policy and other (DTGO) an emphasis on the role Corporate Governance related policies through and responsibility of and Code of Business and Corporate Governance superiors in ensuring nonSocial Conduct of DTGO (CG) E-learning. discriminatory practices Group of Companies. in the workplace. 15 October Announcement of Supplier Code of Conduct of DTGO Group of Companies covering business ethics, human rights and labor practices, occupational health and safety and sustainability. 21-22 September 6-7 September Ongoing activities to Organized annual Organized annual promote collective company outing for all company outing for all employee engagement at members. members. all levels. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, and Goals Working largely in property development, the group faces key ongoing environmental challenges including: How to reduce our environmental footprint in the supply chain? How to develop more sustainable design and construction management? How to operate facilities with the least environmental impact? The company and its subsidiaries and charitable associates therefore work intensively in partnership with key stakeholders to create innovation that tackles challenges in business and in general. Knowledge-sharing is another form of public advocacy conducted throughout the entire year. Internally, a sustainability framework has been drafted as a guideline for implementation within our business operations. Implementation DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges DTGO 1 February Strengthening the Corporation Environmental policy was implementation of Limited announced. environmental policy. (DTGO) 15 August Series of educational and DTGO arranged the awareness-raising screening of the activities among the documentary ‘A Plastic group’s members. Ocean’ for its members to raise awareness and spur action on the issue. 6 December DTGO joined COP23 global climate forum in Germany. Dhanin Tawee 1 June Support for partners for Chearavanont DTFF organized ‘Earth environmental protection. Foundation for Life’ advocacy session (DTCF), as a side event at UBS formerly DT Philanthropy Conference Families 2018. Foundation (DTFF) – as a 11 November 26 September 13-16 October Ongoing support DTGO DTFF contributed USD5 DTFF’s director has been DTCF's director attended throughout 14 years of foundation million to the 14-year appointed to the 'Bhutan the annual 'Bhutan for project implementation. partner ‘Bhutan for Life’ project for Life' fund’s Board of Life' fund’s Board of to keep the Himalayan Trustees meeting to Trustees meeting to nation carbon negative. oversee project oversee project implementation. implementation. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 7: Continued Blue Carbon 12 March 14 August Developing a network and Society (BCS) DTGO’s Group CEO BCS signed an MoU with platform to conserve as a DTGO together with Shellhut the United Nations marine and coastal association Entertainment’s CEO Development Programme ecosystems. partner established the Blue (UNDP) to develop a Carbon Society, an masterplan to protect and association dedicated to restore mangroves in the preserving and restoring western Thai province of marine and coastal Phetchaburi. ecosystems. 23 May Series of public advocacy Director of BCS activities for participated in a panel environmental protection. discussion, on ‘Financial Mechanisms for Managing Biodiversity’, to mark the International Day for Biological Diversity. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility DTGO 12 July Series of internal Corporation Sustainability working advocacy activities for Limited team launched waste environmental protection. (DTGO) segregation campaign internally. 3 August, 20 August, 23 August Sustainability working team provided a series of communications on waste management. 9 August 13 December Series of internal DTGO’s office stepped DTGO hosted the ‘Forest engagement activities for up its greening through Planting by Slingshot’ environmental protection. the use of bio-degradable volunteer activity for its plastic for cups and straws members to help restore used by the cafeteria. the forest at Khao Cha Ngok Mountain in the Chulachomklao Royal Military Academy. Members’ activities. 24 August Volunteering activity to clear a waterway of rubbish and water hyacinth. 28 August Volunteering activity to plant new woodland at The Forestias project. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued DTGO 25 July 12-13 December Series of public advocacy Corporation Prof. Pongporn Prof. Pongporn activities for developing Limited Sudbanthad, an advisor to Sudbanthad, an advisor to canal-side communities (DTGO) DTGO and MQDC, DTGO spoke on his work with environmental (Continued) shared his experience of for the community, protection. helping canal-side fostering sustainable communities at the ‘MIT development building Sloan – Sasin Action neighborhoods and Learning Conference’ at enhancing quality of life the Sasin School of for communities by Management at working with universities Chulalongkorn and the government. University. 4 October Series of public DTGO spoke on ‘BIM for presentations on sustainable construction’ environmental research at Construction United and applications. 2019 at Science & Technology Park, Chiang Mai University. Magnolia 7 July Series of public Quality MQDC shared its presentations on Development experiences with over 200 environmental research Corporation civil engineering graduate and applications. Limited students at Kasetsart (MQDC) as a University on the topic DTGO “Green Practices: Here…. subsidiary And Now!” 15 January 3 June Annual public MQDC organized 'The MQDC organized 'The engagement with Annual International Annual International innovation that supports Well-Being and Well-Being and well-being and Sustainability Forum' in Sustainability Forum' in sustainable development. Bangkok, bringing in Bangkok, bringing in global experts to explore global experts to speak on how design can serve both the latest innovations for humans and the planet. well-being and sustainability. 17 February 14 December Series of public activities MQDC’s The Forestias MQDC and Blue Carbon for environmental and the Bangkok Post Society teamed up with protection. organized the “Fantastic publicand private-sector Green Rally 2018” taking organizations to hold the a group of 250 1st Ban Amphur Plogging participants to participate Fair that highlighted in tree-planting and damenvironmental building activities at Khao conservation and tourism Yai. in Chonburi. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Magnolia 12 March 1 July Series of public advocacy Quality MQDC sponsored a MQDC spoke on ‘smart activities for Development preview screening of the city’ technology at environmental protection. Corporation BBC wildlife ‘Moving Toward a Limited documentary ‘Earth: One Circular Economy’ vol. 3 (MQDC) Amazing Day’ at the at True Digital Park. (Continued) launch of Blue Carbon Society (BCS). 3 September MQDC spoke on ‘Transformation to the Circular Built Environment’ discussion organized by SCG Cement-Building Materials. 13 September MQDC and its research unit RISC joined with PTT Global Chemical (GC) and Carpet Maker (Thailand) to launch hand-woven carpets made from plastic bottles retrieved from the sea in ‘Upcycling for a Better World 2019’ exhibition at Helix Garden in EmQuartier. 27 July 24 March Series of internal MQDC donated MQDC joined the global engagement activities for THB2.4m to Bangkok Earth Hour campaign by environmental protection. Metropolitan WWF, helping dim all its Administration to help property development plant and restore projects on Saturday from mangroves at 8.30pm to 9.30pm to Bangkhuntien over 3 reduce carbon emissions years. and raise environmental awareness. 27 November A commitment to MQDC and the promote greater International WELL environmental Building Institute (IWBI) responsibility. signed a letter of intention (LOI) under which the former party will aim to achieve WELL Building Standard certification to achieve the well-being for its residents and surrounding communities. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Research & 14 July 13 March 7 January Series of public advocacy Innovation for RISC spoke on building RISC spoke on RISC spoke on ‘Design & activities for Sustainability design for well-being at innovative, healthy and Architecture for Wellenvironmental protection Center (RISC) SCG Experience’s environment-friendly being’ at the National and well-being. by MQDC as Comfortable Residential materials on a TV Convention of the a DTGO Design seminar. program. Institute of Indian Interior subsidiary Designers (IIID). 26 March 9 January RISC gave a lecture on RISC attended the 3rd “Low Energy & High symposium and Quality Lighting for brainstorming conference Workplaces: task – to find a coalition for ambient lights”. sustainable cities under the framework of the UN’s Social Development Goal (SDG) 11. 30 March 26 January 3 February RISC presented on RISC co-sponsored an “WELL Standard exhibition Regenerative Certification” at the Sensing Project – seminar: Design Harvesting the Earth’s Innovation for Health and Energy , at Bangkok Well-Being. Design Week 2019, which covered research into harvesting renewable energy from microorganisms and soil bacteria for fuel cells. 5 August, 15 February 12 August, 19 August RISC’s chief advisor RISC spoke on the ‘role spoke for ‘Mee Palungof sustainability ngan Mee Khum-Sook’ architects’ and the documentaries on RISC’s importance of researching new buildings standard eco-materials and healthy and eco-material library. design for residents to Architect Expo’19 ‘Living Green’ and Luxuo magazine. 28 September 22 February RISC spoke on ‘Smart RISC spoke on integrated City with Sustainnovation knowledge for all wellConcept for All Wellbeing at ‘Insider being: WHIZDOM 101’ Perspective TALK 2019 – at ‘ECO Innovation Owner-Designer Forum 2018: Toward the Discussion’, a seminar Smart Eco-City and organized by SCG. Sustainable Urbanization’. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Research & 26 October 28 February Series of public advocacy Innovation for RISC spoke at the Green RISC spoke on activities for Sustainability Panda: Asia “Technological revolution environmental protection Center (RISC) Environmental for smart buildings & and well-being. (Continued) Knowledge-Sharing facilities management” Forum in Beijing. and Technological evolution for buildings & smart city development at BMAM Expo Asia 2019. 26 December 27 March RISC spoke on ‘Way to RISC spoke on Well-Being’ presenting sustainable design at the how interior design can seminar on “Smart Zerotake into account Water Waste and Power sustainability and energy Grid Systems”. efficiency in the long run. 18 November 15 January, 22 March, 16 February, 26 March, 21 March, 5 April 5 April 23 August, 14 November RISC shared the concept RISC gave a presentation RISC gave a presentation of eco-materials with on the ‘For all well-being’ on the ‘For all well-being’ Kasetsart University design concept to students design concept to postgraduate architecture from Thammasat Thailand Facility students. University, Chiang Mai Management Association University, Dhurakij (TFMA), the Faculty of Pandit University, King Architecture at King Mongkut’s Institute of Mongkut Institute from Technology Ladkrabang. Technology Ladkrabang, the Faculty of Architecture from Chulalongkorn University, CP Land, faculty of National Resources and Environmental Management of Mahidol University. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Research & 30 August, 29 March, Series of public advocacy Innovation for 17 September, 9 April, activities for Sustainability 19 September, 31 May, environmental protection Center (RISC) 25 September, 12 July, and well-being. (Continued) 5 November, 23 July 9 November 15 August, 20 September, 26 September, 28 October, 29 October, 4 December RISC hosted and RISC hosted and presented WELL Building presented WELL Building Standard to lecturers and Standard to groups of students from visitors from Architecture Architecture Faculty, Faculty of Kasetsart Chulalongkorn University, Law Faculty University, Thammasat of Assumption University, King University, Ananda Mongkut’s University of Development PCL, M.K. Technology Thonburi, Real Estate Development King Mongkut’s Institute Public Company Limited, of Technology Don Bosco Technological Ladkrabang, Chiang Mai College, Bangkok University, Kasetsart University, Stenden University’s Department University, Interior of Landscape Design major of Sripatum Architecture. University, architecture students from King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, faculty of Architecture from Chulalongkorn University, Real Asset Development Co.Ltd and faculty of Architecture and Planning from Thammasat University. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Research & 9 July, 14 March, Series of public advocacy Innovation for 4 September 15 March, activities for Sustainability 4 April, environmental protection Center (RISC) 26 July, and well-being. (Continued) 6 August, 22 August 8 October RISC hosted visits from RISC hosted visits from Bhutanese students and Harmony World Chiang Mai University Consulting & Design students, to explore its from China, Concordian research and ecoInternational School, materials library. National Science and Technology Development Agency (NSTDA), the Faculty of Civil Engineering at Guangxi University of Finance and Economics, Sahaviriya Steel Industries PLC, Faculty of Fine Arts, Srinakharinwirot University, and architecture students from Rangsit University to explore its research and eco-materials library. 21 August 9 May RISC hosted the first RISC spoke on WELL Journey Thailand ‘Upcycling: A Green event, introducing Trend within the WellBangkok-based architects being and Sustainability and engineers to the Framework’ at the ‘Flip healthier building ideas ... waste materials to initiative of the invisible profit’ seminar International WELL to assist small and Building Institute (IWBI). medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Research & 22 November, 30 August Series of public advocacy Innovation for 29 November activities for Sustainability RISC presented the RISC and the Innovation environmental protection Center (RISC) WELL Building Standard, Technology Assistance and well-being. (Continued) air quality, waste Program (ITAP) of the recycling, and sound National Science and masking systems to Technology Development corporate partners. Agency (NSTDA) organized RISC Talk vol.2/2019 under the topic ‘Upcycling materials for well-being’. 22 September RISC co-hosted a workshop ‘Upcycling: Think for the World’ organized by SCG. 23 September, 19 November RISC hosted a visit by officials from the Environment Department of the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA) and Siam Cement Group (SCG) to learn about well-being design and the use of upcycled materials in construction. 30 September RISC spoke on ‘EcoMaterials for Construction’ to graduate students from Kasetsart University’s Faculty of Architecture. 12 November, 27 November RISC gave an interview to Thai News Network (TNN16) and Bua Ban magazine on the “Wellbeing” concept. 29 November RISC gave an interview to Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under “Adding Value and Management of Waste”. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Whizdom by 23 June 6 July 9 March Series of public MQDC as a Whizdom arranged the 1 st Whizdom organized the Whizdom Society hosted engagement activities for DTGO Reforest Program, in event bringing residents Whiztalk vol. 1 ‘Travel environmental protection. subsidiary which 84 volunteers from to build 10 dams and Chic, Travel Green’ at DTGO constructed a plant trees together with Whizdom Club @True check dam to improve DTGO members and Digital Park, inviting forest and prevent partners at Khao E-To Alex Rendell to speak flooding at Khao Yai Forest in Prachinburi. about natural sites and National Park, how ecotourism can help Prachinburi. preserve the world’s beauty for us forever. 16 August Whizdom arranged the Reforest Program, in which 700 volunteers from DTGO and its partners planted 11,500 saplings at Khao E-To Forest Park, Prachinburi. WHIZDOM 31 August Series of public 101 by MQDC WHIZDOM 101 spoke at presentations on as a DTGO the Autodesk University environmental research subsidiary ASEAN 2017 conference and applications. in Bangkok on how MQDC’s use of building information modeling (BIM) enables substantial quality, cost, time, and environmental gains. 14 September 10 September Series of public WHIZDOM 101 joined 101 True Digital Park engagement activities for Bangkok Metropolitan debuted the waste-cutting environmental protection. Administration (BMA) to initiative bag, ‘101 Bag clean up Bang Aor Yai Sharing’, made from canal. mesh material from the construction of True Digital Park. 22 November Series of public WHIZDOM 101 presentations on welcomed over 70 environmental research academic staff and and applications. students from Assumption University to learn about the project’s energysaving systems. The Forestias 19 June Series of public advocacy by MQDC as “Forest Rescue” and activities for a DTGO campaign was launched to environmental protection. subsidiary relocate trees from lands which are to be cleared. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Pattaya 26 July 11 May Series of public advocacy Worldmark by Pattaya Worldmark and Coral planting. and activities for MQDC as a the navy released to the environmental protection. DTGO sea 1,066 sea turtles and subsidiary 66,000 other animals from the Sea Turtle Conservation Center in Sattahip. 10 August Pattaya Worldmark and staff from Na Jomtien’s health and environment department planted trees to mark Queen Sirikit’s 85th birthday. The Aspen Tree 15 November Series of public by MQDC as The Aspen Tree provided engagement activities for a DTGO paper bottled drinking environmental protection. subsidiary water to drive sustainability and reduce plastic waste at the annual Red Cross Fair 2019 on 15–24 November at Lumpini Park. Dhanin Tawee 5 October Series of public advocacy Chearavanont Co-hosted ‘The Givers and activities for Foundation Network 2018, Bangkok’ environmental protection. (DTCF), providing inspiration talks formerly DT including Miss Lilly Families Satidtanasarn, a 12-yearFoundation old schoolgirl whose (DTFF) – as a passion to combat DTGO pollution is helping foundation change Thai attitudes to partner single-use plastic. Buddharaksa 29 November Ongoing campaign. Foundation BUF launched schools (BUF) as a zero waste project with 2 DTGO partner schools, foundation Dhammajarinee Wittaya partner and Wat Sakeo, to reduce the use of plastic bags at their co-op shops. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 8: Continued Blue Carbon 25 May Series of internal and Society (BCS) BCS organized a ‘Blue public engagement as a DTGO Plogging’ event to activities for association spotlight marine pollution environmental protection. partner from daily consumables. 8 June Series of public advocacy BCS supported and for environmental contributed to a forum on protection plastic ocean waste convened by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on World Oceans Day. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies assessment, policy and goals Magnolia 30 November Ongoing research Quality MQDC established collaboration through Development research collaboration Research & Innovation Corporation with the MIT Energy for Sustainability Center Limited Initiative to reduce (RISC). (MQDC) as a greenhouse gas emissions DTGO from property projects. subsidiary 27 June Developing a network and MQDC engaged in using environmentally collaboration with PTT friendly materials in Global Chemical (GC), construction. committing to use ‘upcycled’ plastic waste in all property development projects. An initial use of the waste will be in concrete, involving plastic waste currently excluded from recycling. Research & 23 August 2 May Innovating Innovation for RISC opened a new RISC and Kenzai environmentally friendly Sustainability research facility in the Ceramic Industry Co. Ltd materials in the Center (RISC) center of Bangkok to host co-innovated protective construction industry. by MQDC as testing facilities and 300 material and won a third a DTGO designs for environmentprize at the Architect subsidiary friendly items for public Expo’61 innovation use. awards conducted by The Association of Siamese Architects under the Royal Patronage of His Majesty the King. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 9: Continued Research & 4 June 28 March Ongoing research Innovation for RISC and Thailand’s RISC hosted the seminar collaboration for Sustainability National Science and “SDG11, SDG12 & environmentally friendly Center (RISC) Technology Development SDG17: Circular solutions in real estate. (Continued) Agency (NSTDA) signed economy for our wellan MoU to collaborate on being city”. developing sustainable and healthy living solutions such as indoor air quality monitoring systems or energyefficiency awareness systems. 18 October Ongoing business conduct MQDC and its Research adhering to the & Innovation for dissemination and Sustainability Center implementation of (RISC) presented an environmentally friendly upcycled plastic bag made technologies. from vinyl banners as an ASEAN Summit souvenir to delegates at the 35th ASEAN Summit in Thailand during 31 October – 4 November 2019. 20 August 8 March Ongoing research RISC established research RISC signed an MoU collaboration for collaboration with MIT with Prachinburi province environmentally friendly Professor Dr. Michael S. on R&D for a model city technologies for wellStrano on converting trees for health that will create being of the public. into self-powered, selfthe Prachinwanarom Park repairing streetlights. with design and materials that enhance air quality. 29 October 3 December RISC established a RISC and the National collaboration with Science and Technology Charoen Pokphand Seeds Development Agency (CPS) to develop green (NSTDA) joined Siam technologies for cities, a Discovery to debut a field the organizations ‘Clean Air Christmas call urbanical (urban + Tree’, which houses 4 botanical). The objective electrostatic air purifiers is to research plants and that can each filter 1,200 develop technologies for m3 of air each hour to green façades, green remove harmful PM2.5 roofs, vertical gardens, particulates, at Siam and interior-scape. Center’s famous year-end display. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 9: Continued Research & 26 March Ongoing business conduct Innovation for RISC in collaboration adhering to the Sustainability with the Agricultural dissemination and Center (RISC) Production Institute of implementation of (Continued) Kasetsart University environmentally friendly (KAPI) sponsored awards technologies. to encourage students, entrepreneurs, community enterprises, and designers to create an environmentfriendly society. EEC DT Green 31 October Ongoing business conduct Energy as a DTGO and EEC Group of adhering to the DTGO joint Companies established dissemination and venture EEC DT Green Energy, a implementation of joint venture aimed at environmentally friendly introducing the Thai technologies. market to ‘net positive’ energy approaches, involving onsite power with features such as cogeneration, providing heat as well as electricity. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, and Goals Since its establishment, DTGO has practiced anti-corruption principles and shared these with our stakeholders. In addition to the code of conduct published in 2014 and the anti-corruption policy announced on 1 February 2018, DTGO has established regulations on offering and accepting gifts or other benefits and entertainment as guidance for all members. (Appendix 1) While the policies and guidelines for procurement processes are rigorously applied, the appointment of the Audit Committee in 2017 and Audit Team in 2018 ensures compliance through internal control systems. Implementation DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery DTGO 1 March Improving the Corporation Revision of Procurement transparency and Limited Policy. accountability of the (DTGO) procurement process. 16 March Improving the Revision of Delegation of transparency and Authority. accountability of the financial, management, and operational approval process. 1 February Strengthening the Anti-corruption policy implementation of the announced. anti-corruption policy. 19 December 16 December Campaign on offering and Guidelines for accepting gifts and other Offering/Receiving Gifts benefits launched. announced. 5 July 25 January, 25 January, Overseeing the 28 February, 27 February, implementation of Good 28 March, 17 April, Corporate Governance 25 April, 22 May, policy and related policies 7 May, 3 July, and codes of conduct. 6 June, 28 August, 10 July, 26 September, 25 July, 18 October, 24 August, 11 December 26 September, 24 October 28 November, 20 December Appointment of the Good Good Corporate Good Corporate Corporate Governance Governance Committee’s Governance Committee’s Committee. meetings held meetings held continuously. continuously. DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward Unit/Brand 2017 2018 2019 Principle 10: Continued DTGO 5 July All year round All year round Targeting to audit 18 Corporation Appointment of Audit Audit Committee Audit team performed an departments/entities Limited Committee. appointed audit team and audit of 11 internal including support (Continued) audited 9 entities departments/entities and divisions and business including support 14 ad hoc requests. units. divisions and business units. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Overall In 2019, DTGO Corporation Limited as well as its subsidiaries were awarded both local and international recognitions. These reflect how DTGO’s performance is in line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 1. DTGO Corporation Limited has been recognized as one of the honorees of the 2020 World’s Most Ethical Companies, for the second consecutive year. 2. Chairman of the Executive Committee (former Group CEO) of DTGO Corporation Limited, as well as Chairman of Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation and Buddharaksa Foundation, Mrs. Thippaporn Chearavanont Ahriyavraromp received a ‘Diamond Humanity Award’ from the office of the Sheikhul Islam. 3. A CSR project to revive Lad Prao Canal supported by MQDC was recognized by the American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand (AMCHAM) with an ‘Excellence in CSR Project Award’. 4. Mrs. Thippaporn Chearavanont Ahriyavraromp, Chairman of the Executive Committee (former Group CEO) of DTGO Corporation Limited, as selected by Forbes Asia as 1 of the 30 ‘Heroes of Philanthropy’ for 2019, for work “solving some of the most pressing issues facing the Asia-Pacific”.
