LASSILA & TIKANOJA PLC Annual Review 2019 EMPLOYED BY TOMORROW INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Contents Introduction 3 Business areas 29 L&T in brief 4 Environmental Services 31 Towards a sustainable tomorrow 5 Industrial Services 33 CEO's review 6 Facility Services Finland 35 5 13 Facility Services Sweden 37 Employed by tomorrow Key events of the year 28 Targets 2024 Year 2019 Key figures Why invest in L&T Key events of the year 8 11 13 9 Sustainability Introduction to sustainability Materiality and stakeholder 39 40 44 Business environment 17 engagement Business areas 21 Sustainability programme 48 Circular economy and climate 49 change mitigation Strategy and A healthy, diverse and productive ­value creation 22 workplace community 62 Strategy and value creation 23 Sustainable industry and cities 72 29 48 Targets 2024 28 Ensuring compliance with 77 regulations Tables with more specific You are reading Lassila & Tikanoja’s Annual 82 information Report 2019. The Financial Review 2019 (including the Board of Directors’ Report, Sustainability reporting 87 Business areas Sustainability programme Corporate Governance and Financial statements) is available at www.lt.fi/ annualreport2019 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 2 INTRODUCTION 4 L&T in brief 5 Towards a sustainable tomorrow 6 CEO's review Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 3 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY L&T in brief We make Head office Locations ­circular ­economy Net sales by division a ­reality 784.3 Environmental Services 39% Industrial Services 12% Facility Services Finland 31% MEUR Facility Services Sweden 17% Lassila & Tikanoja is a service company that is putting the circular economy into practice. Together with our customers, we keep materials and properties in productive use for as long as possible and we enhance the use of raw Personnel by country materials and energy. This is to create more value with the HELSINKI circular economy for our customers, personnel and socieSTOCKHOLM ty in a broader sense. Achieving this also means growth in value for our shareholders. Our objective is to continuousDUBNA ly grow our actions’ carbon handprint, our positive effect on the climate. We assume our social responsibility by, for 8,207 Finland 78.9% Sweden 16.5% example, looking after the work ability of our personnel PERSONS Russia 4.5% and also offering jobs to those who are struggling to find employment. L&T operates in Finland, Sweden and Russia. The company’s net sales in 2019 amounted to EUR 784.3 million and the company employs 8,207 people. L&T is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 4 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Towards a sustainable tomorrow What does a sustainable tomorrow mean for us? The world has changed permanently. working life who wishes to work. This includes people Now is the time for all of us to start who were not born in the North or who are unable to work a full day. We must also create a framework in which we thinking and acting differently so that are able to work until retirement and enjoy a healthy life we ensure a sustainable tomorrow. It also after the active career. All this ensures our competiis a healthy tomorrow which keeps the tiveness in the future as well and allows a more even distribution of well-being for all of us. world viable for future generations as Enough of talking about what would be better. Now is well. the time for action. We at L&T have always been pioneers. For us, a susWe here in the North cannot continue to waste natural tainable tomorrow has stood for daily practical actions resources recklessly. Instead, we must lead the way by for a long time already. Our professionals take care of our introducing the operating models of the circular econcustomers’ materials and properties in accordance with omy. In the circular economy, existing materials and the the circular economy. We are not, however, satisfied with constructed environment are kept in profitable use for this, but rather take another step for a sustainable tomoras long as possible. Energy is produced from renewable row. sources and used sparingly. This ensures the adequacy of We will continue to challenge ourselves, our cusnatural resources for the needs of tomorrow and controls tomers and the entire society to think differently. We will See video: the progress of climate change. make the circular economy a reality together. Annual review 2019 We cannot afford to waste anyone’s input to safeguard our well-being. We must include everyone in the Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 5 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY CEO's review CEO's review: Employed by ­tomorrow When I started working as Lassila & Tikanoja’s President and CEO at the beginning of 2019, I felt that I knew the “I might not be the most fierce company pretty well after having worked in the company’s Board of Directors for ten years already. I must admit, do-gooder, but I do really enjoy though, that I have learned a lot about our company during the year. I am happy to say that L&T has taken some gidoing things that make the ant development leaps over the course of the past couple of years. First and foremost I have enjoyed the fact that in world a better place for future the service sector with lots of employees, the President and CEO really gets to work together with others and do generations. It's a pleasure concrete things in order to develop the company. to do a job that has a purpose.” A challenging year in terms of finances Eero Hautaniemi The past year was a challenging one in Finnish Facility President and CEO Services in terms of financial indicators. Luckily, three of our four divisions achieved very good results and almost reached their goals. Facility Services has made massive investments in development over the past couple of years. The introduction of new management systems, operating models and systems supporting them has included even bigger challenges than expected, and these have been reflected MAKING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY A REALITY: in the division’s result and our customer and personnel Read more about Eero experience. The challenging change project was manand watch the video. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 6 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY CEO's review aged with determination. The personnel were extensively involved in the implementation of the change and trained new strategy and the strategic goals bring sustainability to the core of L&T’s strategy and management. correction as an enormous business opportunity. We are producing the concrete solutions needed for the practical “We also have an in the new roles and operating models. We are already seeing a turn for the better in customer and personnel Structures and portfolio to serve the execution of the ambitious goals of all kinds of roadmaps, from goals to action. ­important social satisfaction. The operating environment of Facility Services Finland has undergone substantial changes, and strategy In recent years, L&T has started to emphasise the more We also have an important social mission. We are able to promote social justice and prevent marginalisation by ­mission – we provide the changes implemented were absolutely necessary in order to ensure that we remain competitive. The work to independent position of the divisions. This change in the management model is aimed at improving the transparproviding employment to personnel groups who have not been able to find their place in the society without special employment to percomplete the change will continue for some more time. ency of operations, competitiveness and agility. We introduced the new division structure at the beginning of support. In addition to its traditional purpose, L&T participates sonnel groups who Added value with the circular economy We completed a comprehensive strategy update in 2019, 2019 and the business portfolio of Facility Services was clarified by the divestiture of our renovation business. At in resolving the challenges of the society. This is a unique role for a listed company and indicative of the ongoing have not been able to which was also presented to the investors in the Capital Markets Day at the beginning of November. The strategy the same time, renewals of management models, organisation and supervisor roles were implemented within the change. I’m proud to tell my own sons that I am employed by find their place in the brings L&T’s divisions closely under the umbrella of circular economy and gives us a strong mandate to start divisions to support the change. The changes implemented are aimed at improving our personnel and customer tomorrow. I wish to thank all of our employees for a job well done, ­society without spedeveloping new service solutions in order to mitigate climate change in co-operation with our customers. In experience and therefore give us excellent preconditions for the implementation of the strategy we have chosen. once again. cial support.” conjunction with the strategy, the Board of Directors also confirmed our new long-term goals. In addition to the fiEmployed by tomorrow Eero Hautaniemi nancial goals, we have now, for the first time, also includIn the next decade, combatting climate change will have a President and CEO ed goals related to the improvement of customer and substantial impact on the lives of each one of us, the oppersonnel experience as well as ambitious climate goals eration of companies and the operating conditions. A correlated to the reduction of our emissions but also, and in rection towards a sustainable economy is inevitable and particular, for the increasing of our carbon handprint. The it is already high time to start taking action. We view this Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 7 YEAR 2019 9 Key figures 11 Why invest in L&T 13 Key events of the year 17 Business environment 21 Business areas Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 8 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Key figures Key figures Net sales Operating profit MEUR MEUR % 900 60 15 802.2 784.3 800 49.9 50.5 709.5 50 47.6 700 646.3 661.8 44.0 45.0 12 600 40 9 500 30 400 6 300 20 200 3 10 100 0 0 0 2015* 2016* 2017 2018 2019 2015* 2016* 2017 2018 2019 Operating profit, MEUR Operating profit, % * IFRS have not been adjusted for the comparison years 2015–2016. Net sales by division L&T’s net sales in 2019: EUR 1% 73% 2/4 784.3 MEUR Environmental Services 39% Industrial Services 12% Facility Services Finland 31% Facility Services Sweden 17% 784.3 L&T’s operating profit was EUR 45.0 million The increase of L&T’s carbon handprint compared to the previous year. L&T’s Employee Net Promoter Score in 2019 L&T divisions that achieved the Net Promoter Score (NPS) target for services. million and earnings per share were EUR 0.90. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 9 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Key figures Key figures 2019 2018** 2017** Dividend per share and dividend yield EUR % Net sales, EUR million 784.3 802.2 709.5 1 0.92 0.92 0.92 0.92 8 0.85 Operating profit, EUR million 45.0 47.6 44.0 0.8 Profit before tax, EUR million 42.0 42.7 42.5 6 Return on equity, % (ROE) 16.8 15.9 15.2 0.6 4 Return on investment***, % 12.4 12.7 13.3 0.4 Gearing, % 66.8 46.1 54.2 2 Equity ratio, % 35.6 38.6 38.6 0.2 Gross capital expenditure, EUR million 46.1 37.8 113.2 0 0 Total number of full-time and part-time employees at year end 8 207 8,600 8,663 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* Earnings per share, EUR 0.90 0.89 0.87 Dividend per share, EUR Operating cash flow/share, EUR 2.46 2.35 1.61 Effective dividend yield, % Dividend/share, EUR 0,92* 0.92 0.92 * Proposal by the Board of Directors * Proposal by the Board of Directors ** The figures are not directly comparable with those for 2019 due to IFRS 16 *** Rolling 12-month Net working capital Return on investment (ROI)* Gearing Cash flow from operations MEUR % % % MEUR EUR 100 20 18 17.4 80 100 94.5 4 16.5 89.8 90.1 90 81.1 18 16 70 66.8 3.5 80 16 13.3 80 76.4 14 12.8 12.4 60 54.2 3 70 65.1 14 12 46.8 61.8 60 54.6 56.3 12 50 60 2.5 49.3 10 50 10 40 2 8 40 8 30 40 1.5 30 6 6 19.8 20 17.3 1 20 4 4 20 10 2 2 10 0.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net working capital, MEUR * rolling 12 months Cash flow from operations, MEUR Net working capital, % of net sales Cash flow from operations per share, EUR Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 10 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Why invest in Lassila & Tikanoja Why invest in Lassila & Tikanoja 1. The increased importance 2. L&T’s market position is strong 3. L&T is pursuing profitable growth of the circular economy and and it’s a pioneer in circular Five reasons for investing in ­sustainability support L&T ­economy services a company which makes the L&T is pursuing an annual growth of 5% in the strategy L&T started as a wholesaler more than one hundred years We are the leading circular economy operator in Finperiod 2019-2024. The growth is pursued both inorgancircular economy a reality. ago. Many phases have led to it becoming a service comland and have strengthened our position with our new, ically and through acquisitions. All our business operapany which makes the circular economy a reality. Global innovative circular economy services. Our competitive tions build future growth for the circular economy and are The increased importance of the megatrends, such as climate change and increasingly advantage is based on strong presence in the different based on the opportunities created by it. 1. circular economy and sustainability scarce natural resources, are boosting the circular econsteps of the value chain of our customers’ materials and L&T’s financial position is strong and its working capisupport L&T omy and L&T’s operations. constructed environment and our circular economy sertal is managed well. The company has a strong cash flow The correction towards sustainable economy in the vice offering which is more extensive than that provided and balance, which allows investing in growth and the L&T’s market position is strong and it’s coming years will result in radical changes in industrial by the competition. We have the ability and the resourcdevelopment of business operations. We pay a steady 2. a pioneer in circular economy services engineering, energy systems and the way we use and es needed for the implementation of demanding circular dividend to our shareholders. consume resources. This change will bring lots of new economy solutions for the needs of the industry, comThe economic cycle has little effect on the demand for business opportunities for sustainable service solutions merce and households. L&T’s services. There is a steady demand for professional 3. L&T is pursuing profitable growth mitigating climate change and promoting the circular Stricter material efficiency and recycling requirewaste management, cleaning and property services. We economy. The tighter regulation and increasing sustainaments and the increased importance of secondary raw are pursuing profitable growth in our selected segments. L&T’s operations mitigate bility requirements speed up this development. materials as industrial raw materials increase the deRead more on our investor pages. 4. the climate change We are constantly developing sustainable service mand for environmental and industry services. At the mosolutions in co-operation with our customers, promoting ment, only 10% of materials in the EU are recycled. L&T is a sustainable employer with the move towards a sustainable economy. We expect the Correspondingly, there is a cumulated property main5. a positive impact on the society society to support the demand for our services. Compatenance backlog in the property sector, buildings are benies want to become more responsible operators in the coming more technical and complex and the energy effisociety, regulators want to impose stricter environmental ciency requirements are getting stricter, which increases demands and consumers are increasingly aware and dethe demand for the circular economy services in the mand environmentally sustainable services. property sector. Read more in the Business areas section. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 11 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Why invest in Lassila & Tikanoja 4. L&T’s operations mitigate 5 L&T is a sustainable employer with the climate change a positive impact on the society L&T’s circular economy service solutions reduce carbon L&T’s goal is to increase the company’s financial value dioxide emissions. The emission reductions implemented sustainably while creating economic growth and inby L&T for its customers in 2019 amounted to 1.2 million creasing well-being. L&T is among the most significant tonnes CO2 (eq.), which corresponds to the annual emisemployers in its operating locations. The salaries, wages sions of as many as 120 000 Finns. L&T’s own emissions and taxes we pay, as well the purchases we make, have a accounted for just 4% of this. The company seeks to consubstantial impact on municipal finances and other busitinuously grow the carbon handprint of its actions, or our nesses in each economic area. L&T has 8,207 employees positive effect on the climate, and to reduce our carbon in total, and in 2019, L&T paid approximately EUR 174 milfootprint. Most of L&T’s services can be linked to the mitilion in taxes. gation of climate change. L&T provides its personnel with work that matters as L&T does well in global comparisons of climate and well as career and development opportunities. In our opsustainability work performed by companies. With a Leaderations, we try to make sure that our employees get to ership-level grade A-, the second best, L&T was again go home healthy after the day’s work and ultimately retire ranked among the world’s top companies in the CDP Cliin good health. Furthermore, the company promotes its mate assessment, for example. Companies ranked at the social responsibility by offering work to persons with poor Leadership level are considered to operate in accordance employment prospects or unable to work full days. Our with best practices with regard to the environment, unaverage retirement age in 2019 was 63.2, which is clearly derstand the risks and opportunities relating to climate higher than the Finnish average. change well and to prepare and implement strategies to Read more about our healthy, diverse and productive mitigate or utilise these risks and opportunities. workplace community. Read more about our carbon handprint. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 12 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Key events from an eventful year Key events from 18 times around the globe with the “­Kinkkutemppu” campaign The results of the Kinkkutemppu Christmas ham grease recycling an eventful year campaign organised in co-operation between various environmental actors were published after Christmas. The Kinkkutemppu campaign, organised for the third time in 2018, inspired a record number of Finns to take action to promote the circular economy. The number Our journey from the circular economy mindset to concrete of participants grew by 40,000 from the previous year, as 185,000 actions has been rewarding and full of events. The steps households recycled grease from Christmas ham cooking and turned it into renewable fuel. As much as 13% of all Finnish Christmas ham taken in cooperation with our customers and partners have grease or approximately 100,000 kg was recycled into renewable fuel. shown how we make the circular economy a reality. The amount of fuel produced would be enough for driving around the globe nearly 18 times! The Kinkkutemppu campaign was organised in 2019 as well, and its results will be published at the beginning of 2020. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH L&T became the biggest processor of Green Deal to develop waste oil beverage bottles and cans with a deposit management Leadership level reached in the CDP assessment L&T and Palpa expanded their co-operation in the recycling Green Deals are an example of successful voluntary enviThe year started with, again, achieving excellent results in the international of beverage packaging at the beginning of the year. The ronmental regulation, which L&T actively promotes. L&T is climate disclosure report commissioned by the world’s leading investors and agreement, which spans over several years and represents the market leader in the collection of waste oil and we were produced by CDP, an organisation that promotes sustainability in economic an expansion, made L&T Palpa’s biggest partner for the prothe first company in the environmental industry to join the activity and the mitigation of climate change. With a Leadership-level score, cessing, collection and transport of recycled materials. Our Green Deal on Developing National Waste Oil Management. we were ranked among the world’s top companies in the CDP Climate assesshabit of actively developing customer co-operation with In joining the Green Deal, we made a commitment to providment. Companies ranked at the Leadership level are considered to operate in new ideas and service models were an important reason ing waste oil collection services nationwide with the aim of accordance with best practices with regard to the environment, understand for Palpa to seek more extensive co-operation with us. Our enabling the reuse of all waste oil collected from our custhe risks and opportunities relating to climate change well and to prepare and goal to promote occupational safety both internally and at tomers. We also committed to increasing the amount of oil implement strategies to mitigate or utilise these risks and opportunities. the customer interfaces was also an important factor. we collect by 10% by 2025. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 13 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Key events from an eventful year What’s Muovimuuvi? L&T Korjausrakentaminen Oy sold to L&T published its Global We launched our big plastic collection initiative, the Mu­Recover Nordic Group ­Compact progress report ovimuuvi campaign, at the beginning of 2019. MuovimuuAt the end of April, we completed the measures related to L&T committed to supporting the UN Globvi stands for concrete actions leading to an increasing the finalisation of the acquisition of L&T Korjausrakentamal Compact initiative and its principles in proportion of plastic in Finland being recycled into raw inen Oy by Recover Nordic Group. With this acquisition, we 2018. In spring 2019, we published our first materials for new products. We work with consumers sold the entire share capital of our subsidiary L&T Korjausprogress report, describing the actions imand companies every day to expand the plastic collecrakentaminen Oy specialising in damage repair and renoplemented in 2018 to promote the integration activities. Our goal is to include one million Finns in vation services to Recover Nordic Group. Working togethtion of the Global Compact initiative and the plastic collection scheme by 2020. In practice, Muer with the damage repair service market leader offers a its principles into the company’s business ovimuuvi resulted in several different operations in 2019, stable future for our personnel as well as an opportunity strategy, culture and daily activities. The such as the campaign to collect plastic waste from sumto develop our operations along the different services of progress report for 2019 will be published mer houses carried out in co-operation with K-Rauta. Muthe growing company. For our customers, this means that as a part of the company’s sustainability ovimuuvi will continue with new operations in 2020. their familiar and reliable services will continue with rereporting according to the GRI standards. newed strength. APRIL MAY Responsible Summer Job 2019 We decided to participate in the Responsible Summer Job campaign as a Molok and Lassila & Tikanoja join ­forces to main partner this time, because we feel that promoting the employment prosimprove sorting opportunities in properties pects of young people is a central part of our social sustainability as a comEfficient recycling requires well-functioning waste containers. pany. We offer lots of different career opportunities which give young people People want to sort their waste and it must be possible to do valuable experience, first steps in the working life and perhaps even career that effortlessly. In April, we signed a co-operation agreement opportunities. with Molok Oy, authorising L&T as Molok Oy’s authorised mainThe campaign resulted, as we had hoped, in high visibility in social media tenance service provided nationally all over Finland. The mainused by young people and in various media in the form of blogs, articles, sotenance partnership between the companies facilitates daily cial media links and, for instance, video clips. We also conducted a survey to property maintenance work. This allows us to jointly promote see how satisfied the summer workers were with us as an employer, what the long-term use of Molok waste sorting stations and improve our employer image was like and what areas could be developed further in the living experience of housing company residents. the coming years. We value this valuable. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 14 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Key events from an eventful year We strengthened our services New material efficiency Finland at the cutting edge of in Kymenlaakso centre for Northern Finland modern plastic ­recycling L&T acquired the share capital of Tank SerWe started the construction of the new In September, one of the most modern waste plastic provice Finland Oy, a Hamina-based company material efficiency centre for Northern cessing lines in Northern Europe was opened in our plastic specialized in washing containers. Tank SerFinland. The centre will begin its operarecycling plant in Merikarvia. The new line helps to recover vice Finland specialises in washing various tion in 2020. It will process industrial side more challenging and dirty plastic waste efficiently for the types of containers and related services, streams and contaminated soil from the needs of the Finnish plastic industry. The waste processsuch as container storage, repair, inspection region into useful materials. ing line has a large carbon handprint: recycled plastic proand heating. Tank Service Finland’s annual duced by the plant can be used to replace the production net sales are approximately EUR 800,000. of virgin plastic, saving over 400,000 barrels of oil a year. The acquisition is part of L&T’s strategic When recycled plastic is used in the production of plasgeographical expansion. tic products instead of virgin raw material, up to 40,000 tonnes of climate emissions are avoided. JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER City Refinery promotes next-generation L&T became the first company sustainable material and energy solutions to stop using glyphosate We are working together with the Helsinki-based energy company HelIn June, we announced that we would be en and VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland to develop a City Rethe first nationwide player in Finland to stop finery that will refine side streams from recycling plants, industrial fausing glyphosate, which has a negative imcilities, agriculture and forestry into high-grade biofuels and bio-based pact on biodiversity. In recent years, a lot of raw materials. The heat generated as a by-product by the refinery will new research data has been produced on be used for heating properties in the Helsinki region and the carbon glyphosate and its impacts. With our decidioxide generated by the facility will be contained and used in the prosion, we wanted to promote biodiversity as duction of new raw materials. City Refinery will be an important step on well as the safety of our personnel and the the path towards zero-emission energy production and the bioeconomy people who use the areas in question. in mitigating climate change. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 15 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Key events from an eventful year A new kind of explosive cleaning to L&T got certified in energy Carbon-neutral waste clean furnaces without interrupting management management for 7,000 residents the process L&T’s systematic work in energy Our carbon neutral waste management took a In October, we launched a new cleaning method management got certified in Sweden leap forward in November when Turku Student HIILINEUTRAALI JÄTEHUOLTO of industrial furnaces. The method is based on the by EEF, EnergieffektiviseringsföretaVillage Foundation (TYS) acquired the carbon explosive cleaning known in the industry and degen. EEF’s certification is designed to neutral waste management service for all of its veloped further by our own Production Manager ensure clarity in the marketing of as residential houses. TYS homes house approxiHannu Honkasalo. The new technology allows us well as the quality of energy-related mately 7,000 people. Carbon-neutral waste manto safely clean industrial furnaces at a temperservices and energy efficient prodagement is therefore a significant choice, helping ature of more than one thousand degrees. This ucts, focusing on what is best for the the City of Turku to reach its emission goals. This means that the process no longer needs to be client. co-operation agreement is a concrete example shut down for cleaning. The new method will sigof the true pioneer spirit of our customers and nificantly reduce industrial emissions in the shutour ability to help them make something condown and start-up stages of processes. crete for the environment. OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Learning environment studies to develop L&T organised a Capital Our Christmas action in 2019 the ­Finnish school system into an even Markets Day for investors Lassila & Tikanoja are helping make roads better one In this event, our President and CEO Eero safer. Christmas time is the darkest period We got into schools in 2019 in the cheerful pilot project Hautaniemi shared his vision of L&T’s fuof the year. This is why we once again handaimed at developing the Finnish top-grade school into an ture with investors and analysts together ed out 50,000 reflectors made of recycled even better one. We are developing a new subject for Finnwith the Director, Corporate Relations and plastic as Christmas presents. The reflectors ish schools called learning environment studies. A better Sustainability Jorma Mikkonen, CFO Valtwere handed out by doers of the circular learning environment makes the pupils feel better and teri Palin and Vice Presidents of business economy, i.e. our employees, all across Finlearn better and improves the working conditions of teachsegments. We also launched our updatland. In addition to handing out reflectors, at ers. At the same time, we make the circular economy a realed strategy in this event, explained our Christmas time, we again participated in the ity by helping pupils to grow into sustainable development plans related to its implementation and Kinkkutemppu 2019 campaign to collect the natives. Our expert advice will be available free of charge to reviewed the company’s current situation grease accumulated from the baking of the everyone once the teacher’s guide is published in 2020. and the market. traditional Christmas ham. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 16 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Business environment The move towards sustainable economy supports our business All in all, L&T’s business environment developed positively in 2019. The years, the circular economy will focus on construction and industrial waste as well as side stream from agriculthis transition. Investment subsidies and a sustainable development tax reform are used as means to speed up Our business is understanding of the role of the circular ture and the forest industry, which opens up new market opportunities. the development. supported by economy in the mitigation of climate change increased. At the same time, Chinese ban on waste imports caused Implementation of new recycling goals in Finland megatrends such as the role of companies and cities in a market disturbance The prohibition on waste imports placed by China entered The Commission of the EU approved the new Action Plan for a Circular Economy in December 2015, aimed at the mitigation of the mitigation of climate change was emphasised, which sped up the demand into force at the beginning of the year 2018, resulting in a global market disturbance in the demand for secondary speeding up Europe’s transition into the circular economy. As part of this plan, a waste regulation package was climate change and for sustainable business solutions. raw materials (plastics, fibres, metals). In what follows, the EU must be able to utilise the waste generated in the approved in the EU in 2018, placing even more ambitious goals for the recycling of municipal waste and packaging the demand for The labour market situation became increasingly difficult. EU even more independently, but the construction of the required recycling infrastructure and sinks will take sevwaste, among other things. In 2019, a workgroup appointed by the Ministry of the Environment prepared a propossustainable business Circular economy has a critical role in eral years. Determined political action will be needed to correct the situation and strengthen the market for secal of the actions required for the implementation of the waste directives in national waste legislation. solutions. the mitigation of climate change ondary raw materials. According to IPCC reports, the circular economy has Social influence an increasingly critical role in the mitigation of climate The Finnish government programme In 2019, L&T’s focus areas in exercising influence on change. In addition to mitigating the climate change, the 2019-2023 supports the transition ­society were: circular economy also helps to mitigate the overcon­towards the circular economy 1. Promoting the circular economy sumption of natural resources. The Finnish government programme includes very am2. Opening of municipal service markets Until now, the regulation of circular economy has fobitious climate goals aimed at transforming Finland into 3. Ensuring the neutrality of competition cused on municipal waste, which only represent a mara low-carbon society within the next ten years. Circular 4. Labour policy actions to ensure the availability ginal share of the total waste generated (4–10% in the and bioeconomy, improved energy efficiency and new of workforce EU depending on the production structure). In the coming technol­ogies play a central role in the implementation of 5. Safeguarding of market-based waste collection activities Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 17 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Business environment L&T’s focus areas in exercising influence on society 2019 Target Background Regulation L&T’s position Promoting the • The Commission of the EU approved the new • In 2019, the workgroup appointed by the Ministry of • L&T supports the proposed actions to increase the sorting of waste at the source and circular economy ­Action Plan for a Circular Economy in 2015, aimed the Environment prepared a proposal of the actions reproperty-­specific separate collection. at speeding up Europe’s transition into the circuquired for the implementation of the waste directives • L&T opposes the proposal’s legally mandated municipal monopoly for the collection of packaging lar economy. As part of this plan, a waste reguin national waste legislation. waste from housing properties and the proposal to terminate waste transport arranged by the lation package was approved in the EU in 2018, • The municipal waste recycling target increased from property proprietor. speeding up the transition towards the circular the current target of 50% to 65% by 2030. The recyeconomy. • L&T wishes that means would be included in the proposal to smoothen the productisation of waste cling target for packaging materials was elevated to and thereby their use as replacement raw material. 70% by 2030 with material-specific target values. • In parallel with the recycling goals, L&T is hoping for effective means of control promoting recycling • The government proposal is still being prepared with and the development of secondary raw material markets. the aim of entry into force of the Waste Act in summer 2020. Ensuring the • The labour-intensive service sector is increas• The Finnish government has set a goal of 75% employ• The service sector will be increasingly dependent on foreign labour in the future. Using foreign availability of ingly struggling to find skilled workforce. The ment for its term of office. Extensive labour policy relabour should be facilitated by removing the need-based discretion and by making the permit workforce challenges of workforce availability are getting forms are being prepared to reach this goal. processes smoother. worse as the age classes become smaller. • There is an growing group of people outside the labour market who cannot find employment • The shortage of labour is becoming a national without special actions. L&T sees these special groups as an important labour resource and challenge and a bottleneck to the development wishes to promote the employment of such special groups. of the service sector. • In education, there is a need for closer co-operation between enterprises and education institutions. • If we want to keep the people with reduced work ability in employment, incentives supporting this should be created in the pension system. Ensuring competition • The Public Procurement Act which entered into • The amendments to the Waste Act enters into force on • Waste management is becoming an even more integral part of the common raw material market, neutrality between force on 1 January 2017 set tight limits for in1 January 2020, creating an electronic platform to enand the waste market should therefore be reformed and opened up. private and public house entities (external sales 5% with a maxsure that the so-called secondary waste management • The current hierarchical and exclusive distribution of responsibilities slows down innovation in entities imum of EUR 500,000) of entities operating as responsibility of municipalities can be implemented in technology and services and the development of the secondary raw material market. public procurement entities. the market in a competition-neutral manner. • L&T finds that no special regulation related to public procurements should apply to the waste • A special 10% limit for in-house entities is appli• According to the Finnish government programme, a industry; instead, the same in-house limits should apply as in any other public service. cable to the waste sector until 1 January 2030. permanent 10% limit for external sales will be applicable in the waste sector from 1 January 2030. • The public sector must operate in the markets in the form of a corporation, using market pricing, and the market-based operations must be transparently separated in the public sector’s accounting. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 18 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Business environment Target Background Regulation L&T’s position Promoting the use of • Reports published by the IPCC have shown that • EU member states are currently preparing their na• L&T supports the described initiatives and measures to minimise the impacts of climate change. renewable energy the current measures to mitigate climate change tional energy and climate plans in order to achieve the • Energy, climate and waste policy should be managed as a whole. Policy decisions should be are not adequate, which is why the targets and ambitious goals set for 2030. long-term and predictable to support critical technological development and investments. measures must be reassessed. • At the same time, the members states are preparing • In the emissions trading sector, the measures should be aimed at the development and • It has been agreed that by 2030, CO2 emissions long-term low-emission strategies presenting the implementation of new technologies. will be reduced by 40%. plans for the development of CO2 emissions and carbon sinks by 2050. • The reduction of industrial process emissions calls for not only new technologies, but also new • In addition, regulation on emissions trading, the circular economy solutions. effort sharing sector and land use, the energy • The new EU commission introduced its new Green efficiency directive and the renewable energy diDeal programme at the end of 2019, including the • Biofuels and various waste-based fuels play a critical role as a solution for the transition period rective have been reformed over the past couple commission’s climate goals for the term in office. The both in the ETS and the ESD sector. of years. goals of the programme are to: • What is required is the breakthrough of new technologies that make it possible to turn biomass • While the emission decrease goals have been Include the climate neutrality objective in legislation and various side streams into energy, raw materials, nutrients and chemicals in a modular manner. tightened, it has also been acknowledged that Revise the energy taxation • In the effort sharing sector, fuel taxation and public procurement should be geared towards the maintaining and increasing the carbon sinks of use of cleaner fuels in transport. forests and soil is necessary at the same time. One trillion euro investment subsidies to climate investments within the next decade • To accelerate carbon sinks, there is a need for steering methods that allow the nearly million • Increasingly strict climate targets will force us to hectares of thinning backlog in young forests to be acted on. replace fossil fuels in the production of energy Increasing the emission reduction goal to 55% in 2030 • The operating conditions of combined heat and power production (CHP) must be ensured. and heat at an accelerated schedule. Include traffic and construction in emissions trad• The CHP approach allows the production of electricity and heat from wood chips with a very high • In addition to reducing emissions, there is a need rate of utilisation. CHP production ensures electricity production capacity during the cold and dark for active measures to increase carbon sinks. ing seasons. • The new technologies do not yet allow a transiSpecify criteria for sustainable financing tion to renewable and CO2 neutral energy producIntroduce a carbon duty system tion. Biofuels play a critical role as a solution for • The Finnish government programme set ambitious the transition period. national climate goals: • The increasingly ambitious targets need to be Emission-free production of electricity and heat in supported by solutions that make renewable 2030 energy a more attractive alternative than fossil fuels. The world’s first fossil-free well-being society and carbon neutrality by 2035 A sustainable development tax reform Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 19 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Business environment Lobbying organisations, programmes, We are also an active participant in the following • The Virtual Service Environment D project (Virpa-D) projects and networks ­programmes, projects and networks that promote the aimed at creating world-class user experiences The focus of L&T’s lobbying activities is on ensuring the circular economy, sustainability, material efficiency and for the users of business premises to promote the operating conditions of the circular economy. L&T is a energy efficiency: productivity of work, smooth day-to-day life and member of nearly a hundred local, regional, national and well-being. EU-level lobbying organisations. • The Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra: Circular economy • EEF or Energieffektiviseringsföretagen, bringing toWe participate in the work of the following organisaroadmap update and the projects derived from it gether service providers aimed at improved energy tions either through membership in the Board or in other • CLC, Climate Leadership Council: Working groups efficiency. working groups: related to the circular economy and bioeconomy • HVE or Higher Vocational Education. In this project, • Helsinki metropolitan area Smart & Clean FoundaL&T’s employees in Sweden participate in school • The Association of Finnish Environmental Industries tion boards with the aim of improved education and and Services (YTP) • Business Finland: Virtual service environment, seremployment of the students. Some of the former • Finnish Employers’ Federation of Road Transport vitised data and technology project. students have been employed by L&T. (ALT) • VTT Technical Research Centre of Fin• Kiinteistötyönantajat ry (Employers’ association of land, Wastebusters project property management) • Aalto University, Indoor Air Police project • The Bioenergy Association of Finland • Finnish Business and Society (FiBS), sustainability • The Chemical Industry Federation of Finland network • Confederation of Finnish Industries • The Carbon Neutral Municipalities project (HINKU) • Federation of Waste Management and Environ­ • The Climate Partners network of the City of Helsinki mental Services (FEAD) and business life • Association for Waste Recycling (AWR) in Russia • Zero Accident Forum • Bureau of International Recycling (BIR), paper • UUMA 3 project on the use of recovered materials in ­division earth construction • European Recovered Paper Association (ERPA) • Clic, or Circular Economy Service Platform develop• Fastighetsentreprenörerna ment project, bringing together material producers • AFF-forum and the secondary market. • The Finnish Industrial Symbiosis System, which aims to help enterprises and other parties enhance the mutual recovery of resources and create new business. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 20 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Business areas Business areas Environmental Services Industrial Services Facility Services Finland Facility Services Sweden L&T Environmental Services help customers The Industrial Services division includes proFacility Services Finland produces property serFacility Services Sweden makes the circular make the circular economy a reality. Our serviccess cleaning, sewer maintenance, hazardous vice solutions for the circular economy by proeconomy a reality with profitable properties es include waste management, recycling, enwaste services and environmental construction. viding cleaning and support services, property with a long and sustainable lifecycle. We provide vironmental products, environmental manageWe serve our customers in the waste and side maintenance and technical services. Our goal is technical services and cleaning services for ment and renewable energy sources. stream value chain from the creation of waste to improve the value and lifecycle our customproperties. to their reuse and material recycling. ers’ properties and the satisfaction of property users. Over 14 300,000 11,000 million tonnes 15,000 m2 Number of Number of customer Total area of the customer Volume of recovered side containers emptied sites for Facility Services properties where Facility streams and soil in the at Environmental Finland Services Sweden provided Industrial Services Services technical services division Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 21 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION 23 Strategy and value creation 28 Targets 2024 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 22 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Strategy and value creation L&T’s strategy: We ­create more value with The circular economy means the circular economy Principles guiding the ­company’s development: making smarter and We seek to operate in markets which grow faster than the GDP and in which more ­efficient use of In autumn 2019, Lassila & Tikanoja L&T’s updated strategy is still focused on circular econupdated its strategy for the strategy omy, but the company’s position in the circular economy • we can be among the three largest existing resources. In field has been strengthened. In what follows, our mission period 2019-2024. The new strategy coincides with a period of time in which is to make the circular economy a reality and to help our companies in the market, • our operations are hard to replace, the circular economy, customers achieve their sustainability goals. we must find solutions to important All our business operations build future sustainable • competitive advantage can be ­created and the value of existing growth for the circular economy and are based on the questions related to combatting climate change and corporate social opportunities created by it. • synergies with the circular economy exist. materials and prop• Environmental Services circulates customers’ responsibility. We want to solve materials efficiently and with the highest possible erties is maintained in productive use for these big questions with our strategy degree of processing, replacing fossil fuels by renewable raw materials. “We create more value with the • Industrial Services recovers waste and side circular economy” and to grasp the streams from industrial operators and municipalias long as possible. opportunities of circular economy ties and takes care of the maintenance of industrial processes. together with our customers. • Facility Services improve the value of our customers’ properties and aim for the continuous improvement of energy efficiency supporting the logics of circular economy. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 23 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Strategy and value creation Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 24 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Strategy and value creation We create more value with the circular economy • Value for society: The value created for our society is formed out of actions for controlling climate We have made the following strategic choices in order to be able to increase the value for shareholders: L&T’s carbon By investing in the sustainable solutions of the circular economy, we are seeking increasing value for all our key change and preserving natural resources by introducing new solutions into the circular economy. • we invest in circular economy operations • we pursue growth especially in Sweden and in serhandprint, or the stakeholders. • Value for customers: Our strategy is to support our The objective of this is to continuously grow our actions’ carbon handprint, our positive effect on the vices for the industry • we focus on improving the profitability of Facility emission reductions customers’ sustainability, create excellent customer experiences and develop the best services in our climate. Furthermore, we promote social responsibility in society through employment. We also want Services in Finland • we actively assess potential acquisition targets. created by the industry. The value of the work we have done for our customers can be seen in, for example, an improved to offer work to persons with poor employment prospects or unable to work full days. As a part of our strategy, we also determined the princioperations, ­totalled recycling rate, more efficient energy consumption or improved property user satisfaction. We contin• Value for shareholders: We aim for rapid growth in our business operations promoting sustainable ples guiding the company’s development, enabling us to increase the company’s value creation in the long term. approx. 1.2 million uously develop our services according to our customers’ needs and regularly measure our success. development with our unique competence in the circular economy. We pursue organic growth and L&T’s value creation in 2019 CO2 tonnes in 2019. Our goal is an excellent and continuously improving customer experience. invest in the markets of the future. L&T’s value creation starts from the work we do on a daily basis: as we manage our customers’ material flows and This corresponds to • Value for personnel: We take care of our personnel and provide them with meaningful work and opporproperties, we observe our working environment and use our observations to develop our customers’ operations the annual emissions tunities for development. We want our personnel to enjoy their work and go home in good health after with the help of our 8,207 professionals. of 120,000 Finns. a working day. This is how we pursue a better personnel experience and an increase in the personnel recommendation rate. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 25 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Strategy and value creation L&T’s value creation in 2019 INPUTS ACTIVITIES OUTPUTS IMPACTS Our work input Healthy personnel Mitigating climate change • 8,207 L&T employees • Employee promoter score 73% • Carbon handprint of operations 1.2 million • 13.6 hours worked • Sickness-related absence rate 5.0% (Finland) tonnes CO2 (eq.) • Investments in safety, work ability and well-being: • Retirement age 63.2 years • CO2 emissions of our own operations MEUR 7.7 • 29 persons returned to working life 45.3 tonnes CO2 (eq.), -5% from 2018 • Benefits paid from the sickness fund: MEUR 1.5 • LTA accident frequency 14* • 28.800 observations to improve safety Natural resources saved • 3 million trees and 67,000 tonnes oil Realising the circular economy Our resources • Reuse and recycling rate of customer materials 54,8% • 892 heavy vehicles • 400,000 tonnes secondary raw materials Social employment and prevention of • 21 recycling plants and terminals • 2.6 GWh of fossil energy replaced marginalisation • 788,000 tons of customer materials collected • 38,000 tonnes of waste rendered non-hazardous • Over 700 persons from special groups** employed • 15,000 properties under maintenance • 300,000 tonnes of soil and side streams delivered for material recycling Improved service promoter score Our financial input • Two out of four of the business areas reach the • Shareholders’ equity MEUR 203 strategic Net Promoter Score target (>25) • Interest-bearing liabilities MEUR 177.4 Profitable growth • Investments EUR 46.1 • Net sales MEUR 784.3, decline -2.2% Increased well-being • Paid wages: MEUR 259.7 • Added value created: MEUR 426.3 • Goods, services etc. purchased: MEUR 368.7 • Tax footprint: MEUR 174.4 • Dividends and capital repayment paid: MEUR 35.3 • 50,000 companies and 120,000 households • Investments into the development of • Containers emptied 14 million times business: EUR 51.1 Shareholder value • 12,000 hectares of managed forests • Total return 11.8% • 1,100,000 maintenance actions • 4,200 energy efficiency proposals * Number of accidents leading to absence per one million working hours ** People who need special support to be employed, such as those with partial working ability, those with disabilities or marginalized groups. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 26 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Strategy and value creation More value with the circular economy in 2019 Value for personnel Retirement age Value for customers Recycling rate 8,207 L&T employees 55,000 companies and 120,000 households Promoter score • 73% would recommend L&T as a workplace 63.2 Net Promoter Score • Two out of four of the business areas reached the strategic target (>25) 54.8 Going home healthy years % • Sickness-related absences 5.0%, LTA accident Reuse and recycling rate of frequency* 14 customer materials • 54.8% Retiring in good health • Average age of retirement 63.2 years Increased energy efficiency • Career paths and competence development • 2.6 MWh saved (or fossil GWh replaced) The average age of retirement among The recycling rate of L&T’s customers L&T employees is two years higher Better conditions is 13 percentage points higher than • More satisfied property users than the Finnish national average. • Preservation of the value of property and the average recycling rate in Finland. forest assets * The Lost Time Accidents rate refers to the lost working time due to Source: https://www.etk.fi/wp-content/uploads/elakkeellesiirtymisikaaccidents per million working hours. tyoelakejarjestelmassa-2018-kuviot.pdf Source: Suomen ympäristökeskus (13.12.2019) Value for society Carbon handprint Value for shareholders Total return 15,500 shareholders Mitigating climate change • The carbon handprint of L&T’s operations is 1.2 million tonnes CO2 -1.2 million Sustainable growth of the company’s financial value. 11.8 tonnes CO2 (eq.) • Net sales, -2.2% • Operating margin, -5.5% % Social employment and prevention • Invested capital 12.4%, Gearing 66.8% of marginalisation • Over 700 persons from special groups employed Stable dividends • Dividends paid MEUR 35.3 Increased well-being • 5.9% of market capitalisation • Added value created: MEUR 426.3 L&T’s operations reduce emissions L&T total return is at a good level, although • Total return 11.8% • Tax footprint: MEUR 174.4 by an amount that equals the annual the total return of the companies listed on emissions generated by 120,000 Finns. Nasdaq Helsinki can be up to 17.9%. Source: http://www.nasdaqomxnordic.com/indeksit/historialliset_ Source: https://www.sitra.fi/artikkelit/keskivertosuomalaisen-hiilijalanjalki/ kurssitiedot/?languageId=4&Instrument=FI0008900220 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 27 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Targets 2024 Long-term goals Target 2024 Outcome 2019 Net Promoter Score NPS > 25 2/4 of the business Climate impact, customers operations reached the goal* Employee Net Promoter Score (%) (>) 80% 73% Carbon footprint 50% by 2030 -5%** and employees part of our Carbon handprint compared to 2018 Grows faster than net sales 1%*** long term goals Growth in net sales Return on invested capital 5% 15% -2.2% 12.4% Gearing less than 125% 66.8% * NPS or net promotor score is based on asking the customers who make the decisions about agreements or orders how likely they would recommend Lassila & Tikanoja to a friend or a colleague (on a scale of 0-10). The NPS index is calculated by When the strategy was updated, We will be investing heavily on the strengthening of cusdeducting the share of critics (score 0-6) from the share of promoters (score 9-10). Lassila & Tikanoja also updated tomer and personnel experience in the coming years. In ** The reduction of absolute emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) will be reported according to SBT from 2020 onwards. a service company such as L&T, these two indicators go its long-term goals to match the hand in hand. We also believe that they predict the direc*** Carbon handprint intensity (i.e. carbon handprint relative to revenue) renewed strategy and value creation tion of the company’s financial development. for various stakeholders. In addition In terms of customer experience, our goal is to improve the promotion by customers so that the NPS (Net tions, and the carbon footprint, which measures the emisThe key financial target is our organic growth rate to the traditional financial indicators, Promoter Score) of all our business operations is at least sions of our own operations. goal of more than 5%. In the current market growth this we introduced sustainability and 25. For our own personnel, we seek to increase the proDuring the strategy period, we seek to increase our means that we will be assessing acquisition opportunistakeholder goals which will be moter score so that more than 80% of L&T’s personnel carbon handprint faster than our organic net sales. In ties more actively in the coming years to meet this goal. reported at least once a year from 2020. recommend the company as a place of work. practice this means that we steer our operations towards We set our goal for the return on invested capital at 15% We want to be the most sustainable company in our services which allow us to help our customers reduce and increased the gearing ratio cap so that we will be industry and do our part in controlling climate change. We their climate impacts. We aim to reduce our own carbon able to invest flexibly on our own operations or company measure this development with both the carbon handfootprint or the emissions of our own operations by 50% acquisitions as necessary. print, measuring the positive climate impact of our operaby 2030. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 28 BUSINESS AREAS 31 Environmental Services 33 Industrial Services 35 Facility Services Finland 37 Facility Services Sweden Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 29 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Business areas Business areas Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 30 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Environmental ­Services Environmental ­Services in 2019 L&T Environmental Services help customers make the circular economy “The field is interesting, and a reality. Our services include waste I want to constantly improve management, recycling, environmental products, environmental management myself. That’s the only way to and renewable energy sources. find the best solutions for the The Environmental Services division’s net sales for 2019 customer. If you ever stop and amounted to EUR 311.2 million (309.4). Operating profit grew by 3.8 per cent to EUR 32.8 million (31.6). think you’re done, you’ll hit a Demand remained good particularly in the retail and industrial segments. Labour and subcontracting costs wall pretty quickly.” were increased by a shortage of drivers and the challenging weather conditions during the first quarter. NeverSaara Tuhola theless, operating profit increased due to the enhanced Environmental Manager efficiency of operations and the improved result of the Tampere renewable energy sources business. Market situation The market situation of our serviced remained relatively stable throughout the year. The demand for central secondary raw materials was mostly good. The demand for MAKING THE CIRCULAR wood chips and waste-based fuels increased as expectECONOMY A REALITY: ed. The market disturbance in secondary raw materials Read more about Saara and watch the video. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 31 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Environmental ­Services Key actions and achievements in 2019 • We introduced a new waste plastic processing line in Merikarvia, increasing our plastic processing capacity to 20,000 tonnes. The new facility allows the cleaning and granulation of hard and unclean plastic fractions for use as raw materials in the plastics industry. • We started the Muovimuuvi campaign aimed at bringing one million Finns access to separate collection of plastic. Furthermore, we encourage and assist Finnish companies to increase the separate collection of plastic by 20% by 2020. • We introduced the digital Oma L&T service for business customers in order to improve our service and the monitoring of service. We also renewed the Environmental Web reporting system to support the management of our customers’ environmental goals even better. caused by the Chinese waste import prohibition reduced Net sales Operating profit • We expanded our growth-phase circular economy services such as EasyCollection, the demand for cardboard packaging. MEUR MEUR Hävikkimestari and environmental management expert services to new regions and customers. We strengthened our position as the leading circular 400 40 • We developed entirely new circular economy solutions in cooperation with our customers. economy operator by investing in new, innovative circular 350 35 31.6 32.8 309.4 311.2 Solutions tested in practice included Helppolava, Raksanouto and carbon neutral waste economy services and material-specific circular econ300 30 management, among other things. omy solutions. This allows us to improve our customers’ 250 25 material efficiency and maximise the reuse and recycling • We strengthened our service in Uusimaa by acquiring the waste management and recycling 200 20 of materials. businesses of Keski-Uudenmaan Keräyspaperi Oy and Jätehuolto Jorma Eskolin Oy. 150 15 The increasing sustainability requirements of our • We expanded the co-operation with Suomen Palautuspakkaus Oy (Palpa) in the collection of 100 10 customers increased the demand for service solutions drink containers by concluding a multi-year agreement on the provision of recycling services for promoting circular economy. The share of consulting and 50 5 drinks containers covered by the Finnish deposit return scheme. digital services is increasing as an addition to our tradi0 0 tional services. Our circular economy is based on strong 2018 2019 2018 2019 • Our personnel satisfaction remained excellent. We invested in personnel communications by presence in the different steps of the value chain of our introducing smart phones for drivers. customers’ materials and our circular economy service offering which is more extensive than that provided by the competition. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 32 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Industrial Services Industrial Services in 2019 The Industrial Services division includes process cleaning, sewer maintenance, hazardous waste services and environmental construction. We serve our “Somebody else has calculated the customers in the waste and side stream benefits that the measures reap for value chain from the creation of waste to their reuse and material recycling. the customer, and I do the work in practice. Customers could have The Industrial Services division’s net sales amounted to EUR 98.9 million (96.5). Operating profit was EUR 9.9 someone else do the job, but I provide million (10.0). The demand for services was strong almost throughthe best service and top quality.” out the year. In the latter part of the year, industrial demand was affected by the increased uncertainty in the Matias Sirkiä world economy as well as industrial action. The slowing Process cleaner down of the construction sector was compensated by Naantali the increased project business and new customer accounts in industrial sites. The division’s profitability remained at a good level. Market situation The market situation in our division was stable, and the demand for industrial services remained good for alMAKING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY A REALITY: most the entire year. Uncertainty did, however, increase Read more about Matias and at the end of the year due to the poorer economic cycle watch the video. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 33 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Industrial Services Key actions and achievements in 2019 • We continued to actively develop various service and method solutions promoting the circular economy. We started the construction of the new material efficiency centre for Northern Finland. The centre will begin its operation in 2020. It will process industrial side streams and contaminated soil from the region into useful materials. We have developed an explosive cleaning method suitable for industrial furnaces which allows the cleaning of the furnace during use. and collective action in the industry. The slowing down of Net sales Operating profit the construction sector was compensated for by the inMEUR MEUR We continued the active development in order to improve the processing methods of 96.5 98.9 10.0 9.9 creased project business and new customer accounts in 100 10 liquid waste. industrial sites. We developed the processing methods for oil filters and oil-based waste. Our market position continued to improve. Our posi80 8 tion as the leader of our sector is based on strong presWe acquired the share capital of Tank Service Finland Oy, a Hamina-based company 60 6 specialising in the washing of containers. The acquisition is part of L&T’s strategic ence in the different steps of the customer’s value chain. We manage and develop the customer’s overall operageographical expansion. 40 4 tions utilising L&T’s comprehensive service provision. Our • We continued significant process cleaning co-operation with companies in the chemical and business is based on knowing the customers, and our cus20 2 forest industries and made new co-operation agreements. tomer satisfaction was maintained at an excellent level. The ageing of urban sewer networks and the cumula0 0 • We continued to plan the new operating model and the ERP system, aiming at the introduction of tion of maintenance backlog has increased the demand 2018 2019 2018 2019 these towards the end of 2020. for sewer network renovation and maintenance services. As the environmental requirements get stricter, industries must take a more active approach to the recovery of waste and side streams. We help our customers in this work by developing new cleaning and processing methods. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 34 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Facility Services Finland Facility Services Finland in 2019 Facility Services Finland produces property service solutions for the circular “I design cooling systems, and it’s economy by providing cleaning and support services, property maintenance nice to work with a customer who and technical services. Our goal is sees the value of your work from the to improve the value and lifecycle our customers’ properties and the standpoint of energy efficiency, opersatisfaction of property users. ational reliability and environmental The Facility Services Finland division’s net sales for the full impact. A smart ­customer also underyear totalled EUR 249.1 million (269.6). The decline in net sales was due to the divestment of L&T Korjausrakentamistands the circumstantial ­challenges nen Oy. Operating profit was EUR -4.1 million (5.2) excluding the effect of the divestment of L&T Korjausrakentaminen Oy. that arise in a large entity.” The substantial year-on-year decline in operating profit was mainly due to costs related to the implementation of Jussi Friman a new operating model in the technical services business, Project Manager the contract portfolio of the property maintenance busiSeinäjoki ness being lower than in the comparison period as well as costs associated with the efficiency improvement and restructuring programme implemented in the fourth quarter. Market situation MAKING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY A REALITY: The market situation of facility services remained stable Read more about Jussi and and the competition remained intense. Demand for servicwatch the video. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 35 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Facility Services Finland Key actions and achievements in 2019 • We improved the customer experience in all of our service branches and the personnel experience in all sectors of our organisation. • We clarified our service portfolio by integrating the maintenance of technical systems into the division and letting go of our renovation and damage repair services. • We renewed the management system and operating model of our division to support the execution of the strategy. • We introduced an ERP system in cleaning services and continued its implementation in the maintenance of technical systems. es remained good, mainly due to the cumulated mainteNet sales Operating profit • Our commercial ability increased in all services and we opened significant new nance backlog of the property base. The increasing susMEUR MEUR customer accounts during the year. tainability requirements increased the demand for energy 300 269.6 6 5.2 5 • We launched the L&T Smartti service for the management of energy efficiency in efficiency solutions and solutions related to the analysis 249.1 250 4 properties. and optimisation of different circumstances. As a result of 3 urbanisation, market growth focused on growth centres. 200 2 • We tested and introduced modern sensor technology which allows the optimisation of 1 conditions in different kinds of properties. Workforce availability is becoming a bottleneck in 150 0 terms of market growth. The multi-year earnings devel-1 • We started to develop the working conditions of schools by creating a new subject, opment programme of the property service sector has 100 -2 -3 learning environment studies. raised the salaries in the field clearly faster than the gen50 -4 eral development of income, but this has not resolved the • In the planning and maintenance of green areas, we were the first company in the -5 -4.1 workforce issue. 0 -6 sector to stop using glyphosates as pesticides. 2018 2019 2018 2019 We seek growth in selected customer segments by • We started a social employment service concept, which offers employment to various developing circular economy solutions for properties, special groups and fights against marginalisation. allowing the improvement of the value and life cycle our customers’ properties and the satisfaction of property users. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 36 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Facility Services Sweden Facility Services Sweden in 2019 Facility Services Sweden makes the circular economy a reality with “Environmental issues are the profitable properties with a long and key to opening more opportunities sustainable lifecycle. We provide technical services and cleaning for us in the future. In addition to services for properties. energy savings, making clean The Facility Services Sweden division’s net sales for 2019 water last, for instance, will also amounted to EUR 131.8 million (134.0). Operating profit was EUR 3.8 million (4.2). Measured in SEK, net sales inbe a challenge that will ­require creased by 1.1 per cent. The demand for technical services increased in Swedeveloping smart answers.” den, but sales growth was slowed by problems related to the availability of labour. Facility Services Sweden impleSara Wennmark mented organisational reforms and a cost savings proBusiness Director gramme in the fourth quarter. Measured in SEK, the operSolna, Sweden ating profit of the technical services business in Sweden was on par with the comparison period, while the operating profit of the cleaning business declined year-on-year. Market situation In the Swedish facility services market, the majority of our business operations is within technical systems services. MAKING THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY A REALITY: Demand remained on a good level. In technical systems Read more about Sara and watch services, we are the market leader within the hospital the video. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 37 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Facility Services Sweden Key actions and achievements in 2019 • We updated our strategy, which aims for strong growth through both acquisitions and organic growth. In addition, the new strategy focuses on developing new services and solutions. • We strengthened our position in the hospital segment. With the help of the new customer accounts, we are now the market leader within Swedish municipal hospital operations. As per our strategy, we have also grown in the commercial segment with the help of new customer accounts. segment, which has strong growth prospects. The privaNet sales Operating profit • We invested in developing and digitalising our working methods. One example is the new digital tisation of hospital and municipal maintenance services, MEUR MEUR platform EDrift which enables the collection and analysis of property-related data. In addition, we the accumulated renovation debt of the property base 150 5 participated in the Grow Smarter EU project, which looks for new working methods and technical 134.0 131.8 as well as the more technical property base increase the 4.2 3.8 solutions that aim for responsible urban growth. market in the short and medium term. The commercial 120 4 sector has steady growth opportunities as well, and the • We invested in attracting competent employees and strengthening the L&T brand through co90 3 operation with schools and the industry’s educational institutions and organisations. segment’s sales grew the most last year. The growth of responsibility requirements is a signifi60 2 • We improved our internal communications by introducing a new intranet, i.e. an internal cant opportunity for our business operations. Customers communications channel through which the personnel receives up-to-date information. want to reduce their carbon footprint and energy con30 1 sumption, and we are here to help them reach their goals. Instead of competing with prices, we focus on low0 0 ering customers’ life-cycle costs with the help of quality 2018 2019 2018 2019 services, high technical systems competence and understanding local customer accounts. We make the circular economy a reality with profitable properties with a long and responsible life cycle. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 38 SUSTAINABILITY 40 Introduction to sustainability 44 Materiality and stakeholder engagement 48 Sustainability programme 49 Circular economy and climate change mitigation 62 A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community 72 Sustainable industry and cities 77 Ensuring compliance with regulations 82 Tables with more specific information 87 Sustainability reporting Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 39 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Introduction to sustainability Sustainability is at the heart of our strategy Lassila & Tikanoja renewed its strategy Due to the nature and extent of our operations, we We believe that when we act sustainably, thereby Our central sustainability commitments in 2019, bringing sustainability to have a significant impact on controlling climate change. creating value to our various stakeholders, the value creand sustainable development indexes We seek to increase the carbon handprint of our operaated to our shareholders will also increase. We report the the core of its operations even more tions and, at the same time, reduce our own carbon footfinancial effects of our operations and our tax footprint strongly than before. At the same print. transparently. time, we elevated the most important We are a major employer and service company, and For more information about our value creation to the we carry our social responsibility by taking care of the different stakeholders, see the report section L&T’s value sustainability goals to the same level wellbeing of our personnel and their ability to work. We creation in 2019. with our long-term financial goals. believe that good employee experience is strongly correWe are committed to support the UN sustainable delated with good customer experience. velopment goals and the Global Compact initiative and Sustainability is an integral aspect of L&T’s strategy, busiWe want to promote fair treatment in society in coits principles pertaining to human rights, labour, the enness operations and day-to-day work, because our operoperation with our customers through employment, and vironment and anti-corruption. We also reported the cliations play a central role in ensuring the sustainability of do this by, for example, providing work for people who are mate impacts of our operations for the first time in 2019 our customers. The most significant impacts of our opstruggling to find employment. according to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial erations become concrete in the sustainability benefits As we are a prominent participant in the day-to-day Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. For more informacreated for our customers. workings of society, we must make no compromises when tion about our report in accordance with the TCFD recThis guides us to continuously seek better results in it comes to sustainability and regulatory compliance in ommendations, see section Risks and opportunities of the utilisation of customer materials, reduction of emisour operations. We observe our environmental and emclimate change. sions and energy consumption as well as utilisation of ployer obligations and minimise the environmental imnew, environmentally sustainable methods and the develpacts of our operations. We also require that our suppliers opment of services promoting the circular economy. operate in accordance with our sustainability principles. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 40 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Introduction to sustainability L&T promotes its customers' responsibility 1 10 We extend the life of properties and provide guidance on sorting 1 waste. We use environmentally sustainable cleaning methods. 2 We create good conditions and help conserve energy. 9 2 We provide industrial support services and take care of side 3 streams in an environmentally sustainable and safe manner. 4 We reduce the environmental impacts of our transports. 8 We process customer waste for utilisation according to the order 5 of priority. We provide bio and secondary raw materials for the industry, 6 thereby increasing the carbon handprint of our operations. 7 7 We take care of our personnel and employ vulnerable groups. 8 We also ensure the sustainability of our subcontractors. 3 6 CO2 4 9 We increase our customers’ environmental expertise. We ensure the preconditions for the circular economy and help 10 our customers to transfer to the circular economy. 5 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 41 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Introduction to sustainability L&T’s sustainability – key elements Our sustainability efforts are guided by erations, but the Director of Corporate Relations and Susour sustainability programme tainability and the communications organisation operatL&T’s sustainability is guided by the sustainability proing under their supervision are in charge of the practical gramme. In our sustainability programme, we have concoordination and reporting of the sustainability work. sidered the material aspects of our sustainability and set The businesses and other functions are in charge of Circular economy A healthy, diverse and Sustainable measurable targets where applicable. the sustainability and compliance of their operations in industry and cities and climate change productive workplace The focal points of our sustainability programme are accordance with the company’s management system. In mitigation community determined on the impacts of our operations, the exaddition, each L&T employee has an obligation to perform pectations of the central stakeholders and our strategic their duties in compliance with the principles regarding priorities. For more information about the sustainability sustainability. STRATEGIC GOALS: STRATEGIC GOAL: We promote the development materiality analysis and the selections made, see section Our decision-making and administration are compliant 1. We increase the carbon 1. Increasing the employee of industrial infrastructure Materiality and stakeholder engagement. with the Finnish Companies Act, other regulations govhandprint of our operations promoter score to 80%. in line with the principles of The most significant sustainability goals were added erning listed companies, Articles of Association of Lassila faster than net sales. sustainable development, the to the company’s long-term strategic goals in the strate& Tikanoja plc, charter of L&T’s Board of Directors and its 2. We will reduce our own Looking after the well-being, recovery of industrial side gy update of 2019. We thereby gave them an even more committees and the rules and guidelines of Nasdaq Helcarbon footprint by 50% work ability and occupational streams and closed cycles. central role in our sustainability programme as well. In sinki Ltd. by 2030. safety of our personnel. 2020, we will be renewing our sustainability management To ensure the sustainability of our operations, we We find innovative solutions We provide employment to model to support the implementation of the strategy and have documented our sustainable business principles in We promote the sustainable to build sustainable cities special groups and persons the sustainability programme even better. our Code of Conduct, which applies to everyone at L&T as use of materials and energy and and create healthy and safe with disabilities. well as our contract suppliers. Where necessary, the Code reduce the amount of waste environments. Managing sustainability at L&T of Conduct is also supplemented with more detailed poligenerated by our customers. We create economic growth At L&T, sustainability is integrated into the company’s cies and principles. For more information about these, see and well-being. strategy. The Board of Directors confirms the sustainaour website bility programme in conjunction with the strategy. At the The management of risks related to sustainability same time, the Board sets the company’s long-term goals. is part of the Group’s comprehensive risk management, In 2019, also the most relevant sustainability goals were which aims to identify significant risk factors, prepare Ensuring compliance with regulations included in these for the first time. The Board of Directors for them and manage them in an optimal way so that the monitors the progress of the sustainability programme company’s objectives are achieved. For more information annually. about the central risks and how they are managed, see We ensure that everything we do complies with our legal and ethical responsibilities. The Group Executive Board steers and regularly monithe Financial Review, pages 30–31. We ensure that all our goods and services are responsibly sourced. tors the implementation of the programme. Development is mostly done in workgroups based on the business opLassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 42 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Introduction to sustainability Managing sustainability at L&T Board of Directors Approves the sustainability programme for each Approves the Code of Conduct and key policies strategy period, reviewed annually President and CEO + Group Executive Board 90 % of operations in Finland Take a lead role in developing our sustainability were sertified according to Monitor compliance with Code of Conduct and activities in line with our programme, standards in 2019 approve any operating instructions supplementing it reviewed at least quarterly Business operations Implement the sustainability programme Responsible for ensuring their own operational through business-oriented work groups, with support compliance as part of everyday activities, in line with from centralised functions the management system The objective of L&T’s management system is to improve management practices, clarify rules and make implementation of the strategy more efficient. The well-being of personnel, a safe working environment and exemplary operation in Centralised functions are responsible for developing work streams within their own area of responsibility, maintaining policies and guidance documents and providing support to our business operations environmental matters are central in the system. The management system has been certified in accordance with the following standards: ISO 9001 (quality), • Safety: Property and Risk Management Director ISO 14001 (environment) and OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety). In • Sustainability coordination and reporting: 2019, the certification covered almost 90% of our business operations in Finand EHSQ team Director, Corporate Relations and Responsibility • Supply chain sustainability: Chief Procurement land and, correspondingly, almost 90% of our personnel in Finland. The property along with communications Officer and procurement team maintenance service branch was included in the certification in 2019. In Swe• Environmental sustainability: Property and Risk • Legal matters, Code of Conduct: General Counsel den, the certification covered all of our business operations. Management Director and EHSQ team and legal team provide guidance and support • Personnel: HR Director and Human Resources business operations For more information about our management system, see our website. Everyone at L&T is responsible for ensuring that they work in line with our sustainability commitments at all times. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 43 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Materiality and stakeholder engagement Materiality guides our Social effects Stakeholder expectations As a major employer and service enterprise, the focus of Our stakeholder work is focused on the stakeholders who L&T’s social responsibility is on the Group’s employees. experience the biggest impacts of our operations and sustainability efforts and The central effects of our operations concern improved well-being at work and occupational safety of our personnel as well as maintaining their ability to work. This have the biggest possibilities to influence the realisation of our business and sustainability goals through their actions. stakeholder relations allows us to impact the lengthening of careers, among other things. Furthermore, our operations reduce inequality in soOur key stakeholders include our customers, our own personnel, potential employees, investors, national and regional policymakers and the media. ciety as we also offer work to persons with poor employWe conduct an extensive stakeholder survey every ment prospects or to those unable to work full days. two years and engage in regular dialogue in order to chart We respect human and labour rights as well as nashareholder expectations to our operations comprehenWe have utilised a materiality analysis Central impacts of L&T’s operations tional legislation, agreements and other obligations to sively. We have crystallised these expectations into three to helps us focus our sustainability ensure the equal treatment of our personnel. We require key perspectives. Environmental impacts: the same of our subcontractors. and stakeholder efforts on the issues L&T’s environmental impacts are generated particular• A leader in sustainable business that relate to the most impacts of ly through the services it produces for customers when Financial effects: As the leader in its sector, L&T is expected to develour operations and are the most we increase our customers’ material reuse and recycling As we are a listed company, the sustainable increase of op the entire business to the right direction for the rates, process them into secondary raw materials for the shareholder value is a central financial effect of our opcommunity and to conduct itself correctly and sussignificant to our stakeholders. We needs of industries and replace fossil fuels with bio and erations. We reach for faster and more profitable growth tainably in environmental matters. have also observed the UN Sustainable solid recovered fuels. This allows us to significantly miticompared to our market, all the while maintaining a good • A good employer Development Goals and the Global gate climate change and preserve natural resources. financial standing and economic flexibility. As a significant employer and service company, we Compact in our assessment. In our own activities, we particularly focus on reducing We are also among the most significant employers in are also expected to be a sustainable employer that the emissions caused by collection and transport servicour operating locations and the salaries, wages and taxes takes care of the well-being of its personnel and es as a significant logistics operator. Additionally, we must we pay, as well as our purchases, have a substantial imtreats its personnel appropriately and fairly. In 2019, we updated our sustainability materiality analysis ensure the environmental sustainability of our material pact on municipal finances and other businesses in each • A useful partner to support the central findings of the extensive stakeprocessing, storage and final disposal operations as well economic area. L&T is expected to be a useful partner for its cusholder survey conducted in 2018 and our updated strateas uncompromising compliance with environmental legisWe ensure the sustainability of our governance by foltomers, developing new services and supporting gic policies. The materiality assessment is based on the lation and standards. We require the same from our sublowing the Finnish Companies Act, other regulations govcustomers in their work towards their goals as well central impacts of our operations and the expectations of contractors. erning listed companies, Articles of Association of Lassila as keeping our promises. our stakeholders. & Tikanoja plc, charter of L&T’s Board of Directors and its committees and the rules and guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd in our decision-making and administration. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 44 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Materiality and stakeholder engagement Stakeholder work in 2019 Stakeholder Key expectations Description of relevant interaction in 2019 Customers A good employer, a useful • We conducted two Net Promoter Score surveys in Finland and one in Sweden and received more than 5,800 assessments of our operations. We utilised the results at the division, partner, interaction service line and unit levels to improve the customer experience. • We also conducted more than 35 customer-specific electronic satisfaction surveys that provided valuable information on our day-to-day performance. The performance of our customer service was measured by means of a continuous survey which was sent to more than 40,000 contact persons. • We gave online waste management training to almost 40 customers and organised more than 80 other customer training events. • Furthermore, we had hundreds of lighter customer-specific information events and conducted more than 110 cooperation projects with our customers. • We managed and developed customer relationships through development and steering groups. • We sent 20 newsletters to our customers to discuss current topics. We actively produced content for our blogs and invited interested parties to subscribe to them by e-mail. In addition, we organised more than 40 customer events to share information about L&T’s services. Personnel A leader in sustainable • We started using a new personnel satisfaction survey to regularly collect information about personnel motivation, supervisors’ management and leadership. We conducted two business, a good employer measurements during the year and implemented development actions based on the results in different organisational levels. • Our work ability operations included the piloting of new operational models to keep persons with disabilities at work in the Meaningful Work project and the Suitable Work project. • All divisions focused on the renewal of operating models, aiming at better supervisor work, improved participation of personnel and a more agile operating model. • We supported the professional development of our personnel through learning on the job, career paths, job rotation and training. We ensured the competence of our supervisors through measures including coaching focused on the development of managerial work, business development and leadership. The development of personnel was based on ­performance reviews. • We agreed on a new operating model with the Shop Stewards, aiming at extensive personnel representation at different levels from the group to the divisions. • We communicated with our personnel using the renewed intranet, the Letti personnel magazine, videos, newsletters, text messages, WhatsApp messages and our internal Yammer and Facebook networks. Potential employees A good employer • We continued national and systematic co-operation with education institutes by means of vocational, recruitment and apprentice training as well as workplace learning periods. • We created a hybrid model for recruitment and apprentice training in cooperation with a partner with the goal of training new experts and future professionals for the field. • We participated in 50 different recruitment and career events during the year to present our operations and disseminate information on job opportunities at L&T. • We recruited almost 1,000 summer workers, organised five walk-in recruitment events and acted as the main partner of the Responsible Summer Job campaign. • We decided to participate in the national the Children and Youth Foundation’s Huippuharkka project in which we provide apprentice positions to at least 30 young people by the end of 2020. • We introduced recruitment tip rewards, increased national cooperation with TE Offices and ELY Centres and, in order to develop our employer image, surveyed our personnel’s views of L&T’s employer image by means of a feedback survey. • Our employee ambassadors were active on social media using the #ihantikkana hashtag. We produced content describing the daily work of people at L&T to Instagram, Twitter and Facebook. • We also invested on the social media and media marketing of recruitment significantly more than before. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 45 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Materiality and stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Key expectations Description of relevant interaction in 2019 Investors and A useful partner, a leader in • We organised a Capital Markets Day in November based on our renewed strategy. Almost 30 analysts and institutional investors participated in the day. shareholders sustainable business • We also met with investors and analysts at approximately 30 different events, including seminars, group meetings and our Annual General Meeting. • We used stock exchange releases, press releases and our website for regular communications with the capital markets. Decision-makers A leader in sustainable • We participated actively in the work of industry and labour market organisations in Finland and at the EU level. and influential business, a good employer • In 2019, we focused on the Finnish implementation of EU’s circular economy package and in particular the part aimed at the renewal of the Waste Act. actors (including national and regional • We engaged Finnish municipalities in the promotion of the recycling of plastic in the Muovimuuvi campaign. decision-makers • We participated in the preparation of decisions concerning waste transport systems at the municipal level. and organisations) • We proposed new initiatives to the labour and industry authorities concerning the promotion of employment of persons with disabilities. Media A leader in sustainable • We responded to dozens of media contacts to satisfy journalists’ information needs or to identify interviewees. business, a good employer • We published 28 press releases and organised media events and meetings. We discussed current topics in opinion pieces. Sustainability materiality analysis 2. Responding to stakeholder expectations In the sustainability materiality analysis, we assessed the Other areas of sustainability which we consider relevant most material topics with respect to our business and for the company’s operations and stakeholders, in which strategy and classified them into three categories based we aim to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and on stakeholder expectations and the impacts of our operact according to them. ations: 3. Compliance 1. Leadership and best practice For other sustainability aspects that are material to L&T’s The key material topics from the point of view of impacts business operations, our aim is, at a minimum, to ensure of L&T’s operations, strategy and stakeholders, in which regulatory compliance. we pursue leadership and aim to create best practices in As particular focal areas for our sustainability work, our industry. we have selected six of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which we are committed to promoting over the coming years. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 46 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Materiality and stakeholder engagement Sustainability materiality analysis 2019 UN Sustainable Development Goals guide our sustainability efforts Increasing carbon handprint • Reuse and recycling of customer materials • Replacement of fossil fuels and customer We replace virgin raw materials with secondary raw materials and fossil energy efficiency fuels with bioenergy, and we create new service solutions that promote LEADERSHIP AND BEST PRACTICES the circular economy and reduce our own emissions. Improvement of personnel’s well-being at work • Employee satisfaction This allows us to influence sustainable development goals 7, 12 and 13. • Promotion of work ability • Occupational safety OP ER Reducing the carbon footprint IO Sustainable growth AT Employment of special groups We endeavour to build a healthy, diverse and productive work community, NA Innovative service development provide diverse employment and create sustainable economic added value LE RESPONDING TO STAKEHOLDER and well-being, which addresses the sustainable development goals. EXPECTATIONS IV CT This allows us to influence sustainable development goals 8 and 10. FFE S ES EN ENSURING Compliance and operational ethics Sustainability of the supply chain COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS We promote sustainable industry and sustainable cities by developing our customers’ operations and by creating new innovative service solutions. This allows us to influence sustainable development goals 9 and 11. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 47 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability programme L&T's sustainability programme 2019-2024 Priorities Aspects Goals and indicators Circular economy and • We increase the carbon handprint of our operations. Strategic goals: Increasing the size of our carbon handprint faster than net sales. ­climate change mitigation • We reduce our own carbon footprint. Reducing our own emissions by 50% from the level of 2018 by 2030 • We promote the sustainable use of materials and energy and reduce Supporting indicators: the amount of waste generated by our customers. Increasing the reuse and recycling rate of waste collected from customers to 60%, rising to 70% in the long term. Improving customer energy efficiency. A healthy, diverse and • Looking after the well-being, work ability and occupational safety of Strategic goal: Increasing the employee promoter score to 80%. productive workplace our personnel. community • We provide employment to vulnerable groups and persons with Supporting indicators: ­disabilities. The average retirement age will rise to 64, with a long-term target of 65. Reducing sickness-related absences to 4.5%. • We create economic growth and well-being. Continuous improvement of occupational safety, final goal 0 accidents. Employment of special groups. Increased well-being, increasing financial added value. Increasing the tax footprint. Sustainable • We promote the development of industrial infrastructure in line with Supporting indicators: ­industry and cities the principles of sustainable development, the recovery of industrial Developing and introducing new, sustainable and safe methods. side streams and closed cycles. Increasing the productive use of industrial side streams and contaminated land. • We find innovative solutions to build sustainable cities and create Solutions for maintaining sustainable urban infrastructure and developing sustainable cities. healthy and safe environments. Innovations to create healthy and safe conditions for people. Reducing the use of chemicals and increasing the proportion of ecolabelled products. Ensuring compliance • We ensure that everything we do complies with our legal and ethical Supporting indicators: with regulations responsibilities. No major damage or infractions. • We ensure that all our goods and services are sustainably sourced. All new L&T employees are required to familiarise themselves with our Code of Conduct and this is reviewed regularly. We use suppliers who are committed to the L&T sustainable supply chain policy. We conduct annual risk-based audits of all our suppliers. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 48 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation Focus areas of the sustainability programme: CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Circular economy and climate change mitigation Priorities and objectives Our Emission reductions through 2019-2024 Indicators 2019 success Notes We increase the carbon handprint of our operations. services that promote Strategic goals: • L&T’s carbon handprint 1.2 million We increased tonnes CO2 (eq.) (1.2) our biofuel and The carbon handprint of our operations • Carbon handprint growth* +0.9% recovered fuel grows faster than organic net sales. deliveries circular economy vs. net sales growth (-2.2%) Carbon handprint growth vs. net sales • Energy items replaced 2.6 TWh (2.5) *Carbon handprint intensity, relation to growth. million euros L&T puts sustainability into practice Management of environmental We reduce our own carbon footprint. particularly through the services it ­sustainability at L&T L&T’s environmental policy specifies the environmental Reducing our own emissions by -50% from • Reduction of emissions* -5.1% We succeeded produces for customers. The primary aspects and principles that the Group observes in both its the level of 2018 by 2030. (+6.8), in the reduction of our absolute goal is always to direct materials own operations as well as in the services it produces for Reducing other indirect emissions caused • Emission intensity 57.8 CO2 thouemissions* sand tonnes CO2 (eq.) (59.5) collected from customers towards customers. The cornerstones are uncompromising comby the supply chain: 70% of L&T’s biggest pliance with environmental legislation and standards, as suppliers and subcontractors will set their • The company has committed to set *Scope 1 and 2, reuse or recycling, guided by the order own emission targets by 2025. Science Based goals during 2020 to reported according to well as the principle of continuous improvement. SustainSBT from 2020 of priority as stipulated by law and the control climate risks able management of environmental issues is part of L&T’s circular economy approach. operative risk management process. We promote the sustainable use of materials and energy and reduce the amount of waste The environmental risks involved in our operations generated by our customers. mainly relate to our fleet, waste storage and processing The reduced emissions of our customers resulting from Increasing the reuse and recycling rate of • Reuse and recycling rate 54.8% We increased as well as to chemical safety. An ISO 14001 certified enviour services also create our carbon handprint. Increasing­ customer materials to 60% with a long(54.2). Material volumes to recyour recycling rate ronmental system and efficient self-monitoring form the the carbon handprint was made one of our strategic goals time goal of 70%. cling -8.2%, all material streams and reduced the foundations of our risk management. Environmental risks 9.2%. Amount of mixed waste 24.1% amount of mixed in 2019. In addition to increasing our carbon handprint, we are regularly surveyed e.g. with inspections and audits. Improving customer energy efficiency. (25.5) waste endeavour to mitigate the climate change also by reducAny observed defects and risk factors are entered into a • Start of L&T Smartti energy effiing the greenhouse gas emissions of our own operations. Initiation of the system that is then used to follow up on the processing of ciency services, energy monitoring We are also active in our efforts to promote the necesSmartti services the issues. covers 370 (368) locations, 3,392 sary operating conditions for the circular economy. (3,942) proposals made to improve energy efficiency. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 49 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Professional waste treatment operations are subject L&T’s operations have major benefits for the mental aspects instead of just the reduction of climate to environmental permits and regulatory compliance. ­climate emissions. In 2019, L&T had 67 (70) environmental permits that deL&T’s carbon handprint, or the emission reductions creatCarbon handprint = Climate termined how the Group managed and monitored envied by its operations, totalled about 1.2 million tonnes CO2 L&T ranked among the leading companies in ronmental matters. Facilities subject to environmental (eq.) (1.2) in 2019. The emission reductions were generat­mitigating climate change benefits, or greenhouse gas permits have contingency plans and rescue plans that ed by our customers being able to replace virgin raw maIn 2019, L&T again achieved excellent results in the inemission reduction potential, determine how they are prepared for significant environterials with secondary raw materials, or fossil fuels with ternational climate disclosure report commissioned by created for customers by a mental incidents. Environmental issues are also covered biofuels and solid recovered fuels. the world’s leading investors and produced by CDP, an in regularly conducted internal audits. In Finland in 2019, power plants, heating plants and organisation that promotes sustainability in economic company’s services. L&T requires sustainable management of environmencement kilns replaced fossil fuels by biofuels and solid activity and the mitigation of climate change. With a Leadtal issues of its partners and suppliers. This requirement recovered fuels produced and supplied by L&T by a comership-level grade A-, the second best, we were ranked The carbon handprint is affected by, is factored into the procurement process e.g. in the form putational total of 2.6 TWh (2.5 TWh). L&T produces biofuamong the world’s top companies in the CDP Climate asamong other things, replacing nonof self-assessments. Waste is only handed over to operael from the side and scrap streams of forestry activities sessment. A total of 38 companies in the Nordic countries renewable raw materials with renewables tors that are authorised to receive or process it. increasing the carbon sinks of forests. Hog fuel is proand 13 companies in Finland achieved the Leadership and reducing the amount of waste. duced from wood waste from the construction, industrial level by receiving a grade of A or A-. Companies ranked at L&T’s carbon handprint and commerce sectors as well as wood packaging that the Leadership level are considered to operate in accordL&T’s business has a large carbon handprint. Our services cannot be restored for reuse. Solid recovered fuels (SRF) ance with best practices with regard to the environment, provide substantial reductions of emissions to our cusare produced from municipal and construction waste that to well understand the risks and opportunities relating tomers as a result of, for example, the fact that our indusis not suitable for recycling. to climate change and to be preparing and implementing trial customers are replacing primary raw materials with We developed our carbon handprint calculation in strategies to mitigate or utilise these risks and opportunisecondary raw materials or replacing fossil fuels with 2019 to also include the emission reductions generated ties. The 2019 report and results are available on the CDP bio and solid recovered fuels (SRF) or succeed to reduce, by the energy efficiency services and explosive cleaning website. with our help, the amount of waste generated in their opservices provided to our customers. We will report these erations. In 2019, we made increasing the carbon handas a part of our carbon handprint from 2020. We also print one of our strategic goals. While the carbon handstarted co-operation with the carbon handprint project of Source: Finnish Innovation Fund Sitra, print of L&T’s operations increases, the carbon footprint VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland and LappeenVTT Technical Research Centre of Finland of our customers decreases. This allows us to support our ranta-Lahti Technical University in order to extend the customers in meeting their sustainability goals. calculation of our handprint to cover different environLassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 50 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation What is a carbon handprint? L&T’s operations create significant emission reductions for our customers The carbon footprint … whereas the carbon focuses on the negative handprint describes = LARGE CARBON HANDPRINT emission impacts, … climate benefits or positive climate impacts. 1.2 million When a company … the customer is tonnes CO2 (eq.) produces a carbon handable to reduce its print for its customer… carbon footprint. Is equivalent to emissions from 120,000 Finnish people. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 51 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Reducing L&T’s own emissions Reducing our own emissions While making the increasing of our carbon handprint a strategic goal, we also set a new goal to reduce our own harmful emissions, also known as our carbon footprint. Our goal is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by OUR STRATEGIC GOAL: 50 per cent from the level of 2018 by 2030. Furthermore, To reduce the emissions we seek to reduce the indirect emissions generated in Emissions caused by caused by our own operations by our supply chain so that 70 per cent of our biggest suppliers and subcontractors have set goals to reduce their own emissions by 2025. We will report the progress of our our own operations TOTAL -50% 45.3 emissions according to the SBT goal from 2020. by 2030 (from 2018) In 2019, we continued to take active measures to reduce the emissions arising from collection and transport services. We added lower-emission vehicles to our fleet thousand tonnes CO2 (eq.) (47.8) and used lower-emission fuels, and we continued to optimise transport routes and improve the driving styles of our drivers. 0.2 1.4 1.4 PURCHASED DISTRICT WORK-RELATED ELECTRICITY HEATING TRAVEL • The average driving style index of L&T’s drivers of heavy vehicles improved to 9.2 (9.2). The index reflects the safety and economy of driving style on a scale of 4–10. The calculation is based on a weight14.9 SUBCONTRACTORS’ FUEL CONSUMPTION ed average. 43.7 • Driving style monitoring continued for the vehicles TRANSPORT, PRODUCTION VEHICLES, of the Environmental Services and Industrial ServicWORK MACHINES, LANDFILL OPERATIONS es divisions. Driving style monitoring equipment has now been installed in a total of 920 vehicles (920). thousand tonnes CO2 eq. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 52 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION • In addition to monitoring, we develop our drivers’ • Part of our heavy fleet runs on the waste-based in the operating model. The employees at the facilities can tensity, or the ratio of emissions to net sales, fell to 57.8 driving style by training and, if necessary, unit-speNeste MY Renewable fuel instead of diesel. Using monitor processes and electricity consumption in real million tonnes CO2 (eq.) (59.5) per million euros. Our emiscific action plans. In 2019, a total of 336 drivers Neste MY Renewable has enabled us to reduce time from displays installed on the machines. Other meassion intensity has decreased each year since 2014. This is (235) participated in economical driving training. transport-related greenhouse gas emissions and ures include using LED lights exclusively when replacing due to factors including our active measures to optimise • We reduced the environmental impact of our fleet other emissions that diminish air quality. It also lighting and configuring conveyors to stop automatically routes and promote an economical driving style. by increasing utilisation rates and optimising represents an example of how we put the circular when no material is coming in. The emission intensity has been calculated by diroutes. We had a total of 892 heavy vehicles (891) economy into practice: we transport waste using We continued to monitor energy consumption at our viding L&T’s direct (transport, production vehicles, work in operation in 2019. fuel made from waste. properties in 2019 with the help of our Property Managmachines, landfill operations) and indirect (purchased • We replaced older heavy vehicles with new lowers. Among other things, they keep an eye on the energy electricity, district heat) greenhouse gas emissions by net er-emission vehicles that meet the Euro 6 vehicle Energy intensity stayed at the same level consumption and use of properties and assess renovasales. Our target which was updated in the sustainability emission standards. The engines of Euro 6 vehicles L&T’s energy intensity, or energy consumption relative to tion needs. We also use green electricity in Finland, which programme in 2019 is to reduce emissions by 50 per cent represent a major leap forward in the reduction of net sales, was 290 MWh per million euros in 2019 (290). means that our electricity consumption does not give rise by 2030, compared to the level of 2018. For more informaparticulate matter emissions. In 2019, 79 per cent The downward trend of our energy intensity is a testato any greenhouse gas emissions. We encourage our emtion about the CO2 calculation principles here. (75) of our fleet of heavy vehicles in Finland and ment to the success of the many measures we have takployees to work remotely in the operations and tasks in Russia met Euro 4 standards or better. en to improve our energy efficiency. which it is possible. • We continued our active efforts to optimise routes. Energy intensity is calculated by dividing L&T’s own Over the past five years, we have optimised more energy consumption by net sales. Energy consumption Emissions from our own operations are very small than 3,000 routes. Route optimisation reduces the includes the fuels used by our fleet and the electricity and compared to the carbon handprint fleet requirements and kilometres driven while also district heat consumed at our operating locations. While L&T’s own operations do give rise to greenhouse reducing the stops and visits to yard areas. The In 2019, the energy consumption of L&T’s own propgas emissions, the amount pales in comparison to our number of optimised routes depends on the route erties remained at the same level as in the previous year. carbon handprint. The most significant source of direct structure of the areas being optimised each year. Our electricity consumption in 2019 totalled 31,600 MWh greenhouse gas emissions are the emissions generatWe started using a new route optimisation tool in (2018: 31,300 MWh) and consumption of district heat ed by collection and transport services, which is why 2019 which makes the optimisation of routes even amounted to 8,600 MWh (2018: 9,000 MWh). reducing them is one of our key sustainability targets. more efficient. L&T’s recycling plants have adopted an operating In 2019, L&T’s own operations (Scope 1 & 2) generated • We introduced 2 new gas-fuelled heavy vehicles model based on continuous improvement and deployed 45.3 tonnes CO2 (eq.) (47.8) of emissions. The absolute and will increase the number of gas-fuelled vehithe Mahti facility information system. The reduction of emissions decreased from the previous year due to the cles to 10 in 2020. energy consumption has been one aspect of the change reduced use of fossil diesel. However, our emission inLassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 53 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Carbon handprint and carbon footprint Carbon handprint or calculated Carbon footpint or our Scientific emission ­reduction goal: emission savings total own emissions total 1.2 million 45.3 -50% from the level of 2018 tonnes CO2 (eq.) (1.2) thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent (47.8) by 2030. In 2019, we set a scientific emission reduction goal which guides the de-823.6 BIOFUEL AND RECOVERED FUEL DELIVERIES 43.7 TRANSPORT, PRODUCTION VEHICLES, WORK MACHINES, LANDFILL OPERATIONS PURCHASED ELECTRICITY velopment of our operations in accordance with the 1.5-degree goal of the Paris Climate Agreement. Our goal is to reduce the greenhouse gas 0.2 emissions of our own operations by -50% from the level of 2018 by 2030. -340.0 MATERIAL RECYCLING 14.9 SUBCONTRACTORS’ FUEL CONSUMPTION Furthermore, we seek to reduce the indirect emissions generated in our supply chain (Scope 3) so that 70% of our biggest (spending) suppliers thousand tonnes CO2(eq.) thousand tonnes CO2 (eq.) DISTRICT and subcontractors have set goals to reduce their own emissions by HEATING 2025. Our emission reduction goal is currently being validated by the Science Based Targets organisation, and the decision about the validation 1.4 of the goal will arrive in early 2020. We will report the development of our emissions according to the new SBT goal from 2020. WORK-RELATED TRAVEL 1.4 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 54 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Recycling and material recovery construction waste collected from corporate customprocess or forward to be processed for use as raw waste was transported to other EU countries for L&T strives to promote the transition to the circular econers in Finland and Russia. In 2019, their combined volume materials for new products through our partners. treatment. We did not import any hazardous waste omy in its own operations as well as its customers’ opwas 788,000 tonnes (868,000), of which 432,000 tonnes The most significant of these are fibres (recyclable to Finland in 2019. erations. We have invested in new services that promote (470,500) was reused or recycled. Slurry, contaminated paper and cardboard), plastic and metal. In 2019, we the circular economy, increase our customers’ material soil and ash are excluded from reporting. opened a new plastic processing line which makes In 2019, L&T was the first environmental company to join and energy efficiency and reduce costs. We have also The recycling rate reported by L&T is the weighted it possible to recycle even more difficult-to-recycle the Green Deal agreement aimed at improving waste oil increased the carbon handprint of our operations and our average of our customers’ recycling rates. It also includes plastic sorts. management nationwide. In the agreement, we made a goal is to further increase the use of secondary raw mamaterials that cannot be recycled. The development of • Other forms of recovery include, among other things, commitment to develop our operations to increase the terials instead of virgin materials. In accordance with the the recycling rate also depends on the industry of our utilisation as energy and the use of materials in the reuse of waste oil, engage our customers in sustainable order of priority in waste management, we primarily direct customer, but certain customers have even achieved a construction of waste areas in environmental conoil waste management and ensure that the waste oil prothe generated material streams to be reused or recycled. recycling rate of even more than 80 per cent. struction. Energy recovery from waste is divided into duced through our own operations will be delivered to In 2019, we opened a new plastic processing line which Our aim is to continuously increase the reuse and recytwo categories: recovery as a waste-derived fuel, the appropriate treatment. Our aim is that all of the waste makes it possible to recycle even more difficult-to-recycling rate of waste collected from customers. To achieve and recovery in the incineration of mixed waste. We oil we collect will be reused and that we will increase the cle plastic sorts. this goal, we actively look for new material streams whose prefer the recovery of waste not suitable for recyamount of waste oil we collect from our customers by 10 To reduce the environmental impact of the materials refining rate we can increase and develop new service solucling or environmental construction as a waste-deper cent by 2025. In 2019, we collected 10,000 tonnes of collected from customers and to promote the circular tions for our customers to promote the circular economy. rived fuel, which includes solid recovered fuels, waste oil from our customers. economy, L&T continuously strives to find new solutions • Our services helping to reduce the amount of waste shredded used wood and tyre shreds used for enerto recover materials at the highest possible refining rate generated include, for example, the Hävikkimestari gy production. Sorting at source promotes recycling and in accordance with the order of priority in waste service which helps restaurants reduce food waste, • Hazardous waste, which includes oily waste, solIncreasing sorting of materials at source plays a key role management. and the Raksanouto service which, on the other hand, vents, batteries and fluorescent tubes, among other in the development of the recycling rate. When materials In 2019, 54.8 per cent (54.2) of the material streams prevents surplus products and materials generated things, are processed by L&T at the company’s own are diligently sorted at source, they can be recovered and collected from our customers and managed by L&T could at construction sites from ending up at the skip. facilities or forwarded to trusted partners for recovutilised effectively. The volume and share of materials be reused or recycled for use as raw material for new • Reuse includes pallets forwarded directly or after ery. In 2019, we collected 55,000 tonnes (55,000) sorted at source of the material flows managed by L&T products. Over 400,000 tonnes of materials were delivrepairs to reuse and goods collected via the Easyof hazardous waste from our customers, with 69 has increased continuously. In 2019, 76 per cent (74) of ered to reuse and recycling. Collection service, which are forwarded to reuse via per cent (67) of this total recycled. Part of the hazall materials were sorted at source, with only 24 per cent This report covers the key material streams from partners. ardous waste we collected was recovered as en(26) ending up in mixed waste. L&T is continuously develthe perspective of material reuse and recycling, namely • Recycling includes material streams sorted at ergy and non-recoverable waste was sent for final oping new services in co-operation with its customers to municipal waste, hazardous waste, industrial waste and source collected from our customers, which we treatment. In 2019, 5.3 per cent (5.0) of hazardous facilitate sorting at source. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 55 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Waste management order of priority Examples of L&T’s services allowing our customers to Services supporting our customers’ Material flows transition to the circular economy environmental management managed by L&T 2019 2018 2017 Waste-based 788,000 868,000 801,000 materials total, t Materials sorted 68.9 68.1 67.1 HÄVIKKIMESTARI Waste prevention at source, % Hazardous waste 7.0 6.3 5.9 sorted at source, % OMA L&T Mixed waste, % 24.1 25.5 27.1 Preparation CARBON-NEUTRAL PALLET SERVICE for reuse WASTE MANAGEMENT Continuosly new materials for recycling, e.g.: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGER THE SHARE OF MIXED WASTE IN THE MATERIAL STREAMS DIRTY PLASTICS RESIDUE INSULATION MATERIALS CONTROLLED BY L&T HAS Recycling ENERGY MANAGER RECYCLED WOOD RECYCLING OF JUTE BAGS has declined by -5 p.p. TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES Other recovery ENVIRONMENTAL WEB SINCE 2016. ONLINE TRAINING Disposal Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 56 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION CASE Recycling rate of materials managed by L&T Improving customers’ energy efficiency L&T has a long track record of working to improve customers’ energy efficiency through preventive maintenance, energy efficiency observations and repairs, among Read more about MeriReuse and recycling 54.8% karvia Plasticbot line. other things. In 2019, we expanded our offering further Recovery in environmental and combined our services aimed at improving the enerconstruction 4.8 % 788,000 Recovery as waste-based fuel 23.9% gy efficiency of properties under the L&T Smartti Energy Efficiency concept. TONNES Recovery in the incineration L&T’s Energy Management Centre in Kuopio remoteL&T makes plastic move of mixed waste 9.6% ly monitors the technical building systems of customer Final treatment 6.9% properties. The aim is to find the most energy-efficient The circulation of plastic in Finland was enhanced when L&T opened the new Plasticbot line at the Meriway to use the properties. The centre works in close karvia plastic recycling plant. Plastic is turned from waste into a raw material for Finnish industry. co-operation with property managers: it monitors and Opened in September, the new processing line doubles the plant’s capacity, and the new washing line analyses data and the property managers make on-site means that dirtier plastic film and commercial packaging can now be efficiently recycled. Recycling rate of hazardous waste observations. This results in analyses and concrete sug“In the past, thousands of tonnes of dirty plastic were exported from Finland for processing elsewhere. gestions for improving the energy efficiency of the propWe are now able to provide the plastic industry with more domestic raw materials,” says Production Manerties involved. In 2019, the Energy Management Centre ager Mikko Mäenpää from L&T. monitored 370 sites (368). A total of 3,392 suggestions The secondary raw material produced by the plant can reduce the consumption of oil for plastic profor improving energy efficiency were made (3,942). duction by as much as 400,000 barrels annually. We also work to improve energy efficiency in Sweden. In the new processing line, plastic enters the washing line, where it is shredded, washed and dried. The Recycled as material 69.2% 55,000 Recovery as energy 2.1% The services include energy surveys, energy consumption optimisation and an Energy Management Centre that line is designed to be eco-friendly: the waters used in the closed cycle are purified and recycled. Water only needs to be added at a rate that replaces the water that evaporates during the process. TONNES Final treatment 28.7% serves a similar function to its counterpart in Kuopio. Our “We didn’t just buy a washing machine, we also bought a system for treating the water used in the customer properties include office buildings, hospitals, washing process,” Mäenpää points out. residential properties and schools representing some 11 The output of the process is plastic granulate. It is shipped to customers in big bags, cardboard octabmillion square metres combined. ins or tanker trucks. L&T produces more than a hundred different granulates for different purposes. L&T Smartti reduces the customer’s carbon footprint L&T Smartti Energy Efficiency solution consists of servicLassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 57 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION CASE es related to energy efficiency, energy consumption and and management to support the implementation of Report of the risks and opportunities of climate energy measurement at properties and production facillarger projects. change in accordance with TCFD ities. For customers, the service outcomes are financial • Training on sensible energy management for the L&T reports the risks and opportunities related to climate savings and a reduced carbon footprint, achieved withusers of technical building systems. change in accordance with the TCFD (Task Force for Cliout compromising on the building’s conditions. The L&T • An Energy Management Centre whose monitoring mate-related Financial Disclosures) recommendations as Smartti services support the customer’s own sustainaactivities ensure that energy consumption remains we want to increase transparency and knowledge about bility goals by charting areas of development in order to at the desired level after the energy efficiency the measures of companies related to the mitigating of improve energy efficiency, by implementing development measures are implemented. climate change. Meira and L&T built a textbook actions and by monitoring the results in practice. Energy • Reporting of the emission and cost savings Due to the nature of L&T’s operations, the company example of the circular economy efficiency services are offered for many different kinds achieved with the energy efficiency measures to plays a significant role in the mitigation of circular econof properties, including retail, office and residential buildthe customers and their stakeholders. omy and in the transition towards low-carbon circular Approximately one million kilos of the 13 million ings as well as warehouses and production facilities. economy. L&T’s business has a large carbon handprint, kilos of coffee Meira produces annually is roastThe L&T Smartti energy services include, among other which means that we generate significant emission reed using biogas. The source of the biogas comes things: L&T SMARTTI – properties ductions for our customers. from the company’s own production: the cof• An Energy Manager that takes charge of managand production facilities 18 customer sites included in the service 2019 charted fee waste is generated as a side stream of the ing the energy efficiency of the customer’s sites. L&T’s climate strategy roasting operations at the Labio plant in Lahti. The Energy Manager can draw up a long-term plan The mitigation of climate change is a strategic focal point Energy savings generated for Electricity: 766.7 MWh/a The Vallila roastery has created a textbook of energy efficiency measures for the company, for L&T and strongly connected to our strategy based on properties Heat: 539.6 MWh/a example of the circular economy at its finest. assume the responsibility for the comprehensive Total: 1,306.3 MWh/a the creation of value. All our operations produce solutions Meira has been very satisfied with the project. energy efficiency management of properties and which facilitate the transition towards low-carbon circuCost savings generated for 103,610 €/a Recycling coffee waste reduces Meira’s CO2 monitor not only energy consumption, but also the properties lar economy, promote the sustainable use of materials, emissions by about 77 tonnes per year and inproperty’s conditions and comfort. energy and natural resources and reduce the volume of Emission savings generated 209.6 tCO2/a creases the recycling rate by 21 percentage • Chartings to improve the energy efficiency in waste generated and energy consumed. We support our points. a practical manner as a part of the customer’s customers by enhancing the use of energy and materidaily life. als and by replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy Read more about the • Updating of equipment and the optimisation of sources. Furthermore, we support our customers in the case and watch a video equipment use and programming. mitigation of their climate impacts by optimising the use • Energy project design, profitability assessment of properties and their technical systems. L&T has the Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 58 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION L&T aims at the circular economy and the mitigation of climate change. The most important impacts of climate change on our operations are: Goals Measures Climate impacts and impacts to business operations Transition to lowL&T has made a commitment to The circular economy is a key to mitigating climate change. strong market position required for the implementation of business environment based on the changes with the carbon circular increase the share of the reuse and The EU is introducing more ambitious reuse and recycling economy recycling of waste collected from targets for waste and packaging materials, which presents such changes in all of its business areas. highest degree of uncertainty and the financial impact. the customers from the current 55% new growth opportunities for L&T in the various stages of The mitigation of climate change calls for radical reL&T’s is able to change its business model flexibly acto 60% and, in the long run, to 70%. material value chains. forms to increase the use of renewable energy, improve cording to the different climate scenarios. The reference energy efficiency, promote the reuse of materials and scenario was a business environment where the status shift to low-emission engine and fuel solutions in transquo remains unchanged. The business effects of climate Increasing carbon L&T has made a commitment to The significance of renewable energy continues to handprint increase its carbon handprint or the grow with the long-term climate policy encouraging the port. The significance of biomass and waste-based fuels change were assessed in the different scenarios through emission reductions generated to termination of the use of fossil fuels. Biofuels and wasteas solutions for the transition period is constantly growaspects of change in the industry related to regulation, the customers through our actions, based fuels will play a significant role during the transition ing. L&T’s business operations are in a good position for the business model and technological development. The totalling approximately 1.2 million period. L&T’s operations help our customers significantly this development and allow us to efficiently benefit from alternative strategic scenarios were presented to the tonnes CO2 (eq.). to mitigate climate change. The carbon handprint of the the opportunities related to climate. Board of Directors as a part of the strategy process, alrecycling of materials is also significant, approximately Our goal during the strategy period 30% of our total carbon handprint. The monitoring of the outcomes of climate change lowing the Board Of Directors to also use them in future is to increase the carbon handprint related to our business operations is integrated in L&T’s decision-making, if necessary. of our operations faster than strategy process. When we have considered different opThe mitigation of climate change provides L&T’s busiorganic net sales. tions and analysed the strategic business environment, ness operations strategic opportunities for development we have assessed the impacts of climate change on our in the resolution of climate challenges. L&T’s strategic Securing the L&T’s operations help retain the The physical effects of climate change increase the business operations both during the five-year strategy mission is to make the circular economy a reality. Tranvalue of property value of our customers’ real estate risk of changes in the value of assets. The constructed period and in the long term until 2035. Our assessment sition to resource-efficient circular economy is a central and forest assets. environment in Finland is not properly prepared for the considers, among other things, the development of prices factor in the mitigation of global warming. We intend to do increased impacts of extreme weather phenomena and the for emission rights and carbon emissions, the different this by improving the material, energy and cost efficiency resulting increase in property maintenance needs. scenarios of the mutual integration of bioeconomy and of our customers and by ensuring that materials and the L&T’s services improve the energy efficiency and lifecycle low-carbon economy, the EU’s circular economy package, constructed environment retain their value. Our solutions management of industrial and other premises, which changes in national waste legislation, national recycling allow our customers to reduce their waste volumes, exhelps secure the value of property. In addition to reducing and reuse goals divided by industrial sector and waste tend the lifecycle of their properties, recycle and reuse emissions, there is a need for active measures to increase fraction as well as the planned investments in the energy materials, reduce the consumption of natural resources, carbon sinks. L&T’s services may increase carbon sinks in sector. The assessment method is based on the qualitafossil fuels and energy and thereby reduce their emisyoung forests in particular, considering the current thinning tive evaluation of uncertainties in our business environsions. We research new technologies and solutions which backlog of one million hectares. ments and the creation of qualitative scenarios about our allow our customers to reduce their climate impacts even Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 59 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION Based on the assessment, we have identified the following risks related to the climate: Climate risks Impact Management measure Transition risks Political and L&T’s collection and transport services cause We monitor and regularly assess the legislation more efficiently. New projects increasing the degree of solutions which help to adapt to climate change. These regulatory (risk direct (Scope 1) emissions. The company has concerning fuels and emission requirements. processing of various material flows promote the circular services are related to the reduction of the key physical of increased approximately 892 heavy vehicles and we In order to control the risk caused by fuel economy and improve the carbon handprint of L&T’s oprisks of climate change and supporting the adjustment pricing of carbon consume some 16.4 million litres of diesel oil price increases, we improve the efficiency erations. measures. emissions and annually. The share of low-emission Euro 4–6 of our transports and try to reduce the fuel A significant part of L&T’s business operations or as fossil fuels) vehicles of L&T’s fleet is 79 per cent. consumption of the vehicles. We have added low-emission vehicles to our fleet and used much as 50 per cent is related to the mitigation of and Climate risk management fuels which cause lower emissions. We are adapting to climate change. These services are already The opportunities related to the climate are significant optimising the transport routes and developing low-carbon services in the EU taxonomy or promote the for L&T. They are managed systematically as a part of the an economic driving style. transition to carbon neutral economy by 2050 or both. planning of business operations, and they are integrated Technology As the market leader, L&T promotes the We invest in energy-efficient production Examples of our services mitigating climate change inin our strategy as described above. Climate risks refer to (investment on development of industrial infrastructures equipment and efficient waste recycling plants. clude, among other things, the collection and transport of the risks to the business operations and the society as new technologies towards a low-carbon economy and seeks to We research new technologies and solutions non-hazardous waste and the recovery of waste as maa whole caused by the impacts of climate change. The fails) find innovative solutions which mitigate climate which allow our customers to reduce their terials. risks of climate change may be related to the transition to change. climate impacts even more efficiently. L&T produces biofuels from cutting waste, wood malow-carbon economy as well as to the physical impacts terial unsuitable for wood processing and side streams of climate change. Reputation Climate change causes increased concerns L&T makes the circular economy a reality, from the forest industry. Crushed wood for combustion is L&T assesses the significance of climate risks based with our stakeholders and expectations and through the services we produce, we produced from wood waste from the construction, induson the likelihood and the magnitude of economic conseconcerning its mitigation. participate in the mitigation of climate change and adjusting to it. Our work is valuable for all try and trade sectors as well as wood packaging which quences. We use methods similar to those used in the stakeholders. cannot be returned for reuse. We produce solid recovered assessment of business risks and opportunities. fuel (SRF) from energy and construction waste not suitaThe risks related to climate change are assessed usPhysical risks ble for recycling. ing the same risk matrix as any other risk. Many of the Acute and chronic L&T has almost 200 properties including L&T’s properties are not located in the identified L&T has tried to optimise the emissions of its waste risks and opportunities related to climate change, such (changes in recycling plants, transfer stations, terminals climate risk areas. The physical risks concerning management services. But as it is not possible to avoid as the growing consumption of fossil fuels and the inprecipitation and for storage and processing as well as office the facilities are a part of the identification and all emissions, we have developed a carbon neutral waste crease in extreme weather conditions are related to L&T’s extreme variation properties. assessment of property risks. management service. In this service, we measure the business operations and have therefore been prioritised of weather carbon footprint caused by L&T’s waste management in the company’s risk management. Risk management conditions) Extreme weather conditions may have an impact on L&T’s waste collection and property operations and compensate the emissions by means of at L&T aims to identify significant risk factors, prepare maintenance operations. certified forestation projects. Furthermore, L&T provides for them and manage them in an optimal way so that Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 60 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Circular economy and ­ climate change mitigation CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND ­CLIMATE CHANGE MITIGATION the company’s strategic and financial objectives are normal annual planning in accordance with the sustainaL&T has specified key meters and goals for the cliachieved. Comprehensive risk management endeavours bility programme. The sustainability programme includes mate effects of its business model. The most significant to manage the Group’s risk as a whole and not just indithe group-level goals and measures related to the mitperformance meter is the carbon handprint, which measL&T’s climate goals: vidual risk factors. Climate risks do not form a separate igation of climate change. L&T is a signatory of the UN ures the climate benefit generated by L&T’s services to risk assessment category at L&T; instead, they are proGlobal Compact initiative and has made a commitment its customers or the potential to reduce greenhouse gas • to increase the carbon handprint of our cessed as a part of the above mentioned risk assessto set a scientific emission reduction goal in order to emissions. The carbon handprint is generated by our cusoperations faster than organic net sales ment and management processes. Risks are surveyed reduce its emissions in line with the Paris Climate Agreetomers being able to replace virgin raw materials with regularly and systematically at both division and comment. The emission reduction goal is currently being valsecondary raw materials, or fossil fuels with biofuels and • to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions pany level. The significance of risks is assessed by a idated by the Science Based Targets organisation, and solid recovered fuels, and reduce waste. In Finland, power from our own operations by 50% by 2030 risk matrix. Measures for managing and minimising the the decision about the validation of the goal will arrive in plants, heating plants and cement kilns replaced fossil fufrom the level of 2018 identified risks are prepared and responsibility for these early 2020. L&T is an active member of the Climate Leadels with bio and solid recovered fuels (SRF) produced by • that 70% of our biggest (spending) measures is allocated to specified individuals or units. ership Council and the climate partner network of the L&T for the calculated total amount of 2.6 TWh in 2019. suppliers and subcontractors have set The most significant risks identified and the preparations City of Helsinki. CDP listed L&T as one of the leading companies which goals to reduce their own emissions by for them are regularly reported to the Group Executive mitigate climate change and granted it a management 2025. Board, the President and CEO and the Board of Directors. Meters and targets level classification of A-. L&T also received the ISS-OEKOM Even though L&T’s own operations do create greenhouse award. Governance gas emission, they only amount to approximately 4 per L&T’s climate performance: Risks and opportunities related to the climate are mancent of its carbon handprint. Emissions from the colaged through L&T’s governance model and sustainabillection and transport services are the most significant • carbon handprint: 1,163,600 tonnes CO2 (eq.) ity management. The company’s Board of directors is in source of direct greenhouse gas emissions. L&T’s operaof emissions avoided charge of the management of climate risks and opportutions created 61,600 tonnes CO2 (eq.) of emissions, 43,700 nities as a part of strategic guidance and the guidance tonnes of which came from our own direct emissions • carbon footprint of L&T's operations 61,600 of business operations and divisions. The Board of Direc(Scope 1) from the transport and production vehicles, tonnes CO2 (eq.) tors approves climate goals and the sustainability promachinery and landfill operations. L&T does not consume gramme for the strategy period. The President and CEO significant amounts of purchased electricity or heat. Its is responsible, with support from the Group Executive own consumption of electricity was 31.6 GWh and that Board, for measures related to climate, and the business of district heat 8.6 GWh. The majority of electricity puroperations implement the measures as a part of their chased comes from renewable energy sources. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 61 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community Focus areas of the sustainability programme: A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community Actions for employee well-being, Priorities and objectives 2019-2024 Indicators 2019 Looking after the well-being, work ability and occupational safety of our personnel. Our success Notes work ability and safety Strategic goal: Increasing the Employee Net Promoter Score to 80%. • Employee Net Promoter Score 73% • Average age of retirement Supporting indicators: 63.2 years The average retirement age will rise to 64, with a ­­long-­term target of 65. • Sickness-related absence personnel’s work ability and ability to function are mainAs a major employer and service 5.0% (Finland) tained throughout their working life and that the personenterprise, the focus of L&T’s social Reducing sickness-related absences to 4.5%. • Overall accident frequency nel is encouraged to perform well and motivated to work 23 sustainability is on the Group’s so that the company’s goals can be achieved. supervisors Continuous improvement of occupational safety, • LTA frequency rate 14* are in charge of the practical implementation of the HR ultimate goal 0 accidents. employees. The material aspects of • Proactive occupational policy, but the entire personnel has the responsibility to L&T’s responsibility for its employees act in accordance with the policy. safety actions 54,345 pcs. include increasing job satisfaction, National legislation, agreements and other obligations We provide employment to vulnerable groups and persons with disabilities. maintaining the work ability of L&T are applied in employment relationships. L&T respects their employees’ freedom to unionise. L&T monitors its We employ groups who face difficulties finding Vulnerable groups employed personnel and promoting occupational personnel’s compliance with collective agreements, enemployment in the open market. safety. We also want to work actively vironmental legislation, labour law, occupational safety In 2020, our goal is to employ 36 people with partial for the promotion of employment of legislation and regulations pertaining to financial manworking ability in jobs that are tailored to their needs agement. The Group is also compliant with the applicable vulnerable groups, such as immigrants and capabilities. legislation governing contractors’ obligations and liability, and persons with reduced work ability. and requires the same of its suppliers. We create economic growth and well-being. The personnel policy is supplemented by the susIncreased well-being, increasing financial Economic added value Divestment Our responsibility as an employer tainability principles (L&T’s Code of Conduct), which emadded value 426 EUR million (417). of the L&T’s personnel sustainability is managed through the phasise the importance of fair and equal treatment and renovation company’s HR policy. The goal of the HR policy is to enrespect for each person’s dignity, privacy and individual Increasing the tax footprint. Tax footprint 174 EUR million business sure that L&T’s personnel have the adequate comperights. The Group does not tolerate any kind of discrimina(185) reduced the tence, that the amount, quality and retention of personnel tion, intimidation, harassment or bullying at the workplace. tax footprint. are at a level required for profitable operations, that the L&T observes the UN Declaration of Human Rights and * The Lost Time Accidents rate refers to the lost working time due to accidents per million working hours. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 62 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY In 2019, we focused particularly on the ­following areas: workers’ rights as defined by the International Labour and goals. The indicators measuring the quality of suOrganisation (ILO). L&T is committed to supporting the UN pervisor work had increased positively in the results for Global Compact initiative and its principles pertaining to the autumn. Additionally, In Finland employees felt that human rights and labour. Furthermore, L&T is a signatory versatility and significance of work are clearly increas• Development of supervisory work and supervisor communications throughout the to FIBS’s Diversity Charter. ing. Employee Net Promoter Score was included in the divisions. We clarified the roles of supervisors and developed supervisory work throughout The management of personnel risks is a key compocompany’s strategic goals in the autumn and it develthe organisation. We organised supervisor communications training, for example, training the nent of the Group’s risk management process. The most oped positively in 2019 both in Finland and in Sweden. supervisors on how to deal with difficult situations, provide constructive feedback and take a significant personnel risks in L&T’s operations are related The Group-level Employee Net Promoter Score was 71 per more regular and active approach towards communications with team members. to the availability of competent and motivated employcent in the spring and 73 per cent in the autumn. ees, the potential weakening of job satisfaction and the In terms of Finnish operations, the development was • We increased communication to employees and introduced new means of communication. potential increase of costs related to disabilities and acciparticularly positive in the Facility Services division where Old employee phones were replaced with modern ones, and work phones were acquired for dents. Risks related to human rights have been assessed all the central personnel indicators had improved while all drivers. A new intranet was introduced in Sweden and in Finland, starting with salaried as part of the risk management process. However, as L&T the division implemented very extensive reforms of operemployees and the employees of property maintenance and Environmental Services. The use mainly operates in Finland and Sweden with local partating models. Positive development was generated by, for of information displays was branched out to new units. ners, no significant risks related to human rights have example, training offered to all supervisors and employ• We increased the opportunities for employee influence Employees had better opportunities been identified in the Group’s operations. ees, structural changes clarifying the roles and raising to influence equipment specifications, for instance, and other matters which concretely impact the supervisor profile, consistent communicating of the daily work. Feeling good in 2019 strategy and, for instance, monthly telephone calls beCompetent personnel and retention of employees are at tween supervisors and team members. • We clarified the roles of employees and our operating guidelines. We introduced shared the core of L&T’s success. L&T is in a period of significant Based on the result, there is still work to be done in operating culture guidelines for the employees of different divisions and units. We clarified the development. New systems and operational models have terms of personnel confidence in L&T’s future. Confidence roles and made our salary practices more consistent, for example. We paid attention to the been and will be introduced as customer requirements did, however, improve in the autumn both in Finland and in atmosphere at work by encouraging the employees to maintain a good atmosphere. change. Sweden. We endeavour to continue the positive trend by, • We continued recognising accomplished employees. Employee of the month and supervisor We started measuring employee motivation, managefor example, implementing the company’s new strategy in of the month awards were given out based on customer feedback and employee feedback ment and supervisor work at L&T in 2019 with the online 2020. Supervisory work will be another focal point of dein Environmental Services, Industrial Services, property maintenance as well as cleaning and Fiilinki survey. The surveys were conducted in May and in velopment in 2020. support services. We also continued rewarding Specialists of the Quarter. October, and they reached almost 5,000 people. The overThe results of the Fiilinki survey have been opened all response rate in the group rose to 56 per cent in the from the division level until the supervisor level, and the autumn from 52 per cent in the spring. development actions based on the results have been In both surveys in 2019, we obtained the Group’s best monitored intensively at different organisational levels. results in terms of clarity of the personnel’s own role Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 63 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 2019 Several people to new positions (Finland One of the goals of the improvement of personnel expeand Target Key measures taken in 2019 project aims to create innovative methods to rience is to find new employment within the company Employee Net Promoter Score Sweden) (2024) • The Suitable Work model, launched in co-opsupport traditional rehabilitation and provide for persons who are laid off. In 2019, we had to carry out eration with our pension insurance partner people at risk of retirement with opportuni56 statutory employer-employee negotiations, and as a Finland 72% in 2016, continued to be implemented in 2019. ties to work in appropriate proportion to their result of these, 132 people were laid off and nine were Sweden 81% The Suitable Work model has allowed us to find abilities and resources. The project presents temporarily laid off. When implementing restructuring suitable work assignments for those employpeople at risk of retirement with a genuine Group 73% >80% measures, we comply with the statutory minimum periods ees who are unable to use vocational rehabiliopportunity to return to working life. The Kide and negotiation times. We were able to complete several tation yet or if the criteria for vocational rehaFoundation has developed VAKU, a coachreplacements during the year. The organisational change Turnover % 2019 2018 bilitation are not met. ing-oriented vocational rehabilitation model, of centralised services is a good example of this: we were • We supported the extension of careers to help project participants build up their work to find new positions for all the employees. L&T Group, weighted average 24% 26% through active co-operation with our partability and operating capacity. Finland 27.8% 30.8% ners and our use of occupational rehabilitaAverage age of retirement remained Sweden 9.1% 7.5% tion, for example, was significantly higher good than the average. Within the past five years, Russia 8.2% 5.3% Employees with a high level of work ability and well-being we have been able to provide new careers to are our most important asset and one of our key success 200 persons by means of occupational rehaPeople with partial work ability returning to work factors. The aim of our sustainability programme is to By division in Finland bilitation, 29 of whom in 2019. 60 support the work ability of our personnel and to reduce Environmental services 8,3% • In 2018, we joined forces with the Kide Foun51 sickness-related absences and early retirement. dation, which promotes human rights and 50 46 Industrial services 10,6% L&T has a long track record of systematic efforts to participation, to launch Meaningful Work, 40 37 37 Facility Services Finland 37,7% increase the average retirement age of our personnel. a two-year co-operation project (which is 29 Through diverse support measures, we have been able Facility Services Sweden 9,1% still ongoing). The participants in the project 30 to increase our average retirement age (including retireinclude eight people who were in an employ20 ment due to old-age and disability) to 63.1 years (63.2) in ment relationship with Lassila & Tikanoja and 10 Finland and 63.2 years in the Group as a whole (63.2). Our most of whom had already been sidelined from long-term target is to increase the retirement age to 65.0 working life for an extended period of time. The 0 years. Meaningful Work project provides new ways 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to prevent the risk of disability retirement. The Number of people returning to work Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 64 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY CASE Employee well-being and work ability services and the HR function to address problems at an were supported by various measures early stage and find solutions to them. We regularly orSickness-related absence, The work performed by L&T’s employees is primarily physganise training for supervisors to promote the practical % 2019 2018 ically strenuous, but the significance of mental resources implementation of the early care model. The training is Finland 5.0 5.0 is also highlighted in working life today. L&T wants to supaimed at improving interaction between supervisors and port the physical and mental well-being of its personnel their employees and supporting the supervisors’ ability to Sweden 5.2 5.1 and help them actively look after their health. In addition address problems. Russia 2.4 2.7 to occupational health services and a sickness fund, each In the past year, we monitored the realisation of interyear we offer rehabilitation services to our personnel ventions in accordance with the early care model in paralong with well-being services paid for by L&T. In 2019, we ticular. We aim at supporting and guiding the supervisors Average retirement age 2019 2018 Hope for a return to working life invested EUR 7.7 million in work ability, safety and well-bein interventions. In 2019, the number of supervisors with L&T Group, weighted average 63.2 63.2 The number of people retiring on disability ing, and the L&T sickness fund paid benefits amounting to accumulated, unrealised interventions was reduced sigpension is growing. At the same time, there is EUR 1.5 million to its members. nificantly. Finland 63.1 63.2 a shortage of labour. ”The way people are catL&T has been supporting our employees’ exercise and We introduced direct appointments with a physical Sweden 65.0 64.5 egorised as either being able to work or being other hobbies via personnel clubs for several years altherapist in co-operation with occupational health care Russia 57.5 57.5 on disability is too black and white. Instead of ready. In 2019, there were 25 clubs operating across Finservices in early 2019. The goal is to prevent the prolongawork ability, we should focus on the individuland, organising various sports and cultural activities for tion of musculoskeletal disorders, speed up the initiation al’s functional capacity”, says Jorma Mikkotheir members. of rehabilitation and actively impact the working methods nen, Director, Corporate Relations and Susand conditions. The use of direct appointments did not Rehabilitation and well-being projects tainability at L&T. L&T and the Kide Foundation Sickness-related absences remained start as actively as we had hoped, but we are constantly in 2019 carried out a project to pilot a new approach unchanged developing this process in co-operation with occupationL&T actively supports the well-being and continued cato rehabilitation. Of the eight participants, two By using L&T’s early care model and versatile support acal health care services. reers of its employees. In 2019, well-being training paid for got an internship and two were admitted to a tions, we have been able to reduce our sickness-related In 2019, we developed the operating model for alternaby L&T’s and Kela’s rehabilitation groups were offered to programme of study. “We wanted to show soabsence rate for several years already, but development tive work in such a way that the doctor is able to focus on the personnel. During the year, some 200 L&T employees ciety that there is always hope and it always on this front did not match our expectations in the past the assessment of the ability to work and function, and participated in these. The participants of the well-being pays off to try.” two years. The sickness-related absence rate was 5.0 per the alternative duties are agreed at the workplace within training received individual coaching supporting their cent (5.0) in Finland, 5.2 (5.1) in Sweden and 2.4 (2.7) in the boundaries set by the doctor. The reformed operating well-being, related to mental well-being, sleep, lifestyle or Read more about the case and Russia. model was introduced mid-year, and it has already made exercise. KIILA and Tules rehabilitation are intended for watch a video The early care model aims to use co-operation bethe co-operation between occupational health care serimproving and supporting the ability to work and to extween the employee, the supervisor, occupational health vices and the workplace easier. tend the career. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 65 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY We monitor the impact of rehabilitation and well-being We use effective proactive measures—such as safety level. There were no cases of diagnosed occupational Development of occupational safety in L&T projects by means of service producer reports and L&T’s observations, Safety Walks, occupational safety sessions diseases in 2019. surveys. The participants of the well-being training found and various risk assessments—to improve our safety as 60,000 56,061 54,345 50 the service good or very good on average. The particiwell as the safety of our customers and other stakeholdOverall accident frequency in line with the target 48,432 50,000 40 pants of Kela’s KIILA and outpatient TULES rehabilitation ers, while also eliminating risk factors. Our employees use Occupational safety at L&T developed partly in line with 40,943 groups appointed for L&T’s employees found that the benan electronic safety system that can also be accessed targets in 2019. The overall accident frequency was in 40,000 37,307 30 efit created was very good. from mobile devices. line with the target, 23 (25) in the whole company. LTA, 30,000 Furthermore, we offered our personnel lectures on If an accident occurs, it is always investigated. Acciwhich measures accidents leading to lost time, was also 20 cognitive brain ergonomics and the Elixia Online service, dent investigations are conducted using an investigation unchanged at 14 (14), which does not meet our target. In 20,000 allowing video instructions for exercise at one’s own pace method that helps reveal the root causes of accidents what follows, we will pay even more attention to including 10,000 10 regardless of time and place. and agree on effective corrective actions. Additionally, all L&T employees in the safety work. accident panels perform a further review of accidents, in There were no fatal accidents at L&T in 2019. 0 0 Occupational safety co-operation with the employees involved, to ensure that 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 L&T is committed to continuously improving occupationthe relevant root causes are identified and that sufficient 54,345 proactive occupational safety measures Proactive safety measures al safety and our zero accidents approach. Our goal is corrective actions are taken. The aim of proactive occupational safety measures is to Lost time accident frequency (LTA)* to think and act safely, which will ultimately make all ocproactively detect and identify occupational safety risks Overall accident frequency (TRIF) cupational accidents avoidable. Our efforts in the area Our common operating model covers the Group’s as well as define and implement the measures necessary of occupational safety are also aimed at preventing and entire personnel for their prevention. In Finland, the proactive measures are minimising accidents, occupational diseases as well as We engage in effective co-operation with personnel, documented in a system, which can also be used to moni* Accident frequency and overall accident frequency other hazards to physical and mental health arising from and each division has its own occupational safety comtor the implementation of different practical measures. per million working hours work and the working environment. mittee. All of the committees organised their own statProactive measures related to occupational safety Years 2015–2017 data available only from Finland. L&T’s occupational safety activities are directed by a utory meetings in 2019 and also got together at L&T’s are used in L&T’s own units as well as at customer facilimanagement system certified according to the OHSAS national occupational safety and health day, which was ties. Operating in a proactive manner helps us develop our 18001 standard as well as the occupational safety manattended by the members of the occupational safety own safety as well as the safety of our customers. A sigagement principles. Safety is on the agenda of all meetcommittees. nificant proportion of our Safety Walks and safety obserings, from the Executive Board down, and it is also linked The company invested more time and resources in vations are made at our customer locations. Unit-specific to personal bonuses of most service production supervioccupational safety in the 2010s than before, and the targets have been set for proactive measures and their sors. The Group Executive Board and the Board of Direcresults speak for themselves. Over a period of five years, achievement is monitored regularly. tors receive monthly reports on the development of occuour total recordable injury frequency (TRIF) was cut in Actions related to preventative occupational safety pational safety. half and the number of proactive measures was at a good (safety observations, Safety Walks, occupational safety Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 66 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY sessions and risk assessments) were high in numbers Development of again and clearly over the target level with a total of 54,345 occupational safety at L&T 2019 2018 Key measures taken in 2019 pcs. (56,061). This was slightly less than in the previous • We updated and relaunched our strategic year due to the divestiture of the renovation business. Proactive occupational safety 54,345 56,061 Clean Sheet development programme for ocmeasures TOTAL In terms of proactive measures, we focused in 2019 cupational safety. The goals of the programme especially on the more even distribution of measures Safety observations 28,814 32,195 are to continuously improve safety and to imbetween all units and the focusing of measures at exactly Safety Walks 12,217 12,372 plement a culture supporting it and operating the right targets. Occupational safety sessions 10,132 10,657 practices promoting safety. Risk assessments 3,182 837 • We centralised our personal protective Jobs with elevated risk equipment and work clothing orders at the The jobs at L&T include locations and duties that involve company level to be better able to ensure the elevated risks. These include night-time work, the hanAccidents quality and correctness of PPE and the suitdling of hazardous waste and industrial cleaning. There Overall accident frequency 23 25 ability of work clothing for our work duties. are also hazards associated with cleaning jobs at pharLTA frequency rate* 14 14 • The Swedish cleaning operations were inmaceutical production facilities and healthcare facilities cluded in the occupational safety management as well as other locations that require the use of special model which had already been in use in technichemicals, or where customer processes can involve ex* The Lost Time Accidents rate refers to the lost working time due to cal facility services. posure to chemicals, radiation or other hazards. accidents per million working hours. • The OHSAS 18001 certification expanded to The supervisor must assess the hazards and expoinclude the Finnish property maintenance busisure risks of each operating location and, if necessary, ness as well. contact the occupational health care services locally to assess exposure agents. Employees assigned to environments that involve a particular risk of illness must undergo a pre-employment medical check-up conducted by the occupational health care provider before commencing working, if possible, and no later than one month after starting the work, regardless of the nature and duration of employment. Such employees are also invited to follow-up examinations at regular intervals. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 67 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community Age distribution of personnel A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY 25.2% 22.6% 41–50 years Diversity at L&T people, and we want to have a culture of working without 31–40 years 21.3% The promotion of diversity is one of the most important discrimination. Our diversity is illustrated by the fact that Key measures taken in 2019 themes in our sustainability programme. We believe that approximately 17 per cent (15) of our employees in Fin• We joined the “Iisisti töihin” project coordinated by the Finnish Institute for Health and Welfare, aimed at a diverse workplace where people feel well is one of our land have immigrant backgrounds, with 85 (85) different improving the opportunities of persons with reduced work ability to find employment in the normal labour 21–30 years resources. We seek to use many kinds of methods to offer nationalities represented. The age distribution of the permarket. In 2019, we focused on finding different ways to offer work for persons with reduced work ability who employment to, for example, immigrants, those struggling sonnel is also very broad. Women account for 40 per cent wanted to work. Our goal for 2020 is to provide employment to 36 persons with reduced work ability at duties to find work, those needing re-education as well as young (43) of our personnel in general and 39 per cent (36) of customised according to their skills. our supervisors. • We signed up for the Responsible Summer Job 2019 campaign and committed to providing summer jobs in Personnel distribution by gender, % accordance with the principles of responsible summer jobs for our summer employees. 21.7% • As in previous years, we supported young people’s employment and studies by offering on-the-job training, internship and thesis-writing opportunities to students. In 2019, we employed 185 people aged under 51–6018 and years over 700 summer workers. There are interns from various educational institutions in all of L&T’s divisions on a continuous basis. • We also try to offer our own employees continuous opportunities to increase their professional competence, for example, through year-round apprenticeship training leading to vocational degrees and special qualifications in facility services as well as a degree in logistics degree that includes lorry driver qualification. • We joined the Children and Youth Foundation’s HuippuHarkka project which will continue until the end of 2020. HuippuHarkka aims at giving young people genuine meetings and positive experiences of work. With Men 60% Women 40% the project, we have made the commitment to provide internships for at least 30 young people aged 18-29. • At the end of the year, we started a project, the aim of which is to establish a diversity plan. This is planned to be implemented during 2020. Personnel distribution by gender, in managerial positions, % Men 61% Women 39% 3.5% 5.7% Over 60 years 14–20 years Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 68 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community Age distribution of personnel 25.2% 22.6%41–50 years CASE 31–40 years 21.3% 21–30 years Read more about the case and watch a video 21.7% 51–60 years L&T’s atmosphere creates a virtuous cycle In Linköping, Sweden, L&T is setting an excellent example of a diverse workplace and creating a good employee experience. This is achieved through good management, which correlates with a good customer experience. L&T’s team in Linköping has received excellent results in employee surveys. When asked to name the most important factor in having a workplace with good social relations, Team Leader Elma Bijedic highlights a culture of quick reaction, clear goals and the use of feedback. At L&T, we have created a positive atmosphere of people learning from each other and respecting each other’s differences and personalities. Clarity in management is especially important, as you need to create the right conditions for the employees to perform their duties professionally and achieve their goals. The management provides active and conscious support to the employees. Elma Bijedic also emphasises the importance of pointing out opportunities for personal development. Most of the team members at Linköping have been with the company for a long time. The employees are loyal to the company, each other and their supervisors. Satisfied employees results in very satisfied customers. The employees are willing to go the extra mile, which creates very important added value for our customers. Our employees are our largest and most im3.5% 5.7% portant resource. 14–20 years Over 60 years Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 69 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community Distribution of financial added value A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY Distribution of added value Customers, profits: Owners Creating economic growth and increasing well-being As part of our sustainability programme, we report transparently on our tax footprint, which summarises the 794.9 (807.4) Dividends and capital repayment paid -35.3 (-35.3) L&T’s goal is to increase the company’s financial valtaxes and tax-like payments that accumulate for society MEUR ue sustainably, create economic growth and increase as a result of our business operations. In addition to direct MEUR well-being. L&T is among the most significant employers and indirect taxes, L&T’s tax footprint reporting includes in its operating locations. The salaries, wages and taxes withholding taxes on salaries, as well as social security Employees we pay, as well as the goods and services we buy, have a contributions. Salaries, fees and social security contributions paid substantial impact on municipal finances and other busiThe tax footprint summary includes taxes and taxnesses in each economic area. Profits not considered necessary for ensuring the healthy development of the like payments for which L&T is responsible for paying or collecting the tax or payment in question. However, taxes Suppliers Goods, materials and services purchased Added value -327.1 (-324.2) company are distributed to shareholders as dividends. included in the purchase price of a product or service, or MEUR The most important direct flows of money from our operations consist of customers’ service fees, purchases for which L&T has no statutory reporting obligation, are not included in the tax footprint summary data. Relevant -368.7 426.3 Creditors of goods and services, salaries, bonuses and social secutaxes and payments are classified by type and by country MEUR MEUR Net finance costs/expenses rity costs, taxes, compensation to financiers and shareholders, and investments. L&T complies with local legislation in the payment, in this report. (-390.7) (416.7) -3.7 (-3.4) MEUR collection, accounting and reporting of taxes. We pay and report taxes in the countries we operate in. A key principle Public sector in L&T’s tax management is the high-quality and timely Income taxes submission of tax forms and ensuring that other statutory requirements are met. -9.1 (-6.4) MEUR Business development 51.1 (47.4) MEUR Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 70 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY A healthy, diverse and productive workplace community A HEALTHY, DIVERSE AND PRODUCTIVE WORKPLACE COMMUNITY L&T’s tax footprint 2019 2018 Total Taxes and tax-related costs, EUR million Finland Sweden Russia Finland Sweden Russia 2019 2018 Income taxes/corporate taxes 6.0 1.0 0.3 4.7 0.6 0.0 7.3 5.3 Withholding taxes on salaries and forest 47.4 11.4 0.3 48.3 11.3 0.3 59.1 59.9 taxes, and tax-at-source Social security contributions 1.7 13.5 0.8 1.9 13.5 0.6 16.0 15.9 Production taxes 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.1 Value added tax (tax on consumption) 69.4 19.8 1.5 81.0 20.7 0.9 90.8 102.5 Yle broadcasting tax 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Lottery tax 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property tax 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.5 0.5 Insurance premium tax 0.7 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.7 0.5 Total 125.7 45.6 3.1 136.8 46.0 1.9 174.4 184.7 L&T's Employee Net Promoter Score was In 2019 paid EUR 174.4 73% in 2019 MILLION IN TAXES. This corresponds to the taxes paid by nearly 17,000 average Finnish earners. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 71 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable industry and cities SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY AND CITIES Sustainable solutions Focus areas of the sustainability programme: Sustainable industry and cities for industries and cities Priorities and objectives 2019-2024 Indicators 2019 Our success Notes We promote the development of industrial infrastructure in line with the principles of L&T’s services support the In 2019, we further clarified the goals and indicators sustainable development, the recovery of industrial side streams and closed cycles. sustainability of its customers by, for of this section especially in terms of reducing the use of Developing and introducing new, sustainable and safe • New innovations and cleaning agents and chemicals in line with the updated methods. methods. instance, increasing the utilisation goals of the environmental system applicable to cleaning. • Side streams and soil of industrial side streams and We continue to further specify the goals and indicators in Increasing the productive use of industrial side materials utilised over streams and contaminated land. 300,000 tonnes. contaminated soil and by developing 2020. service solutions which reduce OVER 300,000 tonnes emissions or the chemical load. We find innovative solutions to build sustainable cities and create healthy and safe environments. When L&T updated its responsibility programme in 2018, OF SIDE STREAMS AND Solutions for maintaining sustainable urban • New innovations, meththe decision was made to include Sustainable industry infrastructure and developing sustainable cities. ods, projects and develSOIL UTILISED. and cities as a new section in the programme. This was opment programmes. based on the observation made during the materiality Innovations to create healthy and safe conditions for • Share of ecolabel cleanassessment that our services can help our industrial and people. ing products above the municipal customers significantly towards sustainability previous year’s level. NEW! Reducing the use of chemicals and increasing and to developing their infrastructure in line with the printhe proportion of ecolabelled products. ciples of sustainable development. We develop new solutions continuously as part of working with customers and manage them in accordance with the management practices of the customer account or the company’s management system. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 72 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable industry and cities SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY AND CITIES CASE Sustainable industry of the big picture and taking a proactive approach to ocL&T supports its industrial customers in meeting their cupational safety are key aspects of our operations. sustainability goals and works together with customers In 2019, we introduced an explosive cleaning method to develop industrial infrastructure in line with the prinwhich allows us to clean the furnaces of our industrial Read more about blast cleaning ciples of sustainable development. We also continuously customers during use, thereby reducing the emissions develop methods which allow us to reduce the amount of caused by process shutdown and start-up, improving waste created, increase the effectiveness of the energy boiler efficiency and reducing the amount of waste genconsumption of our customers, reduce their emissions or erated. The protected equipment makes it possible to improve their occupational safety. perform the cleaning safely both during use and during Explosive cleaning keeps processes running maintenance shutdowns. L&T is constantly developing solutions for the quick and effective cleaning of boilers for industrial Blast cleaning reduces waste and emissions customers. L&T’s services for industrial facilities span the entire value Over 300,000 tonnes of side streams or Soot and ash accumulate in industrial boilers, reducing their efficiency. In explosive cleaning, a pressure chain of waste and side streams, from the point the matecontaminated soil recycled wave blasts the soot and ash deposited in the boiler to make it fall out. The technique itself is not new, but rial is generated all the way to its recovery and recycling. We continue our determined efforts to enable our indusL&T Production Manager Hannu Honkasalo has developed the technique to make it possible to use at temThe service solutions consist of components such as trial customers to have their industrial side streams (such peratures exceeding 1,000 °C. This means that the process does not need to be shut down during cleaning. cleaning industrial process equipment, in-house logistics, as slag, sediment, slurry, ash, contaminated soil) recov“The advantage is that we can do it through a small opening. Not having to open the larger maintenance environmental management and property maintenance. ered and used primarily as industrial raw materials and hatch improves safety. The cleaning can be completed quickly, bringing the boiler back to full load.” The comprehensive approach to operations ensures cost secondarily in infrastructure to replace the use of virgin Honkasalo is already developing an even safer cleaning method based on compressed air. There are efficiency and sustainability. All operations are carried out soil in various structural solutions. plans for both a mobile and a fixed device that release pressure shocks at the target at specified intervals. in accordance with existing legislation and environmental L&T receives, processes and recycles side streams and Both techniques are used for the same types of equipment: recovery boilers, waste boilers and biomass permits. contaminated soil from all parts of Finland. The majority of boilers as well electrostatic precipitators, silos and flue gas ducts. In 2019, L&T partnered with several industrial enterthe materials is recycled: we produce industrial raw mateThe person carrying out the explosive cleaning process must hold a blasting licence, but that alone is prises in the areas of maintenance, property support serrials and fuel for power plants from waste that suits these not enough. In a large power plant, you need to know exactly what you are doing. A mistake in explosive vices and environmental management solutions. Our goal purposes. We also use industrial side streams and waste cleaning can damage the boiler and necessitate a shutdown of production. is to produce support services even more efficiently than as earth construction materials in structures of waste fa“Experience is essential for risk avoidance. You need to be familiar with the blasting agent and the probefore, allowing customers to deal with a single point of cilities and landfills, for example, in place of virgin materials. cess of the boiler.” contact. We try to make it possible for industrial facilities We constantly try to find new ways to recycle industo operate efficiently every day of the year. Optimisation trial side streams and contaminated soil in ways which Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 73 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable industry and cities SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY AND CITIES produce the highest possible added value. In 2019, we spite of appeals. The construction of the new centre has facilitated the recovery of more than 300,000 tonnes of started, and our goal is to initiate operations in 2020. Target reduction of industrial side streams and contaminated soil. In 2019, transport emissions: we focused on the development of the recycling of ash in Development projects and co-operation forums 25% particular. In 2019, L&T participated in the Clic Circular Economy In 2019, L&T restored an area of 550 square metres Platform project aimed at developing a circular economy of contaminated soil at an old train depot at the request information and service platform to promote the recovery by 2020 of its customer in Helsinki. The total volume of soil reof side streams. The platform will integrate the full range moved was 5,200 tonnes. Thanks to the cleaning, the of services needed for collecting, processing and produccontaminated area was restored into safe and healthy tising side streams and bringing them to market. In the soil suitable for infrastructure construction. According first phase, a commercial network of enterprises using to the impact assessment conducted by Gaia Consultthe platform will be built in the forest industry ecosystem ing (2019), the benefits of the project can be summed in Southeast Finland, the region where the project’s key up as follows: players are already operating. 1. Avoidance of environmental and health risks We participated in the UUMA3 co-operation forum, caused by the contaminated soil. which aims to promote the use of secondary materials 2. Opportunity to build housing for almost 1,000 peoin earth construction in Finland to support the circular ple in the area and to build business premises economy and make the use of secondary materials an which may provide employment for as many as approach that is perceived as being equal with the use 6,000 people. of natural rock material. These measures can produce 3. The value of the cleaned soil increases by up to significant technical, economic and environmental benone million euros or more. efits. In 2018-2021, the UUMA3 programme will make the use of secondary materials in earth construction a more We improved our opportunities to provide material efconcrete option in the construction activities of Finnish ficiency solutions in Northern Finland when we got the municipalities and the Finnish Transport Infrastructure environmental permit decision in July 2019 for the proAgency. cessing centre which will be built in Välimaa, Oulu. The We participated in the Northern Ostrobothnia Indusdecision included the permission to start operations in trial Symbiosis System (NOISS) project which promotes Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 74 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable industry and cities SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY AND CITIES the establishment of industrial symbioses in Northern the environmental impact of our own operations. reduce the volume of waste ending up at landfill and reOstrobothnia. The project seeks to identify opportunities For more information about the reduction of our own duce the costs of waste. We contribute to for industrial symbioses in the region and to improve the emissions especially in terms of heavy machinery, see utilisation of company resources which are not used fulsection Reducing the carbon footprint of this report. In Reducing the use of chemicals sustainable urban ly at the moment. At the same time, the goal is to create our maintenance services business, we utilise weathL&T’s goal is to continuously reduce the use of chemicals a customised operating model for the promotion of the er service to enable the timely and efficient use of our in its operations and at customer locations. In 2019, we infrastructure's circular economy in Northern Ostrobothnia to promote snow-ploughing equipment, for instance. We have been were the first national operator in Finland to stop using the utilisation of resources and co-operation between able to reduce driving related to maintenance and our glyphosate as a pesticide. We also constantly expand the maintenance, the companies. carbon footprint with our new operating model and the use of chemical-free methods in our cleaning sites. Furthermore, we participated in CircVol projects in TurERP system supporting it. The introduction of a remote Only tap water is used for the cleaning of all sites development of ku and Oulu as well as through the steering group. These water meter reading solution serves the same goal. Furand surfaces where this is possible. We are introducing projects seek new solutions for the utilisation of high-volthermore, we have utilised IoT solutions in the optimisacleaning methods based on so-called processed waters cities that operate in which minerals and impurities are removed from water according to circular ume industrial side streams in infrastructure and earth tion of electricity and heating energy and the purposeful construction. and optimal use of properties. in a water treatment facility. The water is usually also ioneconomy principles Our sewer maintenance services take care of the vidised in order to remove its surface tension. This results in Sustainable cities eo imaging and maintenance of hundreds of kilometres of the same cleaning effect as when detergents are used. L&T wants to be actively involved in the development of and the creation of municipal sewers each year. Regular examination of the Furthermore, we are starting to utilise cleaning agent sustainable cities. Through our services, we can contribsewer network’s condition and preventative maintenance dispensers in big sites which ensures the minimal use of healthy and safe ute to the maintenance of sustainable urban infrastrucare the best way to keep the sewer network in good chemicals in accordance with the user instructions. ture, the development of cities that operate according condition, as it reduces the risk of blockage and water Our goal is to annually reduce the total consumption conditions for people to circular economy principles as well as the creation of damage. In 2019, we introduced new technology for the of cleaning agents and increase the volume of ecolahealthy and safe conditions for people to live and work in. examination of sewer lines. We use a sewer washing nozbelled products. In 2019, the share of ecolabelled cleanto live and work in. We partner with several municipalities in Finland and zle with a camera which allows us to see live video of the ing agents was 71.2 per cent, an increase of 0.2 per cent Sweden in the maintenance and cleaning of their propwashing while the work is performed and make general compared to 2018. erties. Our goal is to be able to extend the lifecycle of the observations about the condition of the sewer. properties, increase the efficiency of energy use, promote We also empty wells and remove blockages. Some of the recycling of waste and to create good conditions for the waste from the wells can be refined into industrial living and working. At the same time, we seek to reduce raw materials and fuel for power plants. This allows us to Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 75 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable industry and cities SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRY AND CITIES CASE Development projects and co-operation forums The service was piloted at L&T’s corporate headquarAs a corporate partner of the Smart & Clean Foundation, ters and customer locations in 2019. L&T is committed to a five-year development programme In June 2019, we announced our plans to develop the to create clean urban solutions for the Helsinki metroCity Refinery following the circular economy logics in Read mote about the Salo IoT pilot case politan area in collaboration with the local municipalities. co-operation with Helen and VTT. Our goal is to build a faAmong the foundation’s key projects, we were involved in cility in Vuosaari, Helsinki, which utilises innovative gasifiprojects related to food and plastic in 2019. cation technology and refines scraps and waste streams As a Climate Partner of the City of Helsinki, L&T helps into products with a high degree of processing. The gasifithe City achieve its new climate targets, according to cation enables carbon to be contained in the closed cirData analysis is crucial in property maintenance which Helsinki will be completely carbon neutral by 2035. cuit, preventing its release into the atmosphere as carbon Our target is to reduce our transport emissions by 25 dioxide. The end products of processing will be raw maL&T is taking a results-driven approach to property maintenance. In the traditional model, cleaning per cent by 2020, using the emissions level and operating terials for industrial use, such as transportation fuels or and maintenance are scheduled at regular intervals regardless of the actual needs. Smart technology volume of 2012 as a baseline. future raw materials for the plastics industry. The Ministry makes it possible to monitor needs in real time through sensors placed in buildings that provide data on In 2019, L&T participated in the virtual service enviof Economic Affairs and Employment granted an EUR 7.9 user volumes, air quality and the functioning of technical systems. ronment D project (Virpa-D), aiming to create world-class million energy subsidy to the City Refinery in December Technology also enables the proactive detection of technical problems. Planning the work done by user experiences for the users of business premises to 2019. Our goal is to obtain the investment decision in the maintenance personnel is also more efficient when the data accumulated at the property is used appromote the productivity of work, smoothness of day-tolatter half of 2020. Other operators may also join the City propriately. day life and well-being. L&T’s role in the project is to be in Refinery project in the lines of working together in the “The goal is to achieve a better service experience, more satisfied customers, more sustainable opcharge of the development of data-driven user services. circular economy. erations and cost savings,” says Antti Toivanen from L&T. The goal is to create a business model that emphasises The new operating model reduces the service response times and optimises the number of hours service production outcomes, the conditions created and worked. The model is based on L&T’s Kiito ERP system. user satisfaction instead of focusing on individual service In 2018–2019, L&T participated in the Virpa D research project focused on the use of a results-driven performances. operating model in a number of locations, including the Salo IoT Campus. L&T is also developing specifications for a scalable system that will make it possible to take advantage of the lessons learned in Salo at other sites. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 76 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Ensuring compliance ENSURING COMPLIANCE Sustainable business Focus areas of the sustainability programme: Ensuring compliance principles guide our actions Priorities and objectives 2019-2024 Indicators 2019 Our success Notes We ensure that everything we do complies with our legal and ethical responsibilities. By operating in compliance with laws How do we ensure that everyNo serious accidents or infractions. • Zero incidents of seriThe implementation thing we do complies with our legal ous damage and zero of the Code of and regulations, L&T seeks to ensure All new L&T employees are required to familiarise offences. Conduct to Finnish ­responsibilities? that the Group’s operations involve In our administration, we comply with Finnish legislation, themselves with our Code of Conduct and this is • Familiarisation with the employees has reviewed regularly. Code: In Sweden, 75% of started and will no serious damage or offences. To our Articles of Association, the rules and regulations of continue in 2020. the personnel have takensure the regulatory compliance of Nasdaq Helsinki and the Finnish Corporate Governance en the course, in Finland Code for listed companies. Our operations are also guided 81% of the salaried emour operations, we have documented ployees. by the policies and operating principles approved by the our sustainable business principles Board of Directors or the Group Executive Board as well We ensure that all our goods and services are sustainably sourced. the Code of Conduct, which applies as our environmental permits. to our contract suppliers as well. The We follow the local legislation in the countries where We use suppliers who are committed to the L&T • At the end of the year, We will continue we operate and we also ensure the sustainability of our sustainable supply chain policy. 93.6% of all service purto develop the sustainability programme aims at the operations by adhering to our sustainability principles as chases were made from sustainability of our We conduct annual risk-based audits of all our suppliers registered with supply chain. continuous promotion of operating in documented in our Code Of Conduct. The Code applies to suppliers. the Reliable Partner seraccordance with the Code Of Conduct, all L&T personnel in all of our operating countries as well vice. as our contract suppliers. Where necessary, policies and both in our own operations as well as in operating instructions have been issued to supplement • In Finland, we conducted 102 supplier self-assessour supply chain. the Code. In 2018, we made a commitment to support the ments and performed 30 UN Global Compact initiative and its principles pertaining supplier audits based on to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruprisk assessment. tion. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 77 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Ensuring compliance ENSURING COMPLIANCE Accidents and infractions In L&T’s sustainability programme, we have set a goal of zero vironmental matters. 12 permit change applications were submitted to the authorities during the year. Written Code of Conduct for all L&T To ensure the regulatory compliance, sustainability and In 2019, we put serious accidents or infractions in the Group’s own operations. We reached this goal with flying colours in 2019. consultation of stakeholders has been included in each change of permit. The environmental permit process for ethics of its operations, L&T has documented its sustainability principles in its Code of Conduct, which applies special effort into The accidents that occurred during the year were all minor and caused no permanent or serios damage to anthe material efficiency centre in Välimaa, Oulu, also included an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), during to all L&T employees as well as contract suppliers. The management is responsible for ensuring the personnel’s safe usage and yone. The company’s occupational safety practices were followed in terms of these accidents in order to avoid which several consultations of local residents and other stakeholders were arranged. familiarity with the Code of Conduct and monitoring compliance with the guidelines. storage of chemicals, similar incidents in the future. For more information about L&T’s occupational safety practices. During the year, L&T received a total of 26 (19) local complaints related to waste processing operations. All L&T employees must follow the L&T Code of Conduct as well as prevent actions that are contrary to guideand will continue this Four cases of minor environmental damage in Finland. They were related to minor container leaks, overfilling of The highest number of complaints was received in Lahti, concerning the possible unpleasant odours released lines and instructions. Violations of the Code of Conduct are primarily reported to the immediate supervisor. Immework in 2020. oil or chemical containers and suspected contamination by the hazardous waste treatment plant. We have been diate supervisors assist in the interpretation of guidelines of soil. Furthermore, 11 lesser environmental damages working in co-operation with other operators in the area in ambiguous situations. Employees can also use a confiwere reported in Finland, related to broken hoses, starting in order to determine the root causes of the unpleasant dential reporting channel by phone or e-mail. The channel fires and overfilling of containers. L&T seeks to prevent odours, increased our self-monitoring and replaced the is available in all of our operating countries. The internal environmental damage by means of Environmental walks, anemometer equipment. Complaints about unpleasant auditor handles all reports received via the reporting for example, or observation tours focused on the inspecodours were also made in Jyväskylä, among others, and channel in accordance with a jointly agreed process. tion of key factors related to the condition of the property in Turku, there were complaints about littering. The comThe Code of Conduct addresses issues such as bribin terms of the environment. Each L&T site with an enviplaints were received either directly from local residents ery and anti-corruption, compliance with competition law ronmental permit must conduct an environmental walk or via the local environmental authorities, and they were and environmental regulations as well as non-discrimionce every quarter. Furthermore, we have prepared comrecorded in the monitoring system. The complaints were nation. New L&T employees study the Code of Conduct prehensive environmental instructions for our personnel handled in cooperation with the authorities with the aim as part of their induction training programme, and we for various preventative actions, such as the emptying of mitigating future negative impacts. also provide regular refreshers of the Code of Conduct by and maintenance of oil traps, property waste manageIn 2019, we collected 55,000 tonnes (55,000 t) of hazmeans of online courses, among other things. ment and the use and storage of chemicals. In 2019, we ardous waste from our customers. 5.3 per cent (5.0) of this In 2019, all new L&T employees studied the Code of focused on chemical safety specifically and will continue was transported to other EU countries for treatment. We Conduct as part of their induction training programme. this work in 2020. did not import any hazardous waste to Finland in 2019. For Furthermore, the Code of Conduct online course updated In 2019, L&T had 67 (70) environmental permits that more information about the treatment of hazardous waste. in 2018 was translated into Swedish and localised, where determined how the Group managed and monitored ennecessary, to comply with Swedish legislation and matLassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 78 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Ensuring compliance ENSURING COMPLIANCE ters relevant to the business. By the end of the year, 75 processes and investigated as well as determined the Risks related to human rights have been assessed per cent of salaried employees and employees in Sweden justifications for the processing of personal data and at L&T as part of the risk management process. For more completed the updated online course. storage times of personal data in particular. We started a information, see pages 30–31 of the Financial Review. In summer 2019, a version of the online course suited project to identify and minimise the risks related to data As L&T mainly operates in Finland and Sweden with local to the needs of Finnish employees was prepared in co-opprotection. We decided to perform risk assessments of a partners, no significant risks related to human rights have eration with union representatives. This version was also couple of software applications critical to our business 81% been identified in the Group’s operations. The company translated into English and Russian. The implementation which will need replacement in the near future and to predoes not tolerate any kind of discrimination, harassment, of the course started in 2019 with employees of Property pare risk assessments each time a new information sysbullying, racism or inappropriate treatment or the use of Maintenance Services and Environmental Services. All in tem project is initiated. Furthermore, we started a project of the Group’s salaried child labour, any form of forced labour or any other pracall, 51.3 per cent of Property Management employees and related to the centralised administration of access rights. employees in Finland tices in violation with basic human rights in its own oper59.6 per cent of the Environmental Services employees We assessed the risks related to bribery and corrupcompleted Code of Conduct ations or as part of its supply chain. Human rights are incompleted the course. The implementation will continue tion on a process-specific basis over divisional limits. This training cluded in the Code of Conduct and in the Code of Conduct in 2020 with employees of the other service branches risk assessment covered most of our service branches. In attachment to the agreement which must be followed taking the updated course. 2019, the risk assessment focused on external invoicing, by all subcontractors and suppliers. Furthermore, human Our internal auditor received 12 (13) reports of infringethe accrual of net sales and manual allocation. The risks rights are assessed as a part of supplier self-assessment. ments against the Code of Conduct during the year. The identified were related to the lack of automation in the Our child labour mitigation efforts include means of reports were received directly from our personnel, through identification and prevention of irregularities. Attention centralised diversity reporting which investigates emsupervisors or via our electronic whistleblowing channel. will be paid to the quality of data and additional analytics ployee age distribution, among other things. Our efforts to All of the reports required further investigation and most will be implemented in internal audits in phases. Several prevent forced labour include, for example, our centralised of them led to corrective measures. The measures ranged development projects were running during the year in payroll system which ensures that we pay all the employfrom reprimands to warnings. In some cases, the reports which the operating model was developed. In these proees in accordance with the collective labour agreements led to changes to the company’s existing processes. jects, we have attempted to prevent or minimise the posapplicable to us. The salary is always paid to the employsibility of corruption. In our experience, L&T’s personnel ee’s personal bank account. Other infractions has become more aware of the matter especially after There were no grievances related to human rights or There were no complaints regarding breaches of customcompleting the updated Code of Conduct course, and Lereported incidents of discrimination at L&T in 2019. Take a er privacy, loss of customer data or other data protection gal Affairs has received requests for further information closer look at our Code of Conduct on our website. or data safety violations specified in EU legislation subabout the receipt of gifts, for example. stantiated by the authorities at L&T in 2019. We continued There were no incidents of bribery or corruption at L&T to further specify our practices related to the processing in 2019. For more information about our practices related of personal data in the various phases of our business to supplier co-operation, see next page. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 79 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable procurement SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Ensuring sustainable procurement L&T requires that all suppliers Ensuring the compliance of suppliers Description of supply chain and risks Our procurement is guided by our procurement princomply with the relevant legislation, When we select a new supplier, we emphasise the quality We mostly operate with domestic companies in Finland ciples and the more detailed procurement guidelines. Our and reliability of the supplier’s action, the observation of and Sweden, which improves the visibility of the supply procurement processes are transparent and procureagreements and terms of employment, environmental matters and ethical operating principles chain. We have assessed that the biggest risks in our ment decisions are based on competitive contracts. Manand that they commit to our in addition to the cost efficiency of the goods or servicsupply chain are related to waste treatment operators dates and the limits for approval in terms of procurement sustainability principles, which focus es provided. When selecting a new contract supplier, and recipients of waste as well as our subcontractors. are defined in the company’s guidelines on authorisation we evaluate the level of the supplier’s sustainability by In terms of waste treatment operators and recipients of on the basis of position. In case of potential conflicts of on the observation of legislation, means of a self-assessment questionnaire, which fowaste, the risks are largely related to the observation of interests in procurement decisions, the persons contransparency of operations and cuses on the assessment of the supplier in terms of, for the environment. With regard to subcontractors, the risks cerned are disqualified from the decision-making and left honesty, matters related to the instance, environmental aspects, supply chain manageare mostly related to ensuring occupational safety and outside of the daily co-operation with the supplier. Suppliemployer’s responsibilities as ment, occupational safety and quality management. We that employment conditions are followed. er co-operation must not involve any bribery or the kind of use the answers to make sure that the supplier meets our hospitality or exchange of gifts that could influence prowell as environmental matters. requirements. Furthermore, we may conduct any other Anti-corruption and bribery curement decisions. Our sustainability principles are investigations we deem necessary in terms of the comL&T is committed to supporting the UN Global Compact documented in L&T’s Code of Conduct pany’s financial situation, for example. In Sweden, new initiative and its anti-corruption principles. The prevention Progress in 2019 subcontractors are approved in the company’s internal of corruption and bribery is also based on national legisla• We conducted supplier self-assessments for 102 supplier instructions. Our contract co-operation meetings, which are also attended by repretion and agreements. Internally, our operations are guided suppliers. One of the focal points was the assesssuppliers commit to comply with L&T’s sentatives of trade unions. by the L&T Code of Conduct, which includes anti-bribery ment of waste treatment. Code of Conduct when the agreement We ensure the compliance of our existing suppliers and corruption guidelines related to, among other things, • We introduced a digital tool for conducting supplier by means of self-assessments whenever the contract accepting and offering gifts and hospitality as well as self-assessments in the company’s centralised prois signed. We also require that all is renewed and, if necessary, in other phases as well. We the avoidance of conflicts of interest. We have defined curements, allowing us more extensively to monitor service providers belong to the Reliable also engage in regular supplier co-operation with our separate permit procedures to ensure that all customthe information and report. Partner service. most important suppliers and monitor their operations er events are appropriate and that all sponsorships and • We updated the supplier audit scheme in which using specifically set indicators. Furthermore, we conduct supporting marketing operations are transparent. our audit goals have been raised to the level corresupplier audits based on the risks identified. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 80 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainable procurement SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT sponding to our procurement volume and the risks L&T’s purchases in 2019 Breakdown Breakdown of procurement in of procurement in Finland Finland and SwedenBreakdown of procurement in Sweden identified in our supply chain. We decided that the In 2019, L&T’s purchases of materials, goods and services audits will be targeted based on risks identified estotalled approximately EUR 302 million (318) in Finland. pecially on the recipients of waste and waste treatThe decrease in purchases is mainly due to the divestiDirect material Direct material ment operators as well as subcontractors. Furtherture of L&T Korjausrakentaminen Oy. procurement* 36% procurement* 30% more, we conduct supplier audits based on the risks identified in other procurement categories as well. In Sweden, L&T’s total purchases amounted to approximately EUR 63 million (68). In Russia, L&T’s total pur302 Direct service procurement** 34% 63 Direct service procurement** 47% • We conducted the audits in accordance with the chases were about EUR 3 million (5). MEUR Vehicles and equipment 12% MEUR Vehicles and equipment 7% Indirect procurement, Indirect procurement, updated plan and completed 30 supplier audits in L&T’s purchases are mainly from domestic suppliers. real estate and facilities 18% real estate and facilities 16% Finland. The suppliers to be audited were selected In Finland, 95 per cent (94.9) of purchases were made based on the risks identified in supplier self-asfrom companies operating in Finland, and 4.7 per cent sessments or otherwise. The observations made (5.0) from companies operating in other EU countries. * Direct material procurement includes: technical materials and in the audits were related to, for instance, ensuring Purchases from outside the EU represented 0.3 per cent supplies, raw materials and material payments. that the operating methods in accordance with our (0.1) of our total purchases. In Sweden, 97.8 per cent ** Direct procurement includes: external workforce. requirements concerning occupational safety or (99.3) of purchases were made from companies operatthe induction training of employees were followed ing in Sweden, and 2.2 per cent (0.6) from other EU counas well as documentation practices. tries. The percentage of purchases from outside the EU was negligible (0.1). In Russia, purchases were made soleWe continue to focus on the developly from companies operating in Russia. ment of sustainable procurement We will continue the development of sustainable procurePurchases by ments with the goal of re-evaluating our operating model country Finland Sweden Russia in a way which observes the differences between categories to a higher extent. In the Swedish business operaDomestic 95.0% 97.8% 100% tions, our goal is to ensure the sufficient actions in order From the EU 4.7% 2.2% 0% to ensure the sustainable operating practices of our supOutside the EU 0.3% 0% 0% pliers. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 81 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Tables with more specific information Tables with more specific information Environmental figure table MATERIALS Unit 2017 2018 2019 ENERGY Unit 2017 2018 2019 Material flows managed by L&T L&T’s own energy consumption Waste-based materials total T 801,000 868,000 788,000 Diesel MWh 160,094 170,798 164,665 Materials sorted at source % 67.1 % 68,.1 % 68.9 % Petrol MWh 2,459 2,804 3,010 Hazardous waste sorted at source % 5.9 % 6.3 % 7.0 % Fuel oil MWh 17,506 18,539 17,936 Mixed waste % 27.1 % 25.5 % 24.1 % Gas MWh 509 1,219 Electricity MWh 31,716 31,322 31,603 Recycling and recovery rate of material flows District heating* MWh 9,898 8,960 8,624 managed by L&T TOTAL MWh 221,673 232,932 227,057 Reuse and recycling % 53.8% 54.2% 54.8% Recovery in environmental construction % 5.9% 5.4% 4.8% Energy intensity** MWh/MEUR 328 290 290 Recovery as a waste-based fuel % 23.3% 24.8% 23.9% Recovery in the incineration of mixed waste % 11.2% 9.2% 9.6% *Information on the consumption of district heating has been collected only for Finland. Final treatment % 5.7% 6.4% 6.9% **L&T's own energy consumption in proportion to net sales. Reuse and recycling rate of hazardous waste Recycled as material % 64.0% 67.0% 69.2% Recovery as energy % 10.6% 6.6% 2.1% Final treatment % 25.4% 26.4% 28.7% Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 82 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Tables with more specific information Greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Unit 2017 2018 2019 The numbers include the entire L&T group in Finland, Russia and Sweden, unless otherwise mentioned. L&T FM is included starting from 2018. L&T’s own emissions Scope 1: Transport, production vehicles, work 1,000 tCO2 eq. 42.8 45.8 43.7 *Information on the consumption of district heating has been collected only for Finland. machines, landfill operations **L&T's own energy consumption in proportion to net sales. Scope 2: Purchased electricity in Finland (market1,000 tCO2 eq. 0.0 0.0 0.0 based) ***Scope 2 market-specific figures are not reported because the emission factors available do not significantly differ from those in the area-specific data. Scope 2: Purchased electricity in Finland (area1,000 tCO2 eq. 5.6 5.0 4.9 specific) ****Figures only cover L&T’s operations in Finland. Scope 2: Purchased electricity in Russia and 1,000 tCO2 eq. 0.2 0.2 0.2 Sweden (area-specific)*** *****The calculated Scope 2 emissions include electricity purchased in Finland as market-specific (not area-specific). Scope 2: Purchased district heating in Finland 1,000 tCO2 eq. 1.7 1.7 1.4 (area-specific)*** ******L&T’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in relation to net sales. Scope 3: Fuel consumption by contractors**** 1,000 tCO2 eq. 13.5 15.1 14.9 *******Carbon handprint in proportion to net sales. Scope 3: Work-related travel**** 1,000 tCO2 eq. 1.5 1.5 1.4 TOTAL***** 1,000 tCO2 eq. 59.7 64.4 61.6 Emission intensity****** tCO2 eq./M€ 66.2 59.5 57.8 Carbon handprint Material recycling 1,000 tCO2 eq. -377.0 -373.3 -340.0 Biofuel and recovered fuel deliveries 1,000 tCO2 eq. -697.0 -805.8 -823.6 TOTAL 1,000 tCO2 eq. -1,074.0 -1,179.1 -1,163.6 Carbon handprint intensity******* tCO2 eq./M€ -1,589 -1,470 -1,484 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 83 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Tables with more specific information CO2 emission calculation principles Carbon handprint or the calculated emission reductions The emissions have been calculated based on the inhave been calculated for the entire value chain from the ternational Green House Gas Protocol reporting standard recycling of waste until the use of recycled material and and emission calculation model, utilising, for example, the fuel. VTT Technical Research Centre LIPASTO database. In acThe recycling of waste can replace the use of virgin cordance with the calculation model, emissions are dividraw materials and thereby reduce the greenhouse gas ed into three areas: emissions of raw material procurement and processing. 1. Direct GHG emissions (fuel consumed by landfill opCarbon handprint has been calculated on a materierations, L&T heavy duty vehicles, production vehial-specific basis and based on the degree to which the cles and company-owned cars); recycled material reduces emissions compared to the 2. Indirect GHG emissions from purchased energy (tocorresponding production using virgin raw materials. tal electricity and district heating consumption at In energy production, greenhouse gas emissions are L&T’s Finnish locations); and reduced when fossil fuels are replaced with biofuels and 3. Other significant indirect GHG emissions (work-resolid recovered fuels. For fuels, the carbon handprint lated travel and contractor fuel consumption in takes into account L&T’s biofuel and solid recovered fuel Finland). deliveries and the resulting greenhouse gas emissions compared to producing the corresponding amount of Subcontractors’ emissions have been calculated energy using fossil fuels. based on transport volumes and estimated fuel conMainly coal has been used for comparison in the calsumption. Calculated reductions in emissions have been culation. Statistics Finland’s fuel classification 2019 was calculated using the model created by VTT for the entire used as the source of emission coefficients. value chain, from the collection of waste to the use of the secondary raw material or fuel. The calculations cover all of the Group’s operations. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 84 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Tables with more specific information Personnel in figures 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Total number of full-time and part-time employees at year-end 8,207 8,600 8,663 Personnel by employee group* Finland 6,479 6,871 7,041 Salaried employees, % 16% 17% 16% Sweden 1,355 1,422 1,332 Employees, % 84% 83% 84% Russia 373 307 290 Leased employees by employee group* Average number of employees, converted to full-time Salaried employees, person-days 252 347 312 Finland 5,946 6,199 6,288 Employees, person-days 23,841 34,556 20,965 Sweden 1,020 1,066 Personnel by type of employment, % Russia 342 301 Finland Personnel by country permanent 94.9% 95.0% 93.2% Finland 78.9% 80.0% 81.3% temporary 5.1% 5.0% 6.8% Sweden 16.5% 16.6% 15.4% full-time 67.1% 67.7% 66.3% Russia 4.5% 3.5% 3.3% part-time 21.5% 20.2% 22.4% Personnel by gender Sweden female 40.0% 42.5% 42% permanent 75.8% 74.5% male 60.0% 57.5% 58% temporary 24.2% 25.5% Personnel by gender, supervisory positions full-time 65.9% 63.7% 64.0% female 38.7% 36.0% part-time 34.1% 36.3% 36.0% male 61.3% 64.0% Russia permanent 99.2% 99.3% 97.0% temporary 0.8% 0.7% 3.0% full-time 95.9% 94.3% 92.4% part-time 4.1% 5.7% 7.6% Called in when necessary*** 11,4% 12,1% 11,3% *Information is only available for Finnish operations **Information is only available for Finnish and Swedish operations ***Type of employment is used only in Finland Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 85 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Tables with more specific information 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 Number of different nationalities 85 85 86 Turnover Proportion of employees with an immigrant background, %* 16.6% 15,2% 15.6% L&T Group, weighted average 23.8% 26,3% From the EU* 30.8% 35,0% 36.6% Finland 27.8% 30.8% From outside the EU* 69.2% 65,0% 63.4% Sweden 9.1% 7.5% 8% Employees under the age of 18 hired* 185 174 Russia 8.2% 5.3% 6% Age distribution of personnel Turnover by division* 14-20 years 3.5 % 3.1% Environmental services 8.3% 21-30 years 21.3% 21.1% Industrial Services 10.6% 31-40 years 25.2% 25.9% Facility Services Finland 37.7% 41-50 years 22.6% 23.2% Facility Services Sweden 9.1% 51-60 years 21.7% 21.2% Number of statutory employer-employee negotiations* 56 43 Over 60 years 5.7% 5.6% terminated* 132 72 Sickness-related absence, % temporarily laid off* 9 9 Finland 5.0 5.0 4.8 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, %** 100% 100% 100% Sweden 5.2 5.1 4.5 Ratio of the highest annual earnings to median earnings (full1.12 1.15 Russia 2.4 2.7 2.5 time employees)* Average retirement age *Information is only available for Finnish operations L&T Group, weighted average 63.2 63.2 63 **Information is only available for Finnish and Swedish operations Finland 63.1 63.2 63,9 ***Type of employment is used only in Finland Sweden 65.0 64.5 64.2 Russia 57.5 57.5 57.5 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 86 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability reporting Sustainability reporting We report on sustainability as part of topics have been determined based on the most central The report includes all Group companies and subUN Global Compact Communication on our Annual Review, which is part of the impacts of our operations, the expectations of stakeholdsidiaries, and it covers L&T’s own operations in Finland, Progress ers and our business priorities. Sweden and Russia to the extent that the data has been In 2018, L&T made the commitment to support the UN Annual Report 2019. The statement For more information about the updated materiality available. Furthermore, we have included the materials Global Compact initiative and its ten principles pertainof non-financial information required assessment based on Lassila Tikanoja’s/our renewed collected from our customers and the emissions created ing to human rights, labour rights, the environment and in the Accounting Act is included in strategy, see section Materiality and stakeholders of this in the subcontracting chain due to the nature and impact anti-corruption. We report on our progress as part of our/ report. In this year’s report we have paid special attention of our operations. this sustainability report and GRI index. Our sustainability section Report by the Board of Directors to the impacts of the central themes. These have been If information concerning certain indicators was not report describes the actions implemented in 2019 to proof the Financial Review. described concretely in our value creation model. available for all of our operating countries, or if a calculamote the integration of the Global Compact initiative and In addition to relevance and comprehensiveness, the tion has changed from previous years, or if customers’ or its principles into the company’s business strategy, culOur sustainability report covers the reporting period 1 report observes the other reporting principles of the GRI suppliers’ data is newly included in the calculation, this is ture and daily activities. We use the GRI’s indicators January-31 December 2019. This report has been prestandards. For more information about consulting stakedisclosed next to the indicator. to measure observation of the principles and report them pared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. holders and observing their expectations, see pages The Financial Review was approved by the company’s as part of the GRI index. The report is published in Finnish and English on our web44-47 of this report. The reporting is linked to the widBoard of Directors and the Annual Report was approved For more information on our sustainability reporting site as a pdf file, and printouts are made mainly for use in er context of sustainable development through the UN by the President and CEO. contact: viestinta@lassila-tikanoja.fi. the Annual General Meeting. The previous report was pubsustainable development goals (SDGs), for example. The Key environmental and personnel sustainability indilished in February 2019 and the next one will be published SDGs have also been included in the GRI index. The calcucators are certified by an independent third party (KPMG). in February/March 2021. lation principles of the key figures of environmental susThe certification was commissioned by Director, CorpoWe focus on the reporting of the most material sustainability can be found here. rate Relations and Sustainability Jorma Mikkonen. tainability aspects of our operations in accordance with Read the independent certification report here. our sustainability programme. Our sustainability material Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 87 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI Index GRI 102: General disclosure GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Financial review, p. 3 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services: a. Desctiption of the Annual review, p. 4, 5, 7, 21, 24, 30 org's activities & b. Primatery brands, products and services, icluding an explanation of any products or services are banned in certainmarketp. 102-3 Location of headquarters Financial review, p. 44 102-4 Location of operations Financial review, p. 44, Annual review, p. 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form Financial review, p. 3 102-6 Markets served: geographical locations; sectors served; types of Financial review, p. 19–20, Annual review, p. 3, 21 customers and beneficiaries 102-7 Scale of the organization: total n of employees; total number of Financial review, p. 21, 24–25, Annual review, p. 3, 9, 10 operations; net sales; total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity; quantity of products or services provided 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Financial review p. 25, Annual review, p. 85 Gender not disaggregated per region or employee type. 6 8, 10 102-9 Supply chain Annual review, p. 80, 81 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Financial review, p. 19–25 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Financial review, p. 28–31 7 102-12 External initiatives Annual review, p. 13, 14, 15, 16 102-13 Membership of associations Annual review, p. 20 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 88 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Annual review, p. 6, 7 Comprehensive 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Financial review, p. 27–31, Annual review, p. 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 17, 18, 19, 25, 26, 27, 41 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Annual review, p. 40,77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 10 16 www.lt.fi/en/responsibility/code-of-conduct Comprehensive 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Annual report, p. 78–79 10 16 Governance structure 102-18 Governance structure Financial review, p. 3, 6–7, 12–14, 27, Annual review, p. 42–43 Comprehensive 102-19 Delegating authority Financial review, p. 27, Annual review, p. 42–43 Comprehensive 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and Financial review, p. 27, Annual review, p. 42–43 social topics Comprehensive 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and Financial review, p .6, Annual review, p. 42–43 strategy Comprehensive 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Financial review, p. 13 Comprehensive 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Financial review, p. 27, Annual review, p. 42–43, 87 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Annual review, p. 45–46 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Annual review, p. 86 In Finland and Sweden, all employees are covered 3 8 by collective bargaining agreementp. Information for Russia is not available. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Annual review, p. 44 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 89 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Annual review, p. 44–46 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Annual review, p. 44–46 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Financial review, p. 57 We did not give out any political contributions Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Financial review, p. 12, 93 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46–47, 49, 87 102-47 List of material topics Annual review, p. 42, 47–48 102-48 Restatements of information Financial review, p. 46 102-49 Changes in reporting Annual review, p. 58–61 In 2019, for the first time, we are reporting according to the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). 102-50 Reporting period Annual review, p. 87 102-51 Date of most recent report Annual review, p. 87 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual review, p. 87 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Annual review, p. 87 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Annual review, p. 87 102-55 GRI content index Annual review, p. 88–96 102-56 External assurance Annual review, p. 97–98 We increase the carbon handprint of our operations Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46, 49–50 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 42, 49, 50, 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 90 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG Economic 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to Annual review, p. 58–61 We do not report financial information related to 7 9, 11, 12, performance climate change climate change. 13 Energy LT1 Carbon handprint Annual review, p. 25–28, 49, 50–51, 54, 83 The ratio of carbon footprint to revenue is reported 9 13 with the aim of increasing our carbon footprint faster than our revenue. LT2 Replaced fossil energy Annual review, p. 49, 50, 61 9 9, 13 We reduce our own carbon footprint Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46 7,8,9 7, 9, 11, approach 12, 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 42, 49–50, 52 7,8,9 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 7,8,9 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Annual review, p. 53–54, 58, 61, 82–83 7,8 7, 11, 13 302-3 Energy intensity Annual review, p. 82 8 7 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Annual review, p. 49–50 Reduction of energy consumption focusses on L & T's 8,9 7, 13 own operations, and in particular in the reduction of fossil diesel. Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 91 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG Emisisons 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Annual review, p. 53, 83–84 We only report fossil greenhouse gases 7,8 13 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Annual review, p. 83–84 Market-based greenhouse gas emissions have only 9 13 been reported for purchased electricity in Finland. Other market-based data is not reported as the available emission factors do not differ materially from region-specific data. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Annual review, p. 83–84 See 305-1 9 13 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Annual review, p. 83 The emission intensity is calculated as Scope 1 and 8,9 13 Scope 2 divided by turnover. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Annual review, p. 49, 52–53 Reduction of greenhouse gases focusses on L & T's 8,9 13 own operations, and in particular in the reduction of fossil diesel. We promote the sustainable use of materials and energy and reduce the amount of waste generated by our customers Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46, 55 7,8,9 7, 9, 11, approach 12, 13 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 42, 49–50, 55 7,8,9 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 7,8,9 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 Materials LT1 Material flows processed Annual review, p. 55, 56, 82 Replaces GRI indicator 301-1 that is not directly 8,9 9, 11, 12, applicable. 13 LT2 Share of material flows represented by recycled materials Annual review, p. 82 Replaces GRI indicators 301-2 and 306-2 that are not 8,9 9, 11, 12, directly applicable. 13 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 92 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG We look after the well-being, work ability and occupational safety of our personnel Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46 1,6 8 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 40, 42, 43,44, 62, 63 1,6 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 1,6 8 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Annual review, p. 64 Employee turnover reported per region only. 6 8 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Annual review, p. 65–67 6 8 temporary or part-time employees Labour/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Annual review, p. 64 In restructuring situations, we follow 3 8 management the minimum periods of consultation in accordance with national law. Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health Annual review, p. 66 6 8 health & safety and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Annual review, p. 66 Reported only for our own personnel, broken down 1, 6 3, 8 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by country of operation. Does not include absence frequency. 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Annual review, p. 66 6 3 occupation HR 1 Retirement age Annual review, p. 62–65, 86 Retirement age is 63.2 years 1, 6 3, 8 HR 2 Sickness-related absence Annual review, p. 65, 86 1 3, 8 Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance Annual review, p. 45, 52, 63, 64, 69 1 8 education programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Annual review, p. 45 6 8 development reviews HR 3 Staff recommendation rate Annual review, p. 64 L&T's own indicator, the Fiilinki survey initiated in 2019, 8 response rate 56% Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 93 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG We provide employment to vulnerable groups and persons with disabilities Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46 1 ,6 10 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 40, 42, 43, 44, 62, 63 1 ,6 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 1 ,6 10 Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Financial review, p. 5–6, Annual review, p. 68 1 ,6 10 & equal opportunity Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Annual review, p. 79 No reported cases in 2019 1 ,6 10 discrimination We create economic growth and well-being Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46, 8 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 40, 42, 43,44, 70 8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 8 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial review, p. 57, Annual review, p. 70 8 performance 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Financial review, p. 57 In 2019, grants and assistance received from the government for product development and projects amounted to EUR 15 839,20. Indirect 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Annual review, p. 25–27, 58 economic impacts HR 4 Tax footrprint Annual review, p. 71 We promote the development of industrial infrastructure in line with the principles of sustainable development, the recovery of industrial side streams and closed cycles Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46 9, 11 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 40, 42–44, 72–74 9, 11 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 9, 11 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 94 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG Materials LT5 Contaminated soil treated Annual review, p. 72–74 9 9, 11 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent L&T does not operate in protected areas or in areas of to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside high biodiversity. protected areas We find innovative solutions to build sustainable cities and create healthy and safe environments Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46 9, 11 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 40, 42–44, 72–76 9, 11 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 9, 11 LT6 Reduction in use of cleaning agents and increment in the proportion Annual review, p. 75 2019 L&T's own indicator since 2019. 8 11 of eco-labeled substances We ensure that everything we do complies with our legal and ethical responsibilities Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 40, 42–44, 72–76 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Financial review, p. 29, Annual review, p. 79 We assess risks associated with corruption and 10 16 bribery across units and per process. Most of our services have been assessed. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Annual review, p. 78–79 In Sweden 75% and in Finland 81% of employees have 1, 10 16 and procedures overtaken the training on the Code of Conduct. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Annual review, p. 79 No incidents 1, 10 Anti206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Annual review, p. 78, 79 No incidents 10 competitive and monopoly practices behaviour Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 95 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY GRI UNGC Standard Report content Location More information principle SDG Effluents and 306-3 Significant spills Annual review, p. 78 No significant speills 7 waste 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Annual review, p. 55, 78 7 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Annual review, p. 78 No incidents 7 compliance Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health Annual review, p. 77 No incidents 7 health & safety and safety impacts of products and services Customer 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer Annual review, p. 79 No incidents privacy privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Annual review, p. 77–79 No incidents compliance and economic area We ensure that all our goods and services are sustainably sourced Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual review, p. 42, 44, 46, 80, 81 1,2,3,4,5,6, 12 approach 10 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual review, p. 42–44, 80, 81 1,2,3,4,5,6, 12 10 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual review, p. 42 1,2,3,4,5,6, 12 10 Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Annual review, p. 81 practices Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Annual review, p. 77, 80-81 We conducted 102 supplier self-assesments in Finland 7 13 environmental and 30 supplier audits based on risk assessments assessment through our centralised purchasing system. 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions Annual review, p. 77, 80-81 7 13 taken Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Annual review, p. 77, 80-81 Same as 308-1 1,2,3,4,5,6, 8 assessment 10 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Annual review p. 80-81 1,2,3,4,5,6, 8 10 Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 96 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY Independent Assurance Report to the Management of Lassila & Tikanoja Oyj We were engaged by the Management of Lassila & Our responsibilities requirements, professional standards and applicable legal • Interviews with relevant staff at the corporate and Tikanoja (hereafter “L&T”) to provide limited assurance on Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance enand regulatory requirements. business unit level responsible for providing the L&T’s corporate responsibility data presented in L&T’s Angagement and to express a conclusion based on the We have complied with the independence and other information in the Corporate Responsibility Data; nual Review that is included in areas “Circular economy work performed. We conducted our engagement on Corethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Profes• An assessment of data management processes, and climate change mitigation” and “Healthy, diverse and porate Responsibility Data in accordance with Internasional Accountants issued by the International Ethics information systems and working methods used to productive workplace community” as well as in tables tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Standards Board for Accountants IESBA, which is founded gather and consolidate the Corporate Responsibili“Environmental figures” and “Personnel in figures” for the (Revised), Assurance Engagements other than Audits or on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, profesty Data; year ended Dec 31, 2019 (hereafter “Corporate ResponsiReviews of Historical Financial Information, and on greensional competence and due care, confidentiality and pro• A review of the presented Corporate Responsibility bility Data”). house gas data within the Corporate Responsibility Data fessional behavior. Data with an assessment of information quality and in accordance with the International Standard on Assurreporting boundary definitions; Management's responsibilities ance Engagements (ISAE) 3410, Assurance Engagements Procedures performed • An assessment of conformity with the reporting The Management of L&T is responsible for the measuring, on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the InternaA limited assurance engagement on Corporate Responprinciples of GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards preparation and presentation of the Corporate Respontional Auditing and Assurance Standards Board IAASB. sibility Data consists of making inquiries, primarily of perin the presentation of the Corporate Responsibility sibility Data in accordance with the GRI Sustainability These Standards require that we plan and perform the sons responsible for the preparation of information preData; Reporting Standards. The Management of L&T is also engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether sented in the Corporate Responsibility Data, and applying • Assessment of data accuracy and completeness responsible for establishing and maintaining approprithe Corporate Responsibility Data is free from material analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as through a review of the original documents and ate performance management and internal control sysmisstatement. appropriate. These procedures included for example: systems on a sample basis; tems as the entity determines is necessary to enable KPMG Oy Ab applies International Standard on Quality • An interview with senior management at selected • A site visit conducted to one of L&T’s sites. the preparation of Corporate Responsibility Data that is Control ISQC 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehenbusiness unit level concerning sustainability stratefree from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or sive system of quality control including documented polgy and policies for Corporate Responsibility Data, and error. icies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical the implementation of these across the business; Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 97 INTRODUCTION YEAR 2019 STRATEGY AND VALUE CREATION BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY The procedures performed in a limited assurance enConclusion gagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in Based on the procedures performed and the evidence extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement, and obtained, as described above, nothing has come to our consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited attention that causes us to believe that the information assurance engagement is substantially lower than the subject to the assurance engagement is not prepared, in assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonaall material respects, in accordance with the GRI Sustainble assurance engagement been performed. ability Reporting Standards. Inherent limitations Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements Helsinki, 14. February 2020 due to the selective testing of the information being examined. Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may KPMG OY AB occur and not be detected. Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, given both its nature and the methods used for deLeenakaisa Winberg Tomas Otterström termining, calculating and estimating such data. Partner, KHT Partner, Advisory Lassila & Tikanoja | Annual Review 2019 98 EMPLOYED BY TOMORROW Lassila & Tikanoja Plc Valimotie 27, 00380 Helsinki tel. 010 636 111 www.lt.fi/en
