Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 i Sustainability Report 2018 Contents Message from the Chairman 2 Message from the General Manager 3 Setaş 2018 at a Glance 5 About Setaş 6 Sustainability Priorities in the Value Chain 23 Our Approach on Sustainability 24 Goals 26 Sustainability 28 Water Management 30 Energy Efficiency Practices 32 Waste Management 33 Climate Change 36 Raw Material Use 38 Technology 39 40 Setaş R&D Center 41 Basic Research and Test Laboratory Innovation and R&D Products Synergy 48 Employee Profile 51 Setaş Competence Model 54 Employee Development at Setaş 56 Training at Setaş 59 Occupational Health and Safety at Setaş 61 GRI Standards Content Index 63 Setaş Global Compact Progression Report 68 ii Sustainability Report 2018 About the Report 102-45, 102-50, 102-53 S etaş 2018 Sustainability Report reviews the performance of Setaş subcontractor companies providing support services in production sites in the economic, social and environmental domains in terms of susare not included in the report. The Report has been compiled in comptainability for an annual period that elapsed between 01.01.2018 liance with the “Basic” option of the GRI Standards. Said compliance is – 31.12.2018. The report also stands as the 3rd progression report disclosed in more detail in the GRI Standards Content Index presented submitted by Setaş since 06.09.2016, when Setaş became signatory in the last chapter of the report. The Report is issued in two languages: to the United Nations Global Compact. The report discloses the Setaş’s Turkish and English. approach to the Global Compact as well as the activities undertaken in this respect. The report covers operations performed at the production plant of Setaş at Çerkezköy and at the head office located in İstanbul. All Contact: Karanfil Sokak No: 18 34330 1.Levent / İSTANBUL production areas and the head office are included in the report. The data setas@setas.com.tr of subcontractors that provide logistics of the products produced and +90 (212) 270 20 72 1 Sustainability Report 2018 D ear Stakeholders, with this third also endeavoring to come up with busiMessage from the Chairman Sustainability Report, we, as Setaş, are much honored and ness strategies focused particularly on environment, as well as human rights, happy for sharing the operations we employee rights, responsible production have undertaken, and the endeavors and economic growth. As one of the we endured, with respect to developprominent actors in chemical industry, ment of the world and our country in Setaş also prioritizes R&D and product economic, environmental and social development efforts in order to ensure aspects. most efficient use of water sources. We are allocating the resources of the comAs Setaş, we endeavor to improve the pany for increasing the diversity of the future of our country for 53 years, and green products through improvements maintain our presence in 34 cities of in processes from use of raw materials, Turkey and 50 countries in the World. to efficient use of energy and water Sustainability represents one of the sources. We are making significant highest priority agenda items for all investments for adopting environment corporations as well as the world. The friendly technologies at our environmenSustainable Development Goals adopttal processes. ed by the United Nations in 2015 have 102-14 set the priorities on economic, environWe're aiming to implement all best mental and social domains for the entire practices that will support the world. development of our country through social-benefit oriented investments, As Setaş, we not only analyze the prioriwaste prevention and management of ties for our business sector and the exenvironmental impacts pectations of the stakeholders we also maintain our operations by integrating We will continue to generate economic such goals into our business objectives. and social benefit in order to live in a Our processes for compliance to the better world, improve welfare of our naUnited Nations Global Compact, that tion and society and to fulfill our we became signatory in 2016, can be responsibilities towards future monitored from this report generations. The increase in population induces an We would like to take this opportunity MEHMET EMRE ŞENER increase at the resource consumption, to offer our most gracious gratitude first Chairman of the Executive Board which in turn increases the amount to our employees, and to our customof waste generated in line with such ers, business partners, local communiconsumption. As in the case for all ties and all other stakeholders. modern industries, the textile sector is 2 Sustainability Report 2018 Message from the General Manager D ear Stakeholders, the awareness rising trend originated from the In its journey towards sustainability, Setaș not only committed to the environment and zero waste concept is headed towards waste global regulations, but also commits to the chemical regulations at this recycling and circular economy. The system to be maintained thgeography as it aims to supply services and products to all countries in rough strict input-output controls on the manufactured goods, the immediate area. In the mean time; by embracing circular economy, transportation and packaging controls throughout production process extensive chemical and technology-based R&D studies have been and recovery of used products from end user will create living space initiated concerning chemical recycling of polyester blends. for future generations. Just as we already promised, the e-ColorMaster online color management system will be put into operation by the end of 2020 in On the one hand, the entire chemical input of all countries are placed order to ensure that the brands’ requirements such as color and 102-14 under transparent and documented control through practices such ecology can be easily obtained digitally by the manufacturers. as Turkey KKDIK, Eurasia-REACH (The Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) member states – Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan Our goal is to respect to the current agenda and to be a implementer and Russia) and Korean REACH; on the other hand local production of it and to go beyond one step, serve the world and humanity with a in the countries are supported. The primary objective is to establish a multidisciplinary approach. We would like to acknowledge all of our transparent declaration of chemical product information at border employees and stakeholders for walking this path with us. checkpoints and to establish an information system in advance if it has an impact on the environment and human health. FATMA ŞENER General Manager 3 Sustainability Report 2018 Management Philosophy Who are we? We stand as a chemical firm working for a sustainable future by supporting the customer-oriented principle with information and innovation and enhancing the competitive capacity of our brand and business partners. Our future goals Combining our color knowledge with technological advancements in the polymer, coating, textile, paper industry thus create higher chemistry in line with the Industry 4.0 102-16 OUR MAIN VALUES OUR MAIN FEATURES Conforming to Ethical Business-Mindedness Values Knowledge and Customer Oriented Experience Openness for Innovation Team Work and Transformation Willingness for Shared Wisdom and Continuous Knowledge Learning Accurate Planning Modest Approach and Analysis 4 Sustainability Report 2018 Setaş 2018 at a Glance An adventure ongoing for 53 years, Proudly since 1966... 3 Plants, 4 different industries 21% 335 Women employees Employees 102-7 57 Thousand Tons 34% Production Capacity Women employees at executive and higher positions 2.651 GJ Energy saved in 2018 Export to 50 countries 92,2% on 5 Continents Satisfied employees 54% 167 million $ 14,3% Reuse rate of packages released to the market in 2018 Turnover in 2018 Reduction in water consumption per 1 Ton product 5 Sustainability Report 2018 About Setaş Setaş is a chemical company founded in 1966 and specialized on color. The company aims to inoculate the social and environmental responsibiliSetting off with intentions to supply products to the textile sector, Setaş ties to its employees in order to create awareness on future. expanded its product range by manufacturing dyes, chemicals and special effects for the paper, plastic and metal industries. The company Establishing accurate communication between cultures by benefiting the contin-ues to operate with its highly qualified human resources, strong privilege of the strategic position linking Europe with Asia, Setaş has aristechnical infrastructure and precise financial management skills by en to the top position in industries that the company operates in Turkey. adopting a creative and dynamic business mentality and implementing The products are marketed also to Middle East, Asia, Europe, Africa and strategic management concept in order to ensure smooth functioning of South America regions. The Logistics Center established and the ‘’Direct the organization and for planning a safe future. Acting swiftly by Sale to the Customer from the Bonded Warehouse for Import Goods’’ delivering solutions that require expertise, the company not only and ‘’Lean Supply System in Domestic Products’’ practices processed responds to questions and problems of the customers by supporting therein not only enhanced the competitive power on both national and customer oriented principle with knowledge and innovation, but also international level, but also offered minimum stock cost and fast supply engages with project collaborations with the customers to have an advantages for its customers. advantage against their rivals. R&D Center Basic Research Test Laboratory Color Management Commissioned in 2011 with aims to achieve Setaş Basic Research and Test Laboratory Setaș Color Center started its operations the benefit of sharing knowledge and opportuwas founded to support ecological product in 2014 within Setaş provides fast and nities. Setaş R&D Technology Center gathers all management process, and for testing and high quality service by working in research and development related operations dispatching products according to cooperation with brands. under one roof in order to endorse collabointernational standards and codes during all ration and synergy between various disciplines. phases of production and sales process. All analytical tests in the process of establishing the identity of the products according to national regulations are carried out by Setaș expert teams. 6 Sustainability Report 2018 About Setaş Setaş represents 4 different industries by means of operations undertaken at 3 different production plants located in Tekirdağ Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone. SETAŞ 1 Reaction Department: The department with 6.000 tons of annual production capacity produces liquid reactive, liquid basic, liquid sulphur and disperse dyestuffs. Dispersion Department: The department with 10.000 tons of annual production capacity produces liquid pigment and vat dye dispersions and liquid disperse dyestuffs. Chemicals Department: The department with 25.000 tons of annual production 3 Plants 4 Industries capacity produces optical brighteners and auxiliary chemicals for paper and textile sectors SETAŞ 2 Electrostatic Powder Coating Department: The department with 6.000 tons of annual production capacity produces Epoxy, PES and Hybrid structured electrostatic powder coatings. SETAŞ 3 Masterbatch Department: The department with 10.000 tons of annual production capacity produces PET, PE, PP, PA based colored, black and functional masterbatc335 Annual Production hes for fiber, packaging and cable sectors. Employees Capacity of 57 Thousand Tons 7 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Global Presence 50 Countries 34 Cities 102-4, 102-6, 102-7 Major Foreign Markets Share of Export in Total Sales Bangladesh, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Egypt, Russia, Portugal, Poland, France, Bulgaria, Sri Lanka, Tunisia, England, Spain, Mexico 17% 19% Total Sales Total Turnover 47.000 167 42.000 Tons Million $ Tons 151 Million $ 2017 2018 2017 2018 8 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Industries TEXTILE Setaş is a leading company in its industry possessing the capacity to They offer ease of operation as they are mostly manufactured as develop multi-functional products by employing a great variety of compliant with automation processes. production processes through the synergy created by the Technology Pursuing the principle of continuous improvement in accordance with Center founded for gathering distinct R&D disciplines together. The the ecologic and performance criteria of the brands and manufactucompany offers product solutions in various forms such as liquid, rers, Setaş becomes solution partners for its customers by offering powder and dispersion in the dyestuff and auxiliary products for adding value to all fiber varieties. innovative products, and makes investments as required for minimizing the impact on the environment and human health, and 102-2 Setaş product range for the dyestuffs involves colorant and pigments observes and implements the national and international standards on from different groups that offer customized solutions for the customer this matter. in compliance with the intended purpose and conditions of use for textile dyeing and printing processes. These colorants are available in The products are produced in compliance with bluesign® requirepowder and liquid forms as disperse, reactive, acid, metal-complex, ments and the limits set for priority chemicals in ZDHC MRSL. The basic and vat dyes with diverse product range that would facilitate products are fully compliant to restricted chemicals lists of brands selection by the operators. (RSL’s) and Oeko-tex® Standard 100 criterias as well as the legislations applicable on textile and clothing supply chain. Setaș Setaş product range for the auxiliary chemicals involves all chemicals products dont contain SVHC substances, restricted by REACH required during pre-treatment, dyeing, post-treatment and finishing regulation and Annex 17 operations for the textile dyeing, printing and washing processes. These high performance products can be produced with distinct characteristics and concentrations depending on the application. 9 Sustainability Report 2018 DYESTUFFS AUXILIARIES Textile Digital Printing Denim Pre-Treatment Dyeing Finishing Printing Digital Technical Denim Nyloset® Nyloset® Ink Dyeage Processes Printing Textile Chemicals Pigmaset® Pigmaset® Ink Dyefast Setaanticrease Setawet Setacid® Safoline Setajet Setacross Kaya Setacryl® Setactive® Ink Dyeneon Setaantioksidant Migrasist Setadeepener Safolite Setalan® Setaflam Setabicol Setactive® Setapers® Ink Dyewash Setabicol Setaalkali Setafen Setabinder® Setaflex Setafix® Setafor® Setacid® Setaantimigrant Setalan® Setacross Setapret Setafor® Setanthren® Setacrystal® Setacarrier Setasil® Setagum Seta-UV Setalan® Setapers® Setalan® Setacid® Setasoft Setalan® Setasil® Setazol® Setalase Setaclean Setastat Setalgine Setasoft Sulfoset Setalub® Setacompact Setaprint® Setazym Setamordant Setafix® Setawhite Setenzim Setapolymer® Setafoam Setawash Setalan® Setawet Setalub® 102-2 Setazym Setarder Setenzim Setastat Setawash Setenzim Ultraclean 10 Sustainability Report 2018 MASTERBATCH Setaş Masterbatch was established in 2004, primarily to meet the masterSectors Served with batch production needs for polyester fiber for Turkey’s market where a number Masterset® Brand of synthetic fibers and plastics industry operating. The masterbatch plant commissioned with an initial annual production capacity of 800 tons currently • Textile, carpet and upholstery operates at the capacity of 10.000 tons in 2016 through investments. Setaş • Packaging and toys Masterbatch moved to its new facility in Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone • Home appliances in 2017 and aims to achieve sustainable growth, through increasing its pro• Automotive duction capacity, product range and customer portfolio in the coming years. Masterbatch department produces masterbatch and functional products for • Construction materials (pipe and hose, thermal insulation) fiber and plastic sectors under the brand ‘’Masterset®’’. • Telecommunication and cable 102-2 11 Sustainability Report 2018 ELECTROSTATIC POWDER COATING Setacoat® started electrostatic powder coating production in 2007 as Sectors Served with a Setaş division moved to a new facility of 12 000 m2 in 2014 with Setacoat® Brand its developing product range, growing production capacity and team. The plant currently manufactures epoxy, PES and hybrid electrostatic • Aluminum Exterior Systems powder coating with capacity of 6.000 Ton/Year • City Furnitures • Appliances • Store Fixtures • Fence Systems • HVAC systems • Automotive • Lighting Systems • Door and Window Systems 102-2 12 Sustainability Report 2018 PAPER Setaş offers its 53 years of experience and knowledge on textile Auxiliaries Dyes industry, its production capacity on chemistry and R&D skills to paper industry. For this purpose, the company started to produce dyestuffs, Paper Paper optical brighteners and performance chemicals for the packing paper, Setacryl® Setafor® writing paper and cleaning paper industry since 2003. The company Setadirect Setamer intends to maintain its leading position in Turkey especially on brown Setapolymer® dyestuff and optical brightener ranges by offering new product ranges with eyeing for growth opportunities abroad. 102-2 13 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Milestones Started its business life with the production Decided to abandon its and as agency of dyes agency relations and and auxiliaries for focused completely membership the textile and leather on its production Opening of industries operations Setaş2 plant 1966 1987 1989 1997 2002 2003 2004 2007 2010 2011 2014 2016 2017 Setapers® Setactive® Pigmaset® Pigment disperse dyestuff Reactive printing dyestuffs production production production Opening of Setacryl® Opening of Setaş powder coating membership Nyloset® Liquid acrylic dyestuff Technology Center production for textile production facility Acid and metal complex dyestuffs and paper industries 14 Sustainability Report 2018 Product Management Management Systems 102-12, 102-13 Commitments 15 Sustainability Report 2018 Certified products 185 305 6 Products Products Products 102-12, 102-13 361 Products 49% Level 3 22 CAS# 38% Level 1 16 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Corporate Management System A well managed today for a better future Since its incorporation, Setaș adopted to the dynamics of the industry it represents with its global governance perception and strong vision. Setaș always prioritized environmentally responsible production by improving its production processes and product range through R&D operations that respond to the customer’s demands. The company has positioned itself as a strong representative of chemicals industry in its region by pursuing a governance strategy that adds value to its employees and the society. Setaş is an incorporated company. The board of directors consists of three members with one woman member. The Executive Board comprises the top executives that represent all functions in execution. The General Manager acts as co-chair at the Executive Board. Other management bodies include Ethics Committee, OHS Board and Disciplinary Board. 102-18 17 Sustainability Report 2018 Executive Board Ethics Committee Occupational Disciplinary Board The Executive Board is responsible The Ethics Committee is Health and The Disciplinary Board is from: • Implementing the decisions of the formed by the General ManSafety Board responsible from acting in Board of Directors, ager, Strategic Planning and compliance with the rules set • Discussing strategies for the business Financial Director, The Occupational Health out in the regulation at the line of the company and seek approval Marketing Director, and HR and Safety Board executes decision making processes of the Board of Directors for implemenDirector. The committee is its functions pursuant to and from confidentiality of the 102-18 tation thereof, responsible from reviewing files received by the board. the tasks and liabilities set • Identifying the most adequate organizational structure that would allow all kinds of problems related out in Republic of Turkey effective execution of the company to all stakeholders encounMinistry of Labor and operations and achievement of the tered by the employees durSocial Security, Regulation goals, ing the business life, from on Occupational Health • Exploring new products, services and guaranteeing confidentiality and Safety Boards and in markets in accordance with the objectives and policies set by the Board of of the complaints and feedthe chapter entitled duties Directors; review the operations in terms backs submitted pursuant and authorities of the OHS of quality, efficiency and performance in to the codes of conduct and Board. The board conorder to comply with the defined objecto keep the individuals safe venes on monthly basis. tives and policies, after reporting, to ensure • Ensuring that operations are performed efficiently by staff with adequate employment security of the qualifications, reporting employees, and to • Paying attention to career developguarantee investigation of ment of the employees and encouragthe complaints and reports ing them in this respect, in due time in fair, consistent • Ensuring that the entire organization functions accordingly in order to ensure and sensitive manner and to effective, efficient and responsible use of take necessary actions as all resources for persistence of comrequired after violations. pany operations. 18 Sustainability Report 2018 The management approach implemented by Setaş is an integral part to the ethical values. COMPLIANCE WITH THE ACCURACY RELIABILITY LAWS AND LEGISLATION Setaş pursues and is Setaş offers open, comSetaş executes its opdevoted to the principle prehensible and accurate erations in compliance of accuracy in all operainformation during all with the laws, bylaws and tions and relations with the services and operations regulations of Republic of customers, employees, with the mentality of mutual Turkey. Setaş closely monshareholders, group comtrust with the customers itors all applicable legisla102-16, 102-18 panies and other agencies and the stakeholders. tions and laws, and adapts and institutions. measures as required for compliance thereto. Setaş does not discrimiSetaş acts responsive towards conservation of environnate on the basis of age, ment. The company takes active part in the efforts for gender, ethnic background, promoting conservation of the environment and aims to political thought, philoimprove awareness of the society on environmental cases. sophical belief, religion, The company considers the impact of its products and sexual preference, physical services on the environment in all processes. The compaappearance, health, union ny executes studies for more efficient use of the natural membership or otherwise resources and minimization of the wastes arising from in the course of its busiprocesses to the most possible extent. ness relations. EQUALITY RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS ENVIRONMENT 19 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Stakeholders For identification of the value chain, Setaş completes the definitions concerning all stakeholders involved in the value chain and updates such list regularly at annual periods. Any and all individuals, organizations and societies that have impact on Setaş’s operations or is/are affected from Setaş’s operations are considered as Setaş stakeholder. In brief, the stakeholders at Setaş are categorized as interior and exterior stakeholders. The stakeholders of the companies might display a constant change as an outcome of the changing economic balances within a global market that experiences change constantly in the economic sense. Therefore, in accordance with the mentality of developing Sustainability Strategies, the expectations, anticipations of the respective stakeholders, and the justification thereof, are analyzed each year with participation of the units in contact with the stakeholders. These expectations are fulfilled based on its impact on Setaş’s operations and the extent of such impact. Furthermore, the communication methods with the stakeholders are reviewed. The opinion and expectations of the stakeholders are constantly monitored at Setaş through most effective and active means of communication. Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Communication Channels Frequency 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Bulletin Boards Continuous Employee Satisfaction Survey Biannually Portals – Setaş academy Continuous Employee Commitment Survey Biannually Electronic Communication Continuous Subject Based Surveys Once per Year Quality Assurance Meetings Kalite Günü Quarterly Competence Assessment System When Required General Manager Briefing Meetings Annually Performance Interviews Once per Year Marketing Meetings 4 times per Year Personal Recommendation System Continuous Acquaintance Meetings When Required Boards When Required Meetings with Specific Agenda When Required Department Meetings When Required Social-Sportive Events When Required Orientation Program When Required Site Term Meetings When Required Exit Interview When Required HR Zone Visits When Required Sales Meetings 4 times per Year Management Review meetings Minimum Once Employees per Year 20 Sustainability Report 2018 Stakeholders Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Factory Visits Continuous Supplier Visits Continuous Customer Visits Continuous Supplier Satisfaction Survey Once per Year Supplier Assessment Survey When Required Customer Satisfaction Survey Once per Year Corporation Brand Perception Research Biannually Suppliers and Supplier Audits Continuous Subcontractors 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Telephone Calls Continuous Telephone Calls Continuous Customers Complaints Continuous Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Executive board Meetings Once per Month Project Partnerships Continuous Activity Reports Once per Year Public Agencies Audits Continuous Shareholders and Institutions Annual Budget Meetings When Required Meetings Continuous Strategic Plan Meetings When Required 21 Sustainability Report 2018 Stakeholders Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Training Collaborations and Project Partnerships When Required When Required Joint Projects Non-Governmental Institutional Memberships When Required Career Days When Required Organizations Representation When Required Universities Seminars and Meetings When Required 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Press Bulletins When Required Top Management When Required Press Meetings When Required Consultants HRProcess Supervisors When Required Interviews When Required Joint Projects When Required Media Social responsibility Projects When Required Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Awareness Campaigns Continuous Top Management When Required Social Responsibility Projects Continuous Measurement Quality & Environment & OHS When Required Firms Field Trips to Plants (based on When Required Society the demand from the students) HRProcess Supervisors When Required 22 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Priorities in the Value Chain 5 major topics that have most positive/negative High impact on both internal and external stakeholders of Setaş have been identified as: 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 6 20 4 Impact and importance for 9 8 5 2 21 19 17 1 15 Customer Occupational Innovation & Satisfaction Health and R&D external stakeholders 3 14 7 13 Safety Impact and importance High YÜKSEK Water Energy EKONOMİK for SETAŞ Use Efficiency PERFORMANS 1Economic Performance 2Innovation and R&D 3New Products 4Customer Satisfaction 5Sustainable Supply 6Energy 7Emission 8Water 9Waste Management 10Climate Change 11Renewable Raw Material 12Biodiversity 13Board Management Setaş; 14Anti-Corruption 15Business Ethics 16Social Investment 17Equal Opportunity Water and energy efficiency with respect to the environmental performance, 18Performance Management 19Human Rights 20OHS 21Employee Commitment Occupational Health and Safety with respect to the business performance, and Innovation & R&D and customer satisfaction with respect to economic performance. 23 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Sustainability Approach Setaş works towards creating innovative coloring solutions for its customers in This assessment has been carried out on the basis of 21 major headlines. the textile, paper, metal and plastic industries by virtue of 50 years of The sustainability priority matrix has been created using all input acquired knowledge on applications and color by employing constantly evolving during such assessments process. Based on this matrix, 5 major topics have technology and more sensitive ecologic criterias in accordance with the been identified as having the most negative/positive impact on the operations changing consumer trends. Creating value for the stakeholders during all concerning internal and external stakeholders of Setaş. These topics have processes forms the foundation of the sustainability approach prevailing in been integrated with the Sustainability, Technology and Synergy headlines that Setaş. form sustainability approach criteria adopted by Setaş. At Setaş, Sustainability is defined as the “Value Chain”. Setaş makes a comConducting its operations in consideration of the probable risks on human mitment to ensure sustainability throughout the value chain. The products and health, and the common objectives for welfare of the societies, Setaş has services are designed to meet the needs of all stakeholders including textile adopted the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49 manufacturers, brands, retailers and end users. harmoni-zed its sustainability approach and practices with the global goals. The harmonization efforts undertaken are provided in the sustainability, Setaş has considered the opinion of all stakeholders (in particular, the key synergy and technology sections of the report. stakeholders) when identifying the sustainability strategy and, accordingly, the objectives. In this respect, a study for sustainability priorities has been In addition to the Sustainable Development Goals, Setaş manages economic, conducted in early 2018 taking into consideration both employees and other social and environmental sustainability through its commitment to United Natistakeholders in relation with Setaş. The opinion and recommendations of 153 ons Global Compact since 2016. stakeholders in total, 127 Setaş employees and 26 national and international stakeholders, have been considered under the sustainability priorities study. The opinion of the employees was sought through questionnaires and workshops, and personal interviews have been held with the external stakeholders and then their review has been asked through online survey application. 24 Sustainability Report 2018 Our Sustainability Approach Sustainability Technology Synergy Considers itself an integral Combines its 50-year Considers that the key to part of the economy, society knowledge on chemistry and success is in line with the and the environment and color with the technology success of its customers 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49 presents ecologic and in order to create solutions and business partners, and technologic solutions for that would add value for the maintains all dialogues on the sustainable economy, customers from other basis of honesty, transparency sustainable environment and industries. and in solution oriented manner sustainable society. at all times. Water Use Innovation & Customer Satisfaction Energy Efficiency R&D Occupational Health and Safety 25 Sustainability Report 2018 Goals Sustainability Technology Synergy Sustainability 2018 Future Goals Priorities Goal Achievement Status 14.3% water saving by consuming 6.15 m3/ton of WATER USE The goal is to achieve savings at the rate of 5% water during manufacture 2.7% energy saving by consuming ENERGY EFFICIENCY The goal is to achieve savings at the rate of 5% 2,57Gj/ton of energy during manufacture The efforts for accreditation of chemicals listed under Completion of Method Validation studies ZDHC in the waste water matrix are still in progress University-industry R&D project launched for identification of the Toxicological Effects of the Colorant Toxicological calculations with QSAR method on the basis of products INNOVATION R&D using QSAR method Endeavors for establishment of E-Learning system Completion of the Technical Training contents are still in progress The process infrastructure efforts for establishment of Completion of process infrastructure work Online Color Management System are still in progress While the process shall be maintained as per the requirements under Substance registries have been performed in line CHEMICAL REACH directive, completion of preregistration compliance with KKDIK MANAGEMENT with the REACH directive regulation SYSTEMS Membership to ZDHC Gateway portal Increasing the number of Level 3 products on ZDHC Gateway The ratio of women executives has been increased to 34% Increasing the number of women employees in the talent pool from 30% HUMAN RESOURCES Initiating the modeling studies for improving the human resources processes Increasing the number of OHS trainings per capita above 16 hours OHS Restructuring of the OHS system 26 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainable Development Goals and Setaş SDG Indicators SDG Indicators The academic education for 13 personnel has been sponsored by The total savings from electric energy was 350 GJ, and the total the end of 2018 operating cycle, 4 of which are at postgraduate savings from natural gas energy was 2.301 GJ in 2018 through Energy and 9 of which are at Master degree level. Efficiency practices. Total number of trainings organized in 2018 based on needs of the employees is equal to 16.312 hours. The power consumed per 1 ton of production is 1.03 GJ, and the natural gas consumed per 1 ton of production is 40.09 sm³. The ratio of women employees at executive and above tiers has been increased to 34% from 30% in 2018. The amount of waste generated per 1 ton of production is 49 kg. The water consumption per 1 ton of production has been reduced by 14.3% in 2018. The amount of waste generated has been reduced by 11% in total. The total amount of water saved during the period of 2010-2018 has reached to 60.648 liters. The amount of plastic waste generated has been reduced by 58%. Advanced oxidation treatment methods were employed for the waste 54% of the paper packacing waste and 11% of the wooden waters from production operations and the R&D project for preventing packacing has been recovered from the product packacing waste water pollution at the source are still in progress. marketed in 2018. There are 335 permanent employees with contracts in 2018. By reusing the packaging wastes between years 2010-2018; 8.738 kwh of energy, 716.860 liters of fossil fuel and 5.558 m³ of storage space were saved. Member of Lastik İş Workers Union since 1998. Employment has been provided for 87 individuals in 2018. By reusing the packaging wastes between years 2010-2018; 14.458 m3 of oxygen was generated by 19.822 trees saved. The total number of OHS trainings held in 2018 is equal to 6123 hours. The accident frequency in 2018 is 35, and the number of lost days is While the production was increased by 21% in 2018 compared to the equal to 38.2. last year, the CO2 emission per unit production in the CO2 released 50 projects were executed in 2018. 32 projects were financed from to the atmosphere has been reduced by 1.6%. equities and 18 projects were finances through national or international funds Comprehensive R&D and machinery overhauling operations are executed in order to control and diminish the emissions arising from Equal opportunities are secured for each employee through production operations. performance and competency based wage system. Setaş founded all HR policies on the principles of “Right person for By reusing the packaging wastes between years 2010-2018 19.822 the Right Work”, “Performance and Competency Based Wages”, trees was saved. “Achievement Based Assessment”, and “Equal Opportunities for Everyone”. Joint projects were implemented in collaboration with the Universities, Non-Governmental Organizations and Public Agencies and Institutions in order to achieve sustainability goals. 27 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability 28 Sustainability Report 2018 Environmental Sustainability Setaș, with awareness of its responsibility undertaken due to leading position in its territory, has integrated the environmental sustainability approach into its both governance and operational processes and continues to operate by acting responsive for preserving the environmental integrity in during its production operations. Based on such responsivity Setaș makes a commitment for ensuring continuous development, preservation of the environment, compliance to the Environment and Occupational Health and Safety legislation, compliance to the ISO 14001 Environment Management System Standard, reduction of the risks on environmental accidents, prevention of wastage and pollution, and efficient use of energy. Continuous Compliance to the Reducing Accidents Prevention of Energy Efficiency Development Environment and under the scope of Wastage and Occupational HealthEnvironmental OHS Pollution • Setaş undertakes actions • When delivering high Occupational Safety on a regular basis intended 103-2 quality products and Legislation • When setting its produ• Setaş senior managefor raising awareness of the services, Setaş identifies ction process and sysment considers preventiemployees for ensuring full its responsibilities also • Setaş performs all opetem, Setaş considers also on of wastage and pollutiparticipation with respect to on environment, human rations and productions improvement of energy the Occupational Health on, environment, quality health and preservation in compliance with the all efficiency and Safety, and environand occupational health of natural resources, and applicable environment mental risks and define and occupational safety continues its improvelegislation, Occupatio• The company endea-vors all operations that might as systems integrated ment operations. nal Health and Safety to ensure that energy saving lead to any accident and with each other. Aware of legislation and integrated approach is adopted as a fulfills all obligations intenthe fact that such studies • Setaş regularly reviews management systems management philosophy ded for preventing such are possible through its measureable goals standards (ISO 9001, ISO throughout the entire accidents. engagement of emplo14001, OHSAS 18001, organization down to the established for monitoring yees, Setaş prioritizes ISO 27001, SA 8000 etc.), employees of the lowest tier the performance of the training and motivation and international certifiand to eliminate any system formed for quality and allocates resources deficiencies on knowledge and environment. cations such as bluesign, in this respect. and attention in this respect. ETAD, GOTS, Qualicoat, TSE. 29 Sustainability Report 2018 Su Tüketimi Water Management 224.735 218.740 231.179 239.242 Water Management Practices 2015 2016 2017 2018 Setaș focuses on the practices to optimize the water consumption in production processes to be aligned with water projections of the region it operates. Due to diminishing water sources and in line Water Üretim with the technological advancements, the company executes Su Miktarı (kg) consumption Tüketimi improvement studies for reducing the water consumption. m3 In 2018 the amount of water consumption was reduced by 14.3% 224.735 218.740 231.179 239.242 29.871.384 30.116.070 32.158.033 38.892.000 on the basis of the factors listed hereunder Amount • Method and process improvements intended for use of resources at the production processes of water 1 Ton consumed • Reducing resource consumption by employing closed circuit Kullanılan cooling water systems per Su 1 ton Miktarı 103-3 of product Üretim m3/ton • Reducing the amount of washing operations for cleaning purpo7.52 7.26 6.15 Miktarı -m /ton(kg) 3 7.18 ses through planning for consecutive production of similar products • Increasing the rate of production of the product range that 29.871.384 30.116.070 32.158.033 38.892.000 doesn’t require water consumption • Dry cleaning operations using dedicated kits instead of cleaning 14,3% with water in case of liquid spills 1 Ton • Reducing the amount of boiler washing waters for reactive dye Kullanılan synthesis Su Miktarı • Reducing the amount of floor washing waters during dye produm3/ton ction process 7.52 7.26 7.18 6.15 • Recycling the waste waters from osmosis instruments In 2018, Setaş managed to reduce the amount of water consumed per 1 ton of product by 14.3% through practices implemented in this respect. 30 Sürdürülebilirlik Sustainability Report 2018 Raporu 2018 Waste Water Management Setaş transfers all household and industrial waste waters generated due The waste waters subjected to the chemical treatment process is then to production operations to the preliminary treatment plant by means of transferred to Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone Industrial Waste Wathe waste water ducts installed within the plant. The waste water treatter Treatment Plant for the second treatment run. ment process comprises physical and chemical treatment stages. In the chemical treatment stage, the solids content of the waste water is precipitated by use of chemicals and the sludge so generated is disposed to the licensed disposal plants. Setaş Treated Water Treated Water Organized Waste Setaş Organized Zone Center Water Pre-treatment Zone Center Common Receiving Wastewater Body Biological 103-3 Inlet Plant Pipeline Treatment Both treatment plants installed in Çerkezköy Organized Industrial The studies for reducing the pollution load at the source of the Zone operate at the capacity of 40.000 m³/day, adding up to an waste water are still in progress. overall mean treatment capacity of 80.000 m³/day. Such capacity The process wastewaters with high pollution load are treated with rating makes the system one of the largest industrial waste water advanced oxidation treatment methods and the R&D process for reducing treatment plants in Turkey. The plant receives an average waste the pollution load at the source of the waste water is still in progress. water amount of 78.000 m³ per day. The treated waste waters are discharge to the receiving body, and are evaluated on the basis of Water Pollution Control Regulation Table 19. 31 Sustainability Report 2018 Energy Efficiency Practices Setaş ensures energy management by employing the maximum savings maximum efficiency mentality but also avoiding any impact on the product quality in its production processes. Routine operational controls and maintenances: • Regular emission measurements, • Control and improvement efforts of equipment insulations, • Periodical boiler overhauls 2.651 GJ The projects and improvement studies undertaken in 2018, the energy savings reached up to the total amount of 2.651GJ on the basis of: Setaş saved 350 GJ of Electricity: • Improvements at the raw material grinding process at Setaș3 production plants, electricity • Transition to motors with high Energy Efficiency, energy and • Improvements at the cooling phases at the production processes through commissioning of automation systems, 2.301 GJ • Improvements at the compressor synchronization of Natural Natural Gas: gas energy 103-3 • Improvements at the steam installation through comprehensive compressor and separator practices, by virtue of • Efficient combustion process by achieving ideal values for fuel and air mixture ratios at the combustion systems, • Controlling leaks and efficiency through regular flue gas emission measurements, the Energy • Improvements at the heating phases at the production processes through commissioning of automation systems, Efficiency • Improvements at the steam system efficiency practices undertaken in Total Power Consumption Energy Density 2018. 2018 2017 2018 Electricity Natural gas Electricity (GJ/ton) consumption consumption 52.749 40.078 1,04 1,03 GJ GJ Natural Natural gas energy density calculation is given gas for Setaş1 plant where natural gas is consumed. (sm3/ton) 41,84 40,09 32 Sustainability Report 2018 Waste Management • Monitoring and reducing wastes at their source are pursued in conjunction with the Environment Management unit. In 2018, per unit production; • When necessary the wastes are analyzed and measured in compliance with the * The amount of total waste was applicable regulations. reduced by 11%. • The employees receive periodical trainings on environment in order to allow accurate sorting of the wastes. • The wastes are sorted and stockpiled at the waste yard based on their type. Type of Waste Kg / 1 ton of production • Records are kept and maintained for the wastes. • The waste dumped at the waste site is labeled by the waste site officer with the tag Type of Waste 2017 2018 that specifies dumping date, waste code and quantity. • The data on the wastes is entered to the MOTAT system and forwarded to the firms Hazardous licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning with the legally required Wastes documentation. Recovered 22,2 20,9 103-3 Non-Hazardous Wastes Recovered 6,4 6,1 Type of waste Hazardous Recovered Disposed Wastes Total Amount Wastes Wastes of Wastes Disposed 20 21,9 Kg / 1 Ton of Production 60 50 Non-Hazardous 40 Wastes 5,9 0,6 Recovered 30 20 10 0 28,6 27,0 25,9 22,5 54,5 49,5 2017 2018 33 Sustainability Report 2018 58% plastic waste reduction in 2018 compared to the previous year The plastic wastes generated at Setaş 3 plant from production processes were reduced by 58% under the scope of the project implemented for reduction of plastic wastes. In the course of this project, all employees received trainings on sorting the wastes depending on their types in the waste boxes placed throughout the enterprise. The wastage arising from production processes were recovered and reprocessed. A licensed recovery firm has been contracted as a solution partner. 96 Kg Amount of Plastic 41 Kg Waste Per 1 Ton of Production (kg) 2017 2018 34 Sustainability Report 2018 Recovery of Product Packaging Wastes By virtue of the project on recovery of the packaging Put to Market wastes implemented under solution partnership of PAGÇEV and TUKÇEV in the decade elapsing between years 2010-2018, Setaş: During the decade between years 2010-2018 2.195.795 kg of • Prevented chopping • Saved 8.738 kwh of down of 19.822 trees energy, and supplied the cardboard has been and ensured generation monthly power demand of 37 recovered of 14.458 m3 oxygen. families 103-3 69.576 kg of wooden packaging has been recovered • Saved 60.648 liters of • Saved 716.860 liters of water, and supplied the fossil fuel and filled the 54% of the paper packaging monthly water demand of fuel tank of 15.930 vehicles 450 families. waste and 11% of the wooden packaging has been recovered has been recovered from the product packaging marketed in 2018. • Saved 5.558 m3 of storage space. 35 Sustainability Report 2018 Climate Change Carbon Footprint Setaş currently executes studies for the sake of monitoring the emissions arising from the production operations and reducing thereof in consideration of the climate change. The carbon footprint is calculated annually on the basis of the product-process inputs and outputs. Production figures increased by 21% in 2018 compared to the previous year, while the CO2 emission per unit production in the CO2 released to the atmosphere was reduced by 1.6%. Improvement practices undertaken against climate change: • Endeavors on reducing the use of resources in production processes • Selection of technological equipment that allows minimizing the environmental impacts • VOC measurements under the scope of Industrial air pollution control regulation • Carbon footprint calculations • Assessment of products and production processes that prevent emission-odor under the scope of R&D 103-3 studies. 2017 2018 Amount of Carbon Amount of Carbon Dioxide Released to Dioxide Released to Carbon Footprint Ton Atmosphere Ton Atmosphere Ton 8.485 10.097 36 Sustainability Report 2018 Climate Change Emissions Natural gas is used as fuel at Setaş1 plant. This leads to emissions, such as CO2, SO2, NOx, and dust. Due to legal requirements, the emissions generated are measured by accredited laboratories and the measurement results are submitted to respective Provincial Environment Departments in written format. Comprehensive R&D and machinery overhauling operations are executed in all plants in order to control and diminish the emissions arising from production operations. Based on the measurement results, the emission values are well below the limit values set in the Industrial Air Pollution Control Regulation. Parameters 103-3 37 Sustainability Report 2018 Raw Material Use Setaş has established procurement procedures in order to standardize supplier selection, assessment and information gathering processes on product in the chemical procurement operations. The most critical aspect of the procurement program is to ensure that the raw materials are procured from the firms that implement responsible chemical management systems. Setaş supplies its demand for raw materials from the suppliers that conform to all national and international standards and legislations. The approved suppliers are reviewed periodically in accordance with the criteria set out in the procurement procedure. All raw materials are inserted to production processes after checking their respective product security, quality control documentation. If the laboratory results for any received raw material proves to be negative, then the CAPA (corrective, preventive action) proves is initiated for the concerned supplier. The raw material selection is made on the basis of the product quality, environment and ecologic criteria at the R&D phase. The criteria considered in selection of the raw materials are as follows: • Sustainable supply chain 102-9 • Relevant international certifications of the Suppliers (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, SA 8000) of the Suppliers • Compliance to the regulations and restrictions • Low impurity rates • Packaging/labeling standards • Consistency in quality 38 Sustainability Report 2018 Technology 39 Sustainability Report 2018 Setaş R&D Center Setaş R&D Center has set the high priority project themes as 32 projects implemented in 2018 were financed from equities and development of digital printing inks and auxiliaries, technical textile 18 projects were finances through national or international funds. auxiliaries and premium products that conform to the synthetic fiber Investing on R&D in belief that the innovative projects targeted by technologies in accordance with the future objectives and sustainable the company can be implemented through qualified personnel, environment policies. Setaş continued its operations with total of 55 R&D personnel Pursuant to such objectives, 18 projects out of 50 projects executed during 2018 operating term. By the end of 2018, academic education for 13 employees has been sponsored, 4 of which are at in 2018 have provided innovative product and technology doctorate and 9 of which are at postgraduate level. breakthroughs 40 Sustainability Report 2018 Basic Research Test Laboratory The actions disclosed hereunder have been undertaken at the Basic Research Test Laboratory, established under the structure of R&D Center for the purpose of validating innovation projects in execution and supporting the ecologic product management process, during 2018 operating term: 1-The studies required for transition to “TS EN ISO/IEC 17025:2017 General Requirements Standard on Accreditation of Test and Calibration Laboratories” version, published by the end of 2017 by Turk Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK), desired by all stakeholders for replacing “TS EN ISO/IEC 17025:2012 General Requirements Standard on Accreditation of Test and Calibration Laboratories”, the quality standard required for ensuring validity of all current tests and experiments executed at the Basic Research laboratory throughout the world, have been completed. The competencies of 13 individual test methods under the competence and scope of the standard on supervision performed by • Determination of Polychlorophenol Content at the Textile Products: Pentachlorophenol (PCP), Turk Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK) have been Tetrachlorophenol (TCP), Trichlorophenol (TriCP) Determination (TS EN ISO 17070) approved. The tests falling under said scope are as • Determination of Poly Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) (AfPS GS 2014:01) follows; • Determination of Quinolone (Internal Method-LAK.SOP.01/ Rev No:3, AfPS GS 2014:01 based) • Methods for determination of the Aromatic Amines derived from Azo Colorants – Part 1: • Determination of Alkyl Phenol Ethylene Oxide (APEO) Compounds (Internal Method -LAK.SOP.08Detection of the use of certain azo colorants Rev No:1 / ISO 18254-1:2016 based) accessible without extraction (TS EN 14362-1) 2-Test methods for anion – cation analyses on colorant and water samples using ion chromatography • Determination of free and hydrolyzed analysis system have been developed and put into service. formaldehyde (TS EN ISO 14184-1) 3-The endeavors for development of test methods for testing priority hazardous chemicals listed • Determination of Chlorinated Organic Carriers pursuant to the Program for Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) over the Waste Water (DIN 54232) have been initiated. 41 Sustainability Report 2018 Masterbatch – PES 1106 Additive that contribute to dyeing of the polyester fiber under atmospheric conditions PES 1106 is developed as an additive that allows dyeing under atmospheric conditions (Easy Dye) of PES at fiber production stage. By use of PES 1106 additive, the dyeing temperature of the standard yarn, which can be dyed at 130 C, is lowered to atmospheric conditions, in order to allow more sustainable and environment-friendly production process. This method not only saves energy up to 40%, but also reduces the amount of waste dye that remains in the bath due to increased affinity of the dyestuff. Faster dyeing process and reduced carbon dioxide emission makes this an environmentally friendly product. PES 1106 added PES yarn can be blended with cotton, wool, viscose, polyamide, and spandex fiber. No loss is experienced at the physical properties of the yarn during garment dyeing and printing operations. Moreover, it is possible to prevent damages to spandex fiber due to its low temperature dyeing conditions. 42 Sustainability Report 2018 Fluorine-Free Water Repellent Finishing Technology Fluorine-Free durable water repellent technology Setapret PFF is an innovative, environmentally friendly, non-toxic product due to its fluorine-free structure, providing high performance and ease of use as good as fluorocarbon-based waterrepellents. • Free of Fluorocarbons • Free of PFOA / PFOS • Non-bioaccumulative • Non-persistent in the environment • Imparts as good water repellency as fluorocarbons • Durable to wash • No negative impact on breathability of fabric 43 Sustainability Report 2018 Digital Inks Setapers® LS Inks Digital printing ink range developed with nano technology for printing on polyester fiber. Setapers® LS inks applied by transfer printing method ensuring high color yield and vivid and brilliant colors. Setapers® HS Inks Disperse digital printing inks with high light and washing fastnesses, specially produced for fast printing.Suitable for direct disperse printing. High washing fastness and color yield are obtained. Setactive® RK Inks Water based reactive digital printing inks developed with nano technology for printing on cellulose fibers. Reactive ink range produced from synthesis are environmentally friendly and innovative designed to produce brilliant and deep colors Pigmaset® P Inks Pigmaset® ink range is designed as water based, low viscosity and to work on piezo-head machines. Provides application advantage due to easy printing process as well as cost and time saving, also they are environmentally friendly inks. Pigmaset® inks can be applied to all kinds of fabrics which provides pro-longed life to the products used outdoors, due to UV rays durability features. 44 Sustainability Report 2018 New Generation Ecologic Reactive Dyes Setazol® Black M-MS Ecological reactive black dye meeting market demands with its excellent color fastness and high color yield properties: • Free of para-chloroaniline (PCA) and other restricted amines; completely ecologic • Offers the permanent color shade in multiple house washes • Thanks to its high fixation rate, reduces wash-off steps significantly, provides 40-50% water and energy savings during the process Water Energy Consumption Consumption Setazol® Black M-MS Always Black 45 Sustainability Report 2018 Fast Solution Suggestions for Textile Processes Setalan® CB 40 Ecological washing agent for disperse printing. Prevents dye deposits by keeping unfixed disperse dyes in dispersion after printing process. Saves 40% in process time and 50% in water consumption. Liquid product, suitable for automatic dosing systems. Suitable for discontinuous and continuous methods. 46 Sustainability Report 2018 Fast Solution Suggestions for Textile Processes Setalan® BKF Technological product with excellent levelling and dispersion properties for rapid dyeing of yarn and fabric in beam and package dyeing. Saves time and energy, increases production capacity by providing trouble-free dyeing without have to repeat it. It improves production capacity by saving time and energy and increases right first time rates. 47 Sustainability Report 2018 Synergy 48 Sustainability Report 2018 Human Resources Policy Setaş believes that skilled human resources will offer permanent superiority in the global Setaş Human Resources Department monitors the Labor Law and legislation competition environment. closely. An anti-discriminative approach is presented in identification of the Accordingly, the company aims to establish dynamic human resources structure that human resources processes. There is no discrimination at Setaş employees believes in team work, always act honestly and transparently concerning the functions due to language, religion, race, gender, ethnical background, nationality, and responsibilities fulfilled through customer oriented behaviors, that aims continuous age, sexual preference, and political thoughts. The educational status, development, is innovative and creates innovative ideas, is bold and act responsive competencies and experience form basis of human resources processes towards the environment and the society. such as promotion, appointment, etc., including recruitment. Adopting fairness and sincerity as the core of its relations with the employees, Setaş Setaş adopts the principle on prevention of forced and mandatory labor and has founded all HR policies on the principles of “Right person for the Right Work”, employment of child labor under its structure and under the structure of both “Performance and Competency Based Wages”, “Achievement Based Assessment”, and domestic and foreign suppliers. Accordingly, Setaş requires its suppliers to “Equal Opportunities for Everyone”. As one of the pioneers of its sector by virtue of the submit written commitments in this respect. Human Resources Policy that conform to the working conditions of the modern day, Setaş wage policy aims to offer a practice where the employees can receive that predicates on equal opportunities and that is respectful of the human rights and 102-41, 103-2, 103-3 just treatment based on their work performances. The wages for the always aiming to create value, the sustainability priorities of Setaş include becoming an employees who are not member to any union are reviewed on annual basis employer respectful of the employee rights. and are determined taking into consideration the balance at the positions within the firm, the research on wages applicable in the market and in the territory, the conditions prevailing at the market, and the financial standing of the company. There is no gender based discrimination at Setaş concerning the wages. Setaş employees deployed at the production processes are members to Lastik İş Union since 1998. The wages and fringe benefits of the employees who are union members are determined pursuant to collective labor agreements. Managed on the basis of ethical codes, Setaş publishes an Ethical Values Booklet available to the employees at all times. Setaş Ethical Values Booklet is offered as a guideline for written and oral communication between the employees as well as the stakeholders and solution partners outside the company. Setaş designated the work hours such that the employees have balanced business and private life. The annual leaves are taken in accordance with a regular plan and fringe benefits are available for annual leaves. The employees are offered both general and complementary health policy. 49 Sustainability Report 2018 Mission Becoming the preferred company in the chemicals sector Prevention of Child Labor Prevention of Determination of Vision and Forced Discrimination Work Hours Breaking down the objectives of the company down to departmental and Employment individual objectives in order to improve employee satisfaction and loyalty to the company through effective human resources planning, educating the executives of the future, producing career development plans and implementing correct policy for wages and fringe benefits. Strategy Compliance with Believing that skilled labor force highly loyal to the firm is an important the Applicable Ensuring asset for perpetuity of the company, Setaş adopts the philosophy “Right Legislation with Right to Labor Occupational Person for the right Work” for securing permanent success. The company respect to Wages Organization Health and Safety offers equal opportunities for each employee through performance and and Payments competency based wage system. Contributing to both professional and personal development of the employees from all tiers through ınternal and external training organizations, Setaş aims to establish human resources structure presenting high performance. Planning OHS operations and adopting measures that would protect the health and wellbeing of the employees and ensure safety thereof, ensuring that the zero accident and zero hazard mentality is adopted by all employees Discipline/ Customs and generalizing the environment awareness throughout the company are Prevention of Legislation and Management aspects that contribute to the sustainable company strategy and Social Maltreatment and Relations with Systems Responsibility policy at Setaş. Harassment the Suppliers 50 Sustainability Report 2018 Employee Profile Gender Distribution by Type of Work Number of Employees 2017 2018 White Collar White Collar 2017 2018 Women Women 35% 33% 335 314 304 288 21 14 10 9 White Collar White Collar Men Men Total Çerkezköy İstanbul Other 65% 67% 102-8 Women Employees at Executive and Higher Tiers 2017 2018 Distribution by gender Women Women 30% 34% 2017 2018 Women Women 23% 21% Men Men 70% 66% The ratio of women employees at executive and higher Men Men tiers is increased to 77% 79% 34% from 30% in the last year. 51 Sustainability Report 2018 Distribution by Age 2017 2018 18-30 %31 18-30 %30 31-40 %45 31-40 %46 41-50 %19 41-50 %20 51-60 %4 51-60 %3 60+ %1 60+ %1 Maternity Leave Data Education Level 2017 Woman 2018 Woman 2017 2018 Number of Employees on taking Number of Employees on taking Elementary School 67 70 Maternity Leave Maternity Leave High School 94 104 Number of employees start to work Number of employees start to work after maternity leave after maternity leave Graduate School 27 30 University 97 95 Number of Employees on returning Number of Employees on returning after Maternity Leave working for at after Maternity Leave working for at Graduate 23 29 least 12 months least 12 months Post-Graduate 56 56 Total 314 335 52 Sustainability Report 2018 New Hires 2017 2018 Women 13 18 Men 62 69 Total 75 87 By Age 2017 2018 18-30 35 53 31-40 33 30 41-51 7 4 51-60 0 0 60+ 0 0 Total 75 87 Based on 2017 2018 Regions Çerkezköy 73 81 İstanbul 0 2 Bursa 2 2 Ankara 0 1 Gaziantep 0 1 Total 75 87 During the reporting period, 87 people started to work in Setaş. 53 Sustainability Report 2018 Setaş Competence Model Core Competency Functional Competency The competencies that the employees must possess This model is developed in accordance with the needs of the units and that form the company culture. and departments at the enterprise. The human resources department conducts reviews for all positions on annual basis in collaboration with the unit managers and executives. . Customer Core Continuous Competencies Delegation Orientation Development CommunicaCoaching of Tasks tion Skills and AuthoSkills rities Team Problem work and Solving and collaboration Analytic Functional Competencies Effective Thinking Decision Making “The knowledge, skills and actions demonstrated and employed by the individual when working and finalizing the task at hand indicates his/her competency. The Planning and Commercial Prudence competence possessed by the employee and Organizing the competencies that the position requires should be in balance.” 54 Sustainability Report 2018 Setaş Competence Model Core Competencies Functional Competencies With Customer Orientation Communication skills relates to the ability to convey the knowledge and ideas in written or orally competency, Setaş employee aims to in an explicit and persuasive manner; ensure mutual conciliation through questioning, discussion establish sustainable relations with the and feedbacks, and Planning and Organizing skills relates to the ability to identify the activities internal and external customers and where time and resources will be used efficiency by identifying the requirements for achieving the to manage the operations in due time objectives that the work necessitates, and to develop plans taking into consideration the priorities and at the quality expected from him/ and coordination required with third parties. Delegation of Tasks and Authorities involves her in accordance with the requirements distribution of responsibilities on assignments and the authority to decide on suitable personnel in by keeping the internal and external order to improve the organizational efficiency and motivation. Coaching Skills indicates the ability to customers at the forefront at all activities offer educational and developmental guidance in order to allow the employees to fulfill their current he/she performs. Team work and and future responsibilities or resolve any problem they might experience, to provide feedback and to collaboration allows working with team plan and support the development process for the personal skills and abilities and monitor, measure members in harmony and participative and review performances thereof and to take action in due time accordingly. Analytic Thinking manner in order to achieve common aims to allow Setaş employee to breakdown any critical situation encountered down to its elements, goals. Continuous development and make mathematical and statistical analyses from the data available in order to make correct competency concerns possessing the deductions, and to subdivide complex problems and organize such subdivisions in a systematic will and capacity to enhance knowledge manner. Problem Solving and Effective Decision Making allows understanding and revealing and skills related to the work, having opportunities and problems; using data from distinct resources and making inductions therefrom; inquisitive nature, implementing the adopting effective approaches to achieve adequate solution, and taking action considering the data recently acquired knowledge and skills at available, restrictions and probable outcomes. Commercial Prudence requires possessing all core work and sharing his/her experience to knowledge and competencies concerning respective field, foreseeing opportunities and threats allow development of others. by embracing the long term perspective for the future of the enterprise in accordance with such knowledge, and acting sensitive with respect to financing and costs. 55 Sustainability Report 2018 Employee Development at Setaş Skill and Performance Management When planning the career development of Setaş employees, it is aimed to identify the competencies required for the position of the employee and the development steps required for his/her role on the career map. Setaş employees review their competencies together with their executives and determine their development plans. Considering the corporate vision, strategies and objectives, roles with common features are grouped to create business families so that an employee can move to a similar hierarchal position through lateral movement without any wage change, but also the employee can move to next higher tier hierarchy with increased wage. Moreover, a backup plan that represents the knowledge, skills and trainings developed for development towards critical positions is also created. The “Career Map” that contain all horizontal and vertical career opportunities for all business families and the “Career Path” which represents the steps to be taken by the employee in career development are produced. Setaş conducts interviews and implements assessment center practices in order to determine the skills of the employees when creating the skill pool for the human resources. The Skill Pool aims to develop a systematic approach and to introduce sustainable development perspective to the potential executive candidates. Setaş skill pool supports graduate and postgraduate studies of the employees; furthermore, MBA protocols are executed with the universities. The core of our presence is not our capital, but our human resources. With Skill Management, we aim to secure employee continuity at key positions. We intend to spot and select the candidates that would make significant contribution to the company strategies either now or in the future in accordance with the career planning of the available employees and to introduce competencies anticipated from them. 56 Sustainability Report 2018 Talent Pool Criteria Test Result High and Above Performance at the Skill, Knowledge and Review Result at Ability Tests On Target and Above Target Setaş Career at Specialist and Above Implements Setaş Ethical Values Ability to act as substitute for critical positions No Undergraduate Disciplinary and higher Sanction level education 57 Sustainability Report 2018 Performance Management In addition to skill management, Setaş will start to implement the performance management system as of 2019. By virtue of the performance management system, wherein the objectives and competencies will be reviewed at certain periods, it is aimed to; • Disseminate the corporate strategy to all departments and down to each employee on individual basis; • Motivate the employees through objective assessment during performance reviews; • Secure succession, loyalty and educate potential executives; • Identify inadequacies and establish infrastructure for training planning. Setaş Academy Lean Leadership Setaş organizes training programs that aim to create in-house resource Setaş initiated kaizen studies for the sake of continuous improvement on pool for the positions considered to be key positions, by giving predethe quest for achieving operational excellence, which is one of the fined knowledge, skills and abilities required for fulfillment of any task objectives of the company. Through implementation of Setaş Lean by the employees to the employees considered to be running for that Leadership approach, the company planned to manage the daily affairs function in the future. of the company by using the operational excellence tools, to concentrate on losses and to highlight firm-specific practices through use of the best 103-3 practices experienced at Setaş. Setaş planned the lean leadership certification program that would aim to generalize the continuous improvement efforts in all departments, and to designate the operational excellence as the ordinary business manner. This program to be implemented throughout Setaş aims to develop the employees not only in the professional business sense, but also as the in-house instructors that impact on personal development. Operational Excellence System Under the scope of 5S studies of the operational excellence system, a fault card system has been established in order to raise awareness on abnormalities and to prevent accidents in order to allow Setaș employees to operate in safer and more secure environment. 0 occupational accident, 0 fault, 0 defective product is aimed through Operational Excellence practices. 58 Sustainability Report 2018 Training at Setaş Setaş considers training process as one of the key processes of human resources practices in terms of improving the competency and responsibilities of the employees, allowing the employee qualities to adapt to the modern conditions and for employee development. The work related training offered to all employees at Setaş considers the training programs that the employees need pursuant to personal development requirements and legal obligations. The training support is offered as required in order to allow the employees to conduct their assignments in the best manner available by overseeing the needs and resources of the company. The training demands are collected from all departments at certain periods on annual basis, and such demands are used for compiling the training plan, and then the training sessions are organized on the basis of said plan. At the end of the training process, the attendants and the instructors are subjected to event review. Both in-house and external training sessions are organized at Setaş. The ratios of in-house and external training sessions vary each year depending on the training needs analysis. 2017 2018 103-3 Total Training al pation 10.486 16.312 l iona Hours Occu h and Healt y ess Safet Prof 4853 Total External Training 8736 job Hours -t he on Fir e Total In-House Training 5633 Hours 7576 Enviro nmen t Technical Mean External Training 16.01 Hours Per Participant 22.75 ect Proj tem Qua lity Sy s Mean In-House Training nt R& 18.59 Hours Per Participant 19.73 Ind Orientation De ivid D ve ual lop me 34.6 Mean Training Hours 42.48 Per Participant 59 Sustainability Report 2018 Employee Loyalty and Communication with Employees at Setaş The in-house intranet portal is used at Setaş for communication with the employees. The Portal, available through both computer and mobile phone application, allows the employees to access updated knowledge through in-house social communication anytime desired. The intranet portal broadcasts all social events, private days of the employees, announcements and news. Library service is available with the book catalog, and Have Your Say tab allows receiving of feedbacks on work environment and all business processes with swift responses. Setaş conducts an employee satisfaction survey each year, which is developed and applied by independent firms. The employee contentment surveys aim to monitor the satisfaction level of the employees on regular basis and to identify opportunities for improvement. Then, the objectives are set each year from the results and actions plans are compiled accordingly. Playing a major role in in-house communication, Setaş Contentment Survey elaborates the headlines set forth hereunder in order to ensure sustainable future and working environment. • Employee commitment • Personal and professional career Based on the results obtained from 2018 Employee • Work environment and conditions development Satisfaction Survey: • Occupational health and safety • Performance management • Information flow • Wage • The general contentment level of Setaş employees is • Communication and collaboration • Executive Company management 81.4%. • Company image • 92.2% of the employees are satisfied with their work at Setaş. • 83.8% of the employees consider themselves as an individual of Setaş. • 92.2% of the employees indicated that they would apply for the job at Setaş if they were looking for a job 60 Sustainability Report 2018 Occupational Health and Safety at Setaş OHS Policy Setaş implements contemporary policies and practices on Occupational Health Setaş defines all operations that might lead to any kind of accident and fulfills and Safety through active engagement of the employees and elaborates to mainits obligations on prevention of such accidents; tain people-oriented systems effectively. In this respect, Setaş; For all business processes, Setaş acts on the principle of “Human first” and performs its operations in accordance with the Management Systems and product • Identifies the assignments and responsibilities on management of the accistandards with international validity such as Quality, Environment, Process Safety, dent risks and inform respective persons Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), Social Responsibility, etc. • Assesses the risks for major accidents arising from ordinary and extraordiSince 2016, the “Occupational Health and Safety Manual” is shared with all nary operations and accident probabilities employees, wherein all details are communicated on occupational safety and occupational health. • Compiles and implements regulations and procedures that involve maintenance, repair and temporary shutdown processes When delivering high quality products and services, Setaș identifies its responsi­ 103-3 bilities on environment, human health and preservation of natural resources, and • Plans the changes or makes necessary arrangements for designing new continues its improvement operations and sets this course of action as company plant, process or storage facilities. policy. Measureable goals are established and the performance of the system formed for quality, environment and occupational health and safety are monitored regularly. Occupational Health and Safety and environmental accident risks are considered when production processes and systems are set. Aiming to create a healthy and safe working environment for its employees, Setaş adopts an occupational health and safety management mentality where operational risks are analyzed on certain intervals, preventive measures are adopted and action plans are created for possible emergencies. Setaş ensures that environment, quality and occupational health and safety systems are continuously improved and implemented in an integrated manner in prevention of wastage and pollution. Aware of the fact that integrated management systems can be established through full engagement of employees, Setaş management supports the employees and allocates resources in this respect. 61 Sustainability Report 2018 OHS Practices Occupational Health and Safety Risk Assessment Occupational Health and Safety Site Inspections At Setaş, the OHS risks are assessed by employing Finne Kinney Risk OHS site inspections contribute to establishment of a safety culture by Assessment methodology and the corrective/preventive actions are identifying the nonconforming acts and conditions on site. The on-the-job implemented in order to eliminate or minimize the risks at its source. training sessions are held with endeavors to remedy the misconceived Moreover, HAZOP risk assessments are made and action plans are created practices, and corrective/preventive actions are developed in conjunction with respect to process safety under the scope of SEVESO, and respective with the concerned process supervisors for correcting nonconforming studies are monitored accordingly. conditions. Actions of the Occupational Health and Safety Board The plan for the forthcoming 3-year period will cover the following topics The OHS board meetings are organized regularly on monthly basis chaired under restructuring of the OHS system (intended for reducing and preventing by any member of the top management. The board functions within an order accidents); that envisages reviewing, monitoring and warning as required. The decisions adopted at the meeting are then notified to the employees of the concerned • Risk prioritization efforts and structuring of the change management system department and the board members for taking necessary action. • Structuring of the OHS training system • Establishment of OHS Performance management system Systematic annual and monthly awareness trainings are organized on • Structuring of the work environment measurement and monitoring system matters related to OHS. The employees failing to score adequately at the • Structuring of the system on subcontractor safety technical exams held at the end of the training repeat such training. • Supporting OHS Record data with software 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety Statistics 2018 Occupational Health and Safety Trainings 2018 Accident 15 Frequency Rate 6123 Total OHS Training Hours Accident Weight 182,4 Ratio Mean Training Hours per 15,94 16,7 Participant Number of Lost Days Days Lost as a Result of Occupational Disease 0 62 Sustainability Report 2018 Setaş Sustainability Report 2018 GRI Standards Content Index Core Answers GRI Standart Disclosures and Explanations & Page Numbers GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of organization Setaş Kimya Sanayi A.Ş 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our Sectors 9-13 102-3 Location of headquarters About Setaş 7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it 102-4 Our Global Presence 8 has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report https://www.setas.com.tr/tr/kurumsal/ 102-5 Ownership and legal form bilgi-toplumu-hizmetleri 102-6 Markets served Our Global Presence 8 Setaş 2018 at a Glance, Our Global 102-7 Scale of the organization 5, 8 Presence 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Employee Profile 51-52 102-9 Supply chain Raw Material Use 38 Significant changes to the organization and its No significant change in supplier 102-10 supply chain classification and policies 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Corporate Management System 17-19, 29 102-12 External initiatives Our Certificates and Memberships 15, 16 102-13 Membership of associations Our Certificates and Memberships 15, 16 63 Sustainability Report 2018 Answers GRI Standart Disclosures and Explanations & Page Numbers Strategy Message from the Chairman, 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the General 2, 3 Manager Ethics and Integrity Management Philosophy, Our 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 4, 19 Corporate Management System Governance 102-18 Governance structure Our Corporate Management System 17-19 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our Stakeholders 20-22 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Resources Policy 49 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our Stakeholders 20-22 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our Stakeholders 20-22 Sustainability Priorities in the Value 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 23 Chain Reporting Practice Entities included in the consolidated 102-45 About Report 1, 5, 8 financial statements Sustainability Priorities in the Value 102-46 Defining report content and topic framework 23-25 Chain Sustainability Priorities in the Value 102-47 List of material topics 23-25 Chain Sustainability Priorities in the Value 102-48 Restatements of information 23-25 Chain Sustainability Priorities in the Value 102-49 Changes in reporting 23-25 Chain 102-50 Reporting period About Report 1 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 64 Sustainability Report 2018 Answers GRI Standart Disclosures and Explanations & Page Numbers 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About Report 1 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Core 102-55 GRI content index GRI Standards Content Index 63 102-56 External assurance There is no external assurance Topic-Specific Standards GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS 2016 GRI 201 Economic Performance Sustainability Priorities in the Value 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain GRI 103 Sustainability Priorities in the Value MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components 23-25 Chain APPROACH 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23-26 Chain 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Our Global Presence 8 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS 2016 GRI 301 Materials 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability 26,29 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability 35 301-2 Recycled input materials used Sustainability 35 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Sustainability 35 65 Sustainability Report 2018 Answers GRI Standart Disclosures and Explanations & Page Numbers GRI 302 Energy 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability 26,29 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability 32 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability 32 302-3 Energy intensity Sustainability 32 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainability 32 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Sustainability 32 GRI 303 Water 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability 29 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability 30 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Sustainability 30 303-3 Water recycled and reused Sustainability 30 GRI 305 Emisyonlar 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability 26,29 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability 36-37 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainability 36-37 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability 36-37 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability 36-37 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 26,29 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability 31,33 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Sustainability 31 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability 33 66 Sustainability Report 2018 Answers GRI Standart Disclosures and Explanations & Page Numbers GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS 2016 GRI 401 Employment 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Synergy 26,49-50 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Synergy 49-50 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Synergy 53 401-3 Parental leave Synergy 52 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Synergy 26,49-50 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Synergy 61-62 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 403-2 Synergy 62 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Synergy 26,49-50 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Synergy 58, 59 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Synergy 59 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 Synergy 59 transition assistance programs GRI 405 Eşitlik ve Fırsat Eşitliği 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Synergy 49-50 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Synergy 49-50 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Synergy 52 67 Sustainability Report 2018 Answers GRI Standart Disclosures and Explanations & Page Numbers GRI 406 Non-Discrimination 2016 Sustainability Priorities in the Value GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23-25 Chain MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Synergy 49-50 APPROACH 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Synergy 49-50 Incidents of discrimination and corrective 302-1 Synergy 49-50 actions taken 68 Sustainability Report 2018 Setaş UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 UNGC Principles Page Numbers HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 18, 19, 49, 50 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 49-62 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 25-26, 29-38 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 18, 19 extortion and bribery. 69 Sustainability Report 2018 70
