SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 WHO WE ARE WPP IS A CREATIVE TRANSFORMATION COMPANY. WE USE THE POWER OF CREATIVITY TO BUILD BETTER FUTURES FOR OUR PEOPLE, CLIENTS AND COMMUNITIES. 1 INTRODUCTION Chief Executive’s statement 3 Sustainability Committee Report 5 At a glance 6 Sustainability and our strategy 7 Quantifying our impacts 9 United Nations SDGs 11 Our strategy in action 12 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER FOR CLIENTS Work with Impact 16 Compliance with marketing standards 17 Ethical decisions in our work 17 SOCIAL INVESTMENT What we gave in 2019 21 Volunteering21 Social impact 23 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT Skills, training and development 27 Reward and remuneration 28 Engagement and feedback  29 Labour relations  29 Inclusion and diversity 30 Health, safety and wellbeing 33 ENVIRONMENT Our climate strategy 37 Reducing energy use 38 Renewable energy 38 Air travel and offsetting 39 Value chain emissions 40 Circular economy 41 To find out more about: – our corporate strategy; SUPPLY CHAIN – business model; Our supply chain 45 – principal risks and how they are managed; – Taskforce on Climate-related Disclosures Human rights 46 statement; and – carbon emissions statement RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Download our Annual Report Transparency and trust 49 Privacy and data ethics 51 wpp.com/annualreporting2019 Tax policy 52 Governance and management  53 ABOUT OUR REPORTING Materiality, guidelines and reporting frameworks 55 A NOTE ON OUR SUSTAINABILITY DATA Independent limited assurance statement 57 During 2019 we agreed the sale of 60% of Kantar to Bain Capital. To ensure comparability to 2019 Quantifying our impacts: figures, which exclude Kantar, prior year figures methodology and results 58 have been re-stated. 2018 figures, and 2017's Reporting standards index 61 where provided, have been restated in sections highlighted with the symbol: K Where to find us  65 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2 INTRODUCTION CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S STATEMENT Our greatest challenge as a society is to find ways to live sustainably. “ OUR CLIENT WORK All around the world, people are choosing to Many of our clients have already set REACHES BILLIONS OF live in more sustainable ways, and turning to ambitious sustainability targets, and WPP their favourite brands to make that possible. can help them achieve these goals. Our PEOPLE EVERY DAY.” People also expect those brands to reflect challenge is to show that sustainable living their varied backgrounds and cater for their is not just possible, but desirable. Mark Read Chief Executive Officer diverse needs. We have the ability to use the power Pressure is increasing on companies to of marketing and communications to transform the way they do things rather normalise the attitudes, behaviour, products than simply do less harm. For businesses to and services needed for an inclusive and succeed tomorrow, they need to rethink sustainable future. Our client work reaches what they do today. Challengers are inventing billions of people every day, and I am so proud materials, products and processes for an of the great work our people are doing and inclusive world and a circular economy. of its wider impact. They are using technology or investing in innovative solutions to help our daily lives leave a smaller footprint. These companies are not just disrupting markets, they are leading the way by creating new ones. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 INTRODUCTION This year we established a new, Board-level packaging design, to engage consumers, Sustainability Committee to steer our and to partner with not-for-profits on approach, and increased the sustainability campaigns to change behaviour. COVID-19 expertise at Board level with two new appointments (read a report from the Increasingly, we are working with Sustainability Committee Co-Chairs on governments to communicate their climate page 5). commitments. Our close partnerships with The coronavirus the players who are changing the agenda, Although we have work to do to meet our whether governments, the UN, or corporate pandemic has touched commitment to achieve parity at the most senior executive level, women now make up sustainability leaders, lend us the convening power to bring others together and build the all our lives. At WPP 50% of our senior managers, compared to momentum for change. our first priority is the 49% in 2018. At the Board level, 40% of Board members are now women (2018: 33%) and We remain committed members of the wellbeing of our people we are aiming to get to parity soon. In UN Global Compact and support its November, we underscored this commitment 10 principles for human rights, labour, and doing what we can by joining the 30% club, a group of chairs and CEOs campaigning for greater female environment and anti-corruption. This report shows the progress we are making to limit the impact of representation in business leadership. K in embedding these principles into the virus on society. our business. As an inclusive business, we also signed up to the Valuable500, a global initiative Becoming a sustainable business is not just To ensure the safety of employees and to that is putting disability on the boardroom about being on the right side of history. help reduce transmission, we moved to a agenda. This commitment is reflected in One in five of our top 50 clients has already global policy of managed remote working our work, where our new Inclusive Design committed to going carbon neutral, and in mid-March, and at the time of writing Practice is helping clients to develop more more will follow. As a business, we need the approximately 95% of our people inclusive products and services. skills to advise them on this and other issues, worldwide are working from home. and to embed sustainability into their I am proud of our progress in reducing our products, marketing and communications. Across the world, our agencies are carbon footprint. Carbon emissions per Throughout this report are examples of our providing NGOs, governments and clients employee reduced by 21% compared with work, and how it contributes to achieving with communications and other services the previous year and our use of renewable the UN Sustainable Development Goals. – often on a pro bono basis – to help fight energy rose to 35%. In the United States, we As we strengthen our expertise in this area, Covid-19 (for an example, see page 22). purchased 100% renewable energy for the we are making our companies fit for the first time. You can read our second Taskforce future alongside the clients they serve. When we come through the current on Climate-related Financial Disclosure situation, the world will have been (TCFD) statement in our Annual Report, changed in ways that we cannot fully page 196 and 197. K anticipate yet. But the demand for the creativity and ingenuity possessed by the But there is much more to do. That is why people who work at WPP and across our we are announcing our commitment to use industry will be greater than ever. 100% renewable electricity by 2025 and for Mark Read net zero carbon emissions in our Campuses Chief Executive Officer What we do plays a vital role in driving by 2025. and sustaining the wider economic activity that societies need to function, and we will Another area where we are accelerating continue to support our people, clients action is plastic waste. At the Cannes and communities as we all reset and Lions Festival of Creativity in June 2019, we rebuild for the future. pledged to phase out plastics that cannot “ WE ARE ANNOUNCING OUR be reused, recycled or composted from all COMMITMENT TO USE 100% I would like to take this opportunity to WPP offices by the end of 2020 and signed RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY BY express my deep gratitude for the up to the New Plastics Economy Global extraordinary effort, resilience and Commitment. We are helping clients to 2025 AND FOR NET ZERO kindness of WPP employees all over the navigate the complex regulations emerging CARBON EMISSIONS IN OUR world, whose support for one another and in this area, to innovate product and CAMPUSES BY 2025.” commitment to their clients has been truly inspirational. I am very proud of all of them. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Our newest Board-level DEAR READER At our meeting in December we also Committee held its first The world is changing around us more reviewed the single‑use plastics policy meeting on 12 December 2019 quickly than ever before with significant launched by the Group in 2019, to phase out risks and opportunities for our business and plastics that cannot be renewed, recycled Committee members: for those of our clients. While changes in or composted across all the Group’s 3000+ – Sally Susman (co-Chair) technology have been rapid and highly offices and Campuses by the end of 2020. – Keith Weed (co-Chair) impactful and attracted considerable Board In addition to the policy, the Committee also – Jasmine Whitbread focus, there have also been rapid changes reviewed the seven-step action plan produced in the area of ESG and sustainability. by the Company, a playbook to embed the Key responsibilities policy and audit plan to be adopted by the – Understanding the The WPP Sustainability Committee has been Group companies to support the policy. sustainability challenges and formed to give increased focus in this area opportunities for the Group for the Board and the Group, to strive to The Committee members all bring a great – Engaging with stakeholders meet the expectations of our stakeholders depth of knowledge and experience in the – Assessing the Group’s current (from our clients, investors and people to area of ESG and sustainability and we are strategy footprint, identifying NGOs, consumers and society at large), as very much looking forward to our new role materiality and reviewing well as to ensure we are managing our risks for the Company. sustainability targets and and taking advantage of the opportunities. commitments We held our first meeting in December 2019 at which we adopted the terms of reference and agreed the scope of work for the Sally Susman Keith Weed Co-Chairs of the Committee for 2020. The Sustainability Sustainability Committee Committee will first gain an understanding of the breadth of sustainability work already 29 April 2020 in progress across the business and will then identify what is material in forming WPP’s sustainability strategy and review the KPIs to help measure effectiveness of delivery. That workstream has already begun with an in-depth review of the workstreams in January 2020. The environment section on pages 35-42 sets out the new carbon and renewable targets the Group has set this year, which are net zero carbon emissions in our Campuses by 2025 and 100% renewable electricity by 2025, as well as the target, set in 2017, of 0.41 tonnes CO2e per employee by 2030. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 INTRODUCTION AT A GLANCE OUR GLOBAL BRANDS AKQA GroupM GTB Ogilvy BCW – Essence Hill+Knowlton Superunion Finsbury – MediaCom Strategies VMLY&R Geometry – Mindshare Hogarth Wunderman Thompson Grey – Wavemaker Landor – Xaxis KEY FACTS AND FIGURES 106,000+ people 112 countries Quoted on the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange CLIENTS INCLUDE 348 All 30 70 69 of the Fortune of the Dow of the of the Global 500 Jones 30 NASDAQ 100 FTSE 100 £53.1bn Billings* £13.2bn Revenue* £10.8bn Revenue less pass‑through costs* (2018: £53.2bn) (2018: £13.0bn) (2018: £10.9bn) Gold in the EcoVadis CSR rating 0.60tCO e 35% Carbon emissions per 2 Electricity purchased for the fifth year in a row person from building from renewable sources* energy use (scope 1 and 2)* (2018: 32%) (2018: 0.76tCO2e) Leader in the Bloomberg Gender40% Women on 50% Women in senior Equality Index for the our Board management* second year in a row (2018: 33%) (2018: 49%) 12th in the FTSE 100 Rankings 10th in The Responsibility100 1.60% Social investment as a for Women on Boards, Index, which measures percentage of reported Hampton-Alexander the commitment to social, profit before tax* Review 2019 environmental and ethical (2018: 1.35%) objectives of FTSE 100 * Continuing operations, companies with 2018 figures restated. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 INTRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR STRATEGY We continue to support our clients as evidence mounts of the need for sustainable innovation and growth. WHY SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS OUR RESPONSE As the last decade drew to a close, the World Our clients look to us for the insight, THREE NEW Meteorological Organization confirmed it was expertise and creativity to balance these the warmest on record. Australia experienced interconnected pressures and communicate ENVIRONMENTAL its hottest, driest year, leading to devastating their purpose effectively and authentically. COMMITMENTS bush fires, while the Indonesian capital Our own sustainability strategy helps us to Jakarta saw deadly floods caused by the meet changing client expectations with heaviest rainfall since records began. strong and credible propositions, while reducing risks and creating a resilient Net Climate activism continues to grow as people business for the long term. demand change. More and more companies zero across sectors see both the opportunities Our sustainability strategy supports all five and the imperative to act. Consumers and elements of our corporate strategy, which investors increasingly expect businesses to we launched in late 2018. The table on page act with purpose and offer inclusive and 8 sets out the most material ways in which carbon emissions sustainable products. sustainability supports our strategy. in our Campuses by 2025 There is increasing evidence that sustainable business drives profit and long-term value – sustainable investment assets were valued at $30 trillion in 2018, up a third from 20161, while companies with long-term strategies are outperforming their peers financially2. 100% Meanwhile, the United Nations’ Decade of Action to 2030 will see accelerated efforts to end poverty, inequality and environmental harm, and deliver the renewable electricity Sustainable Development Goals. More by 2025 than ever, sustainable business models are needed that will enable society to survive and thrive into the new decade and beyond. Our clients must navigate complex social, environmental and economic pressures against a backdrop of skills shortages, Zero demographic shifts, political uncertainty, and a consumer base increasingly impatient for change. phase out plastics that cannot be reused, recycled or composted across our offices by the end of 2020 1 Global Sustainable Investment Alliance 2018 Global Sustainable Investment Review. 2 Harvard Business Review. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY VISION & OFFER SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER Sustainability at the FOR CLIENTS heart of our offer for A growing number of clients are grappling with and sustainable business practices helps us to clients, see pages 14-18 sustainability challenges and looking to articulate broaden and deepen these partnerships, and to the purpose of their brands. They look for partners meet the growing expectations and sustainability Transparency and who share their sustainability values and requirements in client procurement processes. trust, see pages 49-50 aspirations. Our commitment to responsible CREATIVITY SOCIAL INVESTMENT Social investment, Our pro bono work can make a significant Pro bono work benefits our business too, providing see pages 19-24 difference to charities and NGOs, enabling our rewarding creative opportunities for our people partners to raise awareness and funds, recruit that often result in award-winning campaigns that members and achieve campaign objectives. raise the profile of our companies. INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE TEAMS Attracting and Creativity thrives on diversity of background and business success. We want all of our people to feel retaining talent, thought. This makes having an inclusive and valued and able to fulfil their potential, regardless see pages 25-34 diverse workplace essential to our long-term of gender, ethnicity, age or disability. DATA & PRIVACY AND DATA ETHICS Privacy and data TECHNOLOGY Data – including consumer data – can play an responsibility to look after this data carefully, ethics, see page 51 essential role in our work for clients. Data security to collect data only when needed and with and privacy are increasingly high-profile topics for consent where required, and to store and regulators, consumers and our clients. We have a transfer data securely. SIMPLER GREENER OFFICE SPACE Environment, see STRUCTURE Our work to simplify our structure and consolidate moving to locations that: use green building pages 35-42 our office space is driving a positive impact on our standards; reduce our impact; help us to use space energy use and carbon footprint. We are reducing more efficiently; and encourage collaboration the overall number of offices we occupy and between our companies. PEOPLE & CULTURE SHARED VALUES ACROSS OUR BUSINESS Attracting and AND SUPPLY CHAIN retaining talent, Strong employment policies, investment in skills, Selecting suppliers and partners who adopt see pages 25-34 and inclusive working practices help us recruit, standards consistent with our own can reduce motivate and develop the talented people we costs, improve efficiency and protect our Supply chain, see need to serve our clients in all disciplines across reputation. pages 43-46 our locations. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 INTRODUCTION QUANTIFYING OUR IMPACTS As a creative transformation Our annual impact valuation guides us in about social and environmental change, generating value by helping us quantify but are hard to quantify because the impacts company, we want to our impacts and understand the associated vary greatly depending on the brief. maximise the positive value monetary benefits and costs to society. This allows us to prioritise efforts and focus We also recognise that increasing demand our business generates for on enhancing our positive contribution. for a product brings environmental and shareholders, clients, our social costs. We can play a powerful role Our analysis does not yet capture all of our in helping to tackle global issues such as people, and wider society. impacts, either because they are not material inequality and the climate crisis. This is not or they are difficult to measure. For example, only the right thing to do, but will also our communications services help our clients support our business continuity. to increase product sales and can bring ECONOMIC IMPACTS The economy The direct contribution our activities made to the global economy Our people £7.1bn Governments The economy £10.8bn Our contribution through taxes to national and local governments (2018: £8.2bn) Our people (2018: £12.8m) Our contribution as a major global employer, paid in wages and benefits Supplier partners* Our indirect economic impact through our spend with supplier partners Governments Supplier *Indirect partners* £1.5bn This procurement spend provides additional indirect (2018: £1.6bn) £2.7bn benefits to economies by supporting livelihoods and (2018: £2.7bn) job creation SOCIAL IMPACTS Diverse suppliers Our spend on diverse suppliers in the United States Diverse suppliers Social investment £82.7m £291m Social investment Our contribution to society through charitable donations, pro bono spend and providing free (2018: £81m) media space (2018: £331m) Youth employment Our contribution to young people through internships and apprenticeships Youth Skills employment Skills Our expenditure on training staff to enhance £38.7m £11.3m (2018: £9.9m) their careers and improve WPP's performance (2018: £39.8m) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Carbon emissions The societal cost of our Scope 1, 2 and air travel greenhouse gas emissions Carbon emissions Waste Waste £3.9m £0.10m (2018: £0.14m) The societal cost of our landfill (2018: £3.8m) and incineration impacts KEY Positive Negative WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 INTRODUCTION QUANTIFYING OUR IMPACTS CONTINUED ECONOMIC IMPACTS WPP makes a significant direct positive on advertising production, travel and social infrastructure and services necessary contribution to economies. In addition, professional services also directly supports for a well-functioning society. The the salaries and payments we make enable jobs around the world. considerable indirect taxes and wages our people to buy goods and services and associated with our supplier and customer our suppliers to create jobs and spend in The £7.1 billion we pay in wages and benefits activities are not included in this assessment. the economy. is our largest direct contribution. This money supports local economies in the markets in T  o learn more about: WPP makes a direct contribution to the which we operate, and creates a multiplier global economy through its Gross Value effect that leads to additional spending and – Our approach to taxation, see page 52 – Our approach to reward and remuneration, Added: the financial value of services sold further economic growth. see page 28 minus the cost of salaries, taxes, and direct spend with suppliers. The money we spend Tax payments made by WPP to national and local governments enable investment in the SOCIAL IMPACTS We support social and charitable activities prospects. In addition, our companies To learn more about: through cash donations, by undertaking provide training for staff at all levels. This pro bono work (marketing advice and not only improves WPP’s performance, but – Our social investment, see pages 19-24 campaigns for little or no fee) and also enhances the valuable skill base within – Our approach to training and development, see page 27 negotiating free media space for charity the company. – Our approach to inclusion and diversity, campaigns. This helps charity and NGO see pages 30-32, and supplier diversity, partners to achieve campaign objectives, Our efforts to embed inclusive values across see page 45 raise funds and recruit new members. Our our business and through our client work are support also goes much further, generating helping to address inequality. In the United additional value by indirectly contributing States, we track certified diverse supplier to improving human health and community spend, including womenand minoritycohesion, and protecting human rights and owned businesses. Supporting these the environment. suppliers tends to benefit underserved local communities and regional economies, and We provide internship and apprenticeship bring different and innovative perspectives opportunities, which equip people with skills into our company. and experience that enhance their future life ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Currently, businesses do not bear the true incineration or landfill, associated societal recognised green building standard, such societal costs incurred as a result of their costs such as those relating to transport as the US LEED standard or the UK BREEAM greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. This and energy consumption are not included in standard. Some Campuses provide green impact occurs at the expense of current and our impact valuation. We are reducing our space which, amongst other things, helps future generations. Our analysis calculates impact from waste by committing to phase support local biodiversity and employee the hidden cost of our contribution to out plastics that cannot be reused, recycled wellbeing. The green space could also help climate change through our carbon or composted from our offices by the end improve air quality and reduce water run-off. emissions. We have a long track record of of 2020. managing and reducing our emissions, and To learn more about: the Environment chapter (pages 35-42) Water and biodiversity impacts are excluded details our targets, progress and approach from this impact valuation as they are not – Our plastics initiative and approach to waste and recycling, see page 41 to addressing the climate crisis. considered material issues for WPP. – The environmental impact of our campuses, However, we recognise that these issues see page 38 Waste generation causes further societal may be material at a local level, especially as – The methodology used evaluate our impacts, costs linked to GHG and other air emissions, we move more of our people into Campuses. see pages 58-60 as well as potential odour and visual impacts Sustainability is a key feature of new Campus from landfill and incineration. While recycling buildings, which typically aim for a high level is considered a better option than of certification to an internationallyWPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 10 INTRODUCTION THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) We support the UN SDGs as a framework We work directly with the UN through our for government agencies, civil society, the Common Ground initiative, partnering with UN The greatest contribution we can make private sector and citizens to work together Women to tackle gender inequality. See more towards the SDGs is through our client to create a more sustainable future. on page 23. In 2019, we continued to partner and pro bono work. The campaign case with the UN Framework Convention on Climate studies featured in this report indicate We have analysed the 17 Global Goals and Change (UNFCCC) to encourage people from which SDGs are most relevant. the 169 targets which sit behind them to around the world to take action on climate identify those which are most relevant for change. In the UK, Blue State supported the our business. UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) in its global media and digital fundraising efforts. Good communications are essential to bring about the shift in attitudes and behaviour needed to end extreme poverty, inequality and climate change by 2030. Common Ground is a collaboration between the world’s six largest advertising and marketing services groups and the United Nations, created to serve that purpose. RELEVANT SDGs OUR RESPONSE Ensure inclusive and equitable We partner with schools, colleges and universities, helping to develop and support training in marketing quality education and promote communications skills, for example through our partnership with the D&AD New Blood Academy lifelong learning opportunities (see page 27). We invested £38.7 million in training for our people in 2019. for all Achieve gender equality and Our workforce is gender-balanced overall: 50% of senior managers and 40% of Board members are empower all women and girls women. We aim to achieve equal representation of women at the Board and at all levels. Through the Common Ground partnership we are helping to tackle gender stereotypes in the media and supporting the work of UN Women on issues such as gender-based violence. Ensure access to affordable, Our goal is for 100% of the electricity we buy to be from renewable sources by 2025. We are currently at reliable, sustainable and modern 100% in the United States and 35% across the Group. We support the development of renewable energy energy for all generation in Brazil, China, India and Indonesia through our carbon offset projects. Promote sustained, inclusive and We provide employment for more than 106,000 people across 112 countries. In 2019, our companies sustainable economic growth, full offered paid internships and apprenticeships providing work experience and development opportunities and productive employment and for 11,000 young people. decent work for all Ensure sustainable consumption We are taking action against plastic waste and to promote a circular economy (see page 41). and production patterns We partner with clients on campaigns that help raise awareness of sustainable development and encourage sustainable lifestyles. Examples can be found throughout this report including our work with Doconomy on page 42 and Mindshare’s #ChangeTheBrief on page 17. Take urgent action to combat Carbon emissions per employee reduced by 21% compared with the previous year and our use of climate change and its impacts renewable energy rose to 35%. We aim for net zero carbon emissions in our Campuses by 2025. Examples of our work to support clients in taking climate action can be found on page 42. Strengthen the means of We use our pro bono work and social investment to support progress on the UN Sustainable Development implementation and revitalise Goals, partnering with organisations working in areas such as health, human rights and the global partnership for the environment. This had wider social benefits of £291 million in 2019. sustainable development To learn more about the UN SDGs see un.org/ sustainabledevelopment WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Two WPP Country Managers share their perspective on sustainable business. CVL SRINIVAS ON WHAT SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MEANS TO WPP INDIA “WE ARE INVESTING WPP has tremendous influence in India. Our second initiative, the ISDI WPP School IN THREE KEY We’re the leading communications group, of Communication, combines academic with significant market share and 18,000 and creative learning with practical skills, INITIATIVES FOR employees. That position brings a to prepare students for a career in BUILDING A responsibility to be the business our clients, communications and generate a pipeline BRIGHTER FUTURE employees and communities expect. It also of talent for our companies. Established in FOR INDIA AND ITS presents an opportunity to create a pool of 2015, the school is expanding year-on-year talented young people to meet our clients’ and has fast become one of the most YOUNG PEOPLE. future needs. popular of its kind. CVL Srinivas Country Manager, WPP India We are investing in three key initiatives for Last but not least, in 2019 we signed up building a brighter future for India and its to the India 2022 Consortium, a group of young people. Through the WPP Foundation, corporates working together on: waste to we are supporting almost 20,000 underserved value, healthcare, energy, and sustainable children by providing the digital and mining. This is core business for WPP: our technology skills that employers like WPP role is to develop brand and campaign need, and which schools could not strategies that amplify our partners’ efforts 20,000 otherwise offer. in all four focus areas. The work provides a great way for our people to develop the In India, over a quarter of children do not skills to help our clients build sustainable underserved children supported attend school regularly and many do not futures – seven of our agencies and 40 through the WPP Foundation, complete secondary education. To students from the School of Communication giving them access to digital overcome this, we track the children in our are involved. and technology skills programme from the ages of 11 to 18, help them find work at the end of their schooling, I am confident of the business benefits these and continue to support them during their investments will bring, as young people from first six months of employment. I am diverse backgrounds bring new skills into our immensely proud that our programme business, and as our commitment and boasts a 93% attendance rate. thought leadership strengthen our reputation for responsibility. These are intangible benefits, perhaps, but incredibly valuable. To learn more see wppindiafoundation.com WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 12 INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION DEMET İKİLER EXPLAINS WHAT INSPIRED HER TO PROMOTE INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AT WPP TURKEY © Getty Images DEMET İKİLER Country Manager, WPP Turkey and EMEA CEO of GroupM Turkey is a fast-developing market, where working environment with practical support “I BELIEVE WE ARE most corporates understand the need for such as childcare; efforts that our largest TRULY SETTING THE sustainable growth. What matters to our client recognised with an award. We clients matters to us: having the capabilities are also working hard to support other INDUSTRY STANDARD to help them deliver their sustainability disadvantaged groups, including the LGBT FOR INCLUSION AND agenda is essential. community, people with disabilities, and SUSTAINABLE two groups that are particularly relevant in BUSINESS IN THIS The commitment to sustainability at WPP Turkey: refugees and unemployed youth. group-level has also inspired us. As the COUNTRY. world’s largest communications group, I believe we are truly setting the industry our work has real power to change people’s standard for inclusion and sustainable beliefs and actions. In Turkey, we have business in this country. We are the only introduced Mindshare’s Change the Brief communications company in Turkey signed approach across all our agencies, as a way up to the UN Global Compact, and in May to build sustainable thinking into our client 2019 I joined the local UNGC board, with work from the outset. responsibility for diversity and inclusion. We continue to carry out pro bono work in Read more about #ChangeTheBrief on page 17 support of UN Women, and to support the Unstereotype Alliance to eradicate harmful From a personal perspective, I have faced gender stereotypes from advertising and challenges as a woman working her way media content. up from the bottom of the ladder, even in an industry where women are widely Our industry has a responsibility to use its accepted. Only around a third of women power for good – to influence minds and work in Turkey. It has made me passionate change behaviour. The environmental crisis about using my experience and influence to is already here and the world needs action. help other women succeed in their careers, We cannot wait for others: it is up to us to by mentoring colleagues and advocating for lead the way. women’s empowerment more broadly. WPP is the only communications company to sign up to the Turkish Government’s gender equality in workplace commitment. As well as mentoring, we provide a female-friendly WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER FOR CLIENTS The work we do for our clients reaches billions of people each year, presenting our greatest opportunity to create positive change. WHO’S IN CHARGE? IN THIS SECTION Our agencies and client leads oversee our work with clients on sustainability. Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of Sustainability oversees our approach to ethics and WORK WITH IMPACT compliance. The WPP Executive Committee sustainability Our growing offer to working group, established in 2019, provides additional oversight and guidance on any ethical issues that may support our clients in arise. We set clear ethical standards for our people and delivering lasting positive companies through our policy framework and training including the WPP Code of Business Conduct. impact through their brands. COMPLIANCE WITH MARKETING STANDARDS Maintaining high standards and strong compliance HOW ARE WE DOING? in areas such as ethics, human rights, privacy of our top 50 clients have made and data security. 1 in 5 commitments to carbon neutrality ETHICAL DECISIONS IN OUR WORK Our review and referral process for sensitive client 80% of our top 50 client leads have discussed sustainability with their clients briefs that may present an ethical risk. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER FOR CLIENTS When P&G wanted to challenge negative stereotypes and champion under-represented groups, they turned to Grey. MY BEST SELF AGENCY GREY CLIENT GILLETTE Gillette is on a mission to redefine masculinity for a new era. Grey created “My Best Self , a Facebook documentary following a young man who has transitioned and now faces an iconic moment in every man's life: his first shave. As we watch his dad teaching him how to shave, we are left with the message that “it's not just myself that's transitioning, it's everybody around me transitioning . 110m 15bn film views media impressions Data from: November 2019 wpp.com/mybestself DON'T HATE ME BECAUSE I'M BEAUTIFUL AGENCY GREY CLIENT PANTENE In 1986, Grey created Pantene's iconic campaign: “Don’t Hate Me Because I’m Beautiful . Since then, Pantene has become synonymous with beautiful hair... one stereotyped kind of beautiful hair. In 2019, Pantene wanted to challenge beauty stereotypes so Grey created the rallying cry, “Don't Hate Me Because I'm BeautifuLGBTQ+ . Through the campaign we hear individuals speak about their identities and drive to be their true selves, empowering other members of the LGBTQ+ community and reminding us all what true beauty is all about. 4,000 90% unique Twitter positive social media posts tagging reactions #BeautifuLGBTQ+ on first day of campaign Data from: June 2019 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER FOR CLIENTS WORK WITH IMPACT Our clients must balance a complex set of social and environmental challenges with This work is of growing importance to WPP. We are already engaging with corporate, government and NGO clients on issues 80% of our top 50 client leads changing consumer expectations and ranging from plastic waste to human rights have discussed sustainability constant technological developments. While during the development of brand strategies with their clients challenging, today’s landscape also offers or campaigns. Our agencies provide advice major opportunities to create new markets and thought leadership in a range of ways, for more inclusive and sustainable products including Mindshare's #ChangeTheBrief 1 in 5 and services. campaign (see page 17). In response, our clients increasingly aspire to Recognising our clients’ growing focus on generate a lasting positive impact through sustainable products and practices, we of our top 50 clients have their brands and look to us to help them continue to strengthen our offer to ensure made commitments to express and enhance that impact through we can provide our clients with the best carbon neutrality brand purpose and strategy, communications support and the expertise they need to do and marketing. The breadth and depth of our well by doing good. Some of the highlights expertise means we can offer clients the of our work in this area are set out in the latest technology alongside the creativity table below and through the case studies and sustainability expertise needed to inspire featured in this report. consumers and help shift behaviour to more sustainable norms. AREA OF EXPERTISE EXAMPLES IN THIS REPORT Brand and strategy consulting: integrating social Read how Ogilvy helped IKEA show its customers Read how Grey helped Volvo bring green energy and environmental values into brand and business why they make positive sourcing choices for to people’s homes on page 18 strategy people and planet on page 18 Technology and research: using technology and Read how H+K Strategies helped Doconomy launch a data to understand consumer attitudes and credit card with a carbon limit to inspire everyday behaviour in relation to sustainability action on climate change on page 42 Communications: helping clients communicate Read how Grey helped P&G challenge negative Read how Design Bridge helped Lipton tackle credibly on social and environmental issues with all stereotypes and champion under-represented loneliness on page 33 audiences from consumers, employees and citizens groups on page 15 to investors, regulators, the media and NGOs Read how Grey helped Amnesty International Read how VMLY&R helped The Amena Autism show Indonesians the power of a single signature This can include social marketing campaigns Center demystify autism on page 34 and how Wunderman Thompson helped start a that raise awareness or drive behaviour change on conversation about child brides in Lebanon on issues of public interest, often for government and Read how Social Lab helped TikTok promote page 44 NGOs as well as corporate clients online safety on page 54 Building a movement: rallying multiple Read how Scholz & Friends helped The Female Read how AKQA is using open source software stakeholders behind a common cause to Company tackle the tampon tax in Germany to help protect nature reserves from illegal change legislation, norms or behaviour in order on page 18 deforestation on page 24 to drive positive social change Read how Geometry helped Costa Ricans tackle unnecessary packaging on page 36 Shifting social norms: tackling taboos and shifting Read how WPP and VMLY&R are helping The National Read how Wunderman Thompson helped Lux cultural norms to promote more sustainable Opioid Action Coalition tackle the stigma of highlight Saudi Arabian women in male-dominated consumption and tackle negative stereotypes opioid addiction on page 24 jobs on page 54 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER FOR CLIENTS CHANGE THE BRIEF As part of Mindshare day, the network took live In November, on Mindshare’s 22nd anniversary, briefs from Unilever to generate #ChangetheBrief the global network with 116 offices and 7,000 ideas. people spent the day connecting with the scale and urgency of the climate crisis and how Carrie Timms, vice-president of global media at their work could be part of the solution with Unilever, said: “At Unilever, we believe brands #ChangetheBrief. #ChangetheBrief is an should be a force for good for the world we live invitation for the advertising industry to use its in. Mindshare’s #ChangetheBrief initiative is a skills to tackle the issue. powerful statement to the industry that we should all do what we can through media, both #ChangetheBrief is about creating work which expertise and investment, to deliver a more answers the “Now brief, but also the “Future sustainable future. brief, to encourage the attitudes, lifestyles and behaviours which are consistent with a transition Nick Emery, Global CEO Mindshare, said: “Our to a carbon-free world. great challenge as a society and as an industry is to show how living sustainably is possible, For example, through the “Future brief, a food enjoyable, fulfilling and aspirational, and that it brand could develop packaging that encourages can also drive our clients’ business. These are all people to freeze unused food to avoid food the things that we know how to do.” waste, while a shampoo client could promote considerate water usage by creating a “songs to sing in the shower playlist on Spotify lasting only four minutes. COMPLIANCE WITH MARKETING ETHICAL DECISIONS IN OUR WORK STANDARDS We have a review and referral process Marketing is powerful – it can change for work that may present an ethical risk, attitudes and behaviour. It is critical that we such as work for government clients, work apply high ethical standards to our work to relating to sensitive products or marketing ensure those changes are for the better. We to children. work hard to maintain high standards and strong compliance in areas such as ethics, Before our people can accept potentially human rights, privacy and data security. sensitive work, they must elevate the decision to the most senior person in the We require that all the work our companies relevant office and then to the most senior produce for clients complies with all relevant WPP executive in the country concerned, legal requirements, codes of practice and who will decide if further referral to a global marketing standards. There are occasional WPP executive is required. This referral complaints made about campaigns we have process is covered in our How We Behave worked on, and some of these are upheld online training, which will contain a new by marketing standards authorities. Our sustainability module from 2020 onwards. companies take action where needed to prevent a recurrence. See page 49 for more details about updates to our How We Behave training Our agencies have policies and processes to mitigate against online advertising Our companies also have copy-checking appearing on sites with illegal, illicit or and clearance processes for the legal team unsuitable content. Our approach to limiting to review campaigns before publication. risk and improving trust and quality in the These processes have strict requirements digital supply chain is multi-layered involving in highly regulated sectors such as our trading, operational, technical, legal and pharmaceutical marketing. industry engagement teams. We take a zero tolerance approach to advertising placed In 2019, we established Network Risk adjacent to harmful content, in fraudulent Committees with the aims of ensuring environments or on non-viewable accountability at both the enterprise and placements but we recognise that zero network level and to review, monitor and tolerance does not always equal zero risk. advise on risk and compliance throughout That is why we apply a consultative all of our businesses and markets. Duties approach to brand safety. We believe clients include providing reports and insights on should be fully aware of the strategic, current risk exposures, identifying new implementation and tactical implications of risk types and tracking and pro-actively managing brand safety across all buying addressing any breaches of risk limits. methods and media channels. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 SUSTAINABILITY AT THE HEART OF OUR OFFER FOR CLIENTS LEADING THE CHARGE AGENCY FAMOUSGREY CLIENT VOLVO Volvo asked FamousGrey to help them answer this question: what is the use of driving electric if you do not charge your car with green energy? To help meet this challenge, the agency created Volts by Volvo, a new energy contract for homes which provides 100% green electricity, so that drivers are not only using electric cars, but also charging them with green energy. And with the energy generated from both wind and solar and provided by green energy expert Eneco, the result is clear: no impact, zero emissions. 7.5m 1 in 4 Belgians reached drivers of electric cars (population 11 million) engaged with the Volts by Volvo platform 71% said they would re‑evaluate their electricity contract in a post-campaign survey Data from: April 2019 – January 2020 wpp.com/voltsbyvolvo WHY WE MAKE AGENCY OGILVY CLIENT IKEA IKEA is known for selling affordable furnishings, but not everyone knows that this does not come at a cost to people and planet. IKEA asked Ogilvy to showcase the choices they make to have a more positive impact on people and the planet. So Ogilvy created “Why We Make . Because everything from their sustainability initiatives, to inclusive employment practices, to community building and innovative and purposeful product design have always been core to what IKEA is all about – and all in service of helping people live their dreams at home. 149m impressions Data from: January – February 2020 wpp.com/whywemake WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 SOCIAL INVESTMENT Charities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) do vital work, often with limited resources. We can help boost their impact by providing communications and creative services on a pro bono basis (for little or no fee). WHO’S IN CHARGE? IN THIS SECTION Most of our charitable giving and pro bono work is managed within our companies, based on their values and their employees’ passions. At a global level, our WHAT WE GAVE IN 2019 Charity and Pro Bono Committee of senior executives Breakdown of our social oversees our approach and helps us to target our support effectively. investment. VOLUNTEERING Encouraging our people to volunteer their time and skills. HOW ARE WE DOING? K SOCIAL IMPACT in pro bono work Increasing charity and NGO £10.6m (2018: £11.3m) impact through pro bono support, including Common Ground and our partnership in charitable donations with UN Women. £5.2m (2018: £5.7m) social investment as a percentage 1.6% of reported profit before tax (2018: 1.4%) worth of free media space negotiated £18.9m by WPP companies (2018: £23.8m) wider social benefits of pro bono work, charitable £291m donations and free media space (2018: £331m) WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 SOCIAL INVESTMENT CREATIVE ACTIVISM AGENCY SCHOLZ & FRIENDS CLIENT THE FEMALE COMPANY In Germany, tampons and other female sanitary products attract the top value added tax rate of 19% while many luxury goods – like truffles and oil paintings – are taxed with the reduced rate of 7%. The so-called tampon tax has already been abolished in some countries. The Female Company, an online shop that sells organic female sanitary products, decided to take on the discriminatory tax. To gain attention for the tampon tax with media, influencers and politicians, Scholz & Friends outsmarted the tax law with the law itself. The agency packaged tampons in books which are also taxed with the reduced rate of 7%. But The Tampon Book is much more than smart packaging that hacked the German tax system. The Tampon Book contains 45 pages with bold illustrations and empowering stories about menstruation, taboos and feminism and successfully promoted a petition that urged the German Parliament to discuss the abolition of the tampon tax. It was subsequently announced that the reduced VAT rate will be charged for female sanitary products, and this became law in January 2020. 10,000 Winner copies of the Cannes Grand Prix and book sold four Lions Data from: April – October 2019 wpp.com/tamponbook WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 20 SOCIAL INVESTMENT Charities and non-governmental organisations We also made cash donations to charities of For example, VMLY&R celebrated its first (NGOs) do vital work with limited resources. £5.2 million (2018: £5.7 million). This resulted anniversary in September by closing all 82 We can help boost their impact by providing in a total social investment of £15.8 million offices so its 6,500 people could volunteer communications and creative services on a (2018: £17.0 million), equivalent to 1.6% of to support their local communities. Among pro bono basis (for little or no fee). reported pre-tax profits (2018: 1.4%). many examples worldwide, in Sydney they partnered with Clean Up Australia, the This work is mutually rewarding. While WPP media agencies negotiated free media Salvation Army, Wesley Mission, and the enabling our voluntary sector clients to raise space worth £18.9 million on behalf of pro local food bank, while in Auckland money and awareness, recruit members, bono clients (2018: £23.8 million), making employees partnered with Auckland City and achieve campaign objectives, pro bono our total social contribution for the year Mission to help tackle public prejudices work also provides opportunities for our £34.7 million (2018: £40.8 million). in New Zealand. The VMLY&R Worldwide people to work on fulfilling and sometimes Foundation Day will be repeated each year. award-winning campaigns that raise the VOLUNTEERING K profile of our companies. In addition to providing donations and pro bono services, we encourage our people Our pro bono work and social investment to volunteer their time. Half of our companies can also support progress toward the UN have formal volunteering policies in place Sustainable Development Goals. (2018: 41%), and 61% organised volunteering activities for their people during 2019 WHAT WE GAVE IN 2019 K (2018: 54%). Our pro bono work was worth £10.6 million in 2019 (2018: £11.3 million), for clients including UN Women and WildAid. DOOONATE Every time you see a message from a charity, the charity has probably paid to get it there. So Mindshare created dooonate, which enables users to donate their out-of-office autoreplies by turning them into media space for charities. This provides charities with a free space to send their message straight to people's inboxes. And you can make a difference, even when you are not around. Mindshare UK encouraged all staff to turn on dooonate over the Christmas holidays and raised £1,835 for the charities: The Big Issue Foundation, Tommy’s, The Cure Parkinson’s Trust and Rays of Sunshine. Find out more at dooonate.com WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 SOCIAL INVESTMENT FIGHTING CORONAVIRUS WITH CREATIVITY AGENCY MULTIPLE WPP COMPANIES CLIENT WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION Communication is a critical part of the World Health Organization’s strategy in the fight against Covid-19, as it works with governments, partners and stakeholders to encourage people to stay at home and adopt safe behaviours. WPP is supporting the WHO on a pro bono basis by producing global and regional public awareness campaigns to help limit the spread of the coronavirus and its impact on society. The partnership leverages the scale of our global resources, expertise and talent to assist the WHO in directly reaching the public with its life-saving communications. It involves a number of different WPP agencies, including Grey, GroupM, Hogarth, Hill+Knowlton, Inca, Motion Content Group, Ogilvy, Wavemaker and WPP Scangroup. At the time of writing, global media partners including Al-Jazeera, Amazon, CNBC, CNN, Disney, Fox/National Geographic, Sky, Teads and Verizon (sourced by GroupM and Wavemaker) have donated more than $20 million in media to support this effort. The work shown here is a film from Grey New York called Five Heroic Acts, which stresses the importance of social distancing. More examples of what WPP and our companies are doing to help – working with clients, governments and NGOs – can be found on our website, wpp.com. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SOCIAL IMPACT WPP’s focus is on gender equality (Goal 5), TOTAL SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS K Our support helps charities and NGOs to and particularly on tackling gender £m continue to grow their work in critical areas stereotypes in the media and promoting 48.5 such as improving health and education, equal opportunities for women and girls. 40.8 reducing inequality and protecting human 34.7 rights. Pro bono work is often worth more Through our collaboration with UN Women than an equivalent cash donation as it raises we have set a new agenda for utilising our awareness of our partners’ work while pro bono work to further equality through helping to increase donations, recruit creativity. On International Women’s Day members, change behaviour and achieve 2019, the UN Women ‘Unheard’ campaign campaign goals. gave a voice to some of the amazing women fighting for human and women’s rights 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, our pro bono work created wider around the world. Created by Wunderman social benefits worth £92 million (2018: £91 Thompson, the campaign brought nine Free media space million) in this way, including improved health women’s stories to life across social media Pro bono work and wellbeing in communities. Adding in our thanks to more than $1.5 million in pro bono Charitable donations charitable donations and free media space as media donations. The women also featured well as our pro bono work, the wider social on billboards in Times Square. The stories benefits created in 2019 were worth an estimated £291 million (2018: £331 million). included those of Dilera Mavlonova, an advocate for women’s leadership in Kyrgyzstan’s water management, and £291m wider social benefits from  ind out more in Quantifying our impacts, F Ana Vasileva, a Macedonian women’s right pages 9 and 10 pro bono work, charitable activist and co-creator of the #ISpeakUpNow donations and free media movement. COMMON GROUND space in 2019 The power of communication will be essential Find out more at unheardwomen.org in accelerating progress toward the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Common Ground is a collaboration between the world’s six largest advertising and marketing services groups and the United Nations, created to serve that purpose. TALK TO ME AGENCIES WPP AND VMLY&R CLIENT THE NATIONAL OPIOID ACTION COALITION (NOAC) Every 11 minutes someone dies in the United States from opioid misuse. Eleven out of 12 people with substance use disorder do not receive treatment, citing stigma as the main reason they do not seek it out. We teamed up with iHeart Media and Fors Marsh Group to form the National Opioid Action Coalition (NOAC), with the aim to use public, private and pop culture influence to remove the stigma around opioid use disorder. We launched #TalkToMe to enable families, communities and workplaces to have honest conversations that reduce stigma so those suffering get the help they need. The campaign debuted at New York Advertising Week and launched nationally with $15 million wpp.com/talktome in free media. $15m free media Data from: September 2019 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 SOCIAL INVESTMENT CODE OF CONSCIENCE AGENCY AKQA CLIENT NGOs WORLDWIDE A third of the world's protected nature reserves are under threat, with illegal deforestation a leading cause. Alongside a group of global NGOs, AKQA launched Code of Conscience: open source software that restricts the use of heavy-duty vehicles in protected areas. The code is available for free and, for the first time, gives heavy-duty vehicle manufacturers the opportunity to be part of the solution to illegal deforestation. An invitation comprising the Code of Conscience chip embedded in a wooden sculpture of an endangered animal has been sent to the CEOs of the world’s top ten construction equipment manufacturers, with a vision for all new machines to leave the factory with Code of Conscience pre-installed. 10 100+ manufacturers coverage in over 100 sent the code countries, sparking positive change 2 countries considering making the code law Data from: September 2019 – February 2020 wpp.com/codeofconscience WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT The insights, creativity, and expertise of our people are what bring our clients to our door. Our success depends on hiring and retaining the brightest, most forward-thinking people with the best and most original ideas. WHO’S IN CHARGE? IN THIS SECTION WPP’s talent team, led by our Chief People Officer, supports leadership and human resources professionals SKILLS, TRAINING AND in our companies, providing guidance on current issues DEVELOPMENT and facilitating best practice sharing. Creating opportunities for our people to learn and develop. Our Head of Culture champions our values, collaboration and employee engagement, and our Global Director of Inclusion and Diversity champions inclusion across our REWARD AND REMUNERATION Offering attractive remuneration and benefits companies. to win the competition for talent. Our Code of Business Conduct, Human Rights Policy Statement and Sustainability Policy set out our core ENGAGEMENT AND FEEDBACK principles for people management. How we engage with and listen to our people. LABOUR RELATIONS HOW ARE WE DOING? K Supporting the rights of our people to join trade unions and to bargain collectively. 37% women in executive leadership (2018: 36%) INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Increasing diversity and creating inclusive, values-led workplaces. HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING Supporting our people’s physical and mental 50% women in senior management (2018: 49%) health and wellbeing. training spend, 11 training hours £38.7m per person (2018: £36.6m) 70% satisfied with work-life balance (2018: 64%) WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT STRENGTH IN NUMBERS AGENCY SANTO BUENOS AIRES CLIENT SPRITE Sprite wanted to show Gen Z that there should not be any topics they feel too 80% increase in positive 300% increase in uncomfortable to talk about. So Santo sentiment free media launched You Are Not Alone, a series of forums on Reddit where young people can express their feelings on issues that make them feel isolated. To get the conversation 20x more consumer started, Santo asked influencers to share engagement than their own experiences to show people they previously are not alone. Date from: March 2019 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 26 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT SKILLS, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT By investing in training and development, we strengthen our creative, technical and K INTERNSHIPS AND APPRENTICESHIPS Internships and apprenticeships provide young people with valuable experience and 84% of our agencies discuss leadership skills – including the skills needed WPP with access to an additional talent pool. learning and development to advise our clients on sustainability. All our internships and apprenticeships are with applicants as part of Providing our people with opportunities for paid positions that are accessible to people their recruitment strategy training and for professional and personal from all backgrounds. Many of our internships development also helps keep them engaged seek to attract diverse candidates. In 2019, £38.7m in their work and with the Company. the Company offered 11,000 paid internships and apprenticeships (2018: 8,977) in 53 In 2019, we spent £38.7 million on training countries, primarily in Brazil, China, (2018: £36.6 million) and 66% of our people Germany, South Africa and the United States. spent on training in 2019 took part in an average 11 hours of formal (2018: £36.6m) training per person. In addition, almost For example, Wunderman Thompson Greece 66% 60,000 people accessed online courses hosts a number of paid internships each year through LinkedIn Learning (previously in cooperation with the official Advertising Lynda.com), which provides access to Association of Greece (EDEE) and the thousands of courses via desktop or American College of Greece (DEREE), to offer of our people took part in mobile devices. young people real-life work experience. formal training programmes Six interns from the last two years now have (2018: 65%) Around 900 of our leaders participated in our full-time jobs at Wunderman Thompson. group leadership training programmes such In London, M/Six offered paid six-week 11,000 as Maestro, which helps senior client-facing internships to three young people with people build confidence and effectiveness. autism, as part of the Ambitious About We are developing the coaching elements Autism exchange programme. of our programmes to help leaders share paid internships and the insights and skills gained through our EDUCATION PARTNERSHIPS apprenticeships offered programmes with their teams. During the We partner with schools, colleges and during 2019 year, we ran training for our top 200 global universities to promote careers in our leaders on sustainability as a lever for industry and help develop a future talent innovation and growth. pool with the skills we need. Our efforts range from large-scale corporate In addition, we follow up with training partnerships to support provided by our participants to assess the effectiveness offices to local education providers. Many AFRICA ACADEMY of a course and whether it has helped senior staff share their time and expertise The WPP Africa Academy in improve performance at work. as visiting lecturers and teachers. Our Johannesburg provides training strongest focus is on countries where and development opportunities for all WPP agencies in South Africa. Development needs are assessed during a our industry is less well-established. It aims to create a culture of learning formal appraisal process. In 2019, 86% (2018: and development for everyone from 76%) of our people had a formal appraisal, Examples include: account managers to the CEO. In 2019, including 360-degree appraisals for 65% the Academy delivered on-site training (2018: 66%) of executive leaders and 64% – WPP and Kantar’s partnership with Oxford to 17 agencies in the country. The (2018: 66%) of senior managers. Saïd Business School’s Future of Marketing training covered diverse topics from Initiative, which brings together academic strategy and leadership coaching Our people can find new roles within our and industry partners to discuss the future to social media masterclasses companies in the UK, China and Singapore of marketing in an increasingly digital, and presentation skills. using our online job board, Springboard. In interactive, and complex world. In 2020 the Academy will place 15 2019, around 24% of vacancies were filled by – Our partnership with D&AD’s New Blood previously disadvantaged students people already working within the Company Academy, an intensive two-week course into Digify Africa’s award-winning 10 (2018: 23%). that prepares young creatives for jobs in week intensive full-time bootcamp the industry and provides WPP with covering the A-Z of digital marketing access to the top talent seeking to start practitioner skills. The students will their careers. then circulate through different WPP agencies for internship roles and could be offered the chance to stay on permanently. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT REWARD AND REMUNERATION The competition for talented people in our industry is fierce. To win, we need to offer FLEXIBLE WORKING Flexible working can make work accessible to a broader pool of talent, including parents 38,000+ employees eligible for WPP attractive remuneration and benefits and people with caring responsibilities, stock option plans alongside rewarding work with opportunities helping to create a more diverse and to learn and develop. engaged workforce. We estimate around Not all markets offer identical benefits, but they typically include retirement savings 24% of our workforce had flexible working arrangements in place in 2019, such as part-time working, flexible hours, and home 24% of our workforce had flexible plans, health and wellness programmes, working, as well as career breaks and employee assistance schemes and life working arrangements in 2019 sabbaticals (2018: 25%). More than half of our assurance. Many of our people also join companies (55%) offer parental leave our performance-based incentive plans. benefits that exceed local legal requirements (2018: 48%). WPP has operated worldwide stock option plans since 1997 and makes grants to more than 38,000 eligible employees each year. COVID-19: IMPACT ON Senior people may participate in shareFLEXIBLE WORKING based incentive plans that align their reward At the time of writing approximately with that of our shareholders. 95% of our people worldwide are working from home. During this period of remote working we have held Executive pay is set in accordance with regular video town hall meetings, and our Directors’ Compensation Policy and the one of the most common questions UK Corporate Governance Code. The policy from employees is about working from is designed to attract and retain the best home when restrictions are lifted. Our available talent to WPP by incentivising employees have different needs and Directors to develop their skills and their concerns, reflecting our diverse teams, and so deliver excellent client service workforce. There is interest from some and sustainable shareholder returns. In 2020, in continuing to work remotely. For we will explore linking executive pay to others, particularly junior employees, there is a demand to return to working WPP's new environmental targets. in an office. When we come through the current situation, the world F  ind information about the CEO pay ratio in including the world of work will have our Annual Report, page 132 changed in ways that we cannot fully anticipate yet. We are reviewing our flexible work policy and putting plans in place to continue to support our people as their working environment evolves, be that at home or as we are able to reopen our offices. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT ENGAGEMENT AND FEEDBACK We use formal and informal mechanisms to assess and improve employee engagement For example: – Wunderman Thompson London challenged 53% of employees took part in and satisfaction. its people to a Plastic Free July in 2019, with surveys on sustainabilityweekly prizes for those taking part. related topics People forums are one example, which were – Planet H@Hogarth connected a global piloted in the UK in 2019. The views and ideas network of Green Teams during a Recycling 95% raised through these forums are shared with Week packed with activities from film our Non-Executive Board Directors screenings to DIY homecare workshops. responsible for workforce engagement and – GTB’s Dearborn ‘Sustainability Matters’ with the full Board. See the case study below Green Team – part of a global network of of our companies use exit for more details. Green Teams – hosted a Green Week with a interviews series of talks, recycling drives, volunteering Employee surveys help us assess and act opportunities and a vegan cooking on engagement and satisfaction levels. In competition. 2020, we will launch our first Company-wide employee survey. We conducted the first Read more about GroupM’s Mission Zero inclusion survey in the UK this year and are Working Group, page 40 currently analysing the results. Input from our people also generates The vast majority (95%) of our companies imaginative ways for WPP to help drive carry out exit interviews with leavers, which change at scale. For example, our Unpack often provide helpful feedback on our the Problem hackathon brought together culture and practices. people from across WPP’s London agencies for two days, to develop ideas for tackling Across our operating companies, sustainability plastic waste. The winning team, who enthusiasts are creating Green Teams to designed a new “green ecommerce search embed sustainability initiatives in their filter, now has an opportunity to transform companies and drive change in their office. their idea into an actionable solution to help reduce the impact of plastic on our planet. LABOUR RELATIONS K In September 2019, several WPP agencies PEOPLE FORUMS We support the rights of our people to join signed up to the Create and Strike initiative, To ensure our Board understands the trade unions and to bargain collectively, committing to giving their employees time views of our employees on WPP’s although trade union membership is not off to join the Global Climate Strike on purpose, values and strategy, in 2019 we established our first People Forum particularly widespread in our industry. 20 September, and to create materials in the UK. Sponsored by our UK In 2019, around 5% of our employees were to amplify the climate emergency message Country Manager, the Forum has either members of a trade union or covered during the strike. The climate emergency representatives from across our UK by a collective bargaining agreement (2018: is of growing concern to our people, and in business who gather feedback from 6%). We held 1,507 consultations with 2020 we will roll out Climate Crisis training their agencies to feed up to the WPP works councils, mainly in Europe (2018: 476). to equip our people with knowledge around Board. The Board also consults the the science of climate change and equip Forum on key people issues. We have made around 3,500 redundancies them to respond at home and at work. as part of our transformation programme, as The UK People Forum met three times during the year. In its first meeting, the we merge and restructure some agencies Forum identified the top five priorities and as a result of changes in our client base. for employees, which included We aim to support affected people through ‘creating cultures where all talent can our employee assistance programmes. thrive’ (top priority) and ‘sustainability’ (third priority). As a direct result of In 2019, there were 44 cases against WPP feedback through this Forum, we are companies reporting through employment piloting a new Sustainability Knowledge tribunals and other external channels (2018: Hub to share best practice and foster 47). We resolved 118 cases, including some collaboration on sustainability issues across our agencies. We also launched reported in previous years. Of these, 54 were the WPP Plastics Initiative (see page 41) withdrawn, 21 settled, 31 judged against our and developed resources in companies and 12 judged in our favour. collaboration with the Forum. In 2020, we will roll out an India People Forum representing employees from Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY Different backgrounds and perspectives are discrimination or concern for disability. Candidates are assessed objectively against Industry Leader what drive creativity. A diverse and inclusive the requirements of the job, taking account workplace is essential to our daily work and of any reasonable adjustments that may be our long-term success. We work hard to required for candidates with a disability. For make all our people feel valued and fulfilled people who develop a disability during their recognition for WPP in the at work, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, employment, we make adjustments to their Bloomberg Gender-Equality or disability. working environment or other employment Index arrangements wherever possible, within a WPP does not tolerate harassment, sexual reasonable time frame and in consultation harassment, discrimination or offensive behaviour of any kind. We select and promote our people based on their qualifications and with the employee. As an inclusive business we have signed up 68% of senior managers were merit, without discrimination or concern for to the Valuable500, a global initiative that is recruited from the country or factors such as race, religion, national origin, putting disability on the boardroom agenda region in which they work colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity celebrating inclusion among 500 influential (2018: 69%) or expression, age, or disability. Our Code of businesses. People who identify as being Business Conduct sets out this commitment, permanently disabled are the fastest1bn applies to all our people and is available on growing minority in the world and have our website, in our Policy Book and on our disposable income of US$8 trillion. We intranet. Our online ethics training, How We believe disability is big business. As part of Behave, covers diversity and unconscious bias. our commitment, we launched our new of the world’s population Inclusive Experience Practice, which helps identifies as being permanently DISABILITY brands to reach and be relevant to the disabled3 We recruit, select and promote our people widest market possible by making their on the basis of their qualifications, relevant communications, products and services experience, and merit, without inclusive and accessible. $8tn disposable income of disabled community4 SHINING A LIGHT ON 1 in 6 74% 68% of people with hearing loss have felt DISABILITY people in the UK suffer of people with hearing On International Day of Persons some form of loss felt that their employment isolated with Disabilities on 3 December hearing loss opportunities are limited at work because of their 2019, Wavemaker launched WM Enable, a global initiative to impairment promote understanding of disability and neurodiversity and support We are launching our disability and employees affected by a disability, neurodiversity support network, Enable to whether visible or not. The agency provide support for anyone affected by also took part in #PurpleLightUp, disability at Wavemaker. which saw its global headquarters in London turn purple to draw attention We want to ensure we are best positioned to to the economic empowerment of hire, develop and retain people with disabilities disabled people. Practical changes in our agency. to come in 2020 include introducing a handbook containing policies, Want to get involved? procedures and advice, as well as email Sarah Conway or William Breese training developed in partnership with disability organisations. 3 Disability inclusion, The World Bank. 4 The Global Economics of Disability, 2016 Annual Report. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 30 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT GENDER BALANCE K – Our Propeller programme provides training GENDER DIVERSITY Our overall workforce has an equal gender and coaching for high potential women. Board and Executive balance and 50% of our senior managers are It helps participants develop their cross37% (1,513) 63% (2,577) 2019 women (2018: 49%). During the year the company networks and address the hurdles proportion of women in executive leadership that women frequently encounter in their 36% (1,452) 64% (2,614) 2018 roles increased slightly to 37% (2018: 36%). career progression. 98 women had At Board level, the proportion of women is completed Propeller by the end of 2019. Senior Managers 40%, compared with 33% in 2018 and a – Lumena, GroupM’s global female 50% (8,689) 50% (8,578) 2019 FTSE 100 average of 32.4%6. We aim to development initiative, is run collectively by 49% (8,474) 51% (8,792) 2018 reach parity. all the women involved in the programme and aims to ignite the future leader in All other employees In 2019, WPP joined the 30% Club, a all women by providing development 57% (47,625) 43% (36,118) 2019 campaign group of Chairs and CEOs taking opportunities, knowledge-sharing and action to increase gender diversity on an expanded network. 56% (47,131) 44% (36,630) 2018 boards and management teams to a – Our Hero programme is a two-day Total employees minimum of 30% female representation. workshop created by and dedicated to women, through which they can share 55% (57,827) 45% (47,273) 2019 We remain a committed signatory of the experiences, increase self-awareness, 54% (57,057) 46% (48,036) 2018 Women’s Empowerment Principles, a guide and support one another’s professional for businesses on how to empower women in development. Female Male the workplace, marketplace and community. We are also a proud partner of UN Women, UNSTEREOTYPE ALLIANCE which is a significant beneficiary of our pro WPP and our agencies support the bono work. Unstereotype Alliance, a UN Women AGE DIVERSITY initiative that seeks to eradicate harmful Read more on page 23 gender stereotypes from all media and 19 or under <1% advertising content. Since its inception, 20–29 37% Our development programmes to support our agencies have been active within the 30–39 37% career progression for mid-level and senior Alliance, making commitments to eradicate 40–49 17% women include: stereotypes from their work, producing 50–59 7% research that supports the Alliance’s 60 and over 1% – Our WPP Stella network expanded to manifesto, and promoting diversity within France and the United States in 2019, in their workforces. For example, following addition to being active in India, Italy, Berlin-Cameron’s ‘Girl Brands do it Better’ Mexico, South Africa, Taiwan and the UK. campaign, the inclusive swimwear brand It aims to tackle barriers that may prevent Chromat is now stocked in Nordstorm women progressing to the most senior stores across the United States. roles. It runs events, networking opportunities, coaching and training and maintains a speaker database to raise the internal and external profile of our senior women. – Our award-winning Walk the Talk programme aims to address gender imbalance at leadership level. It gives participants the chance to focus on their professional and personal ambitions and develop their confidence to take the next steps towards their goals. 234 senior female leaders had participated across 59 of our companies by the end of 2019. 6 2019 Hampton-Alexander Review. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT WPP: A GLOBAL COMPANY NORTH UNITED KINGDOM WESTERN CENTRAL & AMERICA CONTINENTAL EUROPE EASTERN EUROPE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE 11,000 5,000 23,000 21,000 GENDER BALANCE GENDER BALANCE GENDER BALANCE GENDER BALANCE TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE 42% 58% 49% 51% 44% 56% 38% 62% EXECUTIVE LEADERS EXECUTIVE LEADERS EXECUTIVE LEADERS EXECUTIVE LEADERS 43% 35% 33% 39% 57% 65% 67% 61% WORKFORCE LATIN AMERICA AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC People employed WORKFORCE WORKFORCE WORKFORCE by WPP companies in a given region or country 11,000 6,000 29,000 GENDER BALANCE Male Female GENDER BALANCE GENDER BALANCE GENDER BALANCE TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE 48% 52% 44% 56% 46% 54% EXECUTIVE LEADERS EXECUTIVE LEADERS EXECUTIVE LEADERS 40% 39% 35% 60% 61% 65% WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 32 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING K MENTAL HEALTH DAYS LOST DUE TO SICKNESS Supporting our people’s physical and mental Work-related stress is one of our main – and 3.9 3.8 health and wellbeing is good for our people growing – health and safety hazards. Though 3.1 and good for business. The main health and having good policies and procedures in safety hazards in our business are work-related place for managing mental health issues is 417,707 404,381 stress and ergonomic injuries. 71% of our important, we also need a working culture 330,264 companies employ someone responsible for where people feel able to discuss concerns health and safety management (2018: 76%). and seek support. In countries where very There were no work-related fatalities in 2019. long working hours are the norm, our companies need to take additional measures. The range of programmes on offer in our These can include overtime restrictions 2017 2018 2019 businesses include: fitness facilities and and monthly management reviews of subsidised gym memberships; health and overtime worked. Days lost due to sickness nutrition services, including health insurance Days lost per person and medical assessments; counselling and In 2019, mental health was a major focus employee assistance services; and ergonomic for our companies in the UK. For example, risk assessments and specialist equipment. Mindshare held a week of workshops as part of its Balance employee wellbeing Our overall sickness absence rate in 2019 programme while MediaCom trained was 3.8 days per employee (2018: 2.9). employees as Mental Health Allies to This includes non-work-related illness and provide mental health support to their injuries, work-related illness and injuries, colleagues when needed. and occupational diseases such as workrelated stress and ergonomic injuries. BUILDING CONNECTIONS AGENCY DESIGN BRIDGE CLIENT LIPTON One in three people feel lonely. Just 15 minutes of quality connection a day can help reduce this feeling. To shine a light on the issue and encourage positive action, Lipton turned to Design Bridge. #YouMeTeaNow launched on World Mental Health Day and asks people to reach out and take a time-out with others over a cup of tea. Recognising that loneliness is never far away, we kicked the campaign off at work. Employees at Unilever and Design Bridge stepped away from their desk to help combat loneliness, one cup of tea and one connection at a time. 90m 1m people across reached 37 countries within 24hrs got involved Data from: October 2019 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT HELP ME FIND A WAY AGENCY VMLY&R CLIENT AMENA AUTISM CENTER The Amena Autism Center wanted to demystify autism, which is being diagnosed more often in the Middle East. To get the message out that understanding and helping people with autism can be challenging but not impossible, they turned to VMLY&R. This eye-catching print campaign was designed to raise awareness of autism and promote social inclusion as a basic human right for children with autism. 25% increase in phone calls to the charity Data from: April 2019 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 ENVIRONMENT We support urgent action to tackle the climate crisis and aim for net zero carbon emissions in our Campuses by 2025. WHO’S IN CHARGE? IN THIS SECTION Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of Sustainability has operational responsibility for managing our response OUR CLIMATE STRATEGY to climate change. She gave an annual assessment Our response to the climate crisis, including of sustainability risks and opportunities (including new carbon targets and support for the climate change) and performance to the Board. At Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Board level, the newly formed Sustainability Committee Disclosures (TCFD). has responsibility for sustainability and climate change, and meets a minimum of four times a year. REDUCING ENERGY USE FROM OUR BUILDINGS AND IT Including our Campus strategy. RENEWABLE ENERGY HOW ARE WE DOING? K Including purchasing 100% of electricity from renewable sources in the United States for the first time this year. tonnes CO2e emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 0.60 per person (2018: 0.76tCO2e) AIR TRAVEL AND OFFSETTING How we seek to minimise our impact through air travel. VALUE CHAIN EMISSIONS of floor space certified to advanced 25% Breakdown of our Scope 3 emissions. green building standards, meeting our 2020 target a year early (2018: 21%) CIRCULAR ECONOMY Our approach to managing waste and resources, and our new plastics initiative launched in 2019. of electricity from renewable sources 35% (2018: 32%) United States electricity from renewable 100% sources for the first time WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 ENVIRONMENT WHY WAIT? AGENCY GEOMETRY CLIENT ESSENTIAL COSTA RICA AND PRESERVE PLANET Countries around the world are legislating to ban In just six weeks post-launch, the campaign single-use plastics. But at 564 tons of plastic waste a had generated: 255m 450,000 day, Costa Rica asked, “why wait? . Geometry asked eco-activists across Costa Rica to take photos of products with unnecessary layers of plastic and share fewer plastic pieces likes them on social media. The team then asked a group of young product designers to create sustainable alternatives that save time, save money, and save our planet. These solutions were published online so that 196 solutions created companies could find and implement them. wpp.com/rubbishrubbish Data from: March – April 2019 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 ENVIRONMENT OUR CLIMATE STRATEGY To achieve our target, we are focusing on TARGETS AND COMMITMENTS 0.41 We support urgent action to tackle the two areas: climate crisis through the Paris Climate Agreement. – Reducing emissions from our buildings and IT: we met a year early our goal for tonnes of CO2e per employee We recognise that modern lifestyles have 25% of our floor space to be certified to by 2030 aligned with climate contributed significantly to the climate crisis recognised green building standards by science – a 50% reduction and environmental degradation. We also 2020. We are also reducing energy use from 2017 know the threat these impacts pose to through office consolidation and IT global social and economic development. transformation. 100% Advertising has undoubtedly played a role in – Purchasing renewable electricity: our goal fuelling consumerism – but we are excited is for 100% of the electricity we buy to be about the part it can now play in promoting from renewable sources by 2025. low-impact and regenerative living. renewable electricity by 2025 Our target builds on our progress to date. Net zero Our environmental management We have cut carbon emissions intensity programmes are reducing our carbon (scope 1 and 2) by 69% and absolute emissions and broader environmental emissions by 58% since 2006. impact, while helping us to identify and carbon emissions in our mitigate climate-related risk. These We aim to reduce business air travel and Campuses by 2025 programmes reduce costs and business offset unavoidable emissions, as described risks, while meeting our clients’ and on page 39. 100% colleagues’ expectations. We participate in the CDP Climate Change In 2018, we committed to halving our scope programme to disclose our climate strategy 1 and 2 emissions intensity by 2030, from and performance to a collaboration of of emissions from air travel a 2017 baseline. We use a carbon intensity institutional investors. In 2019, our score offset through the purchase of target per person, as headcount is closely dropped to B from Ain 2018, mainly due to high-quality carbon credits linked to levels of business activity and our score for governance of climate-related this allows us to reflect the impact of issues and being unable to report on our full acquisitions and disposals without needing scope 3 inventory at the time of reporting. to adjust our baseline. Our target was While disappointing, we now have measures developed to align with climate science in place to help to restore our score. These using a methodology aligned to the Science measures include strengthened governance Based Target Initiative. through our new Board-level Sustainability Committee, and the work on scope 3 This year, we are going further, setting a emissions described on page 40. TASKFORCE ON CLIMATEnew goal to reach net zero carbon emissions RELATED FINANCIAL in our Campuses by 2025. We also plan to DISCLOSURES complete a scope 3 carbon inventory in We support the Taskforce order to set net zero commitments across on Climate-related Financial our value chain. Disclosures (TCFD) and are developing our disclosures in line with its recommendations. This is reflected for the second year in our reporting on climate change in our Annual Report. SCOPE 1 AND 2 (MARKET BASED) K DECOUPLING EMISSIONS FROM The TCFD seeks to encourage TONNES CO2e EMISSIONS PER PERSON BUSINESS GROWTH 1 businesses to disclose climaterelated risks and opportunities and 2.0 300 is structured around four themes: 240 224% governance, strategy, risk 1.5 management, and metrics 180 and targets. 1.0 134% 0.60 120 0.5 To read our TCFD disclosure 60 0.41 42% and full carbon emissions 0 statement, see our Annual 07 11 15 19 23 27 30 2006 2010 2013 2016 2019 Report, pages 196-197 and 199 Headcount intensity Revenue Target headcount intensity Headcount Emissions 1 The financial results for 2019 are based on the Group’s continuing operations and the results of Kantar are presented separately as discontinued operations. The 2017 and 2018 reported numbers have been re-presented in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 ENVIRONMENT REDUCING ENERGY USE FROM OUR BUILDINGS AND IT K We are reducing our energy use and In 2019, over 4.9 million square feet accounting for 25% of our total floor space, was certified to a recognised standard (2018: Net zero carbon emissions in our carbon footprint by moving our offices to 21%), meeting our target of 25% by 2020 a Campuses by 2025 low-carbon, energy-efficient buildings. year early. We have made steady progress Simplifying our structure and consolidating since 2007, when 1% of our floor space was 25% office space is also having an impact, by certified. Smaller offices must either be reducing the number of offices we occupy, certified or assessed against our own and moving to locations that use space more scorecard covering energy and carbon, efficiently and encourage collaboration water, materials and waste, travel, and health floor space certified to between our companies. In 2019, we opened and safety. advanced green build new Campuses in Amsterdam, Bucharest, standards, meeting our 2020 Madrid, Mumbai and New York. We expect We continue consolidating the number target a year early around 75,000 of our people to be working of servers we use, which further reduces in co-located offices by the end of 2023. energy consumption. In 2019, we decommissioned over 4,800 servers and We apply green building standards to moved around 1,400 older servers to help us reduce our impact. When we lease, best-in-class data centres. purchase, fit out or renovate a building larger than 50,000 square feet, we require it to be In addition to energy reductions, we aim certified to an internationally-recognised to design and run our offices in a way that standard such as the US LEED standard or promotes wellbeing. Considering factors the UK BREEAM standard. We estimate such as indoor air quality (especially in large this reduces energy use by around 21% cities), thermal comfort, lighting levels, noise per location. and acoustics is good for our people and can help boost productivity. RENEWABLE ENERGY K In 2019, we purchased 35% percent of our electricity from renewable sources, up from ELECTRICITY FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES % 100% K 35% electricity purchased from 32% in 2018 and signalling progress towards renewable sources (2018: 32%) our new target of 100% by 2025. 44,914 We now purchase green electricity in 20 35% 26% 32% countries, with five countries covering 95% of our purchases: United States, UK, Germany, Italy and Sweden. We continue Green-e Energy certified RECs to explore opportunities to expand to 2017 2018 2019 2025 purchased for 2019 target other markets. As green-tariff contracts are not available in all locations, we purchase renewable energy certificates (RECs) in the United States, our 100% electricity from renewable largest market. Each REC purchased is sources in the United States for equivalent to 1MWh of renewable energy the first time and promotes investment in renewable energy generation. We purchased 44,914 Green-e Energy certified RECs for 2019. This reduced our scope 2 market-based emissions in the United States by around 18,994 tonnes compared to the location-based total. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 ENVIRONMENT AIR TRAVEL AND OFFSETTING In 2019, air travel accounted for around half of our reported carbon footprint. To offset the Our videoconferencing capabilities have supported our business operations in their transition to remote working as a result of the 100% of our air travel emissions offset resulting emissions, we began purchasing Covid-19 pandemic response. We are working through high-quality carbon high-quality carbon credits in 2007, and have to ensure best-practice in virtual meetings credits since 2007 since purchased and permanently retired and events is captured to support virtual 1.55 million carbon credits, which get charged working in the future and reduce air travel 1.55m to each of our operating companies to create where other options are available. an internal carbon cost. We purchase the credits through South Pole CARBON EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAVEL/ carbon credits purchased and Group, a company that develops emissionMILES TRAVELED PER HEAD permanently retired since 2007 reduction projects. In 2019, we invested almost £160,000 to support four renewable 4,269 energy-generation projects in Brazil, China, 3,800 3,792 India and Indonesia. Together, these projects generate over 2.8 million MWh of renewable 74,151 69,425 electricity a year and support 11 of the 65,014 UN Sustainable Development Goals. We have been investing in videoconferencing and remote working capabilities as part of our IT Transformation Programme. Videoconferencing is integrated into our 2017 2018 2019 online collaboration platforms, enabling Scope 3 emissions from business air travel CO2e colleagues to join virtual meetings anytime, Total emissions from air travel anywhere. Our teams can run webcasts with Miles travelled per head up to 500 participants. SUPPORTING GEOTHERMAL ENERGY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN INDONESIA With over 150 active volcanoes and 40% of the world’s geothermal reserves, Indonesia has huge potential for producing clean energy. Through our offsetting programme we support the Gunung Salak project, the first geothermal energy plant in Indonesia, which is helping the country to meet its growing energy needs from non-fossil fuel sources. As it develops, this project is investing heavily in sustainable development by providing skilled employment opportunities in a rural community, supporting regional education programmes and offering vocational training to unemployed local people. In total the project generates around 1.4 million MWh of renewable energy each year, mitigating more than 105,000 tCO2e in carbon emissions. Its sustainable development programmes have invested 1.1 billion IDR in community services in rural Java. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 ENVIRONMENT VALUE CHAIN EMISSIONS The three main categories are: CARBON EMISSIONS IN OUR Carbon emissions from our value chain (scope OPERATIONS AND VALUE CHAIN 3) are many times greater than those from – Day-to-day activities: direct scope 1 and 2 % our own operations (scope 1 and 2). emissions from running our business, We aim to work with suppliers to reduce including office energy use, and scope 3 these emissions, and are exploring how to set emissions from business air travel, a reduction target in line with climate science. employee commuting and waste disposal. Office energy use is covered by our current The pie chart shows an estimated carbon target, and we offset 100% of our breakdown of our emissions by source, emissions from business air travel. based on analysis of our UK emissions. – Goods and services: scope 3 emissions associated with the goods and services we buy from supplier partners to create Advertising we place for clients 81% marketing campaigns for clients and to run Goods and services we buy 15% our business. Day-to-day activities 4% – Advertising we place for clients: scope 3 emissions from the physical distribution of advertising. In 2020, we plan to complete a scope 3 carbon inventory in order to set net zero commitments across our value chain. WORKING TOWARDS ZERO-CARBON MEDIA In 2019, GroupM set up a working group to define the role of media agencies in a zero-carbon future, with representatives from GroupM and each of its agencies. The group has developed a blueprint that addresses the strategic and organisational changes required for agencies to succeed in a zero-carbon world. One example is a carbon calculator for media plans, developed by MediaCom in partnership with carbon offsetting partner, CO2balance. The calculator gauges the carbon footprint of delivering a media plan, taking into account the channels used. The results allow us to adjust the media mix to reduce a plan’s carbon footprint, and enables clients to offset the overall carbon footprint of their media strategy. MediaCom North has been awarded The Planet Mark sustainability certification for committing to reduce its carbon footprint year-on-year. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 ENVIRONMENT CIRCULAR ECONOMY In 2019, WPP committed to take the “plastic out of “Wire and Plastic Products by: WASTE AND RESOURCES K We aim to use resources carefully and to reduce and recycle as much as possible. Our 56% of our waste recycled main waste types are electronic waste and (2018: 54%) – phasing out plastics that cannot be office consumables such as paper, card, reused, recycled or composted across cans, plastic bottles and toner cartridges. 17% all of our 3,000+ agency offices and Campuses worldwide by the end of 2020; In 2019, the Company generated 8,578 – signing up to the New Plastics tonnes of waste (2018: 9,598) of which we Economy Global Commitment led by recycled 56%. Of the remaining waste, 17% of non-recycled waste UN Environment and the Ellen MacArthur was incinerated with energy recovery (2018: incinerated with energy Foundation which aims to unite 9%) and 83% was disposed of via landfill, recovery (2018: 9%) businesses, governments and other incineration without energy recovery, or an stakeholders behind a common vision undetermined method (2018: 91%). We have for a plastics system that works; and identified preferred recycling partners for WASTE RECYCLED – pledging to work with clients and partners our operating companies in all major markets % to drive consumer change at scale. and we work with landlords on waste Proportion recycled waste 56% management in the properties we lease. Proportion non-recycled waste 44% We use the Ellen MacArthur Foundation definition of single-use plastics: plastic items intended to be used just once before they are thrown away, and which cannot be DESIGN FOR RECYCLING reused, recycled or composted after use. Our new WPP Campuses are a great opportunity to design out plastic waste, implement effective Our new Circular Economy Plastics Policy recycling infrastructure and encourage sustainable behaviour. We provide reusable and Plastics Playbook provides each of our water bottles and cups when people move into agencies and offices with practical guidance Campuses, and have been experimenting to find on how to phase out plastic waste, with the optimal signage, placement and design of Waste sent to landfill or unknown resources including: a plastics audit recycling bins, learning from work our Ogilvy destination 61% template; jargon buster; and tips on how to behavioural scientists carried out with clients Incinerated without energy recovery 22% reduce recycling contamination. including WRAP and Costa Coffee. Incinerated with energy recovery 17% Our agencies are all at different stages of These techniques are not limited to new the journey. As an early adopter, MediaCom Campuses and are also being rolled out at existing sites including our global headquarters UK has already achieved the A Plastic Planet in London. Commitment Mark, while other agencies are still developing the best approach for them. Our people are the driving force behind some To share best practice between agencies, of these changes. In New York, Ogilvy’s Young we are piloting a new WPP Sustainability Professionals Network (YPN) has worked with Knowledge Hub – an interactive forum the café and building management at its where people can discuss what works Chocolate Factory offices to eliminate plastic and what does not in the mission to reduce straws and switch from plastic salad boxes to plastic waste. compostable, corn starch-based containers. Phasing out single-use plastics across our offices is an ambitious goal but our greatest impact is through our client work. We have worked with more than 60 clients to help them reduce their own single-use plastics use, supporting our clients across four core areas of expertise: 1  avigating a complex regulatory N framework: helping companies shape the debate and secure their place in the new circular economy. 2 Product and packaging design and innovation: redesigning products and packaging to reduce or remove plastic and rethink how products reach (and are used by) consumers. 3 Consumer engagement and behaviour change: to change social norms and mobilise consumer action. 4 Partnerships and activism: to build credibility and drive change at scale. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 ENVIRONMENT CHALLENGING MEATY NORMS AGENCY DAVID CLIENT BURGER KING In the United States, animal farming is responsible for half of the carbon emissions released into the atmosphere, even if it is only responsible for 3% of the calories in our diet (LCA Impossible Foods 2019). When Burger King wanted to reduce the environmental impact of the Whopper, they turned to DAVID to help get meat-eaters to try something new. The Impossible Whopper looks, smells and tastes just like a Whopper should, but the plant-based patty delivers that same great Whopper taste with an 89% drop in carbon emissions. It is almost impossible to believe that helping the planet could taste so good. 13bn $140m impressions in earned media 10 yrs 89% best-selling product reduction in GHG launch in 10 years emissions achieved by each Impossible Data from: April 2019 Whopper compared to meat-based equivalents wpp.com/impossiblewhopper EVERYDAY CLIMATE ACTION AGENCY H+K STRATEGIES CLIENT DOCONOMY When Swedish fintech Doconomy wanted to find an innovative solution to addressing the climate crisis, they turned to H+K Strategies. Alongside RBK Communication, H+K helped them create DO Black: a credit card with a carbon emission limit, which stops you from overspending not based on available funds but on the impact caused by your consumption. It blocks transactions exceeding the CO2 limit, disables the credit card and notifies the cardholder, giving people a real feel for their carbon footprint. $100m 10,000+ in earned registered users media in Sweden 80+ Winner banks and credit card Cannes Grand Prix companies discussing and a silver Lion collaboration Data from: April 2019-January 2020 wpp.com/doblack WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 42 SUPPLY CHAIN We expect the companies we work with to meet high ethical, human rights, workplace and environmental standards. However, with over 130,000 companies in our supply chain, some risks will remain. We endeavour to mitigate these risks. WHO’S IN CHARGE? IN THIS SECTION Our Group procurement team is led by our new Chief Procurement Officer and manages centrally negotiated contracts with preferred suppliers. A OUR SUPPLY CHAIN significant proportion of additional procurement Setting and communicating is delivered through contracts negotiated by budget holders within our operating companies. clear supplier standards, and Our sustainability team provides Group Procurement embedding sustainability and our companies with guidance on the implementation of our responsible sourcing standards. criteria within our supplier selection and onboarding process. HUMAN RIGHTS Managing human rights and HOW ARE WE DOING? modern slavery risk, and promoting human rights. CODE OF All suppliers must read and sign CONDUCT our Supplier Code of Conduct Pre-selection questionnaire with 12 integrated sustainability criteria rolled MARKETS out across 12 key markets, with an intent to roll out to further markets during 2020 Redeveloping our approach to REVIEW supply chain management and responsible sourcing of procurement spend in the United States 1.6% is with certified diverse suppliers (2018: 2.1%) WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 SUPPLY CHAIN THE POWER OF PEN ON PAPER AGENCY GREY CLIENT AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL Amnesty International wanted to show Indonesians that a single signature can make a big impact. So Grey created Signature, a poster series chronicling the role petitions can play in ending human rights violations such as child marriage and gender-based violence, and calling for Indonesians to take action by putting pen to paper. 25% increase in signature pledges to Amnesty International Indonesia Data from: October-December 2019 YOUNG BRIDE AGENCY WUNDERMAN THOMPSON CLIENT THE LEBANESE WOMEN DEMOCRATIC GATHERING Over 3,000 child brides were legally married in Lebanon in 2018. Wunderman Thompson turned the tables on the tradition through the website young3arous.com, a fake e-matrimony child bride site. To highlight the plight of child brides, a film tells the story of a 12-year-old girl, in a white wedding dress and veil, marrying a man who looks old enough to be her grandfather. The story gained traction across media and instigated a demonstration to change the law which reached Parliament. 6m The proposed new law to raise the legal age of marriage to 18 was people engaged in presented to Parliament the campaign once more for hearing Data from: October-November 2018 wpp.com/youngbride WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 44 SUPPLY CHAIN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN To continue to strengthen our due diligence, Our suppliers fall into two main categories: in 2019 we completed the roll-out of those providing goods and services that we two additional supplier pre-selection use to run our companies such as IT, travel, questionnaires across 12 of our largest telecommunications, professional services markets. The first questionnaire is for use and facilities; and those providing services with potential new suppliers. It assesses used in client work, such as advertising compliance with our core standards in areas production and market research. such as legal compliance, labour and human rights practices, environment and supply In 2019, we commissioned an independent chain management. The second, more consultancy to assess the maturity of our detailed information request, will help us to supply chain management policies and monitor standards in our supply chain and processes. Following this evaluation, our work with suppliers to address gaps and new Chief Procurement Officer is leading a risk areas. complex programme of activities designed to evaluate and implement a modernised Any “flags raised in this process are procurement ecosystem and infrastructure. immediately sent to the global sustainability This work includes a project to develop an team for investigation before any further automated consolidation of our supply chain onboarding takes place. systems across WPP in order to upgrade data insights on our suppliers. Working with As part of a wider transformation of our Group Procurement, the sustainability team procurement data systems and processes, is conducting an exploratory project on how we will conduct comprehensive assessments to embed new controls and processes to of a selection of our suppliers within high-risk develop a more mature responsible sourcing countries (e.g. for issues such as modern programme. slavery) and will embed responsible procurement guidance and any changes or SOURCING STANDARDS updates to processes as required. Our expectations of suppliers are set out in our Supplier Code Of Conduct, which is SUPPLIER DIVERSITY based on the Code that applies to all WPP We work with many small and diverse companies and people. The supplier version suppliers and this can be a source of new includes requirements relating to labour ideas and creativity. In the United States, practices (such as anti-harassment and around 1.6% of spend (2018: 2.1%) is with discrimination, and health and safety), human certified diverse suppliers including rights (including modern slavery issues such womenand minority-owned businesses. as child, forced or bonded labour), social Our data does not capture the number of impacts (such as anti-bribery and corruption) small suppliers. We have recently expanded as well as other sustainability issues. Our our data collection to cover some of our Code requires suppliers to apply similar European markets, and aim to report on standards to companies within their own this next year. supply chain. SUPPLIER SELECTION We have already established due diligence processes to help us select suppliers that meet our responsible sourcing standards, and we work with them to positively influence the wider supply chain. This reduces risks to our business and clients and enables us to respond to the growing number of client tender processes that include supply chain management criteria. As part of our supplier onboarding process, we evaluate potential new suppliers on factors such as assurance of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation and sustainability. Our procurement policy requires that anyone who buys goods and services in any WPP company considers sustainability risks and criteria to determine whether suppliers are fit for purpose. Supplier partners must read and sign the WPP Supplier Code of Conduct, confirming that they will comply with our standards, and we include a right-to-audit clause in purchase orders where appropriate. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are included in the ethics In line with the Australian Modern Slavery Respect for human rights is a fundamental training completed by all employees, which Act, our Group procurement team has principle for WPP. We aim to prevent, we updated during the year as part of a re-evaluated our supply chain and conducted identify and address any negative impacts wider commitment. a risk assessment on a selection of direct on human rights associated with our suppliers based on country, category, business activities. See ‘Attracting and Retaining Talent’, industry and spend. pages 25-34 We look for opportunities to promote human WPP is also committed to working with rights, in areas such as our pro bono work. We work with clients to manage any human other businesses and governments to act rights risks from marketing campaigns, for against modern slavery. In the UK, we are a S  ee examples of our pro bono work, example by protecting children’s rights in member of the Home Office Business Against pages 22-24 relation to marketing. WPP companies will Slavery Forum (BASF) and are on the Steering not undertake work designed to mislead Committee of the inaugural Business Against Our human rights policy statement on human rights issues. Slavery Conference, which aims to bring summarises our approach. It reflects together businesses and leading experts to international standards and principles, MODERN SLAVERY consider best practice business responses to including the International Bill of Human We do not tolerate any form of modern risks of modern slavery. Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business slavery in our business or supply chain. and Human Rights, the International Labour T  o learn more download our Modern Slavery Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental WPP recognises the prevalence of modern Act Transparency Statement Principles and Rights at Work and the slavery across all countries. We aim to Children’s Rights and Business Principles. implement appropriate measures to mitigate the risk of it occurring, either in our own We are a member of the United Nations operations or those of our partners. To this Global Compact and report progress against end, we are working with a transnational its 10 principles annually. This report forms crime consultant to help us re-evaluate our our fifth annual communication on progress. approach to managing modern slavery risks within our supply chain. See reporting standards index, pages 61-64 As part of our due diligence process, Our most direct impact on human rights our supplier questionnaires include an is as a major employer. We recognise the assessment of modern slavery risk. In 2019, rights of our people, including those relating we updated our Global Supplier Agreement to freedom of association and collective to include a specific clause relating to bargaining, and we do not tolerate modern slavery. harassment or any form of forced, compulsory or child labour. TRANSPORT INITIATIVE They then took part in surveys and interviews to FOR SURVIVORS OF MODERN SLAVERY provide qualitative and quantitative data. The Using public transport to reach job interviews or findings will be published after further analysis in appointments is prohibitively expensive for many late 2020. survivors of modern slavery and can be a barrier to recovery. The Rights Lab said, “It is through research and evidence gathering such as this that we start to In 2019, we supported the launch of an initiative, get an insight into the daily realities for survivors of alongside charity Hestia, the Rights Lab from The modern slavery and can understand what is University of Nottingham, The Salvation Army, needed to enable them to thrive and not fall back Transport for London, and other companies, to into exploitative situations”. understand the transport needs of survivors of modern slavery in London and build the evidence Hestia said, “We are incredibly grateful to WPP for needed to push for policy change in this area. their support to this important and innovative project. Transport poverty is a significant barrier in From December 2019 to February 2020, 100 the recovery and integration of survivors of modern survivors of modern slavery in London received slavery whom we support.” Oyster cards, which were topped up fortnightly. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 46 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We can reduce risks to our business and clients by establishing clear policies and procedures in areas such as data security, ethical conduct, supply chain management, and human rights, and by being transparent about our progress. WHO’S IN CHARGE? IN THIS SECTION Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of Sustainability has operational responsibility for sustainability. She heads our central sustainability team, which develops TRANSPARENCY AND TRUST strategy and coordinates sustainability projects and Our standards, policies and data collection. Our Group Chief Privacy Officer leads our work on privacy and partners with our companies procedures, including our as well as our security and audit teams to promote Code of Conduct. privacy best practices. At Board level, the newly formed Sustainability Committee is responsible for sustainability. PRIVACY AND DATA ETHICS Managing human rights and modern slavery risk, and promoting human rights. HOW ARE WE DOING? TAX POLICY Summary of our tax payments in 2019, as well more than 57,000 people completed ethics 57,000+ as our approach to tax training in 2019 planning and transparency. GOVERNANCE AND DISABILITY Disability Policy launched MANAGEMENT POLICY Embedding sustainability in our companies and engaging our stakeholders. CHARTER Data Privacy and Security Charter updated UPDATE to include Artificial Intelligence Statement WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SHUT DOWN TO OPEN UP AGENCY VMLY&R AND WAVEMAKER CLIENT GAZETA.PL When liberal news portal Gazeta.pl wanted to start a national debate in Poland about everyday sexism and gender inequalities, they turned to VMLY&R and Wavemaker for help. The agencies suggested they team up with MasterCard and BNP Paribas to buy Twój Weekend (Your Weekend), one of Poland’s longest-running and most-read adult magazines. And then close it down. Before they shut it down, the team reimagined its last issue, The Women’s Issue, filling regular sections and columns with content on gender portrayal, sexism, equal rights and more. The project is supported by an advertising campaign, including outdoor, media, cinema, radio, press, social media and online. 4.5m 25m organic reach media impressions Winner Cannes Titanium Lion, Grand Prix, and three bronze Lions Data from: March 2019 wpp.com/thelasteverissue WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 48 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS TRANSPARENCY AND TRUST We set clear standards, policies and procedures to ensure high levels of ASSOCIATES, AFFILIATES AND ACQUISITIONS We expect associate companies (those in 57,000+ people completed ethics transparency and trust throughout which we hold a minority stake) and affiliate training in 2019 our business. companies (preferred partners to whom we may refer business) to adopt ethical OUR CODE OF CONDUCT standards that are consistent with our own. Our policy framework and training set clear ethical standards for our people Our due diligence process for acquisitions and companies. and expansion into new markets includes a review of ethical risks including those The WPP Code of Business Conduct relating to bribery and corruption, human summarises our principles and key policies rights or ethical issues associated with that apply to everyone at WPP. It is client work. underpinned by more detailed policies on anti-bribery and corruption, hospitality We identify any specific human rights and gifts, facilitation payments, the use of risks associated with different countries third-party advisors, human rights and of operation, using sources such as the sustainability. In 2019, we implemented Transparency International Corruption Index, a new Disability Policy. Human Rights Watch country reports and government guidance. We require our people to take our online ethics training, How We Behave, on joining Acquired businesses must adopt our policies and then on a regular basis, including after and their people must undertake our ethics each update (at least every two to three training within a month of joining WPP. This years). Topics include diversity, human rights, is agreed in an integration plan before the conflicts of interest and avoiding misleading acquisition is finalised, and we monitor work. More than 57,000 employees progress. completed the training in 2019. In 2020, How We Behave will be refreshed and new PUBLIC POLICY modules will be introduced on sustainability Most of our public policy activity is work that and business integrity. our public affairs businesses carry out for clients, including direct lobbying of public Our online training on anti-bribery and officials and influencing public opinion. corruption covers the requirements of the On occasion, we also advocate on issues Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery that affect our business. Act, including issues such as hospitality and gifts, facilitation payments and the use of We believe that business can make a third-party advisors. valuable contribution to public policy debate, but that to protect the public MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE interest it is important to conduct all Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of lobbying with integrity and transparency. Sustainability oversees our approach to ethics and compliance. Senior managers Our public affairs companies include: Burson in all our companies and our business and Cohn & Wolfe and its affiliates (Prime Policy supplier partners are asked to sign a copy Group and Direct Impact); Penn Schoen of the WPP Code of Business Conduct each Berland; Finsbury; Glover Park Group; and year to confirm they will comply with its Hill+Knowlton Strategies and its affiliates principles. Since 2019, our newly-established (OGR and Benenson Strategy Group). The Board-level Sustainability Committee and majority of their work takes place in the Executive Committee sustainability working United States and the EU, although many group provide additional oversight and clients are multinational businesses guidance on any ethical issues that may arise. operating in many countries. Our people can report concerns or suspected OUR STANDARDS cases of misconduct confidentially through Our Code of Business Conduct and Political our independently managed Right to Speak Activities and Engagement Policy govern our facility, which is overseen by our legal and political activities, and both are available on business integrity teams and is available our website. These documents commit us to via phone or email in local languages. We acting ethically in all aspects of our business publicise the facility in induction packs, on and to maintaining the highest standards of our intranet, in the WPP Policy Book and via honesty and integrity. Political activities in our ethics training. particular should be conducted legally, ethically and transparently and all related In 2019, we received 361 reports (2018: 200) communication should be honest, factual via Right to Speak, all of which were followed and accurate. Our policies apply to all up, investigated where appropriate by our companies and employees at all levels. legal, business integrity and internal audit teams, and reported to the Audit Committee. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Many of our companies are members of POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS MEMBERSHIP OF TRADE ASSOCIATIONS professional organisations and abide by WPP companies are not permitted to We are members of trade associations, their codes of conduct. Examples include make direct cash donations. Other political industry groups and membership the UK Association of Professional Political donations can only be made with the organisations which undertake lobbying Consultants (APPC), and the European Public prior written approval of a WPP executive activity on behalf of their members. We Affairs Consultancies’ Association (EPACA). director. Donations must be reported to select organisations with priorities and WPP legal before they are made, to confirm values aligned with our own and with robust WPP companies comply with all applicable they comply with this policy and to obtain governance processes. WPP companies laws and regulations governing the disclosure the necessary approvals. must nominate a senior manager to manage of public affairs activities. In the United and oversee trade association relationships. States, this includes the Lobby Disclosure Act POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES and the Foreign Agent Registration Act, In countries where it is consistent with At a Company level, our memberships which are designed to achieve transparency applicable law, individuals working at include: 30% Club, the American Benefits on client representation and require lobby WPP companies may make personal Council, All Party Parliamentary Corporate firms to register the names of clients on voluntary political contributions directly Responsibility Group, British American whose behalf they contact legislators or to candidates for office. Several of our Business Inc, Business Disability Forum, executive branch personnel. A number of our businesses, including Burson Cohn & Business Roundtable, CBI, China Britain companies are listed on the voluntary EU Wolfe/Prime Policy and Glover Park Group Business Council, Executive Leadership Transparency Register of lobbying activities. also maintain political action committees Council, Institute of Business Ethics, the (PACs) which accept voluntary donations Northeast Business Group on Health, PARC, Our companies in the United States whose from their people to support political Trilateral Commission, Valuable 500, Wall sole or primary business is lobbying have candidates. In 2019, these PACs made Street Journal CEO Council, Women on representatives of both major political disbursements worth $128,295 Boards, and the World Economic Forum. parties among senior management. (data from fec.gov). In our markets, our companies are often LOBBYING AND POLITICAL ADVOCACY We will not undertake work that is intended members of local advertising, PR, public We occasionally contribute to the debate on to mislead and always seek to identify the affairs and market research industry public policy issues relevant to our business, underlying client before taking on work. associations, as well as national chambers sometimes through our public affairs We do not knowingly represent “front of commerce and business councils. companies. groups purporting to be independent campaign groups but which are in fact We advocate on sustainability issues, controlled by another organisation for the through partnerships such as the Common purpose of misleading. Ground initiative in support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2019, Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of Demet İkiler, WPP Turkey Country Manager Sustainability has responsibility for developing and EMEA CEO of GroupM, joined the local and implementing our political activity policy board of the UN Global Compact with and public reporting procedures. The CEO responsibility for diversity and inclusion. and CFO in each country or region are Karen Blackett OBE, WPP UK Country responsible for implementing our policy at Manager, serves as the UK Government’s the local level. Race at Work Champion, supporting the Race at Work Charter. Any third parties conducting political activities on behalf of WPP or its companies Our companies contribute to public policy must comply with our Political Activities debate in areas where they have expertise and and Engagement Policy. Third parties are a special interest. Our digital and research required to complete the WPP ethics training companies, for example, are involved in or equivalent within their own organisation. privacy and data protection issues. WPP companies must implement clear procedures for employing serving or former politicians, including a six-month “coolingoff period for people joining WPP from public office or the public sector. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 50 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRIVACY AND DATA ETHICS AUDIT AND DUE DILIGENCE DATA HEALTH CHECKER More than ever, data underpins, drives and Our company-wide audit programme We use our Data Health Checker to review contributes to the work that we do for our includes controls reflecting the technical privacy risks and data security practices in clients. We use the term “data in its and organisational measures in place to our businesses. This provides insight into broadest sense, to include client data, protect data, as well as specific data privacy how data is used, stored and transferred and consumer data, and all information and data controls. Our internal audit team runs a helps to identify any parts of the business related to the operating our businesses. rolling programme of audits across our that need further support on data practices. companies to review privacy risks and The results show that the majority of our We require all our people to operate in practices using these controls. companies continue to have measures in line with our Data Code of Conduct. This place that meet or exceed their level of contains the underlying principles that: WPP, Suppliers who collect, manage or store privacy risk (the average risk score is 2.14, its companies and its people are committed employee, consumer or client data on where 5 is the maximum risk score). Of those to the responsible collection, management, behalf of WPP, our companies and our companies surveyed, 80% have a dedicated use and protection of data; and we recognise clients must have the right data security privacy lead. our obligations to all stakeholders, including and privacy standards in place. We conduct shareholders, clients, our own people, due diligence on data suppliers and embed suppliers and consumers. privacy requirements in our supplier contracts. We focus on building our people's awareness and knowledge so everyone TRAINING AND ENGAGEMENT understands and takes responsibility for We continue to enhance our Safer Data data privacy and security. We have robust platform, which is a well-used resource standards and governance processes in place across the Group. The platform provides to reduce risks and comply with regulation. information, guidance and resources to help We partner with clients, peers and industry our people understand privacy risks and to organisations to promote best practice. apply our policies in their work. In 2020, the focus will continue to increase on The platform also includes our regulatory data ethics, artificial intelligence and machine toolkits for GDPR, CCPA and LGPD, model learning, and privacy by design, particularly data protection contract clauses, privacy as the availability and possible applications of impact assessment tools, policy templates data increase across all areas of our business. and other topic – or jurisdiction-specific guidance and resources. POLICIES AND GOVERNANCE Since the launch of the WPP Data Privacy We will relaunch our mandatory global and Security Charter in 2018, we have issued Privacy and Data Security Awareness online incremental updates to reflect regulatory training in 2020. There will be updates to changes and best practices, as well both the style and content of the training, as changes to our business. For example, making it more engaging and relevant and the Charter now includes an Artificial ensuring our people are well-trained in our Intelligence Statement to guide our people data responsibilities as a company and in on its use. their individual roles. Our team also continues to run face-to-face training to The Charter helps us communicate our reflect specific topics or regulations, for approach to data to our people and clients, example we have trained over 1,000 of our setting out core principles for responsible employees on the new California Consumer data management through our Data Code of Privacy Act. Conduct, our IT security, privacy and social media policies, and our security standards We work with clients to share insights and (which are based on ISO 27001). privacy best practices, demonstrating how we apply these across the Group and in the Our Group Chief Privacy Officer leads our work we undertake for them. Our people work on privacy, supported by our Data have access to a range of resources to Protection Officer. Together, they provide support them in these conversations, and our practical guidance and support to our Data Privacy and Security Charter is written agencies on data ethics, ensure that privacy in a way that can be shared with clients. risks are well understood across the business, help us prepare for relevant new As regulations continue to evolve, we regulation, and promote best practices. partner with clients, industry organisations and peer companies on privacy and data Our networks and companies have protection issues, particularly with appointed privacy leads to oversee the advertising bodies in the regions where we implementation of our policies at a local operate such as the Internet Advertising level. They report progress via our Group Bureau (IAB) in Europe and the United States, Chief Counsel and Group Chief Privacy and the UK Advertising Association. Officer. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS TAX POLICY TAX COMPLIANCE AND RELATIONSHIP Accordingly, we may utilise tax incentives or Tax revenues sustain national economies. We WITH TAX AUTHORITIES opportunities to transact efficiently from a recognise our obligation to pay the amount We seek to comply with our tax filing, tax perspective where these are: of tax legally due in the territory in which the tax reporting and tax payment obligations liability arises, and to comply with all legal globally. We look to maintain open and – not considered to carry significant risks to requirements. At the same time, we have an transparent relationships with the tax our reputation or relationship with the tax obligation to maximise shareholder value, authorities in the jurisdictions in which we authorities in the jurisdictions in which we which includes controlling our overall liability operate. This may take the form of discussing operate; to taxation. key developments in our business and the – aligned with the intended policy potential impacts of those developments objectives of the governments which The WPP Audit Committee, which is made on our tax liability. Equally, it may involve introduced the incentives; and up of Independent Non-Executive Directors, disclosing and seeking to resolve a known – aligned with our business or operational is responsible for overseeing our policies on issue prior to filing the relevant tax return. objectives. tax and regularly reviews our tax strategy. From time to time, our views (and those of We may seek external advice on tax planning We disclose our UK Tax Strategy in our our advisors) on the appropriate tax or areas of complexity or uncertainty, to Annual Report and key elements are treatment in a given case may differ from support our tax strategy. We will not summarised below. those of the tax authorities. Where such promote or work with advisors to support circumstances arise, we work constructively tax planning unless the arrangements are TAX PAYMENTS IN 2019 with the tax authorities in question to consistent with our tax strategy. The Company paid corporation and overseas achieve an early resolution. taxes of £536 million in 2019 (2018: £384 TRANSPARENCY million). Estimated employer social securityTAX PLANNING We support initiatives to improve related taxes paid during 2019 were £939 We will not engage in purely artificial international transparency on taxation, million (2018: £718 million). Other taxes transactions with the sole purpose of including OECD measures on country-by(primarily property taxes) paid during 2019 reducing tax. However, we will consider country reporting and automatic exchange were £46 million (2018: £64 million). undertaking a transaction in a way that of information. gives rise to tax efficiencies, providing We are starting to quantify the wider this aligns with our commercial objectives We do not tolerate tax evasion, nor do we economic impacts of our business and the and complies with tax legislation. We will tolerate the facilitation of tax evasion by any benefits associated with our activities, not transact in this way if the underlying person(s) acting on our behalf. including tax payments to governments. commercial objectives do not support the See Quantifying our impacts, pages 9 and 10. position, or if the arrangements impact upon our reputation, brand, social responsibilities, or future working relationships with tax authorities. We recognise our responsibility to pay an appropriate amount of tax in each of the key jurisdictions in which we operate. We also have a responsibility to our shareholders to structure our affairs in an efficient manner. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 52 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT We have established governance processes Environmental, social and governance (ESG) Our involvement with investors, rating and policies to help us manage sustainability risks are integrated into the Company’s risk agencies and benchmarking organisations risks and opportunities consistently across appetite and tolerance levels as well as its on sustainability during 2019 included: the Company. assessment, management and monitoring of Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index; CDP; principal risks. This includes the Brand Check Ecovadis; Ethibel; Euronext Vigeo Europe; ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES review process, through which the Board FTSE Russell; Human Rights Campaign Our Group Chief Counsel and Head of receives an assessment of risks to each Foundation’s 2018 Corporate Equality Index; Sustainability has operational responsibility business at each Board meeting. Risks ISS Data Verification; MSCI Research Inc; for sustainability, supported by our Group included in the Brand Check review include Sustainalytics; Thomson Reuters D&I index; Director of Sustainability, appointed in 2019. the possibility of winning or losing major Trucost; and Workforce Disclosure She heads our central sustainability team, business; succession and the addition Initiative (WDI). which develops strategy and coordinates or loss of a key executive; introduction of sustainability projects and data collection. new legislation in an important market; We are included in the FTSE4Good Index and The sustainability team communicates on sustainability, including risks relating to participate in the CDP Climate benchmark, related matters on behalf of the Company marketing ethics, privacy, diversity and receiving a rating of B in 2019 (2018: A-, see and works with our operating companies employment; political instability; and page 37). and other corporate functions, such as changes in accounting or corporate our talent, audit, legal, real estate, IT governance practice. and procurement teams, to embed our standards. ESG risks are also included in our programme of internal audits. Our principal risks and In 2019, we strengthened our governance uncertainties are set out in detail in the of sustainability by establishing a Board-level strategic report section of our Annual Report Sustainability Committee to steer our and include risks relating to climate change, approach. cyber and data security and our ability to recruit and retain talented people. S  ee Sustainability Committee Report on page 5 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Dialogue with our stakeholders, including We also increased our sustainability expertise our people, clients and investors (see below), at Board level with two new Non-Executive provides valuable feedback and insight into Director appointments. Keith Weed brings his sustainability risks and opportunities, for our experience as ex-chief marketing officer at Company and our clients. Unilever where he was responsible for Sustainability globally and as president of the Most stakeholder engagement takes place in UK Advertising Association and a board the course of doing business. We also carry member of Business in the Community, while out more formal research as part of our Jasmine Whitbread has held senior positions materiality process, see pages 55-57. We at Oxfam and Save the Children. work with clients (pages 14-18) and engage our people (page 29) on sustainability issues, We also established a new Executive and also work closely with NGO partners to Committee working group on sustainability increase our understanding and amplify the to guide our strategy and oversee our impact of their work. Our engagement with approach across agencies. Our Charity and government stakeholders is covered in the Pro Bono Committee oversees our donations public policy section on page 49. and pro bono work. EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR COMPANIES WPP sets sustainability policy, with every company responsible for implementation. We have a clear policy framework through our Code of Business Conduct, Sustainability Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct, Data Privacy and Security Charter, Human Rights Policy Statement and other policies included in the WPP Policy Book. We track progress using our social and environmental key performance indicators. Our internal sustainability advisors are working to ensure consistent implementation of our standards. In 2019, we ran training for our top 200 global leaders on sustainability as a lever for innovation and growth. We also piloted an online resource hub to share best practice across our companies and encourage collaboration. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SAFETY PRACTICE VIDEOS AGENCY SOCIAL LAB CLIENT TIKTOK As the TikTok app continues its rapid growth among Gen-Z audiences, the brand was keen to build trust and understanding among parents, teachers and educators through proactive, future-facing, product safety communications. So Social Lab launched a safety campaign teaching its young audience safer practices online. The campaign features some of their most loved creators from a variety of backgrounds and genres, demonstrating their commitment to originality as they educate, empower and encourage their global community to stay safe. 5m media impressions Data from: August–September 2019 INTO THE SPOTLIGHT AGENCY WUNDERMAN THOMPSON CLIENT LUX Despite changing attitudes around women and work in Saudi Arabia, only 16% of the workforce is female. The Unilever brand Lux turned to Wunderman Thompson to highlight women when people searched online for male-dominated jobs. The agency launched #IntoTheSpotlight on International Women's Day and used paid search results on Google to profile leading women in the relevant fields. Linking to content on Mira, a joint venture between Unilever and Vice, this meant when someone searched for “photographers it took the user to videos and information about leading fashion photographer Huda Beydoun. 15-20% 870,000 increase in inquiries people reached across for the featured Saudi Arabia on professionals International Women’s Day 2019 Data from: March 2019 wpp.com/intothespotlight WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 54 ABOUT OUR REPORTING ABOUT OUR REPORTING ABOUT OUR REPORTING Our materiality matrix shows the issues GUIDELINES AND REPORTING We have reported on our sustainability identified as important to our internal FRAMEWORKS performance since 2002. We aim to take stakeholders (employees, future employees, WPP is a member of the United Nations an integrated approach to managing and leadership – horizontal axis) and external Global Compact (UNGC) and this sustainability risks and opportunities and stakeholders (clients, investors, partners and Sustainability Report represents our fifth to reflect this in our reporting. We integrate suppliers, and civil society – vertical axis). communication on progress. We provide key performance information into our Annual an index which summarises our approach Report and provide further details, data and Five changes since 2017: and progress on the UNGC’s 10 principles, case studies in our Sustainability Report. see pages 61-64. – We have seen a significant shift in Sustainability data is for the calendar expectations from all stakeholders to Our report references selected Global year 2019. Results for 2019 are based on the expand on our own direct impact and Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, and Group’s continuing operations and exclude also focus on the impact of our work for our GRI Standards content index (pages the results of Kantar. The past year reported our clients. For example, ‘waste and 61-64) lists these disclosures and their numbers have been re-presented to reflect recycling’ (2017 assessment) has been location in our report. this change. replaced in this assessment by the issue of transitioning to a ‘circular economy’, We support the Taskforce on Climate-related The majority of our data is collected quarterly while inclusion and diversity has grown Financial Disclosures and aim to develop our through our Company financial reporting in importance for clients as they look to disclosures in line with its recommendations. system. This covers all subsidiaries of the our agencies to credibly represent their Company – over 106,000 direct employees. diverse consumer base. To read our TCFD disclosure and It does not include associate companies – Climate crisis has risen as a priority for full carbon emissions statement or joint ventures. Our per person carbon all stakeholders in both urgency and see pages 196-197 and 199 of our footprint figures are calculated using data scope, with more focus on our work for Annual Report for full-time equivalent employees (FTEs). clients. All stakeholders, but particularly employees, are increasingly interested Some people data is collected through an in the footprint of client products HR Survey issued to our global HR Directors. and services. This covers 85% of the Company. – WPP's programme of restructures and redundancies (see page 29) means that Our carbon footprint, some environmental the importance of employee relations and some people data is verified by Bureau has risen for internal stakeholders. Veritas, an independent assurance provider. – Transparency in digital ad spend (included Its verification statement is published on for the first time this year) is a high priority page 57. for clients, and therefore internal stakeholders as we seek to provide We also disclose information through various robust and reliable metrics on the impact investor indices and benchmarks including of our work, in an ever-more complex CDP Climate Change. digital ecosystem. – Some issues, such as water scarcity and OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS biodiversity, are a priority for clients but We use a materiality process to ensure our not a significant issue for WPP’s own strategy, investments and reporting focus direct operations at a global level. on the issues of greatest importance and We need to ensure we have sufficient relevance to our business and our expertise in these issues in order to stakeholders. support our clients in delivering against their own sustainability priorities. Our first formal materiality assessment in 2014 included interviews with clients, investors, NGOs, and sustainable business experts, as well as senior executives in our Company functions and our operating companies. We carried out further reviews in 2016 and 2017. In 2019, we updated our materiality assessment in light of our new corporate strategy and to reflect changing stakeholder priorities. Full definitions of each stakeholder priority are available online. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 ABOUT OUR REPORTING WPP MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT High 9 10 7 8 1 2 STAKEHOLDER ASSESSMENT Medium 11 3 4 5 6 12 13 14 15 16 17 24 25 18 19 20 21 Low 26 27 28 22 23 29 30 Low Medium High INTERNAL ASSESSMENT Client work HIGH RISK MEDIUM RISK LOW RISK People 1 Inclusion and diversity 11 Employee relations2 24 Social investment7 Environment 2 Climate crisis 12 Health, safety and wellbeing 25 Community relations Supply chain 3 Harmful and misrepresentative 13 Anti-bribery and corruption 26 Government relations and Social investment content1 14 Business integrity lobbying Governance and management 4 Compliance with marketing 15 Emergent technologies3 27 Tax payments 1 Including content with negative social or codes of practice and regulations 16 Promoting sustainable norms and 28 Joint ventures, affiliate and environmental impacts, such as hate speech 5 Transparency in digital ad spend culture4 associate companies and or greenwashing, and ad placement 6 Data privacy and cybersecurity 17 Client products and impacts5 acquisitions alongside harmful content. 7 Attracting, developing and 18 Operations in sensitive countries 29 Biodiversity 2 Employment practices includes issues such as retaining talent 19 Circular economy 30 Water use pay while employee relations includes engagement and remediation. 8 Employment practices2 20 Human rights and labour 3 Including artificial intelligence and ad tech. 9 Remuneration and benefits practices in the supply chain 4 Including driving consumer behaviour change 10 Workplace culture and 21 Environmental impacts in the To read full definitions of on social and environmental issues e.g. engagement supply chain each stakeholder issue, visit climate change. 22 Supplier diversity 5 Including the decision over whether or not to wpp.com/sustainability work with clients in controversial sectors or 23 Fair treatment of suppliers6 on controversial topics or products. 6 Including living wage. 7 Including pro bono, donations and volunteering. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 56 ABOUT OUR REPORTING INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO: THE STAKEHOLDERS OF WPP PLC INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES the assurance procedures performed and – are not prepared in accordance with WPP’s OF WORK evidence obtained; and relevant internal methodologies; and Bureau Veritas UK Limited (Bureau Veritas) has – report our conclusions to the Directors – are not materially correct and a fair been engaged by WPP plc (WPP) to provide of WPP. representation of the GHG emissions, limited assurance of selected sustainability waste, health and safety and employment data for inclusion in its Sustainability Report ASSESSMENT STANDARD data for WPP. 2019 (the report). This Assurance Statement We performed our work to a limited level of applies to the related information included assurance in accordance with the REPORTED GHG EMISSIONS within the scope of work described below. International Standard on Assurance Scope 1: Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance 6,841 tonnes of CO2e SCOPE OF VERIFICATION Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Scope 2 (location based): The scope of our work was limited to Historical Financial Information (effective for 80,578 tonnes of CO2e assurance over the accuracy of the assurance reports dated on or after 15 Scope 2 (market based): sustainability data listed below and included December 2015), and in accordance with the 57,583 tonnes of CO2e in this report. Our work includes all global main requirements of ISO 14064:2006 Part 3 Scope 3 (air travel): operations under WPP’s control for the period – Specification with Guidance for the 65,014 tonnes CO2e of 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019 for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas following indicators (‘Selected Information’): Assertions. Such opinion is based on work undertaken and the limitations and exclusions defined GHG EMISSIONS & ASSOCIATED ACTIVITY DATA SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED in this statement. – Scope 1 and scope 2 emissions from WPP’s As part of the independent verification, global operations Bureau Veritas undertook: STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE, – Scope 3 emissions from business air travel – interviews with relevant personnel of WPP INTEGRITY AND COMPETENCE responsible for GHG emissions accounting, Bureau Veritas is an independent professional EMPLOYMENT DATA waste data, H&S and employment data; services company that specialises in quality, – Age and gender data – a review of WPP information systems and environmental, H&S and social accountability – Ethnicity data (UK and United States methodology for data collection, with over 185 years history. Its assurance team operations only) aggregation, and analysis; has extensive experience in conducting – a review of information and calculations verification over environmental, social, ethical, HEALTH AND SAFETY (H&S) DATA used to determine GHG emissions, and health and safety information, systems – Days lost to sickness including the relevant activity data and the and processes. – Work-related injuries and fatalities emissions factors applied; WASTE MANAGEMENT DATA – a remote review of a sample of the Bureau Veritas operates a certified1 Quality – Waste sent for recycling Selected Information against the Management System which complies with the – Non-recycled waste corresponding source documentation from requirements of ISO 9001:2008, and 9 of WPP’s operations worldwide. The accordingly maintains a comprehensive REPORTING CRITERIA operations were selected on a risk basis, system of quality control including The Selected Information has been prepared taking into account energy consumption, documented policies and procedures in accordance with internal definitions set by geographical coverage and head count: regarding compliance with ethical WPP in its Sustainability Reporting Guide. • one of WPP’s operations was removed requirements, professional standards and from an initial sample of 10 operations applicable legal and regulatory requirements. LIMITATIONS AND EXCLUSIONS due to the Covid-19 outbreak impacting Excluded from the scope of our work is any the availability of personnel to provide Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a verification of information relating to: supporting evidence; Code of Ethics, which meets the requirements – appropriateness of the reporting criteria; • the electricity data from one operation, of the International Federation of Inspections – activities outside the defined reporting natural gas data from two operations and Agencies (IFIA)2 across the business to ensure period; and air travel data from two operations was that its employees maintain integrity, – other information included in the report eventually removed from our sample, due objectivity, professional competence and due other than the scope defined above. to the sites being unable to provide care, confidentiality, professional behaviour supporting evidence within the deadline and high ethical standards in their day-to-day This limited assurance engagement relies on a for verification; business activities. risk-based selected sample of sustainability • these did not have a material impact on the data and the associated limitations that this sample and the conclusion drawn thereof; entails. This independent statement should – physical visits to five additional WPP not be relied upon to detect all errors, operations: MediaCom US, New York; omissions or misstatements that may exist. Ogilvy UK, London; VMLY&R South Africa, Johannesburg; WPP 2005 Limited, London; RESPONSIBILITIES Hogarth Worldwide, Singapore; and The preparation and presentation of the – a review of the consolidated 2019 data to Selected Information in the report is the sole check end of year accounting and accurate responsibility of the management of WPP. transposition. Bureau Veritas UK Limited London Bureau Veritas was not involved in the CONCLUSION 4 May 2020 drafting of the report. Our responsibilities Based on the verification conducted by were to: Bureau Veritas, there is no evidence to – obtain limited assurance about whether the suggest that the GHG emissions assertions Selected Information has been shown below, and the age, gender, ethnicity, 1 Certificate of Registration available on request Health and safety and waste KPIs as stated by 2 International Federation of Inspection Agencies – Compliance appropriately and accurately prepared; Code – Third Edition – form an independent conclusion based on WPP in its report: WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 ABOUT OUR REPORTING QUANTIFYING OUR IMPACTS: ECONOMIC IMPACT SUPPLY CHAIN: £2.7 BILLION INDIRECT METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS GROSS VALUE ADDED: £10.8 BILLION ECONOMIC BENEFIT ECONOMIC IMPACT In 2019, we spent an estimated £2.7 billion This section explains the results, principles, The direct contribution our activities make with our supplier partners. This figure was methods and data used in quantifying the to the worldwide economy is measured as derived based on a GVA multiplier economic, social and environmental impacts Gross Value Added (GVA). This is calculated assessment undertaken using 2016-17 associated with our operations. as the financial value of the services we sell procurement spend. Data is from our spend minus the cost of all inputs directly related analytics system which tracks direct costs for a summary of the results see pages 9-10 to delivery of these services. The value of (advertising production and research services we produce stands at £13.2 billion operations) and indirect costs (facilities, IT, This analysis was carried out with Sustain for 2019. This income is used to cover telecoms, travel and professional services). Value and is based on established social and operating costs and taxes, and dividends. Our media spend on behalf of clients is environmental accounting techniques. excluded from these figures. PAYROLL: £7.1 BILLION IN SALARIES AND BENEFITS This is the seventh year we have carried out Our contribution through payroll is this research to assess and quantify our The impact of our supply chain, our indirect calculated based on salaries and benefits impacts. We followed broadly the same economic impact, was calculated using the (excluding social security costs) as disclosed approach as previous years. The findings same overall percentage GVA multiplier in the Company’s audited financial should be viewed in light of the following calculated for the 2017 Impact Valuation statements for 2019. considerations: Report. That multiplier was established by analysing our expenditure on suppliers TAXES: £1.6 BILLION PAID TO GOVERNMENTS – Impacts: We have captured only a broken down by country, sector and type of Payments of taxes to national and local relatively limited selection of the spend. The 2016-17 spend for each sector governments, including corporation and important sustainability impacts was converted into an estimate of GVA using overseas taxes (£536 million), employer and associated with our business. There are gross value added data from relevant sectors employee taxes including estimated social opportunities to expand this further to obtained from UN data. security (totalling £939 million) and other enable more comprehensive reporting; taxes (primarily property taxes) (£46 million), – Methods: To calculate our impacts we There are several limitations associated enables them to invest in local sociohave used, wherever possible, recognised with this approach worth noting. Firstly, economic development. Our contribution methodologies, models and academic we are assuming the same broad pattern of through taxes is calculated based on tax research; and expenditure as for the 2017 data which was payments as disclosed in the Company’s – Data: We have used proxy data, from used to obtain a weighted average overall % audited financial statements for 2019. secondary sources and extrapolations, GVA that was applied to the total 2019 to address any data gaps. This means that spend. Secondly, we only focused on those findings in some areas are based on countries with the greatest spend (top 15 estimated figures. countries, representing 96% of overall expenditure). Finally, around 10%of the Here we explain in more detail the results spend was recorded as “uncategorisable and our approach to calculating each and assumed to have an average GVA measure. spend multiplier. INDIRECT CLIENT IMPACT: NOT QUANTIFIED The communications services we provide create a further indirect benefit by helping our clients to increase their revenues, which stimulates growth and helps create jobs. However, we also recognise that the associated increase in production and consumption will result in other indirect environmental and social costs. We are still considering ways of measuring these. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 58 ABOUT OUR REPORTING SOCIAL IMPACT FREE MEDIA SPACE: C.£158 MILLION OF SOCIAL We hope to include an estimate of additional PRO BONO WORK: C.£92 MILLION SOCIAL BENEFIT FACILITATED added value to staff in subsequent reports. BENEFIT WPP has also helped negotiate free media The direct value of our pro bono work was space for our pro bono clients worth £18.9 SUPPLIER DIVERSITY SPEND £10.6 million in 2019, based on the fees that million in 2019. This represents the cost In 2019, WPP collated data for the second organisations would have paid for our work. saving to our pro bono clients for them not time on supplier diversity in relation to its When the full potential societal benefit is to have to purchase media space for their supplier spend in the United States. In total, taken into account, the overall benefit to environmental and social campaigns. For the 1.6% was spent on diverse suppliers (the society may be in the order of £92 million. purposes of this assessment, we have equivalent of £65 million), of which 64% was assumed that free media space has an on women owned business enterprises, 14% The benefits of pro bono work (primarily impact similar to that of the pro bono work on minority and woman-owned business undertaken for the benefit of charities) are and charitable donations, calculated to be enterprises, 10% on Minority Business difficult to quantify. They include things such around £158 million. As there is no Enterprises and 12% on “other . Overall there as helping to improve health and wellbeing breakdown of spend by category for this, we was an equal split between spend on in communities. Outcomes are often not have applied an overall weighted average certified and classified diverse enterprises. measured and, if they are measured by the SROI ratio based on the ratios and spend for charity, results are not always shared with pro bono work and charitable donations. Further work is needed to quantify the WPP. For the purposes of this assessment, impacts of our spend with diverse suppliers. we undertook a literature review of reports INTERNSHIPS AND APPRENTICESHIPS: and papers (i.e. secondary data) three years £11.3 MILLION SOCIAL BENEFIT ago to ascertain the average social return on In 2019, we provided 11,008 paid internship investment (SROI) ratio generated by the and apprenticeship positions across the same categories as those represented by the Group. We estimate these create benefits pro bono work undertaken. This includes worth £11.3 million, because some interns will arts, education, environment, health, human be offered a position in a WPP company at rights and local community. the end of their internship and others are likely to find jobs elsewhere more quickly. The average ratio calculated for each category was then applied for each of these The value is based on the same value categories to the annual direct value of pro multiplier as developed in 2014 but adjusted bono work, in line with the approach for inflation. This assumed that a certain adopted over the previous years. proportion of interns find jobs at WPP or other companies and are therefore able to We believe this to be a conservative earn a monthly salary faster than they would assumption, because pro bono work (costed have done without the internship. The on a time-sheet basis) is often worth more approach takes into account the number of than the equivalent cash donation as WPP interns worldwide and the proportion likely expertise is leveraged to create additional to find a position at the end of their value above and beyond the time spent. internship/apprenticeship placement and with the average additional income that the CHARITABLE DONATIONS: C.£42 MILLION SOCIAL person would have earned as a result of the BENEFIT work placement. Further work is needed to In 2019, the Company's direct charitable calculate these benefits more accurately and donations were £5.2 million. These donations to capture regional variation. support important work in areas such as education, health, human rights, local TRAINING: £38.7 MILLION MINIMUM SOCIETAL community, environment and the arts. BENEFIT The overall value of social benefits resulting In 2019, WPP spent £36.1 million on training from these donations is estimated to be courses for staff at all levels, with additional around £5.2 million. travel, accommodation and subsistence costs of £2.6 million also being incurred. The approach to determining the additional The £38.7 million represents a lower-end societal value is based on the literature estimate of overall value as it only reflects review of SROI ratios mentioned above, course costs rather than the overall benefit covering the same six categories. The that staff receiving the training will gain in average SROI ratios found for each category terms of their enhanced human capital value. were applied to the direct spend for each of The latter will be manifested when they those same categories. We recognise that leave the company, along with the human individual projects can deliver very different capital gained through their on-the-job returns. However, in the absence of projectexperience. It is also recognised that this by-project reporting, this method provides a training will generate additional value (i.e. useful order-of-magnitude indication of SROI. SROI) for WPP from improved staff productivity and recruitment cost savings. These should effectively be captured through future enhanced gross value added (GVA) generated by WPP. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 ABOUT OUR REPORTING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS WASTE DISPOSAL: £0.1 MILLION COST TO SOCIETY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS: £3.9 MILLION NET While 56% of WPP’s waste was recycled in COST TO SOCIETY 2019, the remainder was either sent to landfill The hidden cost of our emissions was or incinerated with or without energy £8.6 million in 2019. This calculation takes into recovery. The societal cost associated with account our GHG emissions from energy and the non-recycled waste is estimated to be business air travel (but excludes other around £0.1 million, which relates to GHG estimated impacts such as leased cars, taxis and other air emissions, leachate and other and couriers) as well as the benefits resulting associated disamenity impacts (e.g. visual, from our green electricity purchasing (zero noise and odour). emissions assumed). With our investments in renewable energy offsets included (see This value is based only on the non-recycled below), our net cost to society is £3.9 million. waste data, although it is acknowledged that the recycled waste will have an overall net In 2019, WPP invested in renewable energy negative impact too. Societal costs per projects to offset 65,014 tCO2e emissions tonne of incinerated (with and without associated with climate change impacts of energy recovery) and landfilled waste have business air travel. Based on the assumed been derived from Rabl, Spadaro and social cost of carbon, this represents a Zoughaib (2008), and updated using World positive societal impact of £3 million. In Bank consumer price inflation data and the addition, WPP purchased renewable energy social cost of carbon used in the GHG certificates (RECs) in the United States, calculations. More detailed country-specific equivalent to saving 44,914 tCO2e, with an costs could be estimated. assumed societal value of £1.7 million. References For consistency, we applied the same –B arreda, P., Gutstein, J., Garcia, S. (2016) A Strong Supplier Diversity Programme Increases Corporate Revenues Chicago approach and value as the 2014 Impact Minority Supplier Development Council. Valuation report (i.e. cost of carbon based – CVS  Health (2017) Growing communities through on the Stern Report), but adjusted upwards Supplier Diversity. – Rabl,  A., Spadaro I.V., and Zoughaib A. (2008) Environmental to allow for inflation (i.e. £39.22/tCO2e). It impacts and costs of solid waste: a comparison of landfill and should be noted though that the equivalent incineration. Waste Management Research 2008; 26: 147. current UK government non-traded carbon – Stern,  N. (2007) Stern Review: The Economics of Climate Change. Cambridge University Press. price is 74% higher at £68.25/tCO2e. –U Ndata (2018). For transparency, we split the value into the negative impact of our gross emissions and the positive impact of our carbon offsets. In addition, we assume zero emissions for the purchase of renewable electricity. We have been recording our emissions in line with international standards since 2006 and as part of our reporting process we capture scope 1, scope 2 and a number of scope 3 emissions. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 60 REPORTING STANDARDS REPORTING STANDARDS INDEX We joined the United Nations Global We have also indicated where our work on We use external frameworks to help us Compact in 2015, and are committed sustainability is supporting progress on the implement good reporting practice, to to its 10 principles covering the areas of UN Sustainable Development Goals. More ensure we are covering the topics of human rights, labour, environment and information is on page 11. most interest to stakeholders and to anticorruption. This report forms our fifth aid comparison with other companies. Communication on Progress against the Global Compact Principles, covering the Our report references selected Global year 2019. This table shows where our Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Standards. disclosures for each principle can be found The index below shows which topics in our reporting. and disclosures are covered and their location in our report. United United Nations Nations Sustainable Global Development Compact Topic Number Disclosure Goals principles Where to find it in the report 102: General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation WPP plc 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our offer Our companies 102-3 Location of headquarters London, UK 102-4 Location of operations We have operations in 112 countries. 102-5 Ownership and legal form WPP is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. 102-6 Markets served Our companies 102-7 Scale of the organisation Annual Report 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Attracting and retaining talent – pages 25-34 Organisational Profile 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain – pages 43-46 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation Annual Report and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Sustainability policy Environment – pages 35-42 102-12 External initiatives 5, 12, 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals – page 11 Common Ground – page 23 Reporting standards index – pages 61-64 Gender balance – pages 31 and 32 Disability – page 30 Circular economy – page 41 102-13 Membership of associations Membership of trade associations – page 50 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 17 Chief Executive's Statement – pages 4 and 5 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Sustainability and our strategy – pages 7 and 8 Our materiality process – pages 55 and 56 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 16 1, 10 Transparency and trust – pages 49 and 50 behaviour Human rights – page 46 Privacy and data ethics – page 51 Ethics and Integrity Our Code of Conduct Human Rights Policy statement 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 16 10 Management and compliance page 49 102-18 Governance structure Annual Report Roles and responsibilities – page 53 Governance 103-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Roles and responsibilities – page 53 environmental, and social topics 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement – page 53 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 8 3 Labour relations – page 29 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder engagement – page 53 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement – page 53 Stakeholder Our materiality process – pages 55 and 56 Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder engagement – page 53 Our materiality process – pages 55 and 56 Includes the main themes and issues raised by stakeholders. We do not report on specific points raised by individual stakeholders. WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 REPORTING STANDARDS United United Nations Nations Sustainable Global Development Compact Topic Number Disclosure Goals principles Where to find it in the report 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial About our reporting – page 55 statements Annual Report Our sustainability data covers all subsidiaries of the Company. A subsidiary is an entity which we control and/or in which we have a majority shareholding. Associates and joint ventures, where the Company may have influence or joint control, but not outright control, are not included. Data in our financial reporting will include associate companies not covered in our sustainability data. During 2019 we completed the sale of 60% of Kantar to Bain Capital. To ensure comparability to 2019 figures, which exclude Kantar, prior year figures have been re-stated to exclude Kantar as well. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 12 Our materiality process – pages 55 and 56 102-47 List of material topics 12 Our materiality process – pages 55 and 56 Reporting Practice 102-48 Restatements of information During 2019 WPP completed the sale of 60% of Kantar to Bain Capital. To ensure comparability to 2019 figures, which exclude Kantar, prior year figures have been restated to exclude Kantar as well. 102-49 Changes in reporting During 2019 WPP completed the sale of 60% of Kantar to Bain Capital. To ensure comparability to 2019 figures, which exclude Kantar, prior year figures have been restated to exclude Kantar as well. 102-50 Reporting period About our reporting – page 55 102-51 Date of most recent report 12 Sustainability reporting centre 102-52 Reporting cycle 12 About our reporting – page 55 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Sustainability contacts – page 65 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the About our reporting – page 55 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 12 GRI Index – pages 61-64 102-56 External assurance 12 Independent Limited Assurance Statement – page 57 201: Economic Performance 201 Management approach 8 Roles and responsibilities – page 53 GRI 103: Management approach Attracting and retaining talent – who’s in charge? – page 25 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8 Annual Report – Financial statements Quantifying our impacts – page 9 and 10 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 8, 13 Governance, strategy and risk management opportunities due to climate change disclosures for the Taskforce on Climate-related Economic Performance Financial Disclosures (see Annual Report, pages 196-197) 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the 8, 10 Inclusion and diversity page 30 local community 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 8, 11, 17 We provide pro bono services, donate money to charity and negotiate free media space on behalf of pro bono clients which can have a positive social impact. Quantifying our impacts – page 9 and 10 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 8 Quantifying our impacts – pages 9 and 10 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 62 REPORTING STANDARDS United United Nations Nations Sustainable Global Development Compact Topic Number Disclosure Goals principles Where to find it in the report 205 Management approach 16 10 Management and compliance – page 49 205-1 GRI 103: Management approach 16 10 Associates, affiliates and acquisitions – page 49 Anti-corruption 205-2 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 16 10 Transparency and trust – pages 49 and 50 205-3 Communication and training about anti-corruption 16 10 Our Code of Conduct – page 49 policies and procedures 301: Environmental Performance 302 Management approach 7, 12, 13 8 Environment – who’s in charge? – page 35 GRI 103: Management approach Governance, strategy and risk management (disclosures for the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures), see Annual Report, pages 196-197 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 8 Annual Report, carbon emissions statement 2019 Energy Reducing energy use from our buildings and IT – page 38 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 7, 8, 12, 13 8 Air travel and offsetting – page 39 302-3 Energy intensity 7, 8, 12, 13 8 Our climate strategy – page 37 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 7, 8, 11, 12, 13 Reducing energy use from our buildings and IT – page 38 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 7, 8, 12, 13 8, 9 Value chain emissions – page 40 and services 305 Management approach 7, 13 8 Environment – who’s in charge? – page 35 GRI 103: Management approach Governance, strategy and risk management (disclosures for the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures), see Annual Report, pages 196-197 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 7, 13 8 Our climate strategy – page 37 Annual Report, carbon emissions statement 2019 Independent verification statement – page 57 This data is externally assured. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 7, 13 8 Our climate strategy – page 37 Annual Report, carbon emissions statement 2019 Independent verification statement – page 57 Emissions This data is externally assured. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 7, 13 8 Our climate strategy – page 37 Annual Report, carbon emissions statement 2019 Value chain emissions – page 40 Independent verification statement – page 57 Data for business air travel is externally assured. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 7, 13 8 Our climate strategy – page 37 Annual Report, carbon emissions statement 2019 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 7, 13 8, 9 Our climate strategy – page 37 Annual Report, carbon emissions statement 2019 Reducing energy use from our buildings and IT – page 38 Renewable energy – page 38 306 Management approach 8, 12 8 Environment – who’s in charge? – page 35 GRI 103: Management approach Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 8, 12, 15 8 Waste and resources – page 41 Independent verification statement – page 57 Waste to recycling data is externally assured 308 Management approach 12 8 Environment – who’s in charge? – page 35 GRI 103: Management approach Supply chain – who’s in charge? – page 43 Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 12 8 Supplier selection – page 45 Assessment environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply 12 8, 9 Value chain emissions – page 40 chain and actions taken 400: Social Performance 401 Management approach 8 Attracting and retaining talent – who’s Employment GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 25 401-3 Parental leave 5, 8 Flexible working and parental leave – page 28 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 REPORTING STANDARDS United United Nations Nations Sustainable Global Development Compact Topic Number Disclosure Goals principles Where to find it in the report 403 Management approach 3, 8 Attracting and retaining talent – who’s GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 25 Health, safety and wellbeing – page 33 Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 3, 8 Health, safety and wellbeing – page 33 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Health and safety data is externally assured. of work-related fatalities 404 Management approach 4, 8 Attracting and retaining talent – who’s GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 25 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 4, 8 Skills, training and development – page 27 Training and Education 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 4, 8 Skills, training and development – page 27 transition assistance programmes Internships and apprenticeships – page 27 Education partnerships page 27 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 4 Skills, training and development – page 27 performance and career development reviews 405 Management approach 5, 8, 10 6 Attracting and retaining talent – who’s GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 25 Inclusion and diversity – pages 30-32 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 5, 8, 10 6 Inclusion and diversity – Our data on age, gender and Opportunity ethnic diversity is externally assured. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 5, 8, 10 6 UK Gender Pay Gap report to men 405 Management approach 5, 8, 16 6 Attracting and retaining talent – who’s GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 25 Inclusion and diversity – page 30-32 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 5, 8, 16 6 Labour relations – page 29 taken We do not report separate data on this. Any cases involving allegations of discrimination against employees are included in the data on employment infringements. 409 Management approach 8 1, 2, 4 Supply chain – who’s in charge? – page 43 Forced or Compulsory GRI 103: Management approach Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement Labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 8 1, 2, 4 Modern slavery – page 46 incidents of forced or compulsory labour Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement 408 Management approach 8 1, 2, 4 Supply chain – who’s in charge? – page 43 GRI 103: Management approach Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement Child Labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 8 1, 2, 4, 5 Sourcing standards – page 45 incidents of child labour 412 Management approach 8, 16 1, 2 Management and compliance – page 49 GRI 103: Management approach Supply chain – who’s in charge? – page 43 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 8, 16 1, 2 Human rights – page 46 Human Rights procedures Human rights is included in our ethics training completed Assessment by all employees. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts 8, 16 1, 2 Sourcing standards – page 45 that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 414 Management approach 8 2 Supply chain – who’s in charge? – page 43 Supplier Social GRI 103: Management approach Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 8 2 Sourcing standards – page 45 criteria Supplier selection – page 45 415 Management approach 16 Sustainability at the heart of our offer for clients – who's GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 14 Public Policy Management and compliance – page 49 415-1 Political contributions 16 Political contributions – page 50 Annual Report 417 Management approach 16 Sustainability at the heart of our offer for clients – who's GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 14 Marketing and Labelling Management and compliance – page 49 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 12, 16 We do not currently report data in this area. communications Compliance with marketing standards – page 17 418 Management approach 16 Sustainability at the heart of our offer for clients – who's GRI 103: Management approach in charge? – page 14 Customer Privacy Privacy policies and governance – page 51 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 16 We do not currently report data in this area. customer privacy and losses of customer data Privacy and data ethics – page 51 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 64 WHERE TO FIND US COMPANY CENTRES CONTACT POINTS WPP NEW YORK SUSTAINABILITY 3 World Trade Center Hannah Harrison 175 Greenwich Street Sustainability Director New York NY 10007 Tel +44 (0)20 7282 4600 Tel +1 (212) 632 2200 hannah.harrison@wpp.com WPP LONDON Andrea Harris Sea Containers Group Chief Counsel and Head of Sustainability 18 Upper Ground Tel +44 (0)20 7282 4600 London SE1 9GL andrea.harris@wpp.com Tel +44 (0)20 7282 4600 INVESTOR RELATIONS WPP ASIA PACIFIC Peregrine Riviere 50 Scotts Road Group Investor Relations Director Singapore 228242 London Tel +65 6508 5219 Tel +44 (0)20 7282 4600 peregrine.riviere@wpp.com COMPANY INFORMATION If you would like further general information about WPP, its Fran Butera companies or any of the programmes or initiatives mentioned in this Investor Relations Director Sustainability Report, please visit our website, wpp.com, or email: New York enquiries@wpp.com Tel +1 (212) 632 2235 fran.butera@wpp.com BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT INVESTOR INFORMATION For more about WPP companies’ professional services, Investor relations material and our financial statements are available please contact: online at wpp.com/investors Jason Day jason.day@wpp.com Written by WPP Designed and produced by Superunion, London superunion.com ©WPP 2020 WPP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65
