CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 www.voestalpine.com TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Page 1. Preface 6 5.4 Research and Development 28 5.5 General Procurement 29 2. About This Report 8 5.6 Raw Materials Procurement 29 5.7 Ethical Corporate Management – 3. Figures, Data, Facts 12 Legal & Compliance 30 3.1 Development of the Key Financial Indicators 14 6. Product Sustainability 32 3.2 The Four Divisions 16 3.2.1 Steel Division 16 7. Climate Protection 34 3.2.2 High Performance Metals Division 17 7.1 The Political Framework 34 7.2 EU Emissions Trading 37 3.2.3 Metal Engineering Division 18 7.3 Decarbonization: voestalpine’s 3.2.4 Metal Forming Division 18 Approach to Transformation 38 4. Stakeholder and CR Management 20 8. Transparency in the Supply Chain 42 8.1 Supply Chain Management 4.1 Stakeholder Communication 21 at voestalpine 45 4.1.1 Human Resources 21 8.2 Local Suppliers 46 4.1.2 Customers and Suppliers 21 8.3 Supplier Assessment 47 4.1.3 Analysts and Investors 22 8.4 Supply Chain Transparency in Advocacy Organizations 4.1.4 Research Institutes and Universities 22 and Associations 47 4.1.5 NGOs, Special Interest Groups and Platforms 22 9. Ethical Corporate Management 48 4.2 Corporate Responsibility Management 23 9.1 Compliance 48 4.3 Material Topics 24 9.1.1 The Code of Conduct 50 9.1.2 Compliance System 52 9.1.3 Preventive Measures 53 5. The Corporate Responsibility 9.1.4 Reporting Compliance Violations 54 Strategy 26 9.2 Corporate Governance 54 5.1 Human Resources 27 10. Human Rights 56 5.2 health & safety 27 5.3 The Environment 28 4 Page Page 11. Research and Development 58 13.3 Attractiveness as an Employer 91 11.1 Research Expenditures of 13.3.1 Employee Survey 91 the voestalpine Group 58 13.3.2 Employer Branding 91 11.2 Organization of Research 13.4 Training and Continuing Education 92 and Development 59 13.4.1 Executive Training Programs 92 11.3 Research and Development: 13.4.2 Professional Academies 93 Sustainable Materials and 13.5 Apprentices 94 Applications 59 13.6 The Stahlstiftung 96 11.4 Research and Development: 13.7 Employee Shareholding Scheme 96 Climate-Friendly Steelmaking 61 14. health & safety 98 12. The Environment 62 14.1 The health & safety (h&s) System 98 12.1 Environmental Management Systems 64 14.2 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 100 12.2 Environmental Expenditures 65 14.3 Health Status 102 12.3 Environmental Investments 66 14.4 ISO 45001 103 12.4 Air Emissions 69 14.5 Workplace Safety at 12.4.1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 70 Contractors/Third-Party Entities 103 12.4.2 SO2 Emissions 71 14.6 Measures Related to the 12.4.3 NOx Emissions 72 Covid-19 Pandemic 103 12.4.4 Captured Dust Emissions 73 12.4.5 Organic Air Pollutants 74 15. Society 104 12.5 Water Management 75 12.6 Waste & Recycling Management 76 16. Appendix 108 12.7 Energy 78 16.1 GRI Content Index 108 16.2 Memberships 118 13. Human Resources 80 16.3 Glossary 121 13.1 Employee Structure 82 16.4 Independent Assurance Report 122 13.1.1 Employment by Country and Region 83 13.1.2 Years of Service and Contact & Imprint 125 Employee Turnover 85 13.2 Equality and Diversity 86 13.2.1 Differently-Abled Individuals 86 13.2.2 Women in voestalpine 87 13.2.3 Age Structure of Employees 89 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 5 1. PREFACE Ladies and Gentlemen: The global economy is facing its biggest crisis in signing the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and decades. Within a very short time, the outbreak engaging as members in industry policy initiaof the Covid-19 pandemic triggered a massive ves such as ResponsibleSteel. meltdown in demand in almost all countries and sectors. Economic uncertainty has grown by As an industry trailblazer in the field of climate leaps and bounds. Both voestalpine and its change mitigation, voestalpine has already employees are directly affected by the econospent years working intensely and urgently on mic fallout of this crisis. technical scenarios aimed at decarbonizing the production of steel. The November 2019 In this situation, voestalpine is giving highest launch at our plant in Linz, Austria, of the curpriority to the health of its employees. Mearently largest and most advanced electrolyzer sures to protect the workforce were immediately facility in the world for the production of green put in place at all of the Group’s sites worldwide. hydrogen was a major step in the drive to acWherever operations allow, our employees and celerate this technological transformation. This co-workers work remotely from home. Given the EU-sponsored H2FUTURE project serves to test ongoing health risk, these precautions will be the large-scale industrial production of green implemented across the board until further hydrogen, which is to replace fossil fuels in notice. steelmaking over the long term. As part of the Sustainable Steel (SuSteel) project in Donawitz, But voestalpine also responded rapidly at the Austria, moreover, voestalpine is conducting economic level, adjusting its production caparesearch on how to achieve zero carbon procities to the changed business environment. A duction of crude steel using hydrogen plasma. large number of employees in Austria and In the long run, the Group seeks to increase the Germany were registered for short time work use of green hydrogen in the steelmaking proto ensure as best as possible in this situation cess step by step so that it can bring about a that the company would not have to cut jobs; more than 80% reduction in CO2 emissions by similar models were applied internationally. 2050. Nobody knows at the time this Report is published when the health and economic crisis will Until these technologies are actually available, be overcome. voestalpine will test an interim step involving hybrid technology, i.e., the incremental switch in What is clear, however, is that nothing will the medium term from coal-based steel producchange with respect to voestalpine’s clear tion in blast furnaces to electricity-based steel commitment to sustainable corporate goverproduction. This will make it possible to lower nance and climate change mitigation. We CO2 emissions by about one third after 2030, have underscored this commitment not least by specifically, by between three and four million 6 1. Preface tons annually. In terms of both the implementanance (ESG), which means that the interest on tion of a hybrid technology and the long-term the loan is linked to the Group’s ESG perfortechnological transformation based on green mance among other things. hydrogen, however, the decarbonization of steel production hinges fundamentally on the Above and beyond the aforementioned availability of electricity from renewable energy environmental and economic initiatives, the in adequate quantities, at financially feasible present Report also focuses, in particular, on prices, and via high-efficiency grids. voestalpine’s labor force. With their know-how and their spirit of innovation, it is our employees As for current production, it goes without who ensure day in and day out that our comsaying that that we will continue all our efforts pany achieves progress toward ever more effito reduce our consumption of resources and cient processes and ever better products. The focus intensely on ensuring accountable supply Covid-19 crisis has shown yet again how imchain management beyond our factory gates. portant highly qualified and highly motivated employees are to maintaining the company and But we make a substantial contribution to a boosting its international competitiveness. This more livable environment not just through is precisely why we chose, even at this juncture, our processes but also through our products: to continue our policy of training our own skilled whether through still higher tensile and thus workers and to step up the recruiting of new lighter steel grades for the automotive industry, apprentices. fully digitalized rail technology systems to expand mass transit networks, sophisticated Thanks to our employees’ dedication and pre-materials and components for electric voestalpine’s resulting excellent technological motors, or innovative steel solutions for generaposition, I can look to the future with cautious ting renewable energy. We believe based on our optimism despite the extremely challenging intensive research and development work—the economic environment. We will emerge from requisite financial expenditures reached a new this crisis stronger than before only if everybody high in the business year 2019/20—that there works toward that goal. With this in mind, I hope will be many opportunities for us in the future to that you will enjoy reading voestalpine’s inforactively support climate mitigation work. mative Corporate Responsibility Report 2020. Our focus on sustainability in the reporting period also led to a first in the realm of funding: Herbert Eibensteiner voestalpine is one of the first companies to take Chairman of the Management Board out a syndicated loan from its banking partners voestalpine AG that is tied to environmental and social goverCORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 7 2. ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the fifth Group-wide Corporate Responsibility Report (CR Report) of voestalpine AG. It contains information and data on the company’s activities, performance, and goals that are material to sustainable development. The CR Report gives stakeholders insight into the Group’s business activities and describes how voestalpine lives up to its economic, social, and ecological responsibilities. STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS This Report was prepared in accordance with The Austrian Sustainability and Diversity the “Core option” of the GRI Standards. These Im­provement Act (NaDiVeG), which transposed standards provide a globally recognized frameEU Directive 2014/95/EU (NFI Directive) on the work for transparent and comparable reporting mandatory disclosure of non-financial indicators on issues of sustainability. The GRI Content Index into national law, has been in effect in Austria in the Appendix provides a detailed overview of since December 2016. In publishing this CR the GRI Standards covered by this Report and Report, voestalpine thus is fulfilling the indicates where the respective information is to requirements of Section 267a Austrian be found. Commercial Code (Unternehmensgesetzbuch, UGB)). voestalpine has participated in the Global Compact of the United Nations (UN Global Compact, UNGC) since 2013. This initiative calls on companies around the world to apply ten principles pertaining to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The present CR Report documents voestalpine’s performance in connection with these ten principles and thus serves as a Communication On Progress (COP). 8 2. About This Report PARAMETERS OF THIS REPORT Unless otherwise stated, the information, figImpacts along the value chain that occur outures, and facts published in this CR Report refer side of voestalpine’s factory gates but are subto the entire voestalpine Group. The financial ject to its sphere of influence are regularly performance indicators and employee data enevaluated as part of supply chain management compass all of the Group’s consolidated entities. and are managed with an eye toward sustainThe roughly 130 voestalpine production comability. For reasons of confidentiality, however, panies—i.e., those that process, convert, or treat this CR Report does not disclose detailed infora product—accounted for more than one half mation and financial indicators related to the of the data considered in the compilation of business activities of the company’s suppliers. the environmental performance indicators. This limitation of the CR Report’s parameters with respect to the environmental data accords with both the criteria of materiality and the Pareto Principle. The carbon footprint of the nonproducing companies is relatively small, whereas the expenditures required to collect these data would be unreasonably large. BENCHMARK FOR SPECIFIC ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Since 2017, the totality of the production volume produced at the direct reduction plant in Texas, has been used in lieu of just crude steel proUSA, the production volume data also induction as the benchmark for determining the cludes data on the weight of those steel specific environmental performance indicators. products whose pre-materials are externally In addition to the weight of the crude steel prosourced. duced at six plants (flat and long products resulting from the integrated furnace approach Accordingly, the specific indicators are provided and special steel manufactured in electric furper ton of product. naces) as well as the hot briquetted iron (HBI) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 9 2. About This Report CONTENT OF THIS REPORT voestalpine addresses the issues that are process of determining the content of and relevant to its sustainable development conthe material topics covered in the present CR tinuously and systematically. Both external Report (see the chapter, Stakeholders and CR and internal stakeholders were included in the Management). REPORTING PERIOD voestalpine’s business year runs from April 1 of The past five business and/or calendar years a given year to March 31 of the following year. are shown for select key figures to enhance The business year 2019/20 is the reporting comparability and provide insight into the period for the key financial indicators and development of the key figures over a longer employee data, but the environmental data are period. compiled by calendar year. Hence the calendar year 2019 is the reporting period for the environmental performance indicators. REPORTING CYCLE voestalpine publishes its CR Report once a year. port’s key figures and facts, is also published anThe CR Fact Sheet, which summarizes the Renually and simultaneously with the CR Report. AUDIT The auditing firm, Wirtschaftsprüfungsund 267a UGB. See the Independent Assurance Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Deloitte, audited Report in the Appendix for further information this CR Report as to compliance with both the on the audit and confirmation of the present GRI Standards and the requirements of Section CR Report. 10 2. About This Report STYLE AND LANGUAGES So as not to impede the flow, the German The CR Report is published in German and version omits gender-specific wording. The English. The CR Fact Sheet is available in 14 English version uses gender-neutral wording languages. to refer to all genders. QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS We look forward to your feedback. Please send any questions or comments regarding this Report to the following email address: cr@voestalpine.com CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 11 3. FIGURES, DATA, FACTS In its business segments, voestalpine is a leading global steel and technology Group with a unique combination of materials and processing expertise. Thanks to its top-quality products and system solutions using steel and other metals, voestalpine is a leading partner to the automotive and consumer goods industries as well as to the aerospace and oil & natural gas industries. The Group also is the world market leader in railway infrastructure systems, tool steel, and special sections. 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.1 DEVELOPMENT OF THE KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS In millions of euros 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Revenue 11,068.7 11,294.5 12,897.8 13,560.7 12,717.2 EBITDA 1,583.4 1,540.7 1,954.1 1,564.6 1,181.5 EBITDA margin 14.3% 13.6% 15.2% 11.5% 9.3% EBIT 888.8 823.3 1,180.0 779.4 -89.0 EBIT margin 8.0% 7.3% 9.1% 5.7% -0.7% Employees (full-time equivalent) At end of business year 48,367 49,703 51.621 51,907 49,682 Research expenditures 131.8 140.3 152.0 170.5 174.4 Operating expenses for environmental protection facilities in Austria 237.0 231.0 258.0 299.1 314.5 Environmental investments for production facilities in Austria 55.0 46.0 41.0 66.0 35.0 Crude steel production (in millions of tons) 7,733 7,596 8,140 6,895 7,173 REVENUE BY REGION As a percentage of Group revenue, business year 2019/20 The revenue figures for Great Britain were reclassified from “European Union” to “Rest of World.” 62% European Union (of which Austria: 7%) 16% USMCA 3% South America 10% 9% Rest of World Asia 14 3. Figures, Data, Facts REVENUE BY DIVISION As a percentage of total divisional revenue, business year 2019/20 35% Steel 22% Metal Engineering 22% 21% High Performance Metals Metal Forming REVENUE BY INDUSTRY As a percentage of Group revenue, business year 2019/20 3% 33% Aerospace Automotive industry 14% Energy industry 5% White goods/Consumer goods 9% 12% Mechanical engineering & Railway steel production 9% 15% Construction Other SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE In percent, as of the close of the business year 2019/20 2% 2% France Asia 4% Scandinavia 14.8% Employee shareholding scheme 52% 13% Austria North America (excluding employee shareholding scheme) 6% UK, Ireland 3.2% 3% Rest of Europe Germany CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 15 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.2 THE FOUR DIVISIONS voestalpine, which is headquartered in Linz, Austria, comprises 500 Group companies and sites in more than 50 countries on all five continents. The Group has four divisions. voestalpine AG High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Steel Division Division Metals Division Division Steel strip Tool steel Rails Downstream metal Heavy plate High-speed steel Turnout technology processing solutions Foundry products Special steel parts Complete railway Special sections Powder-metallurgical systems Precision strip steel steel Specially treated wire Special components Welding consumables for the automotive industry Seamless tubes 3.2.1 STEEL DIVISION As the division of the voestalpine Group that voestalpine Stahl GmbH in Linz is the division’s generates the highest revenue, the Steel Divimain company and its largest operating entity. sion is the quality leader in highest quality strip steel and a global market leader in both heavy The Steel Division is the first point of contact plate for the most sophisticated applications for major automotive manufacturers and supand complex casings for large turbines. pliers regarding strategic product development and supports its customers globally. Moreover, The division produces highest quality hot and it is a key partner of the European white goods cold-rolled steel as well as electrogalvanized, and mechanical engineering industries. For the hot-dip galvanized, and organically coated energy sector, the division produces heavy plate steel strip. This is augmented by electrical steel that is used by the oil & natural gas industries as strip, heavy plate, and foundry activities as well well as the renewable energy industry for applias the independent downstream entities, Steel cations under extreme conditions, for example, & Service Center and Logistics Services. The in deep-sea pipelines or permafrost regions. Steel Division operates the world’s most advanced direct reduction plant in Corpus Christi, For more information on the Steel Division, visit Texas, USA, which produces highest quality http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ pre-materials (HBI) for steel production by divisions/steel both voestalpine and external customers. 16 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.2.2 HIGH PERFORMANCE METALS DIVISION The High Performance Metals Division resulted as in aerospace, for which it is the leading glofrom the acquisition of Böhler-Uddeholm AG. bal supplier. The division’s companies supply This group of companies is specialized in the materials and components for jet engines and production and processing of technologically aircraft engine mounts as well as for fuselages, most sophisticated high-performance materials wings, and tail units; components for landing and in customer-specific services such as heat gear, doors, and hatches as well as forgings. treatment, state-of-the-art surface treatments, Not only steel-based materials are used for and additive manufacturing processes. The dithese items, but also nickel-based alloys and, vision’s production companies are located in increasingly, titanium. Austria, Germany, Sweden, Brazil, and the USA. Through its global network of sales and service The marketing and services network of the Value centers, the High Performance Metals Division Added Services business segment at approxioffers its customers local material availability mately 160 sites worldwide allows the High Perand processing as well as local contacts. formance Metals Division to maintain proximity to the customer. Because inventories are stored It is the global market leader for tool steel and locally, this represents true added value, rea leading provider of high-speed steel, valve ducing the time required for deliveries, presteel, and other products made from special processing, heat treatment, coating, applicasteel, metal powders, nickel-based alloys, and tion consulting, and other services. The division’s titanium. customers thus benefit from the comprehensive value chain of a one-stop shop that offers proThe toolmaking industry which, in turn, works duction, marketing, and services. primarily for the automotive and consumer goods industries, is the division’s most important For more information on the High Performance customer group. The High Performance Metals Metals Division, visit Division’s second production pillar comprises http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ components for the most demanding applicadivisions/high-performance-metals tions in the oil and natural gas industry as well CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 17 3. Figures, Data, Facts 3.2.3 METAL ENGINEERING DIVISION The Metal Engineering Division of the The division produces the world’s broadest voestalpine Group is the global market leader range of premium rails and turnout products; in railway infrastructure systems and the high-quality wire rod and drawn wire; preassociated signaling technology (Railway finished seamless tubes; medium and highSystems business unit). Through its Industrial alloyed welding consumables as well as semiSystems business unit, the division also is the finished steel products. In addition, the Metal European market leader in high-quality wire, Engineering Division offers a comprehensive a leading provider of seamless tubes, and a range of logistics and services for the rail and provider of complete welding solutions. It draws turnout technology product segments, including its customers from the railway systems industry, planning, shipping, logistics, installation, and the oil and natural gas industry as well as the recycling. It also owns steelmaking facilities. engineering, automotive, and construction industries. For more information on the Metal Engineering Division, visit http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ divisions/metal-engineering 3.2.4 METAL FORMING DIVISION The Metal Forming Division is the voestalpine The division’s flexible, mid-sized units offer its Group’s center of competence for highly refined customers rapid problem-solving expertise at sections, tubes, and precision strip steel all stages of the development and production products as well as for ready-to-install system process. Its customers include practically all components made of pressed, stamped, and leading manufacturers in the automotive and roll-formed parts. Its ability to combine maautomotive supplier industries, with a focus on the terials expertise and processing competence premium segment, as well as numerous comin ways unparalleled throughout the industry panies in the commercial vehicle, construction, along with its global presence make the division storage, energy, and (agricultural) machinery the preferred partner to customers looking for industries. Just as the voestalpine Group on the innovation and quality. whole, the Metal Forming Division also maintains long-term customer relationships with most of its The Metal Forming Division is a global manukey customers and wins the day through both a facturer of tubes and sections made to cusglobal network and its unique combination of tomers’ specifications as well as of highest qualmaterials and processing expertise. ity precision steel tubes. It also supplies cuttingedge automotive body parts for lightweight For more information on the Metal Forming construction solutions to the automotive inDivision, visit dustry and well-known automotive suppliers. https://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/ Cold-rolled special strip steel for the most divisions/metal-forming advanced applications is another specialty. Finally, the Metal Forming Division is known as a provider of intelligent rack system solutions for complex logistics challenges. 18 GERMAN 4. STAKEHOLDER AND CR MANAGEMENT Stakeholders are individuals and institutions who, for private or professional reasons, are interested in an organization because they are affected by the organization’s actions or because they can influence its development. The Corporate Responsibility Steering CommitA review of the list as to its completeness and tee identified voestalpine’s most important topicality is conducted at regular intervals. stakeholder groups on the basis of this definition. Customers Employees and Suppliers Applicants Competitors Management Research Institutes Supervisory Board Universities Works Council Lobbies NGOs and NPOs Trade Associations Investors Lawmakers Analysts Neighbors and Banks Neighboring Shareholders Communities Local Government Agencies Management has the important task of mainThis orientation toward stakeholders has been taining the company’s relationships with its and is the basis of voestalpine’s successful and stakeholders, taking up their concerns, and sustained development. reconciling divergent interests as best as possible. 20 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.1 STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION Through its Management Board as well as forms and initiatives that promote sustainable its executive and non-executive personnel, development. voestalpine is in regular contact with the stakeholder groups. Numerous formats such as exDuring the reporting period, communications pert discussions and roundtables, conferences with individual stakeholder groups took place in and trade shows as well as analyst and investor various settings and on various topics. Below is meetings are used to this end. an overview of how the company maintains its relationships with stakeholders and how it comIn addition, voestalpine is not only represented municates with them. The examples presented on a wide variety of bodies serving advocacy stand for key stakeholder groups and the most groups, trade associations, and lobbying camfrequently used formats. voestalpine also enpaigns, it also presents the company’s concerns gages with other groups at different locations in to these bodies. voestalpine also supports platmultifaceted ways. 4.1.1 HUMAN RESOURCES The voestalpine Group currently has a global In many voestalpine companies, a works counworkforce of just under 50,000 people. Both cil represents employees’ interests. Local works the annual employee performance review and councils are superseded by a European Works the Group-wide employee survey are key tools Council and a Group Works Council, both of for engaging in structured communications which maintain a good dialogue with managewith them (see page 91). Employees’ feedback ment. is analyzed by management and flows into any measures the company takes, for example, with respect to personnel development. 4.1.2 CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS voestalpine’s relationships with all of its business quality, costs, availability, and delivery dates, partners are very open and close knit. These freincreasingly the conversations are also focused quently long-term relationships with customers on climate protection, energy and resource and suppliers provide the basis for trusting and efficiency, or compliance with labor and transparent cooperation. Together with these human rights in production. partners, voestalpine develops processes and products that satisfy the requirements of all parvoestalpine’s Code of Conduct is binding on all ties involved and ensure low-impact utilization of the company’s suppliers and business partof resources. ners and forms part of its terms and conditions. Furthermore, technical visits and viewings of the Issues of sustainability are increasingly moving production facilities are conducted on a reguto the center of our communications with cuslar basis. For more information on this issue, see tomers and suppliers. Besides conventional the chapter, “Transparency in the Supply Chain,” supply chain management issues such as that starts on page 42. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 21 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.1.3 ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS Institutional investors and analysts are a key the Group’s CO2 emissions and the options for stakeholder group because voestalpine is a reducing them—also taking into account the listed company. The members of the company’s resulting negative impact on costs—are particuManagement Board and the managers of its larly important. Investor Relations department use investor conferences and roadshows as well as personal At regular intervals, voestalpine holds sovisits to stay in close contact with its sharecalled “Capital Markets Days,” i.e., special holder representatives and investors and discuss investor events at which trends and developcurrent issues and market conditions. As regards ments related to a high-priority issue in the sustainability, climate-relevant emissions are Group are presented. among the key topics that are addressed with analysts and investors alike. How to represent 4.1.4 RESEARCH INSTITUTES AND UNIVERSITIES voestalpine’s collaboration with both univerMembers of the company’s Management Board sities and unaffiliated research institutes is inpersonally introduce and represent the Group dispensable and boosts the Group’s research during special student events at institutions such and development work. The company supports as the University of Mining and Metallurgy in outstanding dissertations, master’s theses, and Leoben, Austria. They answer questions from the research projects. It also endows professorstudents who, in their capacity as potential fuships that can generate knowledge relevant to ture employees, are considered an important its core business and contribute new insights. stakeholder group. 4.1.5 NGOS, SPECIAL INTEREST GROUPS, AND PLATFORMS Representatives of voestalpine belong to varses on the sustainable production of steel and ious working groups and committees of spethe sustainable procurement of raw and other cial interest groups and platforms such as the materials, since April 2019 and actively enEuropean Steel Association (EUROFER), worldgages in the ongoing development of the stansteel, the Austrian Society for Metallurgy and dard on which these policy initiatives are based. Materials (ASMET), or the European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP). They also contribute The company also maintains good communivoestalpine’s knowledge of and opinions on a cations with non-governmental organizations wide variety of issues during consultations at (NGOs), engaging in intensive and constructive the EU level. exchanges of opinion with several NGOs particularly on energy and climate policies as well as voestalpine has been a member of “Responsibleother environmental topics. Steel,” a not-for-profit organization that focu22 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT The Corporate Responsibility Steering CommitThis corporate body discusses issues that staketee and the CR Manager are largely tasked with holders bring to the attention of voestalpine Corporate Responsibility Management (CRM), or that are becoming increasingly important the identification of topics relevant to CR as well in the ongoing sustainability debate. These as assessments regarding their significance to discussions involve exploring the ramifications voestalpine. of voestalpine’s activities in connection with such topics and adopting measures as necesIn its function as a management unit, Corporate sary to mitigate any adverse effects. Responsibility is a part of Investor Relations. The CR Manager is responsible for coordinating within voestalpine and represents the company at numerous events and initiatives related to corporate responsibility and sustainability. The Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee is chaired by the company’s CEO. It comprises the heads of the Group departments Compliance, Legal, Environment, Research, Communications, Human Resources, health & safety, Investor Relations, Procurement and Raw Materials Procurement as well as International Business Relations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 23 4. Stakeholder & CR Management 4.3 MATERIAL TOPICS voestalpine uses its ongoing communications In a next analytic step undertaken by the Corwith internal and external stakeholder groups to porate Responsibility Steering Committee and identify those topics that are key to Corporate the CR Manager, all topics in regard to which Responsibility Management and the relevant revoestalpine’s business activities actually or porting. potentially trigger positive or negative effects are classified as material. Information A list of the topics considered most important by on voestalpine’s approach and performance the stakeholders is drawn up prior to the prepawith respect to all material topics is published in ration of the annual CR Report and supplementhe CR Report. The following topics were identited by those topics that have been identified as fied as central to the present Report: part of the company’s work in relevant bodies, through analyses of trade publications, and based on a benchmark analysis of select competitors, suppliers, and customers. Material Topics Transparecy Ethical Product Human Research and CR Strategy in the Corporate Environment Employees Sustainability Rights Development Supply Chain Management Energy and Compliance Processes health & safety Climate Policy Training and Corporate Products Emissions Continuing Governance Education Energy Equality Employer Water Quality If you want additional information on individual topLCA ics or have general questions about or suggestions for the Corporate Responsibility Report, please send them to the following email address: Waste & Recycling cr@voestalpine.com Management 24 ENGLISH 5. THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY The concept of sustainability is one of the basic principles that guide all decisions and actions at voestalpine. The fundamentals of this approach are set forth in voestalpine’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy (CR Strategy). It is an integral part of the Group’s corporate strategy and follows directly from voestalpine’s functional strategies. In addition to the functional strategies, a number of key internal and external factors had to be considered in the CR Strategy, for example, employee and customer concerns, environmental issues, products and innovations as well as the demands of maintaining a transparent supply chain. voestalpine's Strategy Functional Functional Functional Functional Functional Functional Functional Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Strategy Raw Legal/ HR h&s Environment R&D Procurement Materials Compliance Corporate Responsibility Strategie 26 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The appropriate symbols at the end of each secwere considered in the development of the CR tion indicate to which of the 17 SDGs voestalpine Strategy presented in the following sections. makes a contribution via the CR Strategy’s individual fields of action. 5.1 HUMAN RESOURCES Corporate Culture Training and Continuing Education We create a respectful corporate culture in Targeted measures help voestalpine’s em­ which we expect and encourage trust, diversiployees gain qualifications and thus broaden ty, self-determination, and personal responsitheir career opportunities. We believe, furtherbility. voestalpine’s culture, as a symbol of our more, that both training young people and Group-wide identity, is continually refined along encouraging lifelong learning are long-term these lines. determinants of the company’s success. Diversity We value the individuality of all our employees and their capabilities—irrespective of gender, age, origin, religion, sexual orientation, or potential impairment—and create the conditions for both equal opportunity and work that maintains people’s health and is appropriate to life’s different phases. 5.2 health & safety Human safety and health are key fundamental We believe that Group-wide minimum safety values at voestalpine and have the highest pristandards are the basis of a successful corpo­ ority. rate health & safety culture. We work to further reduce the frequency of accidents and to improve the health of all employees of the voestalpine Group—wherever they work, whatever their position. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 27 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.3 THE ENVIRONMENT Emissions in the Air, Soil, and Water: Energy and Climate Policy Minimize Using the Best Available Commitment to low-carbon production: We Technologies are meeting the challenge of decarbonizing Process-related emissions cannot be entirely the economic system in the long term not only avoided because existent production processes through comprehensive research and develophave certain chemical and physical properties. ment of new technologies, which is frequently We operate our production facilities pursuant to undertaken via cross-sector cooperation agreethe principle that the best available technoloments and projects. We also engage in an open gies must be applied as appropriate and in ecoand constructive dialogue with stakeholders nomically viable fashion. We also develop new such as political decision makers, the scientific approaches that aim to both minimize environcommunity, technical colleges and universities mentally relevant effects on the air, soil, and waas well as environmental organizations. ter as best as possible and optimize the use of resources. Circular Economy & Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) We support holistic, comprehensive, and integrated analyses and assessments of materials (life cycle assessments, LCAs) as well as of all process and value chains within the parameters of the circular economy, also known as “circularity.” 5.4 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We continuously conduct research on innova­ We place great value in long-term, trusted relative products and processes, and develop tionships with our customers and suppliers in the novel technologies, to ensure that we remain field of research, too, and work closely with both the benchmark for both resource efficiency and universities and scientific institutions. environmental standards. We pursue active know-how management, both internally and externally, and consider this the key to our success. We take on the responsibility of educating and continuing to train our re­ searchers in-house, sharing our knowledge within the Group and exploiting the synergy effects that arise from pooling our expertise. 28 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.5 GENERAL PROCUREMENT When selecting its suppliers, voestalpine ensures The procurement process is continuously opti­ that they comply with environmental and social mized in order to ensure Compliance. The Code principles. Sustainable supplier management of Conduct forms the basis of business actions has been integrated into our procurement proand decisions in this respect. cesses to maintain long-term partnerships. voestalpine ensures that those of its employees who work in purchasing receive ongoing training through information events such as the “Pur­ chasing Power Day” as well as the three-stage “Purchasing Power Academy,” which the company itself developed. 5.6 RAW MATERIALS PROCUREMENT Applying life cycle approaches (“closed loop”) We require all suppliers from whom we source together with our customers guarantees that we materials and who are subject to the Doddwill achieve the highest levels of efficiency in the Frank Act to act in accordance with the latter’s process of recycling our raw and reusable maprovisions. Reports based on the Conflict Min­ terials. erals Reporting Template (CMRT) ensure that all materials procured on behalf of the Group are We face the challenge of permanently opti“conflict free.” mizing our supply chains jointly with our suppliers. Regular visits to the sources of raw maRaw materials procurement management is terials and pre-materials, especially mines and tasked primarily with securing the long-term, deposits, are a fixed element of this process. competitive supply of both raw materials Together, we develop methods for designing a and energy. High degrees of integration into supply chain that is efficient and meets our corupstream and downstream processes, scenario porate responsibility guidelines (CR Guidelines). planning, and adaptive supply concepts serve New suppliers are assessed in terms of Corpoto minimize potential risks. rate Responsibility, quality, and performance; depending on the outcome of the evaluation, are included in our portfolio of suppliers. The Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) project was used to screen our raw material supply chains from the bottom up, examining key factors pertaining to Corporate Responsibility. voestalpine ensures that absolutely all of its raw materials are subjected to this process, thus minimizing risk over the long term. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 29 5. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy 5.7 ETHICAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT – LEGAL & COMPLIANCE Ethical Corporate Management Human Rights In order to ensure that responsible manageWe commit to upholding human rights in accorment and control of the Group serve to create dance with the UN Charter and the European sustainable value in the long term, the Group’s Convention on Human Rights, and we support Management Board and Supervisory Board unthe UN Global Compact (UNGC). dertook as early as in 2003 to comply with the Austrian Corporate Governance Code. Compliance We commit to complying with all laws in all of the countries in which voestalpine operates. We believe, furthermore, that Compliance is the expression of a culture rooted in ethical and moral principles. In the course of the business year 2020/21, the strat­ egy departments of the holding company and the Group’s divisions as well as the directors of relevant departments will refine the Group’s CR Strategy in close coordination with the Management Board of voestalpine AG and rename it “Sustainability Strat­ egy.” 30 SPANISH 6. PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY Comprehensive analyses of products regarding their environmental, economic, and social effects over their entire useful lives are becoming ever more important—not just from customers’ viewpoint, but also at the political and legislative level. In particular, this is indicated by the EU Commisvoestalpine makes robust and comparable insion’s “Green Deal,” which assigns great impor­ formation available to facilitate comprehen­ tance to the EU’s long-term industrial greening sive assessments of the sustainability of its pro(i.e., ecologization) strategy. It is in this sense ducts. Life cycle assessments (LCAs) provide a that the EU’s Circular Economy Package aims to key methodology for doing so. A life cycle asboost both resource and energy efficiency. sessment entails determining a given product’s environmental effect, taking all phases of its Steel is a multifaceted and environmentally value chain into account: from the extraction of friendly material with a long useful life that can the raw material and the provision of energy, to be repaired, reused and, in the final analysis, its production and downstream processing, all endlessly recycled. Hence steel products are the way to its consumption and utilization up to key to turning societies into circular economies, the end of its useful life. specifically, by developing and creating closedloop substance, materials, and value added The question of product sustainability concerns chains to boost resource and energy efficiency. analyses of the three pillars of sustainability— environmental as well as social and economic factors—along the entire supply and value chain, even though the main focus currently is on the determination and assessment of ecological issues. 32 6. Product Sustainability Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) play In addition, the voestalpine Group participaan important role in communicating products’ tes in cross-sectoral policy initiatives such as environmental effects based on their life cycle “ResponsibleSteel” and publishes its perfor­ assessments. voestalpine has published EDPs mance via external assessments such as the Carfor a number of products such as colofer®, hotbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in ways that make dip galvanized strip steel, electrical steel strip, it transparent to the public as well. voestalpine heavy plate, roll-bonded clad heavy plate, achieved “leadership” status in the CDP’s 2019 and rails. The EDPs are based on two standards Climate Change assessment and was included (EN 15804 and ISO 14025), were verified by in the CDP’s “global leaderboard” supplier enindependent auditors, and have been pubgagement rating. lished in the declarations program of the German “Institut Bauen und Umwelt” (IBU), an voestalpine uses a comprehensive methodoloassociation of building product manufacturers. gy to determine the Group’s water footprint and publishes the data with CDP among others. As regards the decarbonization of steelmaking and the sustainability of its products, voestalpine is in regular contact with various stakeholders. These dialogues serve to obtain key information on customers’ and other stakeholders’ requirements and views. In turn, this process gives voestalpine the opportunity to communicate its progress, projects, and limits. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 33 7. CLIMATE PROTECTION Climate protection (also referred to as climate change mitigation) and decarbonization are a major challenge to the development of both processes and products in energy-intensive sectors such as the steel industry. Ambitious political frameworks are being put in place by the “European Green Deal” and the climate protection program of the Austrian federal government. voestalpine works intensively on research and development projects related to technologies that enable largely CO2-free production of products and materials having the same high quality. 7.1 THE POLITICAL FRAMEWORK The next UN Climate Change Conference enting of the economic and social system toward (COP26) was postponed to November 2021 sustaina­ bility and coordinate them under an on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. This over­arching European concept. This integrated means that material aspects of the 2015 UN approach is generally positive and also accords Paris Agreement have still not been implewith voestalpine’s long-held view. Realistically mented fully five years after the accord was speaking, however, it may be very challenging reached; in particular, this concerns a climate at the political level to implement these goals in change mitigation framework that is largely the current economic environment. uniform, comparable, and fair across the globe. At the European and national level, however, At the time the present CR Report was prepared, increasingly ambitious political targets are the European Commission had already submitbeing set with respect to decarbonization, in ted proposals regarding EU-wide climate legis­ turn putting strong pressure on energy-intensive lation with far-reaching powers over the design industries to act. and implementation of energy and climate plans at the national level, for one, and a longWithin the European Union, the focus is on the term industrial strategy aimed at sustainabiliGreen Deal that the EU Commission launched in ty, for another. Actions that will be significant in November 2019: It is designed to make Europe both the short and the medium term are to be the first climate-neutral continent. This goal announced in the near future. For example, a arises mainly from the obligation under the Paris marked tightening of the 2030 reduction goal Agreement to achieve reductions between for CO2 emissions is currently under discussion. 80% and 95% in greenhouse gas emissions This is important because it will provide the by 2050. It is now to be implemented through framework for all elements of the EU’s energy a number of legislative measures. The Green and climate policies. Deal aims to align all issues related to the ori34 TURKISH 7. Climate Sectors such as the steel industry that are Above and beyond an industrial and hydrogen governed by the EU Emissions Trading System strategy, the German federal government has (EU ETS) already are obliged to reduce emissions adopted a steel action plan (Handlungs­konzept by 43% compared with 2005 (onset of the Stahl) which, on a very concrete level, concerns emissions trading system). This will raise a major measures to support the steel industry during question: How will target increases be consithe transition to climate-friendly production dered in the so-called “effort sharing”—i.e., the and to create markets for “green steel.” In distribution of the burden via proportionate Austria, the federal government that took office CO2 reductions in ETS-governed sectors and in January 2020 has presented a program for others such as traffic or buildings? the legislative period through 2024 that is very ambitious with respect to climate change mitiWhile emissions trading at the European level gation; its aim to achieve climate neutrality no is subject to binding targets and measures, in later than by 2040 substantially surpasses the other respects the EU only provides a general goals of both the global climate pact and the roadmap that individual member states are European Union. However, the entire legislative free to interpret as their ambition dictates. Beframework required to this end—e.g., expansion sides the regulations on effort sharing, this also of renewable energy, energy efficiency, hydroincludes regulations regarding state aid, energy gen strategy—has not yet been put in place. taxes as well as energy and emissions trading. In order to better align national policies with the Both at the level of the EU and nationally, European Union’s target achievement, the EU voestalpine is in constant talks, directly and Commission thus plans to review absolutely all via industry associations, with political decision relevant climate and energy requirements by makers, the scientific community, environ2021 and to draw up proposals for revising and mental organizations, and industrial partners. implementing them in the individual member voestalpine’s basic position remains un­ states. changed: The decarbonization strategies that the Group has developed must be viable not Finding a consistent and durable solution—at just technologically but also economically. This the political level and in accord with World Trade requires specific support in connection with the Organization (WTO) requirements—with respect transformation’s additional costs (related to to the previously evident competitive distortions both investments and operations), which could and the resulting flood of imports into Europe of be accomplished, for example, by directing steel products manufactured with limited conearmarked funds back to the companies for clisideration of sustainability issues will be decisive mate mitigation investments under the EU ETS to the ecologically-minded reconstruction of the as well as by making green energy available economic system following the Covid-19 panand less expensive than it is today. demic in Europe. 36 7. Climate 7.2 EU EMISSIONS TRADING The EU’s emissions trading system comprises vious years on average, the voestalpine some 11,000 energy-intensive plants, primarily in Group’s need to purchase additional allowthe power generation and processing indus­tries. ances (difference between the total allowances These companies must purchase allowances needed less allocation of free allowances) in the for every ton of carbon dioxide they emit. A business year 2019/20 equated to roughly one fixed number of free allowances is allocated to third of its total CO2 emissions of 13.6 million particular sectors that are exposed to the risk tons. It is expected from today’s vantage point of production being moved elsewhere (“carbon that the need for additional allowances during leakage”) because of internationally divergent the coming emissions trading period that runs climate protection standards. Just as in prefrom 2021 to 2030 will reach a similar scale. EMISSION TRADING ALLOWANCES: FORECAST FOR voestalpine Number of additional allowances to be purchased, 2021–2030 trading period: approx. 45 million 33% Additional 67% Free allocation However, the emissions trading directive gives account of the Covid-19 pandemic. Long-term the EU Commission the option of periodically or pricing forecasts are subject to very large fluctueven continuously intervening in the system by ations, given the uncertainties about the system modifying key parameters that concern the toin and of itself (especially, potential interventions tal number of allocations and hence the pricing. and discussions about a tightening of the 2030 goals), the actual shape of the Green Deal, Following the massive increase in the price of and future macroeconomic developments. CO2 allowances in the past two business years, The voestalpine Group regularly assesses price most recently developments remained very developments and forecasts with an eye tovolatile despite the temporary decrease in ward risk management so that it can adjust its prices. This was due mainly to the general procurement strategy for CO2 allowances as economic downturn that started at the end of necessary in the event of major changes. the first quarter of the calendar year 2020 on CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 37 7. Climate 7.3 DECARBONIZATION: voestalpine’s APPROACH TO TRANSFORMATION voestalpine is committed to the 2015 Paris voestalpine has also been exploring concrete Agreement’s goal to bring about a more than interim steps. For instance, a hybrid approach 80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by that involves switching incrementally from the the middle of this century and pursues a consisblast furnace route based on coal to the electric tent and long-term decarbonization strategy to steel route based on green electricity is being this end. explored both economically and technically. It would make it possible from 2030 to lower the Its extensive research and development proCO2 emissions resulting from the Group’s steel grams—e.g., the EU’s flagship H2FUTURE proplants in Linz and Donawitz by about one third. ject, which was started up in 2019, runs until The technological challenge lies in ensuring that 2021, and aims to generate green hydrogen on product quality stays the same. An additional an industrial scale—are designed to enable the three terawatt hours of electricity from retransformation from coal-based to hydrogenne­wable sources would be required for this ap­ based steelmaking in the long term. proach, in turn making it necessary to expand the network accordingly. 38 7. Climate HYBRID STEEL PLANT BY 2030/35 Using HBI as a high-quality pre-material Besides pig iron and scrap, the hybrid approach represents a major innovation in this approach. also involves using hot briquetted iron (HBI) as In the long term, the aim is to produce the same a sophisticated pre-material, which voestalpine steel grades as they are available today using is already manufacturing at its direct reduction “green” HBI based on hydrogen in lieu of natural plant in Texas, USA. This raw materials mix gas as well as based on scrap. contains a greater proportion of HBI and thus CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 39 7. Climate BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGY > 80% reduction in CO2 by 2050 This transformation presupposes both the avail­ Furthermore, voestalpine participates inten­ ability of electricity from renewable sources and sively in cross-sector projects that deal with the its financial feasibility. In the final analysis, the economic and technological viability of carbon broad-based implementation of CO2-minimized capture and usage (CCU), i.e., the separation technologies will depend on the degree to which and conversion of carbon dioxide into raw they can be deployed competitively at the materials for the chemical and petrochemical global level also. However, the political frameindustries. work for and thus the economic feasibility of this approach have not yet been established. Concurrently with the long-term development of the novel hydrogen metallurgy, which is still in the development phase, voestalpine also pur­ sues research and development projects involving the hydrogen-based reduction of ores and the direct production of crude steel using hydrogen plasma. 40 7. Climate INNOVATIVE PROJECTS AIMED AT DECARBONIZATION IN THE LONG TERM The EU’s flagship H2FUTURE project concerns the The pilot plant was successfully started up at the end generation and feasibility of green hydrogen—i.e., of 2019 and will now test the application scenarios hydrogen that has been produced using renewable set forth in the project order by 2021. energy—using so-called proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyte technology on a major industrial Moreover, voestalpine also participates in “Clean scale. Steel” among other ventures, a public/private partnership model that is being funded through EU By contrast to conventional approaches to the reresearch grants and participating companies’ own forming of natural gas, the splitting of water into investments. The purpose of this project is to research hydrogen and oxygen does not generate any CO2. low-carbon steelmaking technologies on an indus­ trial scale. Both the specific modalities and the proThe H2FUTURE project consortium is a joint venject selection are currently being worked out. ture of six partners in Austria, Germany, and the Netherlands: VERBUND (Austria’s largest electricity provider) as the coordinator and provider of electric­ ity; voestalpine as the operator; Siemens as the provider of technology; the Austrian Power Grid (APG) as the operator of the transmission network; and both K1-MET and the Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands (ECN-TNO) as scientific partners. The EU is supporting this demonstration project as part of the Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Joint Undertaking (FCH JU) by covering 70% of the total funding volume of some EUR 18 million, because the findings are to be made applicable to other energy-intensive sectors that could utilize hydrogen in the long term as well. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 41 8. TRANSPARENCY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN voestalpine sources the most diverse range of materials, products, and services from a large number of suppliers. As part of the company’s supply chain management, data on the social and environmental effects and risks of suppliers’ activities are systematically collected, evaluated, and integrated into the development of supplier relationships. The company’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy concerns both general procurement and raw materials procurement. General Procurement When selecting its suppliers, voestalpine ensures The procurement process is continually opti­ that they comply with environmental and social mized in order to ensure compliance. The Code principles. Sustainable supplier management of Conduct forms the basis of business actions has been integrated into the company’s proand decisions in this respect. curement processes to maintain long-term partnerships. voestalpine ensures that those of its employees who work in purchasing receive ongoing training through information events such as the “Pur­ chasing Power Day” as well as the three-stage “Purchasing Power Academy,” which the company itself developed. 42 FRENCH 8. Transparency in the Supply Chain Raw Materials Procurement Applying life cycle approaches (“closed loop”) We require all suppliers who are subject to the together with our customers guarantees us the Dodd-Frank Act and from whom we source highest levels of efficiency in the process of materials to comply with the law’s provisions. recycling our raw and reusable materials. We ensure based on reports using the Conflict Materials Reporting Template (CMRT) that all We face the challenge of permanently optimimaterials procured on behalf of the Group are zing our supply chains jointly with our sup“conflict free.” pliers. Regular visits to the sources of raw materials and pre-materials, especially mines and The primary responsibility of raw materials deposits, are a fixed element of this process. procurement management is to secure the longTogether, we develop methods for designing term, competitive supply of both raw materials a supply chain that is efficient and meets our and energy. A high degree of integration into corporate responsibility guidelines (CR Guideupstream and downstream processes, scenario lines). New suppliers are assessed in terms of planning, and adaptive supply concepts serve Corporate Responsibility, quality, and perforto minimize potential risks. mance first; depending on the outcome of the evaluation, they are then included in our portfolio of suppliers. The Sustainable Supply Chain Management (SSCM) project was used to screen our raw material supply chains from the bottom up, examining key factors pertaining to Corporate Responsibility. voestalpine ensures that absolutely all of its raw materials are subjected to this process, thus minimizing risk over the long term. 44 8. Transparency in the Supply Chain 8.1 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT AT voestalpine Risk management, the Code of Conduct as an utilized were reviewed as to criteria relevant to integral part of the delivery terms and condisustainability, and the findings were entered into tions, the Sustainable Supply Chain Managea matrix. In a next step, the CSR Checklist is sent ment project, and the Corporate Social Responto suppliers who are asked to provide voluntary sibility (CSR) Checklist of voluntary disclosures on disclosures on their own CR activities. Finally, the part of suppliers are the pillars of the supply both the findings of the analyses and potential chain management system that voestalpine has improvements are discussed with the suppliers been implementing consistently for years. in personal meetings. The Steel Division has already completed the The SSCM project considers the following criteSSCM supply chain project based on analyses ria in reviews of raw materials, source countries, of source countries, suppliers, and mining and suppliers: conditions related to the raw materials in question. During the reporting period, this process was applied for the first time to the supply chain of the High Performance Metals Division as well. Here, too, the materials Environment Human Rights Waste & recycling Discrimination Wastewater Child labor Biodiversity Forced labor Soil emissions Collective bargaining and Air emissions freedom of association Energy consumption Health and safety of the Water consumption local population Working Conditions Working hours Governance Occupational health Compliance and safety Anti-corruption work Fair compensation CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 45 8. Transparency in the Supply Chain 8.2 LOCAL SUPPLIERS Wherever possible and meaningful, voestalpine percentages of regional suppliers. Suppliers are companies make their purchases regionally, considered local if their business is domiciled in i.e., from suppliers in the vicinity of their facilithe same country as the voestalpine company ties. The following graph shows the respective they supply. LOCAL SUPPLIERS Germany 90.60% China 90.18% USA 89.02% Brazil 88.67% Sweden 85.43% France 78.33% Great Britain 76.58% Austria 68.65% The Netherlands 63.71% 46 8. Transparency in the Supply Chain 8.3 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT Companies chosen to supply raw materials to instance, environmental management, innothe voestalpine Group are selected system­ vation, quality management, or even flexibility atically on the basis of personal meetings, and ability to stick to deadlines. Suppliers that a standardized questionnaire, and a quality achieve an A or B rating are given preference in assessment of the materials. The raw materithe procurement process. Corrective measures als suppliers are evaluated once a year and are jointly defined with B and C suppliers and subsequently rated as A, B, or C suppliers. set forth in writing; they must be implemented Depending on the category of raw materials, within one year. different parameters are used to this end, for 8.4 SUPPLY CHAIN TRANSPARENCY IN ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS AND ASSOCIATIONS Reviewing supply chains as to violations of laws its work to develop certification standards for and standards is becoming increasingly imporfacilities and products. At worldsteel (the World tant not just for individual companies but also Steel Association), several working groups are for entire sectors. Hence steel industry advocacy addressing supply chain issues. Representaorganizations and associations are also addrestives of voestalpine are actively engaged in this sing this issue. voestalpine has been a member work also, contributing their own supply chain of ResponsibleSteel, an advocacy organizamanagement experience. tion, since April 2019 and has participated in CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 47 9. ETHICAL CORPORATE MANAGEMENT Ethical corporate management means accountable corporate governance of the Group that is geared to creating sustainable value in the long term and to ensuring that the conduct of all Group employees complies with statutory requirements and internal guidelines as well as fundamental moral and ethical values (Compliance). Ethical Corporate Management Human Rights In order to ensure that accountable manageWe commit to upholding human rights in accorment and control of the Group serve to create dance with the UN Charter and the European sustainable value in the long term, the Group’s Convention on Human Rights, and we support Management Board and Supervisory Board the UN Global Compact (UNGC). undertook as early as in 2003 to comply with the Austrian Corporate Governance Code. Compliance We commit to complying with all laws in all of the countries in which voestalpine operates. We believe, furthermore, that Compliance is the expression of a culture rooted in ethical and moral principles. 9.1 COMPLIANCE voestalpine requires its companies and all of its customers, suppliers, other business partners, employees to comply with all laws in all of the and employees are spelled out in the voestalpine countries in which it operates. For voestalpine, Code of Conduct. however, Compliance means more than just acting legally and in accordance with other Likewise, voestalpine requires its suppliers as external requirements. It is the expression of well to comply, without limitation, with all ap­­a culture that is also rooted in ethical and plicable laws in the respective country and, in moral principles. The principles of this corpoparticular, to respect and uphold human rights rate culture as it relates to the treatment of as fundamental values. 48 RUSSIAN 9. Ethical Corporate Management 9.1.1 THE CODE OF CONDUCT The Code of Conduct applies to all members The voestalpine Code of Conduct was enshrined in of the management boards, the managing writing in 2009. It is the result of numerous converdirectors, and the non-executive employees of sations and discussions at the level of the Manageall entities in which voestalpine AG has a direct ment Board, the managing directors, and the departor indirect interest of at least 50% or which it ment heads of the voestalpine Group. It is based on controls in some other way. As regards all other the Group’s corporate values and provides the basis for ethically and legally sound conduct on the part of companies in which voestalpine AG has a direct all of the Group’s employees. The Code of Conduct or indirect stake of at least 25% but does not was revised in the business year 2019/20 to intecontrol them, the Code of Conduct is brought grate all those of the voestalpine Group’s values and to their attention with the request that they behavioral rules that had not yet been included in it enforce it by having their corporate decisionas principles. It was published in German and twenty making bodies recognize it of their own volition. additional languages and may be downloaded from the Internet: Every employee must reckon with disciplinary https://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/co consequences if they violate statutory provicompliance/code-of-conduct-of-voestalpine/ sions, internal guidelines, regulations, and instructions, or the provisions of voestalpine’s Code of Conduct. Moreover, violations may also The Code of Conduct covers the have consequences under criminal and/or civil following areas: law, e.g., claims to compensation and claims for >> Compliance with laws and other external damages. and internal requirements >> Human rights, respect, and integrity voestalpine aims to have the Code of Conduct >> Fair competition apply throughout its sphere of influence. Sup> Competition and antitrust law pliers and consultants are required to comply > Corruption, bribery, acceptance of gifts with the Code of Conduct for Business Part>> Donations and sponsorships ners. Additionally, Group companies are urged >> Trade wars and conflict minerals to bring the Code of Conduct to the attention >> Money laundering of their customers and to strongly encourage >> Conflicts of interest them to commit to compliance therewith. All >> Data privacy and protection of voestalpine’s business partners are also re>> Protection of information and intellectual quested to reasonably promote adherence to property the Code of Conduct among their own business > Secrecy of confidential information partners along the supply chain. > Intellectual property >> Protection of corporate property and IT usage >> Workplace protections >> Environmental and climate protection >> Prohibition of abuses of insider information >> Corporate communications >> Reporting of misconduct 50 9. Ethical Corporate Management voestalpine AG has adopted several Group Antitrust Law guidelines that serve as a helpful tool for emThis guideline describes the prohibition of agreeployees in applying the Code of Conduct. The ments restricting competition; provides rules for Compliance rules and regulations associated dealings and interactions with associations, prowith the voestalpine Code of Conduct currently fessional associations, or other industry organizacomprise the following: tions; and defines concrete rules of conduct for all employees of the voestalpine Group. AdditionalBusiness Conduct ly, manuals have been developed with respect to These guidelines supplement and flesh out issues of information sharing and benchmarking, the Code of Conduct with respect to issues of procurement alliances, and supplier relationships corruption, bribery, acceptance of gifts, and with competitors; they provide employees with conflicts of interest. For example, they regulate information on these topics from an antitrust the permissibility of gifts, invitations, and other perspective. benefits; donations and sponsoring; secondary employment as well as the private purchase of Compliance Manual & Prevention goods and services by voestalpine employees Program from customers and suppliers. The section enti­ These rules and regulations provide information tled Business Conduct also addresses the prohion the Group’s Compliance strategy; the Combition of political contributions. The voestalpine pliance structure; measures aimed at prevenGroup does not allow donations to politicians, ting, identifying, and responding to violations; political parties, organizations affiliated with sanctions; as well as the Web-based whistlepolitical parties, or political front organizations. blower system that also offers the option of This does not apply to political front organizareporting Compliance violations anonymously. tions that are devoted solely to social issues and have been individually approved by the Code of Conduct for voestalpine’s Management Board of voestalpine AG. Business Partners The rules and regulations that are directed toDealings with Brokers and ward suppliers of goods and services as well as Consultants toward brokers, consultants, and other business This guideline contains additional supplemental partners define the principles and requirements information on issues of corruption, bribery, and for doing business with voestalpine. Among the acceptance of gifts. It defines the procedure other things, voestalpine requires its business to be complied with before sales representapartners to respect and comply with human tives, agents, and other marketing consultants rights as fundamental values in accordance are engaged. An objective analysis of business with the European Convention on Human Rights partners’ environment and scope of activities and the UN Charter. In particular, this applies before establishing business relationships with to the prohibition of child and forced labor; the them serves to ensure that the business partners prohibition of human trafficking in any way, also comply with both applicable law and the shape, or form; the equal treatment of emvoestalpine Code of Conduct. ployees; and the right to employee representation and collective bargaining. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 51 9. Ethical Corporate Management 9.1.2 COMPLIANCE SYSTEM Responsibility for adherence to Compliance Aside from a Group Compliance Officer, a regulations rests with the respective manageDivisional Compliance Officer was appoinment. A Compliance system was establisted for each division; additional Compliance hed in the voestalpine Group in the business officers were appointed in certain divisional year 2011/12 to help management fulfill its sub-units. The Group Compliance Officer reresponsi­ bility and to set up the processes ports directly to the Chairman of the Managerequired to this end. ment Board and is not bound by instructions. The Divisional Compliance Officers report to both the Group Compliance Officer and the respective division heads. voestalpine AG Group Compliance Officer High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Steel Division Other Metals Division Division Division Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Group Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer Compliance Officer in larger sub-units in larger sub-units in larger sub-units in larger sub-units Compliance officers are responsible All other Compliance issues—e.g., environmental for the following areas: law, taxes, accounting, labor law, protection >> Antitrust law of employees or data—are not part of the >> Corruption Compliance officers’ sphere of responsibility. >> Compliance with capital market regulations These Compliance issues are handled by the >> Fraud (internal cases of theft, fraud, respective departments. misappropriation, or embezzlement) >> Conflicts of interest >> Special topics assigned to the Compliance system by the Management Board of voestalpine AG (e.g., in connection with issues related to UN or EU sanctions) 52 9. Ethical Corporate Management 9.1.3 PREVENTIVE MEASURES As part of its Compliance activities, voestalpine The e-learning courses are continually suppleplaces particular importance on preventive mented by face-to-face training tailored to tarmeasures including, in particular, education and get groups, particularly sales and marketing training, discussions with management, and personnel. This face-to-face training is generally communications. As a result, managing direcfocused on adherence to the law and internal tors, sales personnel, and other employees have guidelines as well as on corruption and antitrust attended face-to-face training that is aimed at law as it applies to the participants’ respective sensitizing them to issues of antitrust law since sphere of activity. 2002. Compliance training is mandatory for young Employees of the voestalpine Group have comexecutives: Six to seven training sessions are pleted a total of more than 66,400 e-learning conducted per year for up to 40 employees courses on the Code of Conduct and antitrust each. Face-to-face training on issues of adher­ law (including refresher and advanced courses) ence to capital market regulations is also pro­ since e-learning courses were introduced in the vided to employees of voestalpine AG. voestalpine Group (antitrust law from 2009, Code of Conduct from 2012). Furthermore, Compliance is a regular topic in Group communications and is addressed reThe existent e-learning courses on antitrust law peatedly—including by top management— (including an advanced course) and on the during major employee events at the level of Code of Conduct were redesigned and rolled the Group and the divisions. out in the business year 2019/20. In addition to the learning units, the courses also present case studies and require a final test. KEY E-LEARNING TOPIC: “COMPLIANCE BASICS” Compliance at Routine Consequences Case studies What is Compliance voestalpine Compliance of violations and final test KEY E-LEARNING TOPIC: “FAIR COMPETITION” Collusion Legal basics Collusion Case study: Overview of between and between Sharing market Final test antitrust law suppliers and consequences competitors information buyers KEY E-LEARNING TOPIC: “RECAP” Collusion between Abuse of Case study: Case study: competitors market position Pricing policies Sales prices CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 53 9. Ethical Corporate Management 9.1.4 REPORTING COMPLIANCE VIOLATIONS Reports of Compliance violations should be Furthermore, an option to anonymously report made openly for the most part, i.e., divulging violations via a web-based whistleblower system the whistleblower’s name. Pursuant to the Code has been available since 2012. However, reports of Conduct, such reports may be addressed to using this system may be filed solely with the individual’s direct supervisor; the approprirespect to antitrust law, corruption, fraud, ate legal or human resources department; the and conflicts of interest; put differently, only management of the respective Group comreports on these issues are processed through this pany; Internal Audit of voestalpine AG; the system. The system makes it possible for the Group Compliance Officer; or one of the appropriate Compliance Officers to communiDivisional Compliance Officers. Upon request, cate with whistleblowers while maintaining whistleblowers are ensured of absolute confiabsolute anonymity. dentiality. 9.2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Management Board and the Supervisory It was most recently revised in January 2020. Board of voestalpine AG resolved as early as The Code achieves validity when companies in 2003 to recognize the Austrian Corporate voluntarily undertake to comply with it. It aims to Governance Code (the “Code”), and they have establish an accountable corporate governance also implemented all of the amendments introsystem for companies and Groups that is duced in the meantime without exception. geared to the creation of sustainable value in the long term. By voluntarily undertaking to In addition to the mandatory “L rules” (legal abide by the Code, voestalpine supports these requirements), voestalpine AG voluntarily comobjectives and commits to providing a high plies with all of the Code’s “C rules” (comply or degree of transparency to all of the company’s explain) and “R rules” (recommendations). The stakeholders. Code provides Austrian stock corporations with a framework for managing and monitoring Business transactions with associated compatheir companies. It is based on the provisions of nies and parties as well as pending legal proAustrian stock corporation, stock exchange, ceedings are reported in the semi-annual and and capital market law as well as, generally, on annual financial statements of voestalpine AG. the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance. 54 SWEDISH 10. HUMAN RIGHTS voestalpine is committed to respecting and upholding human rights in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights. Since 2013, voestalpine has supported the UN Global Compact (UNGC) whose ten principles address labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption above and beyond the promotion of human rights. The present CR Report simultaneously serves as the annual Communication on Progress (CoP) under the UNGC. The commitment to respecting and upholding “Respect and Integrity.” Human rights are also a human rights is enshrined in detail in the chapter key element of the company’s binding Code of of voestalpine’s Code of Conduct entitled Conduct for Business Partners. UN GLOBAL COMPACT— THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of interprecautionary approach to nationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not greater environmental responsicomplicit in human rights abuses. bility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and LABOR STANDARDS diffusion of environmentally Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the friendly technologies. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ANTI-CORRUPTION to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of corruption in all its forms, including forced and bonded labor; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. 56 10. Human Rights COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING AND THE RIGHT TO FREEDOM OF MODERN SLAVERY ASSOCIATION Companies of the voestalpine Group that are About 80% of voestalpine’s employees are in an subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act fulfil the employment relationship that is governed by a latter’s requirements by publishing a statement collective agreement. Every employee has the to that effect. Both the Code of Conduct and freedom and right to join unions. The workforce the Code of Conduct for Business Partners ex­ in all voestalpine companies may elect repreplicitly mention and expressly prohibit human sentatives to the works councils. The voestalpine trafficking and modern slavery. Group has both a European Works Council and a Group Works Council, which maintain good HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING FOR communications with management. SECURITY PERSONNEL Plant security staff is largely made up of CHILD LABOR AND FORCED voestalpine’s own employees. The Code of ConLABOR duct also applies to third-party employees, voestalpine is strictly against child, forced, and and the Code of Conduct for Business Partners bonded labor. So far, there has been no known applies to their employers. Both documents case of such forms of labor in the entire Group. stipulate compliance with human rights. Nor does voestalpine tolerate any form of voestalpine itself provides human rights training child, forced, and bonded labor at its suppliers for its own employees; external security personand business partners. As part of the Sustainnel are trained by their own employers. able Supply Chain Management reviews, voestalpine’s suppliers are pointedly audited as RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES to their compliance with human rights, particuAs voestalpine operates solely in developed larly with respect to child, forced, and bonded industrial areas, its business operations do not labor (see page 45). affect the rights of aboriginal peoples. The Code of Conduct for Business Partners TRAINING states in this respect: “The Business Partner undertakes to respect and comply with human An online training program will be developed rights as fundamental values on the basis of the during the next business year to ensure resEuropean Convention on Human Rights and the pect for and compliance with human rights. The UN Charter. In particular, this applies to the proprogram will serve to sensitize all employees hibition of child and forced labor, the prohibiwhose activities entail greater responsibility for tion of any form of human trafficking, the equal this issue and provide them with important infortreatment of employees, and the right to emmation and instructions on how to act. ployee representation and collective bargaining.” CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 57 11. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT At its core, voestalpine’s sustainable corporate strategy relies on leadership in innovation, technology, and quality. Research and development (R&D) thus is central to the voestalpine business model. The continuous development of new products and production processes is vital to a technology-driven company such as voestalpine so that it can differentiate itself from the competition and remain successful in the market. This is how innovations ensure the company’s future in the long term. 11.1 RESEARCH EXPENDITURES OF THE voestalpine GROUP Recent years have seen unbroken growth in rein the business year 2019/20, an increase to search expenditures, thus reflecting the im­porEUR 187 million is budgeted for the business tance of R&D to the voestalpine Group. Folyear 2020/21. lowing an actual expenditure of EUR 174 million GROSS R&D EXPENDITURES (Excl. R&D capital investments) per business year, in millions of euros 187 200 171 174 152 132 140 100 Budget 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 58 11. Research and Development 11.2 ORGANIZATION OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development at voestalpine are research programs as well as for helping R&D decentralized and located close to both the managers to network; Group projects link the respective production facilities and the market. knowledge available in individual divisions; R&D This global network of over 70 sites is controlled expert clusters offer platforms for researchers by the Research Board and through Research to discuss particular topics; and the so-called Coordination. Several formats serve to promote Synergy Platform (the Group’s own annual knowledge sharing and exploit synergistic conference that receives external inputs from potential: The Research Committee is internationally renowned experts) also promotes responsi­ble for comparative work regarding the face-to-face meetings and networking. voestalpine AG High Metal Metal Steel Performance Engineering Forming Research Board Division Metals Division Division Division Research Committee Research Coordination 11.3 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ON SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS AND APPLICATIONS As far as development is concerned, voestalpine these two technology-intensive sectors are focuses on pushing the digitalization of its entire experiencing a sea change toward resourcevalue chain, developing innovative approaches efficient, sustainable approaches. for the mobility industry, and enabling CO2neutral steel production. Steel as a material has become absolutely indispensable to all of it. It contributes to sustainaImportant R&D activities are aimed at mobility in two ways: For one, steel can be recycled bility and energy—the two industries that are in its totality and re-used any number of times. also voestalpine’s biggest earners. At present, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 59 11. Research and Development For another, steel enables lightweight con­ voestalpine’s focus on sustainability even apstruction in a variety of applications thanks to its plies to special materials. For example, it deproduct properties. veloped a new steel alloy for manufacturers of Swiss premium watches that is not just particuvoestalpine develops high and highest tensile larly skin friendly and wear resistant, but also is steels, press-hardened steel as well as ultra-high resource-efficient in that it is made of up to 70% strength high-ductility steel for lightweight conrecycled steel. struction in the automotive and the commercial vehicle industry. This makes it possible to lower The still young field of metal additive manuboth fuel consumption and emissions in facturing enables the production of tools with vehicles powered by combustion engines. Addiespecially long useful lives and substantialtional sustainability effects encompass potenly lower scrap rates because this technology tially greater loads in commercial vehicles and makes it possible to perfectly adjust a product thus fewer trips as well as the greater reach of to its purpose. voestalpine develops and battery-operated vehicles. carries out all relevant process steps itself—from the production of the metal powder, to design The company applies its expertise in the deand construction, all the way to actual additive velopment of highest tensile steels including manufacturing and finishing. perfectly matched welding technologies to rail technology also. The development of TransANT, Batteries of electric vehicles (EVs), whose charge a freight car that weighs about 20% less than capacity has outlived their original purpose, conventional freight cars, garnered the Austrian are used in so-called energy storage farms, National Prize for Mobility in 2019. This platform where they store electricity from regenerative wagon is robust and amenable to flexible uses, sources. Hence they help to stabilize the netenables higher loads, and eliminates many train work and balance peak loads. voestalpine trips as a result. supplies high-quality warehouse structures for these energy storage farms that fulfill stringent In the Railway Systems segment, the Group’s requirements as to connectivity, stable ambient R&D focus is on continuing to refine the matetemperature, and fire protection. rial used for tracks into steel grades resistant to wear and tear, for one, and on digitalizing the turnout systems, for another. In turn, this yields high track system availability, boosts safety, and lowers the consumption of resources and energy. 60 11. Research and Development 11.4 RESEARCH ON AND DEVELOPMENT OF CLIMATE-FRIENDLY STEELMAKING The decarbonization of steelmaking is a major The groundbreaking SuSteel project serves to challenge for the entire industry and calls for inconduct research on another direct steelmaking novative approaches. voestalpine collaborates technology using hydrogen plasma. In January with both universities and partner entities in or2020, the pilot plant in Donawitz, Austria, sucder to drive pioneering solutions through R&D ceeded for the first time in carrying out a hydrowork. gen plasma smelting reduction. Current work aims to optimize the facility in order to enable In the longer term, hydrogen as a reducing agent continuous operations and to adjust it to dif­ is to replace the currently used direct reduction ferent types of iron ore. bridge technology based on natural gas. The hydrogen must be produced sustainably, i.e., solely from water using renewable energies. In order to research the technology and its feasibility for the steel industry, the world’s largest hydrogen electrolyzer plant was built and successfully started up in 2019 at the voestalpine Group’s Linz facility in Austria. It is here that tests are conducted to determine whether this technology is suitable for pro­ducing green hydrogen on a major industrial scale. The EUR 18 million project, which is supported by the European Union, also explores the potential of making network services available and of balancing fluctuations in the electricity grid. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 61 12. THE ENVIRONMENT Environmentally conscious action is firmly integrated into the voestalpine Group’s corporate philosophy. In particular, this is evidenced by its continuous endeavors to make economical use of resources such as raw materials and energy along the entire production chain and to minimize the environmental impact of processes and products. To achieve these goals, voestalpine utilizes the voestalpine is committed to the following best available technologies in its production principles at all of its production facilities: plants and continually works to boost efficiency, lower emissions, and reduce the consumption of >> To take comprehensive responsibility for our energy in connection with the existent system of products; steel production. Our intensive work to research >> To optimize the production processes; new, more environmentally friendly production >> To establish environmental management processes and, not least, to refine materials and systems; products alike makes material contributions to >> To integrate employees into these processes the company’s environmental footprint as well. and ensure environmentally conscious conduct on the part of every single one of All of these activities are supported through them; and transparent and efficient environmental man­ >> To engage in open and professional agement systems (EMSs) that have been widely dialogues. implemented in the voestalpine Group. 62 DUTCH 12. The Environment Environmental protection is a core component of voestalpine’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy. The following principles are enshrined in it. Emissions in the Air, Soil, and Water: Energy and climate policy Minimize Using the Best Available Commitment to low-carbon production: We Technologies are meeting the challenge of decarboniProcess-related emissions cannot be entirely zing the economic system in the long term not avoided due to the chemical and physical prop­ only through comprehensive research and deerties of existent production processes. We velopment of new technologies, frequently via operate our production facilities based on the cross-sector cooperation agreements and proprinciple that the best available technologies jects. We also engage in an open and construcmust be applied as appropriate and in ecotive dialogue with stakeholders such as political nomically viable fashion. We also develop new decision makers, the scientific community, and approaches that aim to minimize environmenenvironmental organizations. tally relevant effects on the air, soil, and water as best as possible. Circular Economy & Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) We support holistic, comprehensive, and integrated analyses and assessments of materials (life cycle assessments, LCAs) as well as of all process and value chains within the parameters of the circular economy, also known as “circularity.” 12.1 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS voestalpine’s internal environmental data man­ environmental activities at the operating and agement system comprises some 130 pro­ strategic level as well as the continual monitoduction companies and facilities worldwide— ring thereof. including all steel-producing and processing entities—that have a major impact on the Broad-based management systems are parGroup’s ecological footprint. This covers about ticularly important in this respect. Two-thirds 150 key figures regarding, for example, energy of the facilities covered by environmental and materials efficiency, emissions, water, waste, data management possess an environmental and recycling management as well as environmanagement system pursuant to ISO 14001 or mental investments. These data serve not only the EU’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme to prepare external reports and fulfill reporting (EMAS), and another 8% utilize a certified enerobligations, but also to facilitate ecological asgy management system (EnMS) pursuant to ISO sessments of processes, products, and materi50001. als. They also provide the basis for the Group’s 64 12. The Environment 12.2 ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES The environmental expenditures of the this reflects particularly the fact that the costs of voestalpine Group over the past ten years the EU Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) have amount to approximately EUR 2.4 billion. In been growing since the company’s business addition to continually high expenditures for year 2017/18. environmental measures at the operating level, ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES In millions of euros 315 299 300 258 237 231 200 100 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Current operating expenses rose from EUR 299 31% of these funds went toward clean air million in the previous year to EUR 315 million activities at the operating level; 21% were spent in the business year 2019/20. CO2 allowances on waste recycling, reuse, and disposal; and accounted for a total of EUR 90 million (29%) 17% were invested in measures to protect the of this amount. The substantial year-over-year aquatic environment. increase (EUR 60 million) stems from the rising price of emissions rights, whereas purchases of additional allowances accounted for about one third of the cost, as before. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 65 12. The Environment 12.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS In the past ten years, the voestalpine Group EUR 66.2 million in both the Steel Division and spent some EUR 400 million on investment the High Performance Metals Division, they projects having a clearly allocable environmendeclined to EUR 35.0 million in the reporting tal impact. While environmental investments period. in the business year 2018/19 had risen to ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS Cumulative, in millions of euros 300 35 66 200 41 46 100 55 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Despite shrinking investments owing to the its plant in Linz, Austria, a number of steps were difficult economic environment overall, the taken to reduce dust accumulations. voestalpine Group brought important environmental and climate mitigation projects to LEGACY POLLUTION CLEAN-UP fruition in the past business year also, especially PROJECT AT COKING PLANT regarding resource conservation, reductions in process-related emissions, and improvements in The work at Austria’s largest legacy pollution hydrological circuits. clean-up project on the grounds of the former coking plant in Linz that has already been ongoThe Steel Division, for example, focused its aming for the past ten years continued apace. Hot bitious environmental program on the implespots (i.e., highly contaminated soil representing mentation of measures serving to lower the use legacy pollution dating back to World War II) in of coke, natural gas, blast furnace gas (BFG), the area of the former tank warehouses were and power from electrical sources. It also imremoved. A state-of-the-art funnel & gate plemented processes that make the utilization system prevents pollutants from being carried of water for cooling purposes more efficient. At away via the groundwater. 66 12. The Environment The current investment activities of the High PerRENATURING THE formance Metals Division are focused on its new WASTE DISPOSAL SITE special steel plant in Kapfenberg, Austria, which is slated to start up in 2021 and will set ecologiThe project to redirect the Lanzgraben creek on cal standards with respect to energy efficiency, the premises of the company’s Kapfenberg plant heat recovery, and wastewater recycling. was completed in the business year 2019/20. This water body flowed on the north side of The “environmentally optimized staining” protwo waste disposal sites, cut through the waste ject at the same site that has a volume of about disposal site at the funicular, and occasionally EUR 16 million was completed in the business overflowed its banks due to strong overgrowth. year 2019/20. The newly built, fully automated A renaturing project was launched in 2017 as salt bath and tunneled pickling system for chempart of the preparatory work for the construction ically treating wire rod and drawn special of the new special steel plant. The clean excavasteel wire is equipped with a next-generation tion material from the construction site—about exhaust air and wastewater treatment unit. This 700,000 tons or some 350,000 m³ in toto—was enables significant improvements in air, used to reroute the creek. The area was straightwastewater, and waste emissions; boosts reened, and the creek was redirected around source efficiency; and lowers employees’ health the funicular waste disposal site to its original risks. Acid vapor is treated via exhaust air scrubcourse. In addition, a retaining pool with a bers, and a regeneration unit cuts down the volume of 12,000 m³ was created to prevent consumption of acid. Both the cascading rinflooding in the future. Several amphibian pools se water structure and the regeneration of acid were built, numerous trees and shrubs planted reduce the amount of slurry from the wastealong the creek, and embankments created. water cleaning facility that must be classified as Over a period of some two years, these hazardous waste. activities created a large nature area in the middle of the waste site. Moreover, the new wastewater treatment unit significantly lowers the concentration of emissions as well as the volume of wastewater. Finally and not least, the redesigned facility allows employees to carry out their activities without having to be in the immediate vicinity of the acid baths. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 67 12. The Environment During the reporting period, the Metal Engi­neer­ The Metal Forming Division, for its part, also ing Division also focused on further im­provetook steps at a number of its sites to contiments in resource efficiency and on sustainnue boosting its energy and resource efficien­ably effective energy-related measures. At the cy and thus lower CO2 emissions. This includes division’s largest facility (Donawitz, Austria), a improvements in the heat recovery process, recomprehensive efficiency program in the comductions in the consumption of water, and the pany’s own power plant makes it possible to widespread conversion to LED in factory floor boost the efficiency of its capacity to generate lighting. energy from by-product gases by up to 20 GWh/ year. Additional technical measures reduce the Annually, the division achieves savings of 600 energy required to operate the power generaMWh in its consumption of natural gas while, at tion unit by some 6,000 MWh annually. A new the same time, raising the production volume at waste gas blower that also consumes a lot less its precision section plant in Kematen, Austria. electricity thanks to its greater efficiency was takThe annealing furnaces were converted to recuen into operation in March 2020. Furthermore, perative burners for this purpose. The new systhe division’s production companies made comtem consumes less energy to heat fresh air by prehensive investments to optimize cooling and using partially preheated air from the furnace. wastewater systems and, in part, to modernize the operational buildings’ thermal systems. JOINT PHOTOVOLTAICS ZELTWEG FACILITY: PROJECT CO2 NEUTRAL FOR THE PAST TEN YEARS An emblematic project that aims to gener­ate renewable energy in house using innovative The company's turnout technology plant in Zeltvoestalpine photovoltaics products was imweg, Austria, achieves high environmental stanplemented in the Netherlands, specifically, the dards and has been CO2 neutral for ten years company’s Bunschoten plant for automotive thanks to extensive energy saving and efficiency components. There, 35,000 solar panels over an measures, the use of renewables such as waste area of more than eight soccer fields will gen­ heat and district heating from biomass as well erate annual peak solar energy of about 10 milas the facility’s own hydroelectric power plant. lion kWh in the future. This will cover one third of Current plans include projects aimed at further the facility’s own energy requirements, with the reducing energy consumption levels such as result that its CO2 emissions will be reduced by the complete conversion of the factory floor close to 6,000 tons a year. voestalpine’s special heating systems to CO2-neutral district heating section systems from Belgium are being used to and replacing the forklifts that are operated install the solar panels on the roof. using natural gas with electric vehicles. Some 40% of the still remaining direct CO2 emissions, which so far were more than offset by excess electricity from the facility’s own hydroelectric power plant, can be cut via this approach. 68 12. The Environment 12.4 AIR EMISSIONS Owing to its energy-intensive processes, conThe major air pollutants that occur during the ventional steelmaking still depends on fossil production of steel besides greenhouse gases fuels. The emissions resulting from these proces(in particular CO2) are sulfur dioxide (SO2), ses as well as from chemico-physical reactions nitrous oxide (NOx), and dust. voestalpine fully cannot be eliminated in full. complies with the statutory limits regarding all of these emissions. These parameters are verified Yet voestalpine has been working for a long and their annual loads determined by means of time to reduce process-related air pollutants to continuous measurements, periodic analyses, the technically possible minimum. This is accomand material flow analyses. plished by the continual optimization of technical processes (so-called “process integrated (PI) Comprehensive environmental measures have measures”). Remaining emissions are minimized enabled the voestalpine Group over the past by way of state-of-the-art scrubbing facilities three decades to substantially lower emission (so-called “end-of-pipe measures”). levels to that which is technologically achieva­ble at this time. As a result, the specific emissions per ton of crude steel have been reduced as follows: CO2 by 16%, SO2 by 82%, NOX by 65%, and dust by 96%. REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS Per ton of crude steel since 1990 -16% -65% -82% -96% CO2 NOx SO2 Dust 2019 Emissions Reduction compared with 1990 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 69 12. The Environment 12.4.1 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The direct greenhouse gas emissions of the sions have been tallied and externally verified voestalpine Group’s roughly 130 production in comprehensive fashion for all production facilities in 2019 amounted to 13.6 million tons, facilities along the entire value chain in with Austria (specifically, the Group’s two crude accordance with ISO 14064-3. steel production plants in Linz and Donawitz) accounting for the lion’s share thereof. The In 2019, voestalpine was given the CDP’s “A-” year-over-year increase (12.7 million tons) stems rating for its work to mitigate climate change mainly from the fact that the largest individual as well as for the scope, quality, and trans­ blast furnace in Linz (Blast Furnace A) was temparency of the underlying corporate data and porarily shut down in 2018 for relining purposes. thus promoted to the CDP’s “leadership” category, the best of four. Most recently, voestalpine voestalpine places great value on transparenwas awarded the CDP’s best possible supplier cy and thus has participated in the Carbon engagement rating—A, i.e., “global leaderDisclosure Project (CDP) among others since ship”—which assesses climate change mitigation 2017. To this end, the greenhouse gas emis­ across the entire value chain. DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2019 In millions of tons of CO2e 20 13.61 10 7.26 0.94 0.43 0.92 0.6 0.05 0.08 0 Raw materials Production Transportation Transportation Business travel Waste treatment Purchased energy of energy purchases (upstream) (downstream) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct Indirect 70 12. The Environment 12.4.2 SO2 EMISSIONS The use of particular raw materials—e.g., coal While the specific SO2 emissions in the calendar and coke—introduces sulfur into the production year 2019 were 0.49 kg/t of product, the absoprocess. During certain processing steps and lute SO2 emissions rose to 4.6 kt compared with when by-products (coke oven gas and blast the previous year during which they were lower furnace gas) are used for thermal recycling, due to the idling of the plant in connection with sulfur is emitted in the form of sulfur dioxide the complete overhaul of Blast Furnace A at the (SO2). Linz site. SO2 EMISSIONS kt 10 5.4 5.2 4.9 4.6 4.2 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SPECIFIC SO2 EMISSIONS kg/t of product 1.0 0.70 0.69 0.45 0.49 0.44 0.5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 71 12. The Environment 12.4.3 NOX EMISSIONS In steel production, nitrogen oxides result from absolute NOx emissions of voestalpine in the the operation of industrial furnaces and from calendar year 2019 were approximately 6.1 kt, thermal recycling of the by-product gases. The and the specific NOx emissions were 0.64 t. NOx EMISSIONS kt 10 6.1 5.1 4.9 4.5 4.6 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SPECIFIC NOx EMISSIONS kg/t of product 1.0 0.62 0.58 0.64 0.48 0.50 0.5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 72 12. The Environment 12.4.4 CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS Dust-laden exhaust air and exhaust gases calendar year 2019, absolute dust emissions occurring during production are captured and were lowered from 0.36 kt to 0.32 kt and channeled to dedusting systems using statespecific dust emissions per ton of product from of-the-art measures and precautions. In the 37 g to 34 g. CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS kt 0.50 0.39 0.36 0.32 0.32 0.25 0.25 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SPECIFIC CAPTURED DUST EMISSIONS g/t of product 50 42 37 37 33 34 25 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 73 12. The Environment 12.4.5 ORGANIC AIR POLLUTANTS Organic air pollutants (i.e., volatile organic comVOC emissions in the calendar year 2018 pounds, VOC) are primarily process related, rethanks to investments in coal drying, VOC emissulting from the thermal process stages in crude sions were substantially lowered yet again in the steel production and/or in connection with the calendar year 2019, from 0.24 kt to 0.17 kt in respective combustion processes. Following a absolute terms and from 24 g to 18 g in specific significant reduction in the Group’s absolute terms (i.e., per ton of product). VOC EMISSIONS kt 0.50 0,36 0.37 0.30 0.24 0.25 0.17 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SPECIFIC VOC EMISSIONS g/t of product 45 50 39 34 24 25 18 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 74 12. The Environment 12.5 WATER MANAGEMENT Water is one of the most important consumables voestalpine used approximately 703 million m³ and auxiliary materials in the production of of water in the calendar year 2019, but some both pig iron and crude steel as well as in down94% of this amount was sourced from surface stream processing operations. It serves cooling water for cooling purposes and returned to the purposes and generates steam. source in the same quality. Accordingly, the company’s direct net blue water consumption Always taking local conditions into account, was 12.5 million m³ or 1.32 m³/t of product, just voestalpine succeeds in conserving water reas in the previous year. Upstream steel producsources via circular systems and the repeat­ tion accounted for most of the indirect net blue ed use of process water, among other things. water consumption of 47.9 million m³ or 5.03 In keeping with ISO 14046 and the intem³/t of product, this too just as a year earlier. grated LCA approach, assessments of the circular water economy are performed across The impact of voestalpine’s process plants on all production steps and locations. local water systems thus is relatively low and does not aggravate conditions in regions al­ Determining the “blue water consumption” (i.e., ready affected by water scarcity. These are the the net consumption of freshwater) and/or the findings of an externally verified study on the water scarcity footprint of each and every prodetermination of the water scarcity footprint, duction facility involves conducting detailed which plotted a Group-wide analysis of the analyses of the ways they contribute to the waproduction activities along the entire value ter scarcity of a region, taking local hydrogeolochain (i.e., from cradle to gate). gical conditions into account. WATER EXTRACTION 2019 WATER FOOTPRINT voestalpine AG in % 93.9% 100% Surface water 0.2% Municipal water supply 5.7% 50% Groundwater 0.3% Other sources 0% Blue water Water scarcity Consumption footprint Direct Indirect CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 75 12. The Environment 12.6 WASTE & RECYCLING MANAGEMENT Steel is considered a permanent material. It has What matters besides conserving resources in a long useful life, is easy to repair, and may be both production and processing is the work to recycled into new steel products any number continually improve products’ useful life as well of times without any loss in quality. These prop­ as their reusability and recoverability. Accord­ erties and steel’s contribution to weight reducingly, own and third-party scrap are an imtions—e.g., in mobility (lightweight automotive portant source of raw material for voestalpine. construction)—make steel indispensable to a Scrap is utilized in the electric furnaces of the sustainable society. High Performance Metals Division to the same extent as in the crude steel production plants in Linz and Donawitz that adhere to the steel plant route and thus work with conventional blast furnaces. In 2019, the recycling rate of iron relative to the product output was 28.7%. RECYCLING RATE In % 50% 30.0 28,7 23.7 22.1 22.2 25% 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018* 2019 * From 2018: recycling rate of iron relative to product output (= percentage of iron in the product made of secondary raw materials such as scrap) 76 12. The Environment Process management in the integrated steel The specific volume of hazardous waste in the mills is optimized on an ongoing basis to ensure calendar year 2019 was 21.4 kg, and that of internal circularity as well as external utilization non-hazardous waste 151.8 kg. Year over year, of residual products and waste from both the the disposal volume of non-hazardous waste production plants and downstream facilities. rose in 2019 by 15%. This increase is related to Products, residual materials, and waste that the Linz plant where a greater volume of steel accumulate internally and externally are also mill slag was sent to external repurposing in (re)used in voestalpine’s production plants; 2019. besides scrap this includes processed plastic waste, waste oil, and used grease. For example, steel mill dust is utilized in the zinc industry, and slag in the cement industry. WASTE VOLUME kt 2000 1,372 1,446 1,272 1,248 1,275 1000 187 197 236 209 204 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous Non-Hazardous SPECIFIC WASTE VOLUME kg/t product 187 172 200 152 132 116 100 24 26 22 22 21 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Hazardous Non-Hazardous CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 77 12. The Environment 12.7 ENERGY Reducing the consumption of energy is a ted from coal or coke with the same volume of permanent challenge in conventional steel electricity from renewable sources and/or, in the production—for both environmental and cost long term, with hydrogen generated through reasons. After all: Energy costs still account for green power. about one fifth of manufacturing costs. The amount of third-party electricity that the In voestalpine’s conventional, integrated steel voestalpine Group sources from the external mills, energy efficiency gains are achieved network is negligible at this time, because it through the continual optimization of process covers its energy needs itself mainly through gas recycling, the use of waste heat potentials, fossil fuels. Process gases are converted into and a comprehensive energy management electricity in our own power plants within our system (in this respect, see also “Environmental steel facilities and are then re-used in downManagement Systems,” page 64). In Linz (the stream processing plants. Moreover, thanks to Group’s largest plant), for example, the specific regenerative sources of energy (hydroelectric energy consumption level has fallen by 19% power, photovoltaics) many facilities already since 1990 through process optimization and boast a high degree of energy self-sufficiency. the cascading utilization of the energy used. The total energy consumption of the voestalpine The amount of energy required to reduce the Group in the calendar year 2019 was 42.4 TWh amount of iron ore required in the production (4.4 MWh/t of product), with Linz and Donawitz of pig iron or crude steel always remains the (the two crude steel facilities) accounting for same, irrespective of the technical processes uti25.5 TWh and 6.3 TWh, respectively, and the lized. Processes currently being researched with direct reduction plant in Texas, USA, accounting respect to decarbonization (see “Climate for 5.4 TWh. The year-over-year increase (2018: Protection,” page 34) do not significantly low­ absolute 39.9 TWh, specific 4.1 MWh) stems er the absolute need for energy. Instead, they from the shutdown of Blast Furnace A in Linz merely replace the energy currently generaduring the 2018 relining work. TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TWh 45.0 50 39.9 42.4 37.9 37.1 25 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 78 12. The Environment SPECIFIC TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION MWh/t of product 10.0 4.9 4.9 4.2 4.1 4.4 5.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 PERCENTAGE OF ENERGY SOURCES 2019 28.6% Natural gas 46.4% Coal 18.2% Coke 5.3% 1.5% Electricity (purchased) Other Coal, natural gas, and coke are the most imof the energy required was purchased from portant sources of energy. In 2019, a mere 5.3% external networks. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 79 13. HUMAN RESOURCES Our success as a steel and technology group is based on our employees’ particular expertise and high motivation. Hence voestalpine places great value in a respectful corporate culture as well as the diversity and individuality of its employees and their qualifications—all of which is reflected in the guiding principles of the company’s Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy. Corporate Culture Training and Continuing Education We create a respectful corporate culture in Targeted measures help voestalpine’s emwhich we expect and encourage trust, diversity, ployees gain qualifications and thus broaden self-determination, and personal responsibility. their career opportunities. We believe, furthervoestalpine’s culture, as a symbol of our Groupmore, that both training young people and wide identity, is continually being refined in this encouraging lifelong learning are long-term sense. determinants of the company’s success. Diversity We value the individuality of all our employees and their capabilities—irrespective of gender, age, origin, creed, sexual orientation, or potential impairment—and create the conditions for equal opportunity as well as work that maintains people’s health and is appropriate to life’s different phases. 80 POLISH 13. Human Resources 13.1 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE As of the annual reporting date (March 31, apprentices and 2,679 temporary employees 2020), the voestalpine Group had a global are included, this number rises to a total of workforce of 47,668 employees. Once 1,337 49,682 full-time equivalents (FTEs). DEVELOPMENT OF THE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Personnel (excluding apprentices and temporary employees, head counts), per business year 45,046 45,866 47,603 48,792 47,668 50,000 25,000 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT In each case as of the March 31 reporting date; excl. full-time employees 5,676 4,669 5,000 4,172 3,868 4,405 3,825 3,680 3,389 3,300 2,679 2,500 1,377 1,320 1,301 1,310 1,337 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Temporary Apprentices Part-time employees employees (FTEs) (head counts) (head counts) 82 13. Human Resources 13.1.1 EMPLOYMENT BY COUNTRY AND REGION voestalpine comprises about 500 Group employees are based in Austria, and 55.2% companies and sites in 50 countries on five work at sites outside of the country. continents. A total of 44.8% of the company’s 44.8% Austria 16.3% Germany 8.8% Other countries 6.8% USA 4.3% Brazil 4.3% China 2.5% Netherlands 2.3% Sweden 1.9% Romania 1.7% France 1.5% India 1.3% Belgium 1.3% Great Britain 1.1% Mexico 1.1% Poland CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 83 13. Human Resources voestalpine is considered an attractive emmost employees at any given site are local ployer in the countries in which it works. This residents. facilitates local recruiting, with the result that WORKFORCE BY REGION As of the March 31, 2020, reporting date, based on FTEs Employees in Great Britain were reclassified from “European Union” to “Rest of Europe.” 0.6% 2.1% Africa Rest of Europe 13.3% Americas 7.8% Asia 0.6% 75.6% Australia and Oceania European Union German and English are the predominant lanto the Code of Conduct, the Corporate guages in the voestalpine Group. Hence the Responsibility Factsheet as well as the Employee Group’s most important publications are issued Magazine. in these two languages, but they are translated into multiple other languages also; this applies 84 13. Human Resources 13.1.2 YEARS OF SERVICE AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER As in years past, in the business year 2019/20 group, followed by employees who have been employees who have up to five years of service with voestalpine for a period of six to 15 years. with the Group make up the largest employee YEARS OF SERVICE As of the March 31, 2020, reporting date All employees excluding apprentices, interns, freelancers, and master’s/doctoral degree candidates 9.5% 5.5% 26–35 years 36 years and more 16.1% 16–25 years 35.3% 5 years and less 33.6% 6–15 years Numerous measures ensure that both the data regarding new hires and departures takes knowledge and the experience of our emall employees into account (including manaployees are put to the best use possible, thus ging directors, Management Board members, continually enhancing voestalpine’s attractivetemporary absentees; but excluding appren­ ness as an employer. This also keeps the emtices, interns, freelancers, master’s/doctoral deployee turnover rate low. In the business year gree candidates). There were 22 applications for 2019/20, the turnover rate for employment each job opening, thus illustrating voestalpine’s contracts terminated by mutual agreement or attractiveness as an employer. by the employee was 7.7%. The collection of CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 85 13. Human Resources 13.2 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Globally, just over 50,000 people (FTEs) work for pairment, age, sexual orientation, and identity. voestalpine. Each and every employee is This commitment and corresponding actions valuable on account of their individual strengths create a climate of acceptance and mutual and abilities and must be respected. The fact trust. As laid out in the chapter on “Respect and that voestalpine’s CEO signed the company’s Integrity” of the voestalpine Code of Conduct, “Diversity Charter” in February 2018 underthe Group does not tolerate any discrimination, scores the Group’s approach to both diversity whatever form it may take. and equal treatment. voestalpine is committed to respecting all people with whom it has a relationship (employees, customers, business partners)—irrespective of gender, skin color, nationality, ethnicity, creed or worldview, im­ NEW STANDARDS IN THE APPLICANT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The FABIS applicant management system is a platFollowing the switch to a different provider, the ex­ form for both potential employees and voestalpine isting standards that had been used in Germanitself that makes it possible to electronically process speaking territories for years were revised and and track job openings and applications as well as rolled out internationally. For example, gender-neuthe entire application process including all related tral wording was developed for job announcements. communications. These new standards will be adopted in short order by all Group companies. 13.2.1 DIFFERENTLY-ABLED INDIVIDUALS In Austria, companies with more than 25 emtential impairment. It goes without saying that ployees are required to make jobs available voestalpine fulfills all statutory requirements for differently-abled individuals. A total of 752 regarding the employment and integration of voestalpine employees in Austria have reported differently-abled individuals that may apply at that they are subject to the beneficiary classiany given location. fication under the Austrian Act on the Employment of Differently-Abled Individuals (BehinderA range of measures also ensures respectful teneinstellungsgesetz). For reasons related to treatment of each other in the Group. data privacy and protection, outside of Austria voestalpine supports integration measures outno information is collected on employees’ poside of the Group’s purview as well. 86 13. Human Resources 13.2.2 WOMEN IN voestalpine It is voestalpine’s stated goal to increase the salaried employees it is 29.1%. As of March 31, percentage of women at all employment lev­ 2020, women accounted for 12.5% of female els—whether among apprentices or among executives (salaried employees with permaexecutives. Through actions that differ by region nent responsibility for human resources, includ­ and company, voestalpine not only makes sure ing forepersons, but excluding members of that it is an attractive company for female apthe Management Board). There was a slight inplicants but also creates an environment that is crease in the number of women in most of these conducive to their professional advancement categories. At 47.8%, the percentage of women within the Group. As of the annual reporting among apprentices completing non-technical date (March 31, 2020), women made up 14.7% training (shown in the “Female apprentices of all employees in the voestalpine Group. The (other)” category) is particularly high. percentage of female workers is 5.8%; among WOMANPOWER IN SKILLED TECHNICAL TRADES At home, voestalpine is a pioneer in educating and gineers, electricians, or foundry technicians. In fact, training women in technical trades requiring apprenfemale apprentices regularly deliver persuasive perticeships. The company's plant in Linz, Austria, for formances in competitions. At the Upper Austrian instance, welcomed the first female apprentices Apprentice Competition 2019, for example, a female in technical trades as early as in 2003. Nowadays, apprentice mechanical engineer of voestalpine Stahl women are an integral part of most of the Group’s GmbH took the first prize not just in one category but 50 companies: They work as welders, mechanical enin three. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 87 13. Human Resources PERCENTAGE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Women overall 13.1% 13.5% 13.8% 14.4% 14.7% Female 12.0% 11.5% 12.3% 12.5% 12.5% executives Female salaried 28.4% 28.5% 28.8% 28.9% 29.1% employees Female wage 3.9% 4.5% 4.9% 5.7% 5.8% employees Female 11.8% 12.4% 13.5% 13.4% 15.6% apprentices (technical) Female apprentices 55.2% 50.8% 47.4% 52.7% 47.8% (other) SALARIED EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY GENDER In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 100% 80% 71.6 71.5 71.2 71.1 70.9 60% 40% 28.4 28.5 28.8 28.9 29.1 20% 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Female employees Male employees 88 13. Human Resources WAGE EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY GENDER In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 96.1 95.5 95.1 94.3 94.2 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 3.9 4.5 4.9 5.7 5.8 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Female employees Male employees 13.2.3 AGE STRUCTURE OF EMPLOYEES As of the annual reporting date (March 31, the average age by employment contract and 2020), the average age of employees in the gender. Group was 41.5 years. The following table shows AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Wage employees 40.5 40.5 40.4 40.4 40.8 Salaried employees 42.3 42.2 42.4 42.3 42.6 Women 39.8 39.5 39.7 39.9 40.1 Men 41.4 41.4 41.3 41.4 41.7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 89 13. Human Resources SALARIED EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY AGE GROUP In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 55.7 55.6 55.4 55.8 55.8 60% 40% 27.0 27.2 26.9 27.5 28.0 20% 17.3 17.1 17.7 16.7 16.2 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Employees < 30 years Employees 30–50 years Employees > 50 years WAGE EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY AGE GROUP In each case as of the March 31 reporting date 60% 49.3 49.5 48.9 48.9 50.2 40% 25.5 25.2 25.6 24.9 26.1 25.1 25.8 25.3 24.1 25.7 20% 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Employees < 30 years Employees 30–50 years Employees > 50 years 90 13. Human Resources 13.3 ATTRACTIVENESS AS AN EMPLOYER 13.3.1 EMPLOYEE SURVEY voestalpine regularly conducts a Group-wide The agreement values in two categories— employee survey. The most recent survey was “Professional Development Options” and “Direct carried out in the fall of 2019; it was the first Executive”—critical to the survey also increased. one to be conducted exclusively online. A total Besides the Group-wide employee survey, in of 77% of the employees invited to participate the future Group companies will also be able to provided their feedback. The results show posiconduct interim surveys (so-called “pulse surtive developments at the Group level. Com­pared veys”). These provide greater autonomy and with 2016, the level of commitment rose by 3% flexibility with respect to the analyses. The Man­ to 56%. This key figure describes the emotional agement Board of voestalpine AG resolved to and intellectual degree of loyalty to a group or make commensurate reports to the participatorganization and is compiled from the answers ing companies’ supervisory bodies mandatory to different questions. in order to ensure consistent and verifiable implementation of the actions taken in response to survey findings. 13.3.2 E  MPLOYER BRANDING Its positioning as an attractive employer is very marketing activities such as collaborations with important to voestalpine. We can drive innova­ (primarily technical) universities, participation tion and compete successfully in the market in job fairs and career expos, and sponsoring only if we have committed and professionally are carried out to further enhance voestalpine’s competent employees. employer branding. A strong presence in all of the relevant online and social media channels The regular voestalpine employee survey thus as well as active reporting about the company serves as a barometer of employee satisfaction increase voestalpine’s visibility among the tarand results in the development of internal acget groups. tion packages. Numerous external personnel ANNUAL EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE REVIEW The annual employee performance review has bebeen made to introduce suitable instruments of this come a key personnel development tool in many nature for wage employees (e.g., team assessment voestalpine companies. A structured, annual condialogues) also, but the binding standards do not proversation between supervisor and employee outside vide relevant guidance. While corporate headquarof daily routines provides the basis for positive collaters offers standardized questionnaires and manuals, boration. Careful preparation, regularity, and docuadjustments specific to companies and countries mentation among other things distinguish these remay be made. In the business year 2019/20, a total of views from other kinds of meetings. Annual employee 29,121 annual employee performance reviews were performance reviews must be conducted Group-wide conducted Group-wide. with all salaried employees. A recommendation has CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 91 13. Human Resources 13.4 TRAINING AND CONTINUING EDUCATION voestalpine believes that enhancing employee in total were spent on human resources developqualification levels is instrumental to both ment in the business year 2019/20. A total of innovation and quality and thus the company’s 64.4% of all Group employees took part in train­ success. Numerous measures thus pro­mote eming and continuing education programs, and ployee training and continuing education and the total volume of training hours was 781,539; simultaneously serve to expand em­ ployees’ this equates to an average of 25.4 hours per career opportunities. More than EUR 53 million trained employee. 13.4.1 EXECUTIVE TRAINING PROGRAMS voestalpine relies on the so-called “value:proalong with Group-wide interest in ensuring that gram” it developed for training current and fuemployees possess advanced qualifications ture executives. A total of 198 employees from make the value:program extremely successful 26 countries participated in this multi-level and unique. Among other things, the particileadership program during the business year pants are required to work on internal projects, 2019/20. Of these, 16.7% were women. What giving project mentors insight into the benefits makes this program special, aside from the skills of having international teams from the most ditraining offered by leading international experts vergent corporate units and cultures. As a result, and the broad range of the program’s methods, the value:program has focused more intensely is the intensive collaboration by members of on the issue of diversity and promoted its advoestalpine’s management—whether as presenvantages; commensurate training modules will ters, project managers, or even sparring partbe integrated into the program no later than in ners (so to speak)—in exchanges of experience. the business year 2021/22. This mixture of external and internal know-how HIGH MOBILITY POOL The High Mobility Pool (HMP) program is being reorIt gives young, talented individuals the opportuniganized to foster international talent. As part of the ty to learn a lot and to use their range of projects to program, young college graduates with a few years promote international networks within the Group. of professional experience carry out sophisticated Following two years of successful international project work worldwide. Purposefulness, flexibility, project activity, at the close of the business year self-directedness, knowledge of management meth­ 2019/20 six HMP program graduates were offered ods, and excellent communication skills are the prelong-term employment contracts with voestalpine. requisites for being successful in this program. 92 13. Human Resources 13.4.2 PROFESSIONAL ACADEMIES In addition to its proven programs for executives Topics such as guiding values and corporate reand specialists, voestalpine also offers training sponsibility are explored as well. The voestalpine programs for wage and salaried employees. Group believes that these capabilities and comThese programs not only expand these em­ petencies besides high levels of professional exployees’ professional qualifications and experpertise are important factors in employees’ suctise, they also boost soft skills such as teamwork, cessful future advancement. self-reflection, and agility. HR ACADEMY voestalpine places great value on employee developgoals. This conforms to the way the HR Academy ment. The Group offers a wide range of customized structures the content of its curriculum. Course of­ programs for various employee groups, including ferings range from greater familiarity with Groupprofessional academies such as the Sales Academy, wide HR tools (e.g., the employee survey, advertising the Purchasing Academy, and the voestalpine HR materials for employer branding, onboarding Academy, which was launched in 2016. The training templates, etc.), to practical applications of conprogram for HR managers and HR specialists at all sulting methods, all the way to advanced topics such Group companies and locations is carried out every as change management, communications, finance two years. So far, it has produced 60 graduates. for HR, and personality tests. The HR dialogue is an important component of the HR Academy. At this The HR Academy aims to support HR managers in event, Group and division HR managers discuss their active role as the link between executive and current and future challenges with the program non-executive employees so that all can do their participants. best to contribute to achievement of the company’s CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 93 13. Human Resources 13.5 APPRENTICES As of the annual reporting date (March 31, apprentices who successfully complete their 2020), the voestalpine Group was training 1,337 training are offered full-time positions. apprentices in about 50 skilled trades, the voestalpine clearly believes that it has the duty majority (62.8%) at locations in Austria. A toto invest in the training of young, skilled workers. tal of 22.1% of apprentices were being trained In addition to excellent professional training, in Germany under the dual system applica­ble the focus also is on developing personal and in that country. Because apprenticeships are social skills. The Group currently invests more based on defined needs, almost all of the than EUR 70,000 in training a single apprentice. PROMOTING APPRENTICES’ HEALTH The individuals responsible for the apprenticeship In Schwäbisch Gmünd, Germany, some 39 trainees programs offer a range of information on health can choose from among numerous workshops, inissues to apprentices and trainees alike. Some of cluding stress management and cooking classes for voestalpine’s sites create programs that combine a healthy nutrition. Starting in October 2020, a discrete host of actions and activities in this area. In Zeltweg, “health day” will be launched in cooperation with a for example, the roughly 53 apprentices will soon be fitness center, offering training sessions, vital health supported by a dedicated health coach. One of the check-ups as well as discounted memberships. At trainers is currently acquiring the requisite qualifithe plant in Kapfenberg, Austria, the health of 250 cations for this position. Health as such has been an apprentices is promoted from the get-go. The curriimportant topic in the apprenticeship programs for culum for the first apprenticeship year offers a total quite some time. It is addressed in both the annual of six customized modules ranging from movement and the quarterly apprentice reviews as well as in and nutrition, to individual fitness checks, all the way many lectures, workshops, and events. Apprentices to issues such as psychic health and self-esteem. This who like to keep moving can choose among businesshealth project starts with a two-day team-building specific running programs, memberships in fitness seminar. Two trainers in Kapfenberg are health centers as well as our very own apprentice soccer monitors, who hone the apprentices’ health conteam. The “Apprentice on the Move” program has sciousness again and again through lectures and already existed in Linz for more than 20 years. It is frequently playful workshops. continually being redesigned and offers workshops on issues such as fitness, ergonomics, addiction prevention, healthy nutrition, and much more. 94 13. Human Resources DIGITALIZATION PROJECTS AS PART OF TRAINING CURRICULA Digitalization is an important component of all voestalpine’s training center in Linz also introtraining at voestalpine. Various digitalization duces apprentices to the newest cutting-edge projects are deployed to impart digital skills to technologies, offering an expanded curriculum apprentices as part of their training. Just as in that covers digital learning content and tools. 2017 and 2018, in the summer of 2019 more Working with virtual reality goggles as well as than 60 apprentices at the Kapfenberg training tablets already is a fixed component of the center planned and built a fully automated miprogram. A new electrical technology lab was niature factory. Five apprentices from Wetzlar, inaugurated at the Krems plant in September Germany, participated in this futuristic project 2019. Electrical engineering apprentices can under an exchange program. Thanks to projects now spend their entire two-year basic training such as the Digital Learning Factory, these in this innovative work environment, building future skilled workers are already preparing now extensive electrical circuits and controls in statefor the Workplace 4.0. of-the-art labs, simulating circuitry, and engaging in other tasks. voestalpine's APPRENTICE COMPETITION AND GROUP APPRENTICE DAY Every year, the Group Apprentice Day gives apprenvoestalpine traditionally organizes a competition for tices an opportunity to learn from each other. The all apprentices from Austria, Germany, and SwitzerSeventh Apprentice Day was held in Linz in 2019. land ahead of the Group Apprentice Day. In 2019, A total of 350 apprentices from 40 locations in the apprentices were invited to submit their ideas Switzerland, Germany, and Austria attended the for a “futuristic vehicle.” The best submissions were event and shaped it also: in discussions with honored at the Group Apprentice Day on October voestalpine AG’s Management Board; during the 30th. Two mechatronics apprentices at voestalpine voestalpine quiz; and on a tour of the plant. Our upAutomotive Components in Dettingen, Germany, won and-coming skilled workers used last year’s annual first prize for their “Futuristic Wheels.” They got a lot creative competition yet again to display their innoof help from their fellow apprentices, for example, in vative potential. connection with laser cutting as well as bending and welding the sheet steel. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 95 13. Human Resources 13.6 THE STAHLSTIFTUNG In 1987, the so-called Stahlstiftung (Steel As of the annual reporting date (March 31, Foundation) was founded in Linz as an em2020), a total of 334 individuals were re­ceiving ployee fund with the aim of providing not only assistance from the Stahlstiftung, 69.2% of employees of the VOEST-ALPINE Group (as it whom were former employees of the voestalpine was called at the time), who had to leave the Group. The total number of active Stahlstiftung company due to a crisis, but also employees participants in the business year 2019/20 was of companies outside of the Group the oppor546, i.e., 2.5% less than a year earlier (560 intunity to reorient themselves professionally while dividuals). Aside from the participants covered undergoing up to four years of training and by the Stahlstiftung in its capacity as a classic continuing education in order to offset or at employee fund, in the business year 2019/20 a least alleviate the impact of the job loss. total of 62 individuals were supported in connection with educational leave activities. In the business year 2019/20, about 87% of the participants looking for work were able to develop a new professional perspective with the help of the Stahlstiftung. 13.7 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING SCHEME voestalpine has had an employee shareholding Mitarbeiterbeteiligung Privatstiftung, which conscheme since 2001, which has been continually stitutes 12.9% of the company’s share capital expanded since then. The employee foundadue to the general bundling of voting rights. tion is a stable, key shareholder of voestalpine. Furthermore, the voting rights of about 3.3 In addition to all Group employees in Austria, million “private shares” owned by former and personnel in Great Britain, Germany, the Nethercurrent Group employees, who may freely lands, Poland, Belgium, the Czech Republic, dispose of their shares at any time, have been Italy, Switzerland, Romania, Sweden, and Spain transferred to the foundation; this equates to an have a stake in voestalpine too. As of March 31, additional 1.9% of the voting shares. In toto, as 2020, a total of 25,300 employees held about of March 31, 2020, 14.8% of voestalpine AG’s 23.1 million shares through the voestalpine share capital was owned by employees. 96 ITALIAN 14. health & safety Human health and safety are key fundamental values at voestalpine and have the highest priority. We work to further reduce the frequency of accidents and to improve the health of all employees of the voestalpine Group—wherever they work, whatever their position. We believe that Group-wide safety standards are the basis of a successful corporate health & safety culture. 14.1 THE health & safety (h&s) SYSTEM The Group’s employees are its backbone. Hence voestalpine’s health & safety department works their physical and psychological wellbeing to develop a health & safety culture that all em(health) and their security (safety) at the workployees throughout the Group can embrace. place are considered key values at voestalpine. Aside from the Chief health & safety Officer, the h&s Board (comprising all Management Board This is underscored by the fact that the corpomembers), and the h&s Committee, manarate health & safety department reports directly gers in each division also have a role to play in to one of the members of voestalpine AG’s this connection. Safety projects that serve to Management Board. It is run by the Chief health prevent accidents and strengthen people’s & safety Officer and fosters cooperation across awareness of safety issues are carried out in all the Group. This department and a health & safedivisions. ty Committee, which is made up of employees of all four divisions as well as Works Council representatives, collaborate intensely on lowering the frequency of accidents. The accident frequency rate has already been reduced by more than 40% Group-wide since the department was established. 98 14. health & safety h&s Board Chair: Management Board h&s Committee Chair: Chief h&s Officer h&s Management High Performance Metal Engineering Metal Forming Steel Division Division Metals Division Division The following safety standards have been The effectiveness of the Group-wide safety standefined for the voestalpine Group: dards is reviewed annually using a web-based tool and improved as necessary through appro>> Every production company must put in priate action. place a safety system appropriate to its size and the nature of its activities. voestalpine’s Management Board member re­ >> Safety audits are measures aimed at sponsible for workplace safety has been required checking the lived reality of the safety to perform annual safety audits since the busiculture and must be conducted by ness year 2018/19. The managing directors re­ production company executives. sponsible for workplace safety at the production >> Near misses must be reported, companies, in turn, must carry out quarterly documented by way of event analyses, safety audits. and appropriate actions devised and implemented. The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) and the health status are the two key safety indicators that the companies compile uniformly throughout the Group. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 99 14. health & safety 14.2 LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE The LTIFR shows the number of reportable workAs a result, the numbers compiled before this place accidents entailing more than three sick date cannot be compared to the ones comdays per one million hours of work. piled after it. There are stark differences in the definitions Thanks to consistent h&s measures in the diviof reportable workplace accidents, sick days, sions, the number of workplace accidents has and hours of work across the countries in which fallen continuously in recent years. voestalpine works. Hence a uniform definition was put in place at the Group level. This defiIn the business year 2019/20, not a single nition has governed the figures that have been fatal accident involving voestalpine employees compiled since the business year 2015/16. occurred in the entire Group. DEVELOPMENT OF THE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) As of the March 31 reporting date 30 Implementation of the h&s Group structure* 20.4 20 16.1 14.8 12.5 11.3 9.4 10 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 * Change in the definition of the key performance indicator (KPI) 100 14. health & safety Digital Learning for health & safety Digital learning modules are produced in five 1. Safety and health have the highest priority. languages to transmit the Group’s health & 2. Our executives stand for these core values safety values; they are available to all emand ensure that they are complied with ployees. New employees must complete these across the board. learning modules before starting their job. The 3. Safe work practices (SWP) are the basis for modules explain voestalpine’s health & safety employment with voestalpine. values and the Group’s lived health & safety 4. Through their personal conduct, our culture: employees affect everybody’s safety and health at the workplace. 5. Responsible employees pay attention to themselves as well as to their co-workers. 6. We also expect our contractors and partners to give priority to the safety and health of their employees. 7. Healthy employees, who have not been harmed, are the foundation of a healthy and successful company. 8. Every occupational accident is one too many and preventable. LEARNING FROM EACH OTHER: EXAMPLES OF HOW TO LOWER THE LTIFR A photo competition entitled, “We Work Safely,” was 84 submissions from 15 countries were received. launched in the reporting period for all voestalpine Of these, the 12 best photographs were selected sites. All employees were invited to take pictures of through online voting and used in the creation of an how they perform their work safely. annual calendar. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 101 14. health & safety 14.3 HEALTH STATUS The health status shows the percentage of preDEVELOPMENT scribed working hours during which all emOF THE HEALTH STATUS ployees were actually present during a preAs of the March 31 reporting date defined period. 95.9 96.0 96.0 95.8 100% A high health status is not only good for the employees, it is also good for the company. It demonstrates the outcome of an effective health policy as well as the company’s respon50% sible and respectful attitude toward its employees. No matter how important it is to achieve a high health status, it is equally impor­ tant to ensure that employees do not come to 0% work when they are sick. 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 FOCUS ON HEALTH In 2017, voestalpine’s Steel Division started or• Addictions: 4 events, 61 participants ganizing short lectures for its employees in the • Stress management: 9 events, 225 context of 15-minute safety training modules participants or as standalone events entitled “Focus on • Shift work: 14 events, 307 participants Health.” The aim is to increase employees’ • Heart health: 18 events, 344 participants health skills and to promote their sensitivity • Psychic health: 31 events, 780 participants and attentiveness to health-related issues. The lecture series is refined in response to needs These lectures are primarily designed to expand expressed within the company. people’s basic knowledge of issues related to health maintenance. Lectures on the following topics are being offered in 2020: There has been a substantial increase in both • Movement the number of people reached and the num• Nutrition ber of events held since the lecture series was • Addictions launched. • Heart health • Infection prophylaxis A total of 82 events were offered in the business • Psychic health year 2019/20; they were attended by 1,817 in• Shift work terested individuals. Particularly the offerings • Stress management related to heart health and psychic health met • Mindfulness with excellent acceptance: • Nutrition: 1 event, 8 participants • We stay healthy: 1 event, 42 participants • Mindfulness: 4 events, 50 participants 102 14. health & safety 14.4 ISO 45001 Sixty percent of voestalpine Group companies national ISO 45001 standard is carried out have already been certified under an occupacontinually in connection with recertifications tional safety and health management system. pursuant to OHSAS 18001. The certification pursuant to the new inter14.5 WORKPLACE SAFETY AT CONTRACTORS / THIRD-PARTY ENTITIES voestalpine also takes care of the health and of contractors and/or third-party entities must safety of the people working for third-party comply with were issued to this end. entities. Binding guidelines that the employees 14.6 MEASURES RELATED TO THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC The final weeks of the business year 2019/20 ple, the Coronavirus Task Force prepared hand were dominated by the impact of the Covid-19 hygiene guidance and rules of conduct to be pandemic on the Group’s employees. Starting followed at the workplace. At the start of the in China and then spreading globally in most of crisis, Group-wide guidelines were issued for the Group’s companies, the pandemic evolved handling business trips. Subsequently, tele­ into one of the company’s biggest economic working recommendations were developed and challenges in recent decades. A Coronavishort-time work was coordinated in those counrus Task Force that was established at Group tries where related state-sponsored measures headquarters in February 2020 coordinated were put in place. During the entire time, a all responses to ensure our employees’ health. great deal of attention was paid to keeping In addition, the evolving measures enacted by all employees informed at all times about all the governments of different countries had to actions being taken. be adequately implemented as well. For exam­ CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 103 15. SOCIETY voestalpine’s companies engage with their regional environment in multifaceted ways. The Steel Division, for example, has played an active role as a sponsor of art and culture for more than 50 years. The division’s support has helped to bring about the Kulturgemeinschaft voestalpine (voestalpine Cultural Society) in Linz, Austria, a highly active network of current and former employees, who spend their leisure time engaging in fine arts, music, or history. The Erinnerungszeichen (Signs of Remembrance) project related to the history of the city of Linz was launched during the reporting period in collaboration with the company’s Linz Training Center. THE voestalpine CULTURAL SOCIETY The insight that interactions between art, The Cultural Society’s fine arts section encomculture, and the working world can create passes a fine arts group and a ceramics workmeaning in every imaginable way was the spark shop. Both are located in a building within that brought forth this society in 1963. What voestalpine’s Linz facility and regularly organize is common to its activities is that everything is exhibits. self directed: The Society’s members generate its momentum, always driven by the desire to Interest in the company’s history also is a fixture evolve at the personal level. The company has of the voestalpine Cultural Society. Retired emvalued and supported these activities from day ployees have been active in the Geschichteclub one. Stahl (Steel History Club Association) for more than 30 years. The Association has rendered The voestalpine Linz Choir and the voestalpine outstanding services to the community at large, Brass Band make up the Cultural Society’s especially by designing exhibitions and archiv­ musical branch. Both are steeped in a long ing photographs and objects. To this day, the tradition, and their music has graced many an Association’s members make a pivotal contrievent through the years, both inside and outside bution to assessments and analyses of the comthe company. The Brass Band’s annual concert pany’s history from its beginnings in the years in the Brucknerhaus Linz is a fixture of the local 1938–1945 all the way to current developments. cultural scene. 104 15. Society ERINNERUNGSZEICHEN (SIGNS OF REMEMBRANCE) Analyzing and appraising its own history is a His proposal consists of metal stelae with doormatter of great importance to the voestalpine bells on which are engraved the last freely choGroup. In 2014, the Museum of Contemporary sen residences, the names as well as the dates History (Zeitgeschichte MUSEUM) created a of birth and death of Jews in Linz who became permanent place of remembrance and memovictims of the Nazis. Apprentices at the Steel rialization dedicated to the fate of the forced Division’s Linz training center will produce these laborers used between 1938 and 1945 in the stelae. The artist was keen on including young construction and operation of the Linz plant of people in the project. He will collaborate with the entity named “Reichswerke Hermann Göring the apprentices directly so that he can introduce AG Berlin.” The city of Linz itself continues to them in greater depth to the project’s backdrop focus on actively re-examining and remember­ and the remembrances for victims of the Nazi ing the period of National Socialism. The artist, regime. Andreas Strauss, won a design competition aiming to create personalized remembrances in public spaces for victims of the Nazis. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 105 THE MANAGEMENT BOARD voestalpine AG Herbert Eibensteiner Franz Kainersdorfer Robert Ottel Franz Rotter Peter Schwab Hubert Zajicek Linz, September 07, 2020 106 CHINESE 16. APPENDIX 16.1 GRI CONTENT INDEX Reasons for GRI Code Description Reported Omission Reference / Explanation UNGC 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization p. 8 Activities, brands, products, and 102-2 pp. 12, 16-18 services 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 16 102-4 Location of operations AR pp. 6-7, 216-228 102-5 Ownership and legal form pp. 15-16 102-6 Markets served pp. 14-15 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 14; AR pp. 2, 8-9 Information on employees and 102-8 pp. 82-84 6 other workers 102-9 Supply chain pp. 42-47 AR pp. 112-116 The ownership and structure of Significant changes to voestalpine are largely 102-10 the organization and unchanged. Changes in the its supply chain scope of consolidation are described in the AR. Precautionary approach 102-11 pp. 48-54, 62-64; AR pp. 72-78 or principle voestalpine is a supporter of the UN Global Compact and of the CDP as well as a signatory 102-12 External initiatives of the worldsteel Sustainable Development Charter and the Diversity Charter. Membership in associations 102-13 pp. 118-120 and interest groups Strategy Statement from the 102-14 pp. 6-7 most senior decision maker 108 16. Appendix Reasons for GRI Code Description Reported Omission Reference / Explanation UNGC Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards, and 102-16 pp. 26-30, 50-51 10 norms of behavior Governance 102-18 Governance structure pp. 23, 106; AR pp. 10-13 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 20 Collective bargaining 102-41 p. 57 3 agreements Identifying and selecting 102-42 p. 20 stakeholders Approach to stakeholder en102-43 pp. 21-22 gagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pp. 21-24 Reporting Practice Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial p. 9; AR pp. 216-228 statements Definition of report content and 102-46 pp. 9, 23-24 topic boundaries 102-47 List of material topics p. 24 102-48 Restatements of information p. 9 There was no significant change 102-49 Changes in reporting in the list of material topics. 102-50 Reporting period p. 10 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 10 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 10 Contact person for questions 102-53 p. 11 about the report Statement on the report in 102-54 accordance with the p. 8 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index pp. 108-114 102-56 External audit pp. 122-124 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 109 16. Appendix Reasons for GRI Code Description Reported Omission Reference / Explanation UNGC 200 Series ECONOMY 201 Economic Performance Management approach 103 pp. 38-41, AR p. 81 7 disclosures Direct economic value generated 201-1 AR pp. 32-55, 86-87 and distributed Financial implications, other risks to, and opportunities 201-2 pp. 34-41, 65 7 for the organization from climate change Defined benefit plan obligations 201-3 AR pp. 159-165 and other retirement plans 204 Procurement Practices Management approach 103 pp. 42-47 disclosures p. 46 Proportion of spending on local Data cannot be reported in 204-1 2 suppliers full due to non-disclosure agreements. 205 Anti-Corruption Management approach 103 pp 48-54 10 disclosures p. 53 Communication and training A complete, quantitative 205-2 on anti-corruption policies and 4 10 evaluation will be performed procedures during the next business year. 206 Anti-Competitive Behavior Management approach 103 pp. 48-54 disclosures Litigation related to anti206-1 competitive behavior, anti-trust, AR. pp. 166-167 and monopoly practices 300 Series ECOLOGY 110 16. Appendix Reasons Omission for GRI Code Description Reported Reason Omission Reference / Explanation UNGC 301 Materials Management approach 103 pp. 62-65, 76 8 disclosures 301-2 Recycled input materials used p. 76 8 302 Energy Management approach 103 pp. 62-65, 78 7, 8 disclosures Energy consumption within the 302-1 pp. 78-79 7, 8 organization 302-3 Energy intensity p. 79 8 303 Water Management approach 103 pp. 62-65, 75 7, 8 disclosures 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 75 7, 8 Water sources significantly 303-2 p. 75 8 affected by withdrawal of water 305 Emissions Management approach 103 pp. 34-41, 62-65, 69-70 7, 8, 9 disclosures p. 70 Information that exceeds the 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) disclosures required by law can 7, 8 be accessed at this link: https://www.cdp.net/en p. 70 Information that exceeds the Indirect energy-related GHG 305-2 disclosures required by law can 7, 8 emissions (Scope 2) be accessed at this link: https://www.cdp.net/en p. 70 Information that exceeds the Other indirect GHG emissions 305-3 disclosures required by law can 7, 8 (Scope 3) be accessed at this link: https://www.cdp.net/en CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 111 16. Appendix Reasons Omission for GRI GRI Code Code Description Description Reported Reported Reason Omission Reference // Explanation Reference Explanation UNGC UNGC pp. 24-41, 66-68 Information that exceeds the 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions disclosures required by law can 8, 9 be accessed at this link: https://www.cdp.net/en Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur 305-7 oxides (SOX), and other pp. 69, 71-74 7, 8 significant air emissions 306 Effluents and Waste Management approach 103 pp. 62-65, 75-76 8 disclosures Wastewater discharge by quality 306-1 p. 75 8 and destination Waste by type and disposal 306-2 pp. 76-77 8 method Supplier Environmental 308 Assessment Management approach 103 pp. 42-47 8 disclosures All new and existing raw New suppliers that were screened materials suppliers for steel 308-1 8 using environmental criteria production were screened using environmental criteria. 400 Series SOCIAL MATTERS 401 Employment pp. 80, 91 Management approach http://www.voestalpine.com/ 103 6 disclosures group/en/jobs/ working-at-voestalpine/ p. 85 Collection of detailed data is not relevant to the company 401-1 New hires and employee turnover 1 6 for controlling purposes. Hence the data are not reported in full pursuant to GRI. Occupational Health and 403 Safety Management approach 103 pp. 98-99, 103 disclosures 112 16. Appendix Reasons Omission for GRI Code GRI Code Description Description Reported Reported Reason Omission Reference Explanation Reference // Explanation UNGC UNGC pp. 100-102 Types and rates of injury, Collection of detailed data is occupational diseases, lost days, not relevant to the company 403-2 1 absenteeism, and number of for controlling purposes. Hence work-related fatalities the data are not reported in full pursuant to GRI. Training and Continuing 404 Education Management approach 103 pp. 80, 92-95 6 disclosures Average hours of training and p. 92 404-1 continuing education per year 4 No detailed, Group-wide 6 and employee database is available. Programs for upgrading 404-2 employee skills and transition pp. 92-96 6 assistance programs Diversity and Equal 405 Opportunity Management approach 103 pp. 80, 86-87 6 disclosures Diversity in governance bodies 405-1 pp. 87-90; AR pp. 10-13 6 and among employees Freedom of Association and 407 Collective Bargaining pp. 56-57 Code of Conduct for Business Partners https://www.voestalpine.com/ Management approach 103 group/en/group/compliance/ 3 disclosures code-of-conduct-for-voestalpine-business-partners/ CDP: https://www.cdp.net/en p. 57 Operations and suppliers in No detailed, Group-wide which the right to freedom of 407-1 4 database is available due to 3 association and collective the scale of the global supplier bargaining may be at risk network. 414 Supplier Social Assessment Management approach 103 pp. 42-47 2 disclosures All new and existing raw New suppliers that were screened materials suppliers for steel 414-1 2 using social criteria production were screened based on social criteria. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 113 16. Appendix Reasons Omission for GRI Code Description Reported Reason Omission Reference / Explanation UNGC 415 Public Policy Management approach 103 pp. 48-54 10 disclosures In the reporting period, voestalpine did not make 415-1 Political contributions any donations or other 10 contributions to politicians and political parties. LEGEND Fully reported Partly reported Annual Report 2019/20 UNGC As a participant in the UN Global Compact, voestalpine is obliged to publish an annual progress report. The column having the UNGC designation shows the information available for each of the ten principles. Reasons for omission: 1 Not applicable 2 Limited due to non-disclosure agreements 3 Explicit legal prohibitions 4 No information available 114 CZECH 16. Appendix UN GLOBAL COMPACT— THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Principle 2: make sure that they are not greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally LABOR STANDARDS friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the right to freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to ANIT-CORRUPTION collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of corruption in all its forms, including forced and bonded labor; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 116 16. Appendix SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Through its business activities, voestalpine conwere drawn up by a United Nations working tributes significantly to achieving the following group, together with thousands of stakeholders, 12 SDGs: and adopted by a UN General Assembly resolution during the United Nations SustainGoal 3: Good health and well-being able Development Summit in New York on Goal 4: Quality education September 25, 2015. 193 UN member states Goal 5: Gender equality have signed on to the 17 goals and 169 targets Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation for global sustainable development along with Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy their specific objectives. Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Goal 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure The SDGs were implemented as of January 1, Goal 11: Sustainable cities and communities 2016, and are designed to cover a period of 15 Goal 12: Responsible consumption and years (up to 2030). The role of the private sector production in reaching these goals was made particularly Goal 13: Climate action explicit. Goal 16: Peace, justice, and strong institutions Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 117 16. Appendix 16.2 MEMBERSHIPS voestalpine AG and its Group companies are members of numerous federations, trade and other associations, and special interest groups; they also participate in working groups or work on projects through their employees. The following provides a selection of the memberships that are relevant with respect to Corporate Responsibility (CR). Arbeitsgemeinschaft für betriebliche Altersversorgung e.V. (German Association Germany for Occupational Pensions, ABA) Altstoff Recycling Austria Verein (ARA) Austria ARGE OÖ Arbeitsstiftungen (Upper Austria Employee Funds for Senior Homes) Austria Associação de Recursos Humanos (ARH Serrana) Brazil The Austrian Society for Metallurgy and Materials (ASMET) Austria Austrian Standards Institute (ASI) Austria Allgemeine Unfallversicherungsanstalt (AUVA) Austria B.C. Human Resources Management Association Canada Berufliches Bildungsund Rehabilitationszentrum (Vocational Training and ReAustria habilitation Center, BBRZ) Beijing HR Association China Bergmännischer Verband Österreichs (Austrian Miners Association) Austria Betriebsforschungsinstitut (BFI) Austria British Standards Institution (BSI) Great Britain Christian Doppler Forschungsgesellschaft (a research institute, CDG) Austria Certified Human Ressources Professional Canada Compliance Institute of Southern Africa (CISA) South Africa COMET / K1-MET Austria Compliance Link Great Britain Compliance Praxis Compliance Netzwerk Österreich (Compliance Practice and Austria Network) 118 16. Appendix Dachverband der arbeitsmedizinischen Zentren Österreichs Austria (Umbrella Organization of Austria’s Occupational Health and Safety Centers) Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung e.V. (German Society for HR ManageGermany ment, DGFP) European Green Vehicles Initiative (EGVI) Belgium EMAS Austria European Steel Technology Platform (ESTEP) Belgium The European Steel Association (EUROFER) Belgium European Wind Energy Association Belgium Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) Austria Forschungsvereinigung Stahlanwendung e.V. (Research Association for Steel ApGermany plications, FOSTA) Hong Kong People Management Association China International High Speed Steel Research Forum (HSS Forum) Germany Informelle Plattform österreichischer Arbeitsstiftungen (Informal Platform of AusAustria trian Labor Funds) Institute of Safety Management USA Kepler Society JKU Austria Korean Employers Federation South Korea Austrian Business School GmbH (LIMAK) Austria Montanhistorischer Verein Österreich (Historical Mining Association Austria) Austria National Association of Railway Business Women (NARBW) USA National Employers Organisation of South Africa (NEASA) South Africa Nederland CO2 Neutraal Netherlands Österreichische Gesellschaft für Arbeitsmedizin Austria (Austrian Society for Occupational Safety and Health, ÖGA) Österreichische Vereinigung für Qualitätssicherung (ÖVQ) Austria Österreichischer Arbeitskreis für Corporate Governance Austria Austria’s Energy Austria Photovoltaic Austria Federal Association (PV AUSTRIA) Austria CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 119 16. Appendix Bundesverband der PhysiotherapeutInnen Österreichs (Federal Association of Austria Austria’s Physiotherapists, Physio Austria) Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development (respACT) Austria ResponsibleSteel Australia Research Fund for Coal and Steel (RFCS) Belgium Rail Forum Europe (RFE) Belgium Rat für Forschung und Technologie für Oberösterreich (Council for Research & Austria Technology in Upper Austria, RFT OÖ) Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Great Britain Shanghai Institute of Labor and Social Security China Singapore National Employers Federation Singapore SPIRE Sustainable Process Industry through Resource and Energy Efficiency Belgium Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft e.V. Germany The Employers Association of Indonesia (APINDO) Indonesia The Women Secretaries & Administrative Professionals Association of Thailand Thailand TU Graz Forum Technik und Gesellschaft Austria Verein Deutscher Eisenhüttenleute Germany Verein KEPLER SOCIETY Austria Verein zur Förderung des Instituts für Umweltrecht Austria Vffi Verein zur Förderung von Forschung und Innovation (Unterausschuss IV) Austria WIFI OÖ GmbH, Forum Arbeit & Personal Austria WingNet TU Wien Austria worldsteel World Steel Association Belgium UNGC – United Nations Global Compact USA UNIMC – Uni Management Club Linz Austria VDEh – Stahlinstitut VDEh Germany VÖSI – Verband Österreichische Sicherheits-Ingenieure Austria WTCM – Forschungsgesellschaft für die technologische Industrie Belgium 120 16. Appendix 16.3 GLOSSARY CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template CO2e CO2 equivalents: unit of measurement for standardizing the climate impact of various greenhouse gases (CO2, methane, and nitrous oxide) Conflict-free Conflict-free raw materials as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act Conflict minerals Raw materials mined or extracted in conflict or high-risk regions Corporate Governance: Rule categories pursuant to the Austrian Corporate Governance Code: L rules C rules Legal requirement (L rule): The rule is based on mandatory statutory R rules provisions. Comply or explain (C rule): The rule should be complied with; any deviation therefrom must be explained and justified in order to be in compliance with the Code. Recommendation (R rule): Rule worded as a recommendation; non-compliance need not be disclosed or explained. (Source: Austrian Corporate Governance Code as amended July 2012, Austrian Working Group for Corporate Governance, www.corporate-governance.at) Dodd-Frank-Act U.S. federal law. Requires companies to avoid using raw materials from conflict regions EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Earnings before taxes, equity interests of non-controlling shareholders, and financial result) EBITDA Earnings before interest and taxes, depreciation, and amortization (Earnings before taxes, equity interests of non-controlling shareholders, financial result, and amortization) EMAS Eco Management and Audit Scheme Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the voluntary participation of organizations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme FTEs (full-time equivalents) Number of full-time positions, computed (mathematically speaking) on the basis of a staffing mix that includes part-time employees Headcount Number of employees by headcount Load per annum The amount of certain substances that are introduced into wastewater or the air, aggregated over the year Life cycle assessment (LCA) Systematic analysis of the environmental impact of products during their entire life cycle aimed at achieving an objective assessment subject to consideration of economic, social, and technical factors Scope 1, 2, and 3 Emissions categories in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol USMCA United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, successor agreement to the NAFTA free trade zone CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 121 16.4 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the management board of voestalpine AG Linz Courtesy Translation of the Independent Assurance on Non-Financial Reporting* Introduction We performed procedures to obtain limited assurance, if the consolidated non-financial report as of March 31, 2020 was prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria. The reporting criteria include the Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards: Core Option) issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) and the reporting requirements mentioned in § 267a UGB (Austrian Commercial Code). Responsibility of the management The preparation of the report in accordance with the reporting criteria as well as the selection of the scope of the engagement is the responsibility of the management of voestalpine AG. The reporting criteria include the Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards: Core Option) issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) and the reporting requirements mentioned in § 267a UGB. This responsibility of the management includes the selection and application of appropriate methods for preparing the report as well as the usage of assumptions and estimates of individual non-financial disclosures that are appropriate under the given circumstances. The responsibility of the management includes further designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls, which they have determined necessary for the preparation of a report that is free from material misstatements – whether due to fraud or error. 411944e |1 122 16. Appendix Responsibility of the auditor Our responsibility is to express an opinion with limited assurance on whether, based on our audit procedures, matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the consolidated non-financial report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. The reporting criteria include the Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards: Core Option) issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) and the reporting requirements mentioned in § 267a UGB. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) in order to obtain limited assurance on the subject matters. This standard requires us to comply with our professional requirements, including independence requirements, and to plan and perform the engagement based on materiality considerations in a way that enables us to express a conclusion with limited assurance. In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance can be obtained. The choice of audit procedures lies in the due discretion of the auditor. As part of our audit, we have performed, inter alia, the following audit procedures and other activities as far as they are relevant to the limited assurance engagement:  Interview of the employees named by voestalpine AG regarding the sustainability strategy, sustainability principles and sustainability management  Interview of employees of voestalpine AG to assess the methods of data collection, data processing and internal controls  Comparison of the reported non-financial disclosures with the calculation documents provided  Furthermore, we conducted procedures regarding whether the reporting requirements of § 267a UGB were met with the consolidated non-financial report. 411944e |2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 123 16. Appendix Summarized Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the consolidated non-financial report has not, in any material aspects, been prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria of the Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards: Core option). Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the reporting requirements of § 267a UGB are not met with the consolidated non-financial report, although it should be noted that the key figures on energy consumption and emissions are reported by calendar year instead of fiscal year. Engagement approach The basis for this engagement are the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions, ( Allgemeine Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftstreuhandberufe , AAB 2018 ) as issued by the Austrian Chamber of Tax Advisers and Auditors on April 18th, 2018. In accordance with chapter 7 of the AAB 2018, our liability shall be limited to intent and gross negligence. In cases of gross negligence, our liability is limited to a maximum of five times the auditor's fee. This amount constitutes a total maximum liability cap, which may only be utilized once up to this maximum amount, even if there is more than one claimant or more than one claim has been asserted. Vienna, September 7th, 2020 Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs GmbH Christof Wolf Marieluise Krimmel Austrian Certified Public Accountant Austrian Certified Public Accountant *) Attention: This letter has been translated from German to English for referencing purposes only. Please refer to the officially legally binding version as written and signed in German. Only the German version is the legally binding version. 411944e |3 124 CONTACT & IMPRINT Contact voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility +43/50304/15-6599 cr@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Investor Relations +43/50304/15-8735 ir@voestalpine.com voestalpine AG, Corporate Communications +43/50304/15-2090 mediarelations@voestalpine.com www.voestalpine.com http://www.voestalpine.com/group/en/group/corporate-responsibility/ Imprint Owner and media proprietor: voestalpine AG, voestalpine-Strasse 1, 4020 Linz, Austria Publisher and editorial staff: voestalpine AG, Corporate Responsibility, T. +43/50304/15-6599 cr@voestalpine.com, www.voestalpine.com Design and implementation: 7 Punkt Communication Group GmbH, www.7punkt.at Printed by: Kontext Druckerei GmbH, www.kontextdruck.at 125 DE voestalpine AG voestalpine-Straße 1 4020 Linz, Österreich T. +43/50304/15-0 www.voestalpine.com
