© Management Solutions 2020 All rights reserved www.managementsolutions.com This publication may not be reproduced, distributed, publicly released or transformed, wholly or in part, freely or onerously, using any means or methods, without the prior written consent of Management Solutions. The contents of this publication are provided for information purposes only. Management Solutions does not accept any liability for the use that might be made of this information by third parties. The use of this material by anyone without the express authorization of Management Solutions is forbidden. Credits Management: Carlos Camps Sinisterra Miguel Ángel Poblet Capa Editorial team: Román González Ordóñez Cristina López Martínez Design and layout: Laura de Frutos Franco María Díaz Alonso Photographs: Management Solutions´picture library Photograph of Madrid´s Royal Theatre © Javier del Real iStock We thank all those who, by contributing information, direct experience accounts and photographs, have made publication of this report possible. Contents 6 Introduction 20 Management Solutions, Making things happen 50 2019 milestones Message from the Chairman .................................................. /8 Strategic principles .................................................................. /22 Sustainable Growth ................................................................. /52 CSR Report .................................................................................. /10 Ethical principles in our code of conduct ........................ /24 Diversification ............................................................................ /54 Materiality ................................................................................... /11 Organization and structure ................................................... /26 Growth and innovation .......................................................... /56 CSR Road Map ............................................................................ /12 Risk management and control framework ..................... /27 Human Resources ..................................................................... /57 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) .......................... /15 Our brand .................................................................................... /30 Communication and organizational flexibility............... /58 Geography .................................................................................. /32 Industry ........................................................................................ /34 Service Lines ............................................................................... /40 R&D ................................................................................................ /42 Making things happen ........................................................... /45 60 Committed to our clients 76 Committed to our professionals 102 Committed to the environment Client focus ................................................................................. /62 One team ..................................................................................... /78 University .................................................................................... /104 Quality control ........................................................................... /63 Human resources policies ..................................................... /79 Sponsorship and patronage ................................................ /113 Commitment to the industry ............................................... /64 Training ........................................................................................ /82 Cooperation agreements ...................................................... /116 Occupational risk prevention and medical services .... /88 Social Action .............................................................................. /118 Employee support services ................................................... /90 Environment .............................................................................. /128 Internal communication ........................................................ /92 Sports Club ................................................................................. /98 Introduction Management Solutions views Corporate Social Responsibility as acting in accordance with its corporate principles of trust and commitment to excellence and quality, going beyond the basic legal requirements. The Firm recognizes the importance of carrying out its activity while contributing to society’s sustainable growth. For this reason, Management Solutions takes on a commitment to help the communities of the countries in which it operates. Supporting the academic world and job creation, respect for human rights and care for the environment form a part of the Firm’s business strategy, guiding its growth in a responsible manner with the Sustainable Development Goals. The purpose of this publication is to provide Management Solutions’ stakeholders with transparent and detailed information on the Firm’s activities that have a significant impact on its wider environment, and could substantially influence our stakeholders’ perceptions and decisions. 6 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Message from the Chairman We live in a world in permanent transformation. A At Management Solutions we want to contribute to our transformation that has shown to be of value to society as clients’ sustainable growth, which is how we can best a whole (in terms of increased life expectancy, poverty ensure that our own growth remains sustainable. We reduction or eradication of illiteracy, among other have grown to be thirty times larger over the course of 17 benefits). years, always sustainably and regardless of the economic cycle. This transformation has been accelerated by digitalization. A kind of virtual space on a global scale Many companies, leaders in their respective markets, rely that facilitates the removal of numerous physical barriers on Management Solutions to transform their business to growth. models for the new digital environment and thereby achieve sustainable growth. Changes in consumer habits, hyperconnectivity and greater access to information, the exponential increase in This means we have to keep our value proposition IT capabilities (coupled with a reduction in costs), the vast permanently updated, by strongly supporting research possibilities offered by the use of artificial intelligence, and knowledge development, intensifying our etc., are good examples of a transformation that has fully international presence, enhancing our IT and impacted the scale and nature of business. quantitative analytical capabilities, and further specializing our industry knowledge. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, Chairman of Management Solutions Companies are looking for innovative solutions, built in increasingly collaborative environments, that take But at Management Solutions we not only care about advantage of technological disruption to make their what we do but also how we do it, we care about our processes efficient and improve their customers' culture. Our work is governed by principles that generate “We live in a world in permanent experience, while also making the available information value for our clients, our professionals, and society as a transformation. A transformation more valuable. whole. that has shown to be of value to society as a whole” Creating value through digital transformation is a challenge today, but what really matters is that this value Service-minded attitude, humility, generosity and solidarity, teamwork, integrity and critical thinking, creation translates into sustainable growth, that is, meritocracy , passion for a job well done and an growth that does not compromise future growth and entrepreneurial spirit, perseverance in the pursuit of “Generating value through digital even facilitates it. objectives. In short, a constant search for excellence, transformation is a challenge today, which in turn requires talent, effort and training. but what really matters is that this Some of the key characteristics of organizations that have managed to grow sustainably are: talent and continuous value generation translates into learning, innovation, diversification, customer focus, and sustainable growth” organizational flexibility. 8 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction The year 2019 has been very positive for Management participating in employment forums, sponsoring and Solutions, with turnover growth and job creation in all our supporting foundations and university associations. “At Management Solutions we offices, an expanded client base and greater industry and want to contribute to our geographical diversification. Promoting entrepreneurship and innovation is another line of clients’ sustainable growth, action in our social responsibility policy. We have extended which is how we can best We have also significantly increased our investment in training our initiatives in this area to the field of education by and research, extended our ties with universities, expanded supporting projects aimed at fostering entrepreneurship, and ensure that our own cultural and educational sponsorships, and boosted all innovative values, attitudes and skills through education in growth remains solidarity activities. the initial stages of children and young people. sustainable” We have an extraordinary team of 2,300 professionals with a Our social commitment also includes our presence in strong analytical profile and deep knowledge of the industries professional associations related to our activity. This includes they serve. A young, well-trained, cohesive and multicultural associations that support the development and dissemination team comprising more than 40 nationalities, working in more of science, and in cultural associations through our sponsorship “At Management Solutions than 40 countries across Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa, and patronage policies. we not only care about through the Firm’s twenty-seven offices. what we do, but also how We are highly attuned to the fact that we need to work We provide services to global and local clients that are leaders together to ensure sustainable development and we make sure we do it, we care in their respective industries and offer a differential value our policies contribute to the conservation of the environment. about our culture” proposition supported by cutting-edge R&D. We continue to enthusiastically support and encourage all Social responsibility is a strategic element in the management solidarity activities in which our professionals engage through of our organization: a long-term commitment that we acquire the Management Action Social Action Group, of which we are “The year 2019 has been very with our clients, professionals and communities in the especially proud for their selfless dedication to those most at a countries in which we operate. disadvantage. positive for Management Solutions, with turnover With the publication of our 14th CSR Report, we intend to At Management Solutions we face the future with great growth and job creation in all provide a transparent and detailed account of our progress in enthusiasm and confidence and with the firm purpose to 2019 across many fronts, with a special emphasis on our social continue helping our clients grow in a sustainable way. of our offices, an expanded commitment in line with the principles of the United Nation’s client base and greater Sustainable Development Goals and Global Compact, which Alfonso Serrano-Suñer industry and geographical we joined in April 2019. Chairman of Management Solutions diversification” A fundamental line of our social responsibility policy has always been the link with universities. We collaborate with more than 350 universities by signing agreements for scholarships and internships, teaching masters, classes and specialized seminars, cooperating in research programs, 9 CSR Report Aware that the growing success of our organization should lead We wish to express our confidence in this responsible business Corporate Social Responsibility is a to greater accountability in all areas and to all stakeholders model, to make our commitment public and to engage our strategic element of Management (clients, employees, suppliers, universities and other stakeholders, who are the focus of our actions but may also Solutions’ activity institutions), in 2006 we published our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report. help us to achieve our objectives. This Corporate Social Responsibility Report details Management Since then, we have prepared our annual Corporate Social Solutions’ achievements for the period between January 1 and Responsibility Report with the goal of sharing our experience December 31, 2019 in our offices in Europe (Spain, UK, and results with all our stakeholders, detailing the most Germany, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, significant consequences of our activities, as well as our Switzerland, Italy and Portugal), the Americas (USA, Mexico, commitments regarding the future. Puerto Rico, Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil, Peru, Chile and Argentina) and Asia (China). As such, each year we update the milestones achieved by the Firm throughout the year, both in terms of employment and from an economic, social and environmental standpoints. This Report preparation process applies to all countries where we operate, setting targets that To prepare this CSR Report and determine its content, we have will serve as guidelines for the coming year. identified all relevant issues and conducted an analysis to determine their materiality, taking into account the both the internal and external impact that these issues may have on our stakeholders. Our CSR report preparation process has followed the guidelines and recommendations of leading international organizations such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an institution whose mission is to improve the quality, rigor and usefulness of Corporate Social Responsibility reports. Specifically, this report was drawn up in line with GRI standards: Essential option. 1 Management Solutions refers to GMS Management Solutions S.L. and subsidiaries. For more details you can visit www.managementsolutions.com/sociedades-grupo. 10 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Materiality Introduction Materiality Stakeholders Stakeholder communication channels In order to identify and prioritize key issues which, if not taken We believe that our clients, our professionals and the At Management Solutions, we are aware that the into account, could significantly affect the Firm’s sustainability environment (including universities as well as potential communication channels established with each of our due to their potential impact on its business, market Management Solutions candidates and society as a whole), are stakeholder groups are key in identifying and understanding positioning, stakeholders or reputation, Management Solutions our main stakeholders. their needs while also allowing us to successfully respond to has conducted a materiality analysis taking three aspects into them. account: i) economic (diversification, profitable growth, Satisfying these groups remains a central focus of our innovation, talent, culture, organization, communication, corporate strategy, therefore establishing an optimal The information obtained through these communication internal control, etc.), ii) social (human capital management, relationship with them is a key objective. For this reason, a channels is key to better understanding the environment in recruitment, diversity and equality, training, evaluation, section is devoted to each of these groups (Commitment to which Management Solutions operates, and the channels promotion, security, social action, etc.), and iii) environmental the client, Commitment to our professionals and Commitment represent an important asset allowing us to anticipate the (research, climate risks, impact control, energy efficiency, to the environment), describing how we understand our needs of our stakeholders, identify paths for improvement as responsible consumption). relationship with them. well as new opportunities, evaluate new ideas and initiatives and launch new projects. Main stakeholder communication channels Clients Professionals Environment 4 Website: 4 Corporate intranet 4 Website: 4 Website: 4 Social media: Facebook, LinkedIn, 4 Social media: Facebook, LinkedIn, www.managementsolutions.com www.managementsolutions.com 4 Social media: Facebook, LinkedIn, www.managementsolutions.com 4 Management Solutions’ ethical 4 Management Solutions’ ethical Twitter, YouTube and Instagram Twitter, YouTube e Instagram 4 Management Solutions’ ethical Twitter, YouTube and Instagram 4 Corporate Social Responsibility 4 Corporate Social Responsibility channel channel 4 Corporate Social Responsibility channel 4 Direct communication with clients 4 Organization of and participation in Report Report 4 Regular internal meetings: Report via those responsible for projects university events, forums, teaching 4 Organization of and involvement in and teams committees, Yearly Meetings, of degree subjects, conferences, 4 Email communications 4 Sponsorship, patronage and internal events, etc. seminars, sponsorships, etc. 4 Suggestions mailbox different forums, meetings, working 4 Mentoring program breakfasts, conferences, seminars, collaboration agreements with 4 Participation in business institutions 4 Evaluation program etc. associations, cultural institutions 4 Professional business forums 4 Organization and/or participation in and other non-profit associations and industry associations solidarity and volunteer activities in collaboration with NGOs 11 CSR Road Map In April 2019, Management Solutions joined the United Nations’ Global Compact Our true commitment to responsible and sustainable practices This business philosophy is the basis of our commitment, which means we do not just carry out this important task, but we also we have decided to extend to include some international continue our ongoing search for the most appropriate formulas standards that will provide us with guidelines to steer our CSR to maximize efficiency. and direct our efforts so that we may work towards a common, long-term goal. The Firm's CSR strategy is aligned with the business philosophy, culture and values embedded in its ethical principles of For this reason, in December 2010 Management Solutions conduct. These values and principles are reflected in three key committed to the United Nations Millennium Development areas for the Firm: clients, team and environment. Goals (MDGs) and later to the Sustainable Development Goals 12 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction (SDGs), also set by the United Nations as a follow-up to the actively involved in different initiatives towards the Approach former. Both the MDGs and SDGs seek to contribute to the conservation of the environment. protection of the planet and the prosperity of all its inhabitants, At Management Solutions we understand CSR as a commitment especially those most at a disadvantage. SDGs are articulated 4 Anti-corruption: Management Solutions is firmly committed we undertake in our daily business. Thus, respect for human around a set of goals that synthesize our way of thinking as an to rigorous compliance with applicable legislation, and holds rights is always present in our activities, guiding our growth in a organization in terms of CSR, particularly in areas such as the UNE19601 Criminal Compliance Certificate (on best manner consistent with the principles of sustainable combating poverty and hunger, promoting health and wellpractices to prevent crime, reduce risk and promote an development. being, fighting against all types of discrimination, protecting ethical and law compliant corporate culture), putting all its the environment, investing in quality global education and operational processes through continuous auditing. We take on a commitment to support the local communities in contributing to entrepreneurship and quality work. the countries in which we operate, as we believe that our These two United Nations initiatives are the backbone of our involvement with society should go beyond the economic Also, to show its firm commitment to CSR, Management CSR strategy and will mark the main strategic lines of action in development and job creation aspects inherent in our activity. It Solutions abides by the principles of the UN Global Compact, an these areas for the coming years. is precisely because our commitment goes further that we international initiative that promotes corporate social collaborate as far as possible with initiatives aimed at improving responsibility (CSR). our socio-economic environment through social action as well as sponsorship and patronage activities. As a result, Management Solutions will become a partner of the Spanish UN Global Compact Network, commiting to integrating the principles endorsed by this Agreement into its business activities: 4 Human Resources: in terms of human rights, Management Solution carries out a number of actions in the area of human rights (see table on the next page). The Firm also has mandatory policies that govern the conduct of all its professionals and ensure everyone commits to these goals. 4 Workers’ rights: Management Solutions supports the eradication of child labor and all forms of forced labor or work under coercion. Additionally, the Firm has an Equality Plan and an Anti-Discrimination Policy, and complies with applicable labor regulation in all countries where it operates. All its professionals are covered by the laws and collective agreements that protect their rights. 4 Environment: In addition to a guide to good environmental practices, Management Solutions has an environmental management system that reflects the Firm's effort to preserve the environment. Also, our professionals are 13 CSR Road Map 1. Ensuring CSR is integrated into our strategic business vision. CSR has to be a cross-cutting area affecting all business lines and present throughout the value chain. 2. Promoting programs that meet the SDGs and Global Compact principles, both from a business perspective and from the point of view of the work carried out by our Internal Corporate Departments and Social Action Group. 3 Fostering initiatives that add value to the different stakeholders. This requires integrating the expectations of our clients, professionals and the communities in which we operate. 4. Involving all of the Firm’s areas and units in CSR, and instilling the necessary attitudes and procedures. 5. Monitoring and evaluating the commitments and Christmas Solidarity, Mexico obligations voluntarily included in our Master Plan, following up on the extent to which objectives have been met and analyzing the reasons for any deviations. Goals Another key objective is to continue to promote social values. We therefore intend to continue to increase the number of A few years ago, we set a number of general CSR responsible initiatives we carry out in line with the Sustainable commitments. These commitments, which are a true Development Goals and Global Compact principles. reflection of Management Solutions’ business philosophy, allow us to coordinate and further advance our efforts in the Finally, we will continue to work towards increasing the global area of corporate social responsibility. reach of our CSR actions by consolidating our partnerships with universities, our social action and and other initiatives, in all Our first commitment is to excellence and quality in all our countries in which we have a presence. actions, achieved by minimizing any negative impacts that may arise from our business activity. Management system While the environmental impact of our activity is very Every year we strive to improve our internal Corporate Social limited (typical impact of an office-based business), there is Responsibility management system by enhancing the functions a special sensitivity towards this subject in the Firm. carried out by our CSR area. This area, which reports directly to the Firm's Executive Committee, has primarily led the management responsibility for CSR matters and performs the following functions: 14 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Introduction Management Solutions recognizes the importance of carrying out its activity in a responsible, committed and respectful manner, both in relation to its clients and professionals and to the communities in which it has a presence. For this reason, the Firm operates under a responsible consulting model, compatible with SDGs, with a double objective: to create value for all of the Firm’s stakeholders and to participate in society’s sustainable development. With this double approach in mind, we will now describe those activities that Management Solutions has carried out during 2019 in connection with SDGs that the Firm may be better able to influence in light of its business and the likely concerns of its stakeholders. Solidarity Film Preview in Barcelona, Spain Christmas Solidarity, Germany No poverty and zero hunger The Management Solutions Social Action group, set up on the initiative of our professionals with the Firm’s full support, has sought to respond to poverty and hunger related social needs through solidarity activities such as: 4 Organization of charitable collections of essential goods for natural disasters or emergency situations. 4 Collection of food and essential goods to support shelters and social canteens (Missionaries of Charity, Bizkaia’s Food Bank and Barcelona’s Banc dels Aliments in Spain, Frankfurtel Tafel in Germany, Clara Moreno y Miramón Foundation in Mexico, San Ricardo Home in Chile). 4 Printing of Christmas cards together with Ayuda en Acción to support the “Schools for the Future” project launched by this NGO in Mozambique to rebuild schools affected by Cyclones Idai and Kenneth, rehabilitate the educational system, and provide a daily meal to children in school canteens. 4 Solidarity Christmas Campaign with collection of basic goods and gifts for children's day centers and shelters (Spain, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Portugal, United States, Mexico, Colombia, Peru, Brazil, Chile and Argentina). 4 Participation in the “No child without a mustache” milk collection campaign promoted by Caixabank in collaboration with a Food Bank. 4 Participation in charity races (“UNICEF Race” in Colombia, “Somerville 5K Detour Road Race” in the United States). 4 Organization of the “Festa Junina Solidária” in Brazil, aimed at collecting warm clothing items and non-perishable food to collaborate with a shelter for homeless people. 4 Donation of computer equipment for disadvantaged groups. 15 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Good health and well-being Goal 4: Quality education Management Solutions offers its professionals a safe working environment as well as an Management Solutions attaches special importance to the training of its professionals, Occupational Medicine and Occupational Risk Prevention Service. In addition, Management dedicating approximately 10% of its capacity to this end. 4 More than 250,000 training hours spanning 575 courses. Solutions has a policy in place to promote sport and corporate wellness by organizing various sports activities for its employees throughout the year and offering subsidized gyms and other sports center memberships. The Firm has also organized or participated in other activities to 4 250 students complete their internship with the Firm each year. promote health and well-being, such as: 4 Teaching of specialized subjects in universities, both for degree and postgraduate courses, 4 Blood donation campaigns in the different ManagementSolutions offices. and in business schools. 4 Sponsorship of best Final Year Project awards in universities. 4 Solidarity at Work Programs, in collaboration with the Spanish Cancer Prevention Association, for the dissemination of health messages and awareness about the importance 4 Support to Créate Foundation through different activities that aim to help promote quality, of prevention and early detection. entrepreneurship and innovation in the field of education. 4 Collaboration with two Mother Teresa centers, the Pre Dam center for the terminally ill and 4 Participation in activities to bring education closer to disadvantaged groups (in chronically ill, the Shanti Dan center for women and girls with disabilities, and the Shishu collaboration with New Light during the Firm’s Solidarity Summer in Kolkata, India; “Run Bhavan orphanage during the Solidarity Summer activity promoted by the Firm in Kolkata for a cause, run for girls to Shine race”). (India). 4 Collection of solidarity caps to raise funds to combat childhood diseases through the SEUR Foundation. 4 Participation in different solidarity races to support the fight against diseases (“En marcha contra el cáncer” in Madrid and Barcelona, “Winter Run” and “JP Morgan Corporate Challenge” in London, “Race for the cure” in Rome, “FUCAM Race” in Mexico City, “Rumpshaker Race” in Birmingham, etc.). Blood donation campaigns, Mexico “From code to project”, Spain 16 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction Gender equality Decent work and economic growth Management Solutions has a corporate culture that holds equal opportunities, with no At Management Solutions, we are committed to excellence at work (quality work that creates discrimination whatsoever, as a basic principle. For this reason, the Firm has always value for our clients and for society as a whole). The Firm maintains high organic growth rates implemented measures aimed at promoting equality and has an Equality Plan in place that year after year, ensuring career growth for all its members as there is a need to onboard new ensures equality between women and men in some key areas such as access to employment, recruits (young graduates) to meet the growing business. Some of the highlights of this job permanence and remuneration policies, regardless of the legal system in force in each of commitment are: 4 Creation of quality employment (500 recruits). the countries in which the Firm has a presence. Some of these measures include: 4 Development and monitoring of Equality Plans (in all countries where Management 4 Collaboration agreements with schools, giving high school students the opportunity to Solutions has a presence). have their first work experience in a business environment. 4 Participation in events aimed at supporting groups of vulnerable women (“Run for a cause, 4 Collaboration with universities and business associations by teaching numerous seminars run for girls to Shine”, in Madrid and Barcelona). and courses on entrepreneurship. 4 Participation in the “From code to project” program of Créate Foundation, which promotes innovation and entrepreneurship, fosters critical thinking and problem solving, teaches programming and robotics skills to children and young individuals in Spain. 4 Support to the BBVA Foundation in Microfinance, which promotes access to credit and finance by those groups most at a disadvantaged in society. 4 Sponsorship of the Family Entrepreneurship and Family-owned Business program developed by Deusto Business School and INSEAD, with the aim of supporting these types of companies. 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Industry, innovation and infrastructure Reduce inequalities The Firm is committed to Research and Development as a key element that differentiates its Management Solutions has an Anti-Discrimination Policy that aims to avoid any discrimination market offering. Also, Management Solutions’ strong industry focus allows it to gain in-depth or inequality based on race, gender, sexual identity, sexual orientation, age, religion or belief, knowledge of the businesses in which its clients operate. Some of the keys to this commitment disability, marital status, pregnancy or maternity, or any other characteristic protected by law. to innovation and industry specialization are: The Firm’s Anti-Discrimination Policy promotes: 4 Investing 10% of the Firm's capacity in R&D. 4 Collaboration agreements with Down Madrid and Ilunion Viajes aimed at facilitating and 4 Creation of the IDanae Chair in Big Data and Analytics, thanks to collaborative work between promoting social and labor inclusion of people with disabilities in ordinary work Management Solutions and the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM). environments. 4 Sponsorship and collaboration with the Royal Academy of Sciences Foundation of Spain in 4 Participation in the Training Program for Labor Inclusion of Young People with some kind the dissemination of scientific content. of disability (Promentor) launched by Prodis Foundation. 4 More than 1,800 projects (70% of which are new) that are largely related to hot topics such 4 Participation in the “By yourself” race and volunteer days for the integration of people with as digital transformation or the development of artificial intelligence. Down syndrome and other intellectual disabilities. 4 Accredited by supervisors and supranational organizations (ECB, BoS, FCA, PRA, BNH, BNG, 4 Pro-Am charity golf tournament organized by the Sports and Challenge Foundation for the BNS, BNM, SBIF, SBS, BCCR, SSN, EIOPA, MEDE/ESM, WB, BEI, etc.). social integration of people with disabilities through sport. 4 Participation in knowledge sharing activities and presence in specialized forums. 4 Sponsorship, patronage and participation in industry associations: ENERCLUB, Risk Management Club, Institute of Spanish Actuaries, Entrepreneurs Circle, Alastria Consortium in Spain; British Bankers Association in the UK, Bundesverband deutscher Banken in Germany, AIFIRME in Italy, Chambers of Commerce, etc. 18 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction “Green Race”, Colombia Responsible Consumption and Production and Peace, justice and strong institutions Climate action Management Solutions is firmly committed to compliance not only with the legislation and Although the environmental impact of our activity is very limited (typical environmental issues regulations in force in all countries in which it operates, but also with its own internal arising in an office), there is a special sensitivity toward this issue at the Firm, with initiatives regulations. This includes a control framework that aims to foster legal, ethical and professional such as the following currently in place: conduct among employees, managers and directors while implementing initiatives such as: 4 Reduction of the impact of our activities on the environment (through implementing 4 Training on our code of conduct, ethics, compliance and corporate policies for all our energy efficiency policies, reducing our carbon footprint, recycling and reducing paper professionals. consumption, eliminating plastics, etc.) in all countries in which Management Solutions has 4 Zero tolerance on any type of criminal act, especially, due to our area of activity, those a presence. related to corruption, money laundering, confidentiality and personal data protection. 4 Investment in new technologies with the aim of facilitating communication between 4 Internal Criminal Compliance Management System in accordance with the UNE 19601 employees as well as with clients in order to avoid travel. standard for business consulting activities and related technologies. 4 Environmental protection and recovery related activities, such as the “Green Race” in Bogotá, to promote the recovery of local forests. 4 Collaboration with Auara, a social enterprise whose dividends go towards promoting projects to provide drinking water to disadvantaged communities, all through solidarity races, football soccer and paddle tennis marathons, and golf tournaments. 4 Sponsorship of the “Climate Change Econometrics and Fisheries Natural Resources” conference held in Madrid. 19 Management Solutions, Making things happen Management Solutions is an international consulting Firm whose core mission is to deliver business, risk, financial, organizational and process-related advisory services, targeting both functional aspects and the implementation of related technologies. 2,300 professionals 28 employed offices in Europe >10% the Americas and Asia of capacity invested in R&D 20 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Strategic principles We create value propositions for our clients and commit to their effective implementation Today, Management Solutions is a leader in business Positioning consulting services to regulated industries. This leadership results in more than two and a half million annual consulting Our positioning is based on a single concept: leadership. A hours, a global team of more than 2,300 professionals, 28 fully leadership that shows on a day-to-day basis in all our areas of operational offices in the Americas, Europe and Asia, recurrent activity, in the services we provide and in the markets in which activity in Africa, more than 900 clients –all leaders in their we are present as we take on our clients’ challenges. This respective industries–, and more than 1,800 projects of leadership is made possible by a global, multidisciplinary, varying nature and scale. The key to our Firm’s success lies in young and responsible team that is able to provide the best our strategic principles, shared by all professionals at solutions to the challenges our clients face. Management Solutions. 22 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen Commitment to excellence... Mission It is for this reason that at Management Solutions we feel our clients’ challenges as if they were our own and provide them Our motto is a perfect summary of our mission as an with the best path towards meeting those challenges. ...in the relationship with clients and in our level of organization: Making things happen. At Management service and performance, by giving our best in each Solutions, we create value propositions for our clients and Commitment to our professionals project... commit to their effective implementation. We focus far beyond the standard provision of advisory services to partner Management Solutions provides its professionals with a ...in the development of our professionals’ skills, by with our clients in the pursuit of their objectives. clearly defined career plan based on results, which allows providing the best possible environment to foster them to develop and enhance their abilities. potential and retain talent... Objectives These results translate into personal achievements, but ...in our support of society’s progress and the Our main goal is to exceed the expectations of our clients and getting there involves overcoming barriers. Our professionals environment in which we operate. to become their trusted partners. This can only be achieved by are, however, not alone in this journey, as they have the implementing concepts such as responsibility, rigor, high backing of the entire organization. For this reason, the values standards, preparation and training. Ensuring that our clients of generosity and pride in belonging develop naturally, as it feel our Firm as their own, involving them in the definition of becomes clear that the team adds more value than the sum of our own strategic challenges. its parts. At Management Solutions the client is first, followed by the team and the individual. Culture and values Commitment to excellence, client focus, teamwork and Commitment to society and the environment organizational flexibility are cornerstones of our corporate Management Solutions has a commitment to society and the culture, a culture that sets standards in the industry and is environment in which it conducts its business activities. This governed by strict ethical principles. commitment takes the form of job creation for young people, contributing to their comprehensive training and promoting Making things happen requires a strong corporate culture that their integration at work. is results-oriented, merit based, and constantly dedicated to service a culture and values shared by all of our professionals The Firm also organizes other initiatives which are carried out while fostering unity and solidarity. by the Social Action Committee, such as sponsorship and patronage activities as well as internal environmentallyfriendly policies. Commitment to our clients Our commitment to our clients goes beyond the standard threshold for advisory services by partnering with their goals, which we take on as our own and strive to achieve through our work and commitment. We are well aware that we have come this far because our clients have made it possible. 23 Ethical principles in our code of conduct Principles that govern the conduct of all our professionals Exercising our profession while staying true to sound We believe our business culture is essential to achieve a principles and values is one of the things that defines who we profitable and sustainable business model in the long term. are. At Management Solutions, we do not only care about This is why, as soon as they join Management Solutions, all what we do, but also how we do it. our professionals receive training on the Firm's code of conduct with the aim of ensuring they know and understand Commitment and dedication to service, integrity, humility, it. In addition, training in principles and values accompanies solidarity and generosity, critical thinking, meritocracy and Management Solutions professionals throughout their focus on results, perseverance in the pursuit of our objectives, professional careers. an entrepreneurial spirit, passion for a job well done, and the constant search for excellence are principles and values that inspire our code of conduct. 24 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen Integrity and honesty Management Solutions’ management takes on the We evaluate performance through objective and agreed-upon commitment to create opportunities for all professionals and criteria, offering a professional career without limitations in We commit ourselves to acting with integrity and honesty at all it is their duty and responsibility to transmit the Firm’s values which employees earn their own promotion based on merit. times, consistently applying the highest ethical standards. and corporate culture. We commit ourselves to investing time, effort and resources Integrity and honesty are the values underlying the trust we into selecting top professional talent, as well as developing and share with our clients and others within our firm. Professionalism maintaining their abilities through training plans adapted to Each employee stands out for their high level of each level and position. Our performance is based on ethical behavior, achieving the professionalism. We aim to get the best results by cooperating highest levels of quality, excellence in the provision of our with other teams and staff members, while taking care of our services and long-term development of relationships based on own training and that of our colleagues. We make an effort to Privacy and confidentiality trust and mutual respect. convey an unrivaled image of correctness and professionalism Management Solutions complies with the data protection in all situations. regulations in force in all countries in which the Firm operates. Dedication to excellence We comply with all legal requirements, taking the professional All members of our organization are prohibited from disclosing We have an ongoing commitment to our clients, our colleagues standards and rules established in each case as our guide, confidential client information to third parties and are obliged and society as a whole to deliver excellence in all aspects of our while avoiding any situation which could compromise the to keep the Firm's reports and internal documentation professional performance. reputation of the Firm. confidential, treating all information with particular responsibility, control and protection and without using it for We give our best effort in client relationship management and personal gain or for that of third parties. the provision of services to clients in order to deliver high Emphasis on the human factor quality projects. Beyond what is required for an acceptable working All of the Firm's strategic information, as well as client and relationship, we realize that both employees and clients are employee data accessed in the course of professional activity, is We commit to developing and strengthening the abilities of our people, and therefore deserve to be treated as such. This considered confidential. professionals by providing the best working environment in involves both respect for human rights in all of our actions order to foster potential and retain talent. and the desire to contribute to the personal growth of those Management Solutions applies the strictest security standards who are part of the Firm. to all its IT and communications systems to ensure they do not violate confidentiality protocols. Commitment We favor a working environment that stimulates personal We take on our clients’ challenges as our own while focusing on growth, development and success, supported by an excellence and results, supported by a strong culture of atmosphere of continuous collaboration and teamwork. This Responsibility to society commitment. This commitment is evident in our management is made possible by the generosity of each of its members, Our services and client-oriented focus allow us to deliver approach, service provided to our clients, and in our ongoing with the team’s objectives prevailing over individual aims. projects of considerable added value, which makes it possible effort to deliver the best consulting services on the market. for the Firm to positively contribute to society’s economic Our success is dependent on our professionals. Accordingly, environment. This responsibility takes the form of job creation We meet our clients’ highest demands, going beyond their we select and train employees so that they can provide for young adults, as we contribute to the provision of expectations in an environment of trust and close cooperation services of the highest quality in all areas of our professional comprehensive training and promote their entry into the job between the client and Management Solutions’ professionals. practice. market. The Firm also promotes initiatives that facilitate employee participation in different volunteering activities (Social Action). 25 Organization and structure Management Solutions’ business model is a partnership, a Organizational flexibility group of partners that actively participate in the Firm's development. Management Solutions is a single, global partnership (its partners own the parent company) with a flexible organization focused on creating value for its teams. The Firm’s top managing body is the Partners Committee, in Head of Internal Corporate Business areas which all partners participate. The Committee continuously monitors business activity and business development. Departments Management Solutions has a flexible and agile organization Single pyramid structure Corporate Departments that allows it to offer the quality of service level that its clients 4Responsibilities and roles are based on 4Global role of Corporate Departments (with local demand, keeping in mind its mission and vision. The Firm is category (consultant/senior support) structured by geographical area, by industry, by service and by consultant/manager, director, partner) 4Corporate policies (certified) client. 4Management: structured around four key axes: 4Shared IT and operations client, industry, country and core competency 4Mixed execution: ‘Critical activities’ are insourced Non-core activities are outsourced 4Quality control (Global QA) ......................................................................................................... 4Ongoing audits (financial and policy compliance) Management Solutions Partners Committee Yearly Meeting 2019 26 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Risk management and control framework Management Solutions, Making things happen Management Solutions has a control framework whose Internal control and compliance Management Solutions has a robust purpose is to provide reasonable assurance that its objectives will be achieved, thereby providing value and Management Solutions is firmly committed to compliance not control framework security to its different stakeholders. This control framework only with the legislation and regulations in force in each is articulated through internal regulations that are contained country in which it operates, but also with its own internal in policies, procedures and manuals. regulations. The Firm's policies are mandatory and group-wide All of Management Solutions’ personnel are bound by the (applicable in all of its offices). Some of our main risk Firm’s internal control and compliance policies. Consequently, management and control policies are the following: Code of all our staff, managers and directors must act lawfully, Conduct (for employees and suppliers), Compliance Policy ethically and professionally in the performance of their duties. Confidentiality Policy, Physical and Logical Securiy Policies, Human Resources Policy, Anti-discrimination Policy, AntiLikewise, although our Internal Control and Compliance bribery and Anti-corruption Policies Quality function touches on all regulations regardless of their subject PolicyCommunication Policy, etc. matter, the main focus falls on matters pertaining to Fiscal/Tax, Data Protection, Money Laundering Prevention, The Firm has three Risk Management and Control lines of Criminal Risk, Occupational Risk Prevention, Social Security, defense: i) the first are employees themselves as they Commercial/Corporate and Administrative. perform their duties in accordance with the policies they undertake to observe; ii) the second is our internal control Internal audit function (which has among its responsibilities to obtain external compliance certifications that show we implement The audit function aims to ensure compliance with both our our control framework), iii) the third is our audit function Internal Control Framework (policies and procedures) and the (both internal and external). different regulations by which Management Solutions is bound. For this, a number of internal audits are carried out to review specific processes of particular relevance each year, and there is Ethical and responsible conduct of our proessionals oversight of all planned external audits (both mandatory and Management Solutions is firmly committed to acting those voluntarily requested by the Firm) to ensure they are duly ethically and responsibly in the way it operates, which carried out. In addition to the annual accounts audit, the Firm translates into a requirement that its professionals not only periodically undergoes the following audits: act in strict compliance with the law, but also refrain from performing any action or giving any advice that could be 4 Computer Security Audit – aims to assess the security of the considered questionable from an ethical perspective. Firm’s information systems, against good practice and recommendations included in the “ISO/IEC 27002: 2013 As such, all Management Solutions professionals must Code of good practice for data security management”. ensure that their behavior and conduct do not give rise to More specifically, it analyzes the overall result and maturity bribery or corruption. level of Management Solutions’ Corporate Information Systems Security Assessment (ESSI), and the Technical Also, Management Solutions’ anti-corruption and bribery Audits performed by the external auditor. policy forbids donations to individual political parties, political campaigns and/or individual politicians. 27 Risk management and control framework Control framework As a consequence of all of the above, and on a regular basis, the Firm implements ongoing measures that reinforce its control environment and add to its commitment to quality in all it does (and which are reflected in our external ISO 9001 certification attesting to the quality of our processes). The following are some of our key risk management and control measures: Criminal Compliance Management System Management Solutions' Criminal Compliance Management System implements zero tolerance to all types of criminal acts. In particular, in light of their activity, those affecting corruption, money laundering, confidentiality and personal data protection. As a result, the Spanish Association for Standardization and Certification (AENOR) has recognized that our Criminal Compliance Management System meets the UNE 19601 standard for business consulting activities and related technologies. The UNE 19601 standard lays down best practices to prevent 4 Personal Data Protection Audit (GDPR) aims to review 4 AENOR ISO9001 Quality Management System Audit crime, reduce risk and promote a corporate culture that is ethical the extent to which the Firm complies with the EU External audit that certifies the Firm's Quality Management and compliant with the Law. In particular, this standard focuses General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). System (the Firm’s control framework is common to all its on the analysis of policies and procedures established for: different geographies). 4 Occupational Risk Prevention Audit an audit of the Firm's 4 Preventing the commission of crimes that may entail criminal occupational risk prevention system is carried out in 4 AENOR UNE19601 Criminal Compliance Management liability for the Company. accordance with Chapter V of the Spanish RD 39/97 System Audit External audit that certifies the Firm's 4 Disseminating the culture of prevention and compliance in Prevention Services Regulation. Criminal Risk Management System in accordance with the the organization. Spanish criminal code. 4 Establishing adequate surveillance and control measures to 4 Energy Efficiency Audit an in-depth analysis of the level prevent crimes and to significantly reduce the risk of of energy efficiency of our Madrid and Bilbao facilities, 4 AENOR ISO27001 Information Security Management committing them. examining the energy-consuming equipment, the System Audit External audit that certifies the Firm's 4 Improving management, helping to reduce criminal risk and thermal enclosure and the energy usage habits. Information Security Management System (the Firm’s providing greater security and trust assurance to government control framework is the same for all of its different bodies, shareholders and investors, among other stakeholder geographies). groups. Although the scope of the UNE 19601 is limited to the Parent company, the policies and procedures that comply with it in the Firm are global, which once again shows our firm commitment to strict compliance with the applicable legislation and its extension to other countries in which we provide services. 28 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen Corruption and bribery prevention Management Solutions has a supplier registration policy in to ensure that their mission and objectives are aligned with place that requires a prior analysis of suppliers, especially of those of Management Solutions. Working together with Management Solutions’ Partners, the those that provide relevant services. This analysis considers data Firm’s Compliance and Internal Audit function implements on the company as well as its corporate structure and Once this analysis has been conducted, our Social Action measures to prevent corruption and bribery: reputational aspects. The Quality and Internal Audit area Committee (which is chaired by the Firm’s Head of Corporate analyzes the supplier questionnaire and issues a final Departments and has the Marketing and Human Resources 4 Employee training: the training provided to all Management assessment before the organization can be registered as an managers as members) approves the activity, which is then Solutions professionals includes the content of this policy authorized supplier. endorsed by the Partners Committee if appropriate. with the appropriate level of detail. 4 Performance incentives: the Firm's remuneration system Management Solutions also has a Supplier Code of Conduct Management Solutions has signed several collaboration makes sure that professionals are not encouraged to carry through which the Firm seeks to extend its firm commitment to agreements with different foundations and organizations that out practices that could be considered bribery and/ or business ethics to include its suppliers, business partners and promote solidarity, entrepreneurship or social integration corruption. third parties in general. causes. These causes are described in more detail in the 4 Suspicious activity: The Firm has established procedures that “Commitment to the environment” chapter. allow its employees and/or third parties to report suspicious Slavery and human trafficking statement activities. These procedures are clearly communicated and Cyber-environment control are available to all employees and stakeholders. Our policies reflect our commitment to human rights and to the highest standards of integrity, making slavery incompatible. In a context of increasingly significant cybersecurity risks, Although the risk assessment carried out by MS found that the arising mainly from technological development (or the Money laundering prevention risk of slavery within our business activity is low, this risk is digitalization of companies), as well as from company Management Solutions is committed to all national and mitigated through our internal policies (Code of Conduct and integration processes in different industries and the international rules and regulations in force in the fight against Supplier Code of Conduct, Compliance Policy, Criminal Risk professionalization of attackers, Management Solutions has an money laundering (and terrorist financing). Management Procedure and Human Resources Policies), and Information Security Management System (ISMS) recognized through strict control of our suppliers (all our contracts with with the ISO 27001 certification, issued by AENOR, an In the pursuit of this commitment, the Firm has established third parties are governed by specific and globally aligned international standard that lays down the necessary internal procedures that mitigate the risk of money laundering. Business Terms and Conditions that specifically mention our requirements to set up, implement, maintain and improve an Both our Client and Business Supplier Registration Procedure “Slavery and human trafficking statement” and the obligation ISMS. and our Supplier Management Procedure establish the not to commit any related crime). The detail of all our measures requirements that our clients and suppliers must satisfy before in this regard are contained in the “Slavery and human Management Solutions’ ISMS, supplemented by the Firm's we establish business relationships with them (e.g. compliance trafficking statement” published on the Management Solutions Security Policy, aims to guarantee information security, with the Know Your Customer regulations). website. ensuring the proper operation of the Firm's information systems through efficient and secure management of the computer and communications systems that compose it. They Control of the firm's supply chain Control over contributions to foundations and non-profit also establish guidelines for controlling system access, security organizations To be able to increase the quality of our services, and improve of communications, and system use by personnel. the effectiveness and competitiveness of our organization, at Management Solutions is proud of its contribution to society Management Solutions we require our suppliers to carry out based on a number of social activities that include donations The ISO 27001 cybersecurity certification issued to us by AENOR their activity under principles that are similar to ours, as well as and support to charities as well as sponsorships. in 2019 following an audit on the organization, processes, to respect the law and regulations in force in the countries methodologies and controls in place at the Firm, shows where they operate. The Firm has mechanisms in place to ensure that such activities Management Solutions’ commitment and quality in the are not designed to create any competitive business advantage. processing of confidential information. These mechanisms include an analysis of the specific charities 29 Our brand The purpose of the Management Solutions brand is to convey Consequently, all the places where our brand is displayed Our brand conveys our the Firm´s culture and values to all stakeholders while automatically become a vehicle through which our values are culture and values strengthening the sense of belonging among Management transmitted, whether these are sponsored initiatives, Solutions professionals in all countries where the Firm publications, fairs, events, presentations, social network operates. channels, business proposals or deliverables. Our name, logo, colors and lettering represent the Firm’s Also, brand uniformity is particularly important for an identity, convey our values and differentiate us from our international firm such as Management Solutions. Our brand competitors. It is therefore essential to protect them, to use plays an integrating role, since it represents those values that them appropriately and to ensure we instill them with our are shared by more than 2,300 Management Solutions principles, including most notably reliability, trust, leadership professionals around the world who, in turn, project it on a and teamwork. daily basis in the relationship they establish with their clients and stakeholders. Our logo was reinforced by the inclusion of our motto: Making things happen, which summarizes the Firm’s mission. Corporate image Our corporate culture is carried through a particular image, covering all areas: 4The image our professionals convey to the Client. 4The style of our presentations, proposals, deliverables and any other documents, such as publications, advertisements, campaigns, etc. in any format. 4How our image is present in society: universities and job fairs as well as foundations, sponsorships and corporate events. 4How our offices are designed (to facilitate collaborative work). 30 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen Management Solutions website and Social Networks professional and cultural worlds, as well as news on our community-action campaigns and sports competitions. Our corporate website (www.managementsolutions.com) constitutes our main vehicle for reaching out to society, and The Management Solutions' website has an updated design is therefore one of the fundamental pillars supporting our and new content incorporating responsive technology to external communications. improve the mobile browsing experience. “We are a Firm with a strong Our site, delivered in three languages (Spanish, English and The Firm’s communication strategy has been reinforced in corporate culture that unites Portuguese), meets the accessibility guidelines set by the recent years by the creation of two corporate channels in us and distinguishes us from World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), and includes general Youtube (in English and Spanish), and the active use of social others. Our brand is a true information about Management Solutions, the industries in network profiles (LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter), created to which we operate and services lines offered, a section on share the Firm’s specialist content (white papers, reports, reflection of who we are” careers targeted at potential candidates, a section on our regulatory alerts, technical notes, etc.) and events with its specialist publications (including macroeconomic outlook stakeholders. reports, relevant industry regulatory developments and technical notes on regulations) and an events section Our brand reflects our firm commitment to a mission: making things happen. In 2019 visits to our website increased by 25% as we had (featuring the Firm's news) related to the university, hundreds of thousands of visitors from more than 180 different We have well-established principles and values, countries. based on commitment, dedication to service, integrity, unity and teamwork, with a goal above all others: to exceed our clients’ expectations, thus becoming their trusted partners. We are proud to see how our clients clearly identify Management Solutions with a specific way of acting. And this is thanks to a strong corporate culture, a culture that fosters a spirit of self-improvement. Teresa Elorza Partner at Management Solutions 31 Geography Management Solutions’ strong international focus since (Bogota and Medellin), Peru, Chile and Argentina. Moreover, our An international outlook inception has made its global approach one of its hallmarks. activity in Ecuador has also intensified, resulting in the opening remains one of the Firm’s Currently, our presence concentrates in four major of a new office in Quito. Our presence in the Central American strategic priorities geographical areas: Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa, with 28 offices from where we serve more than 40 countries. countries in terms of both number of clients and number of projects continued to grow as well. Covering the needs of our clients in all countries in which they In Europe we have also achieved strong growth in all main are present has made our Firm a leader in the provision of economies. Thus, our German office has maintained an business consulting services in regulated industries. This excellent performance during the year, increasing penetration leadership has been achieved through the committed work of in the local market and successfully playing its role as the Firm’s our professionals on a day-to-day basis, always searching to regulatory hub by further deepening ties with the European identify new opportunities. banking supervisor. For its part, the United Kingdom office has again achieved double-digit growth, increasing the number of Our geographical positioning responds to the one team and clients and projects and also strengthening its links with the “multi-location” principles. By thinking globally and acting British banking supervisor. locally we have been able to reinforce the importance of our offices within their markets while, above all, maintaining a France operations have grown fourfold while, working on global view of our business. important projects for local leaders. In addition, our Spain and Portugal offices continue to strengthen their leadership During 2019 we have again expanded our presence not only in position in business consulting for regulated industries in their the countries that historically have been central to our growth, respective markets. and where we have consolidated offices, but also by extending our scope of action beyond their borders, which has resulted in Also to be highlighted are the excellent results achived by our the opening of 4 new offices in La Coruña (España), Ámsterdam Italy, Poland and Switzerland offices (with growth of around (Países Bajos), Oslo (Noruega) y Quito (Ecuador). 50%), as well as our performance in the Nordic countries (Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Norway) and the Netherlands, In the United States, results have again been excellent, with a where the Firm has opened offices in Oslo (to support the more than a 20% increase in operations thanks to stronger activity in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland) and in activity in New York, Alabama and Massachusetts, and to Amsterdam, to meet the increase in activity generated in recent projects carried out in other states such as Texas, Virginia and years. Florida. Lastly, our Asian operations have seen steady growth. In Latin America, and despite the economic slowdown Leveraging our office in China, strong momentum in our Turkey experienced in the region, all Management Solutions offices activity, and our operations in Africa have increased around 8%, have achieved their objectives, with double-digit aggregate with an active presence in countries such as Senegal, Equatorial growth. This has helped to bolster our leading position in Guinea and Angola the Firm continues to grow globally. business consulting within regulated industries in the countries in which we operate in the region. Mexico and Brazil have once again been the main pillars of the Firm's growth in the region, closely followed by Colombia 32 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen Permanent Management Solutions offices Europe Madrid Pza. Pablo Ruiz Picasso, 1 28020 – Madrid Barcelona Avda. Diagonal, 654 08034 – Barcelona Bilbao Pza. Euskadi, 5 48009 – Bilbao La Coruña Avda. de Linares Rivas, 30 15005 – La Coruña London 6 Bevis Marks EC3A 7BA – London Frankfurt Bockenheimer Landstraße, 51-53 60325 – Frankfurt am Main Paris 14 Avenue D’Eylau 75116 – París Amsterdam Strawinskylaan 3051 1077 ZX – Amsterdam Oslo Edvard Storms gate 2 0166 – Oslo Varsaw Emilii Plater, 53 00-113 – Warszawa Zurich Bellerivestraße, 201 8034 – Zürich Milan Via Giuseppe Mengoni, 4 20121 – Milano Rome Vía Vincenzo Bellini, 22 00198 – Roma Lisbon Avenida da Liberdade, 245 1250-143 – Lisboa Asia Beijing 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue 100004 – Beijing Americas New York 1120 Avenue of the Americas NY 10036 – New York Boston 21 Custom House Street MA 02110 – Boston Birmingham* 420 20th Street North AL 35203 – Birmingham San Juan de Puerto Rico Management Solutions offices 105 Ponce de León Avenue Permanent presence 00917 – San Juan Mexico City (Santa Fe) Regular activity Prol. Paseo de la Reforma, 1015 01376 – Ciudad de México Mexico City (Anzures) Mariano Escobedo, 748 11590 – Ciudad de México Medellin Carrera 43 A, 1-50 050021 – Medellín Bogota Carrera 7, 71-21 110231 – Bogotá Quito Avenida Río Amazonas 4545 170135 – Quito São Paulo Rua Funchal, 418 04551-060 – São Paulo Lima Avda. Coronel Andrés Reyes, 437 San Isidro 27 – Lima Santiago de Chile Enrique Foster Norte, 21 755-0163 – Santiago Buenos Aires Avda. Alicia Moreau de Justo, 140 C1107AAD – Buenos Aires * From which Atlanta is managed 33 Industry We strive to develop an in-depth understanding of the industries in which our clients operate Thanks to our industry focus, at Management Solutions we are Financial Institutions able to understand the specific needs of our clients and provide solutions to their unique problems. The banking business is undergoing a profound transformation driven primarily by three major factors: the Even more than the particularities of each company, the macroeconomic environment, regulation/supervision, and industry environment in which they do business shapes their digital transformation. These three factors directly impact key action strategies. Our professionals work in banks' profitability by reducing margins, pressuring costs, and multidisciplinary teams that have a deep knowledge of the lowering ROE. According to the EBA, 30% of European banks industry in which their clients operate. Only then is it possible expect to make changes to their business models as a result of to make a proper assessment and to implement methodology these factors. that is suitable for each market. In global terms, the current macroeconomic situation is Management Solutions’ practices are structured around three characterized by deceleration in a scenario of low inflation main industry areas (Financial Institutions, Energy and and low interest rates. There is however a trend of falling Telecommunications), with professionals dedicated unemployment and default rates, which in the short term has exclusively to the industries they cover. The Firm also made it possible to maintain asset prices and reinvigorate risk dedicates resources to other industries, specifically focusing appetite, but over the medium term reduces banking business on the market leaders in each industry. profitability and makes it more vulnerable. 34 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen As for the regulatory and supervisory context, requirements select coverage. This forces insurance companies to strive to Energy are increasingly more numerous, demanding and affect more adapt in order to efficiently meet their customers’ new areas (capital, provisions, balance sheet structure, liquidity, demands and alter their market offering in a more innovative Progressive deregulation in the industry has revealed that leverage, etc.). This leads to a system that overall, is more and segmented way, with a need to incorporate exponential there is little perceived product/brand differentiation in secure and solvent, but which structurally reduces the technologies. traditional utilities (water, electricity, gas, etc.). Customers are profitability of banks. The direct costs of adapting to these accustomed to contracting utilities from governmentrequirements are proving be very significant for banks, Also, changes in the Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or the designated suppliers and do not associate quality with the reaching $2,000 million a year for the largest financial Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD), require that insurers supplying brand, as is almost always the case in other institutions. But the expectation is for a degree of stability become more involved in the management and processing of industries. This has coincided with the emergence and over the medium term, as the process of regulatory and their customers' data, as well as in the control of their internal increasingly widespread use of new technologies, digital supervisory transformation gradually concludes. processes, and stipulate that regulators and supervisors transformation, the value of data and the new, more agile should focus on reviewing organizations’ policies vis-à-vis the ways of working, as well as with a changing environment due In relation to digital transformation, there is an customer, as well as their governance and organizational to new regulations, a modified global energy map and a unprecedented technological revolution with a profound structures. complex economic situation that affects energy consumption. impact on the business model of organizations. This transformation can be broken down even further into three In addition, the new IFRS 17 regulation implies a very These circumstances pose many management challenges constituent components: an exponential increase in data significant development in the improvement of financial related not only to the effort of “defending” the current volume as well as in storage, processing and modeling processes, with more uniform and transparent reporting and positioning and to diversification, but also with measuring, capabilities, with lower associated costs; a change in customer information disclose to third parties. supporting and effectively managing business while properly behavior towards a more digital and informed profile; and the emergence of new competitors heavily leveraged in technology. Financial institutions are responding to these challenges by transforming themselves in at least four areas: business models, transformation and efficiency, finance, and risk management. Insurance The insurance industry is immersed in profound changes that require a huge effort to adapt. The main challenges are linked to the aging of the population and increased longevity, digital transformation, improving operational efficiency, and the emergence of new business models and ecosystems in the insurance business. Customer behavior has changed in recent years. Particular importance is given to immediacy, simplicity and accessibility in services, and increasingly to personalized attention to 35 Industry monitoring and controlling the various risks and Telecommunications To adapt to this uncertainty, operators need to develop opportunities associated with these activities, all while digital services to monetize data and other strategic assets ensuring best practices are implemented so as to comply The telecommunications sector is at the center of society’s while focusing on growth. This will require knowledge of with business obligations. digital transformation, which increasingly demands services analytical tools and new ways of working, and will require that offer more mobility, immediacy and interaction, both in concentration and simplification steps at all levels Additionally, corporations are facing the challenge of digital the personal and the professional sphere. These changes are (regulation, organization, business, technology, etc.) in order transformation (intelligent use of data as a lever for encouraging the emergence of new business models, to achieve the efficiency, agility and flexibility necessary to generating value, sensorization, advanced analytics, etc.) players and services while adding additional complexity to adapt to current changes and future challenges. which, together with the global macroeconomic situation, an already competitive market. society’s growing sensitivity towards climate change, and the changes in business models, requires focusing on Traditional operators face a new investment cycle linked to Government improving efficiency and creating value for clients and the deployment of new generation networks (5G) to meet The current market continues forcing government agencies shareholders. In this respect, organizations are focusing the exponential growth of different demands. At the same to optimize their budgets for public sector activities. This their attention on innovative actions that maximize their time, they are seeing how margins in their traditional necessitates an improvement in the productivity and potential. business (voice and data) are rapidly diminishing, and the efficiency of all government agencies, which devote much of new income generated by the new economy is going to their activity to maintaining service quality by optimizing new entrants (those called “over the top”). the management of their structural costs. Furthermore, government agencies are undertaking programs to embed new technologies into the functioning of the public sector. These so called e-government programs, seek to increase efficiency, transparency and public involvement through better use of information and communication technologies. This is complemented by a growing interest in modeling massive amounts of data as a tool to contribute to these objectives. All of this encourages the transformation of public services through organizational, process and system improvements that incorporate the advantages derived from the digitization of society as a whole. 36 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen Other sectors The automobile sector is the one most affected, with indices Construction that reflect a drop in production and exports. The steel and chemical sectors seem to be withstanding this impact better, The construction sector shows a favorable growth forecast, Distribution: consumer and retail experiencing a cooling of growth compared to last year but although its main constraint comes from public spending The current distribution industry environment is marked by maintaining the upward trend. restrictions in almost all world economies, which makes it changing business models that require the review of some of necessary to find new budgetary funding schemes and attract the key areas of management. This sector is evolving its value As a consequence of this global slowdown and value chain private capital for infrastructure investment, in an proposition towards a more customer-centric approach by delocalization, companies require a constant process of environment of decreasing returns and increasing volatility better managing the data available and delivering value on continuous improvement and transformation to minimize the (such as in the price of raw materials). this data through advanced analytics. In the quest for impact of external threats and internal weaknesses. operational efficiency, companies are undergoing a For their part, companies in this sector have made great continuous process of improvement and transformation of In this context, digital transformation, by which we mean the efforts to develop and incorporate digital transformation into their organizational, operational and technological structures different forms of data value extraction, automation and their business processes in the form of innovative that will lead to increased productivity and better use of robotization, intelligent management and sonorization, new technologies that represent a competitive advantage in the resources. ways of working and new business models, plays a sector. One of the trends that is gaining ground is data-driven fundamental role in the industry in terms of increased decision making. In addition, changes in consumer habits and customer competitiveness and fewer costs from inefficiencies. behavior, who demand better service (based on greater speed, availability and comfort) and the way in which customers interact with new channels as a result of new technologies with the prevalence of mobile devices continue to shape the industry. This makes it necessary to have business and logistic models capable of making the most of the physical distribution model combined with current ecommerce opportunities. Finally, the emergence of new risks such as cybersecurity, or the need to better manage existing risks such as supplier risk management or fraud, have become critical elements in this industry’s highly competitive environment. Manufacturing After a few years of efficient growth, industry is once again threatened by economic recession. European industry is accusing the impact of trade wars between the US and China and other global shocks that are destabilizing the economic and political landscape. 37 Industry At the regulatory level, global technological development Currently, the industry faces major challenges such as the These challenges have made it necessary to put the focus on and trends in other industry sectors (electric mobility, following: regulatory compliance during a period of efficiency, seeking an increasingly effective use of resources. decarbonization objectives, etc.) are a fundamental driver heightened regulations, operating globally while adapting Similarly, efforts have been made to improve the traveler's when determining medium and long term needs for this locally, leveraging new technologies (big data, artificial experience, taking advantage of the advantages offered by industry. intelligence, etc.), adopting new organizational models to digital transformation, increased personalization, the use of boost efficiency and profitability, and considering risk mobile technologies, advanced modeling and data Pharmaceutical industry management implications such as reputational risks. management. The pharmaceutical industry has become a significant engine for growth in major economies that have developed their Logistics and transportation On the other hand, the rise of e-commerce continues to be own business fabric, being, in some cases, the industry with the growth driver in the logistics sector, where the use of The logistics and transport industries are facing a profound the greatest level of investment in R&D and one that new technologies is also disruptive. Trends such as robotic transformation in the face of huge challenges such as those contributes significantly to the creation of employment (both warehouses, distribution flexibility to meet customer needs, brought about by new protectionist policies, adaptation to direct and indirect). the use of artificial intelligence to optimize routes and, at a the requirements arising from the transition to a low carbon less mature stage, autonomous transport, will mark an economy, strong price competition, and the rise of large eunprecedented business transformation in this sector. commerce operators with their own logistics structures. IT industry The technology industry is currently at the epicenter of the transformation of other industries, being central to the fourth industrial revolution, the source of major changes in the economic and social sphere. The exponential growth of technological capabilities and their lower cost, increased connectivity, universal access to information and the development of artificial intelligence, among other factors, have made technology the engine of profound changes leading to the emergence of new business models that take better advantage of installed capacity, are more efficient and encourage open innovation. The rapid evolution of technology is speeding up the digital transformation process, giving rise to new concepts such as “hyper-automation” (automation tools combined with machine learning), “multi-experience” (changed user experience based on augmented and mixed virtual reality), “data democratization” (expert system development and knowledge with professional support), “augmented human beings” (with devices that improve cognitive skills), the 38 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen “ethical approach” to AI, “distributed cloud computing” To meet these challenges, companies must continue to (moving from a centralized cloud model to a geographically pursue further differentiation and leadership through distributed one), “edge computing”(supporting data knowledge, improving the customer experience, processing and content delivery near the data sources), transforming their organizations into more flexible and agile “autonomous and collaborative objects ”(based on intensive structures, and having adequate governance and control use of AI or the consolidation of blockchain as a platform for models that minimize professional risk. transaction optimization and asset tracking). “Our value proposition is Education industry constantly refined in order to be It is key that companies in the technology sector are able to able to solve the new challenges adapt their organizations by directing talent management Digital transformation, economic impacts, the political our clients bring to us” towards innovation and addressing the risks in the new situation and constant changes in society are determining landscape (e.g. improving cybersecurity), thus facilitating factors for the education industry in its role as a key training solutions that will make it possible for other industries to tool for future generations. generate value through their own digital transformation. This industry is facing transformation, because although the Our clients face complex business model Tourism university demand continues to be strong in traditional transformation processes. In order to meet their sectors (education, health, etc.), for some time now there demands, we offer them a highly specialized and The tourism industry has become one of the key areas of has been a huge need for specialized profiles in the multidisciplinary team, supported by a cutting-edge growth in developed countries. This is a highly competitive quantitative and new technology fields (data management R&D service. industry in which destinations and operators compete to be and modeling, digitization, robotics, big data, cybersecurity, the most attractive for customers in a changing environment etc.), making it necessary to review the educational model Our specialization by service line allows us to marked by the entry of new players, the changing needs of and its governance. quickly design bespoke solutions to our clients’ customers and the emergence of new business models in the challenges. market (such as tourist rental housing). Our industry specialization allows us to adapt our To effectively operate in this environment, the industry must solutions to the characteristics of the sectors of be able to put the client at the center of strategic planning in activity in which our clients operate. Finally, our geographic specialization allows us to order to provide a more personalized offer and increase its capture the local or regional reality and to efficiency ratios in all areas (operational, management, etc.), incorporate local regulatory, sociological and leveraging on digitalization and the use of new technologies. cultural factors into our solutions, as well as other Professional services particularities of the economies in which our clients The professional services sector continues to face the operate. In short, we ensure that our value proposition is challenges brought about by globalization, technological permanently adapted to the changing and specific advances and related regulations, as well as strong price needs of our customers. competition. Ana Díaz Partner at Management Solutions 39 Service lines To cover client needs, Management Solutions’ practices are and services to the needs of each segment. This change from a Our functional specialization structured by industry and by business line (Financial & selling products approach to an approach based on allows us to offer high-value Commodities Risk Consulting, Retail Business Consulting and managing customer needs requires the complete added services to our New Technologies), which in turn encompass a wide range of competencies. transformation of an organization’s value chain, its processes and the activities of its main business and support areas customers (management control, sales, marketing, organization, resources, etc.). FCRC (Financial and Commodities Risk Consulting) The wholesale business, more specifically treasury and capital This trend is taking place in a market environment where a market operations, is developing at a speed that makes it pre-digital and a “digital” generation co-exist, which requires difficult for entities to adapt their processes and control developing very different relationship models. At the same structures to this ongoing change. time, as customers are becoming increasingly demanding, sales margins are getting slimmer and economies of scale need The growing sophistication of corporate and institutional to be attained. clients, as well as the increase in the volume and complexity of transactions and their progressive contribution to the global In this context, the focus of the RBC line is to help clients bottom line, call for the parallel adaptation of trading, achieve their goals and objectives by supporting them along administration, control and risk supervision processes. the way, from the planning of their strategic needs to the effective implementation of their functional requirements. Similarly, making the most of transaction-based services, which involve managing large transaction volumes, requires advanced support structures, posing new challenges for the NT (New Technologies) industry. The world is changing, and doing so at a high speed. We are witnessing a technological revolution of a magnitude never Other challenges faced by different industries are the current seen before. This is not a transitory event. The paradigm shift sophistication of methods used in measuring and controlling rate (the rate at which new ideas are adopted) doubles every risks, the integration of advanced metrics (capital) in business decade: while it took nearly half a century for the telephone to management (largely driven by new regulatory frameworks), be adopted, and while acceptance of television and radio took and the estimates of impact under stress scenarios. several decades, it took under 10 years for computers, internet and mobile phones to catch on. From the FCRC line we help our customers to optimize and adapt their processes and systems architecture to the new The result is exponential growth in the quantity of available business logic and nature of financial risks (credit, market, technology and an equivalent reduction in cost, regardless of operational, liquidity and structural) and non-prudential risks the crises experienced over the past few years, and this trend is (paying special attention to compliance and conduct as well as expected to continue in the coming decades. model risk). But this technological revolution has taken on a new dimension in recent years. Increased technical performance RBC (Retail Business Consulting) requires capacity to generate, store, and process information, The retail business is making great efforts to identify customer and at an exponential rate, a situation that has been called the clusters or segments to target while adjusting their product “big data” phenomenon. 40 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen All of this is giving rise, among other things, to a discipline Core competencies which is the fundamental axis for transformation in the industry: data science, which is also the study of the generalizable extraction of knowledge from data through the combined use of automated learning techniques, artificial Strategy Management & intelligence, mathematics, statistics, databases and financial information We accompany Management from client companies in We address information requirements for management optimization, together with a deep understanding of the their strategic decisions, providing our view of the by validating, modifying and determining the business context. challenges they face, both from a global perspective information sources, defining transformation processes (trends, best practices, etc.) and from the standpoint of (calculations and metrics), and becoming involved in the From the NT line, we help our clients to enhance the value of each individual company (alternative courses of action, implementation of the required technology for its proper technology. We also develop and provide support for planning, recommendations for implementation, etc.). deployment. technological solutions with a high level of penetration in the industries in which the Firm operates. Core competencies Management Solutions aims to turn its clients’ objectives into Sales & marketing Transformation: tangible realities, from strategic guidance to implementation management organization & processes of the required technology (Making things happen). Our teams offer concrete solutions and commit to their We design and develop commercial efficiency multiWe tackle our clients’ transformation projects from implementation and operation. At Management Solutions we channel and business intelligence programs, thereby three different perspectives: organizational, operational are able to lead the different stages that result in a project supporting our clients in their growth efforts. and technological, achieving significant improvements in the effectiveness and control of the tasks performed, being successful, from initial strategic analysis to the increased user and customer satisfaction and functional, organizational and operational phases, to effective appropriate cost reductions. implementation. In this section, rather than including a product and services catalog, our aim is to highlight Management Solutions’ work around the key competencies it has developed. Risk management & control New technologies We provide the best solutions to effectively manage and We are specialists in defining and implementing the control the risks associated with doing business: credit, technologies that are best suited to meeting the needs market, operational, liquidity, structural, reputational, and potential of each organization, and we design conduct, model, business, and other risks, and to provide frameworks to strengthen information and data an integrated view of them (and of their impact on capital governance. requirements or provisions). 41 R&D The current international environment is characterized by weak universities, thus driving the Firm’s pro-active approach to Our value proposition is growth that is expected to slow down, low but growing anticipating change. supported by a cutting-edge inflation and low interest rates in mature economies, and a R&D department slowdown in emerging economies. Other characteristics are a more demanding regulatory environment and an accelerated From a methodology standpoint, the R&D team provides advisory services to Management Solutions’ professionals and transformation of technology, with a special focus on the their clients in quantitative aspects that are necessary to incorporation of new machine learning techniques and the use undertake projects with rigor and excellence through the of big data in business development. In this context, implementation of best practices and the continuous anticipating change is more important than ever. monitoring of the latest trends in data science, machine learning, modeling and big data. Faced with this, Management Solutions’ R&D department reflects the Firm’s strong commitment to stay at the forefront of For this, our R&D team works in collaboration with a specialized the industry and to meet the growing need for innovation in team of data scientists dedicated to researching new the market. applications together with other external groups, devising and developing specific solutions capable of meeting new industry The R&D department is tasked with analyzing, developing, and challenges. disseminating knowledge about methodologies, regulations and the macroeconomic situation, to all of Management With this purpose, the R&D department collaborates closely Solutions’ stakeholders: clients, professionals, collaborators and with different universities, participates in applied research Signing of a collaboration agreement for the creation of the iDanae Chair, Spain The Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM) and Management Solutions have signed a collaboration agreement for the creation of the iDanae Chair (intelligence, data, analysis and strategy) in Big Data and Analytics with the aim of promoting training, research and R&D&i advancement activities. The formal act to sign the agreement was chaired by Mr. Guillermo Cisneros, Rector of the Polytechnic University of Madrid, and Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, Chairman of Management Solutions, and was also attended on behalf of the University by Mr. Francisco Javier Jiménez Leube, Vice-Chancellor of Institutional Communication and External Promotion; Mr. Javier Soriano, Director of the School of Computer Engineering; Ms. Ana Goicolea, Head of the Office for the Transfer of Research Results and Intellectual Property Area, and Mr. Alejandro Rodríguez González, Professor at the School of Computer Engineering. On behalf of Management Solutions, attendees were Ms. Cristina López, partner at Management Solutions, and Mr. Manuel Ángel Guzmán, Head of R&D at Management Solutions. The Chair was created with the aspiration of leading research in Spain in the field of Artificial Intelligence applied to the treatment of natural language. To achieve this and other Analytics and Big Data related objectives, external researchers will work with Management Solutions' R&D Signing of a collaboration agreement for the creation of the iDanae Chair, Spain department. 42 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen conferences and directs projects in postgraduate and doctoral Technologies in the Firm on projects which leverage big data to 4 Innovation: a number of models are developed through a studies as well as professional practices in Mathematics, maximize value from knowledge management. center specializing in data science and machine learning Statistics and Physics faculties and Engineering Schools. It is also including classification, regression, optimization, a member of the monitoring committee within the iDanae chair Also, in terms of methodology, R&D has established itself as a simulation models, natural language processing, etc., for (iDanae stands for “intelligence, data, analysis and strategy”) for quality assurance service through the rigorous review of different areas in the industries in which the Firm Big Data and Analytics, created through the collaboration ongoing projects and new project proposals. operates. between Management Solutions and the Polytechnic University of Madrid, and jointly leads the activities and publications The R&D area focuses its efforts on four fields (methodology, 4 Prototype: development of support tools to verify and developed by this Chair. economic analysis, regulatory analysis and knowledge demonstrate the correct operation of methodologies in management), and its goals are set according to a multi-year real client environments (pilot testing), and the generation R&D’s commitment to training is also evident at the internal plan approved and monitored by the Firm’s Executive of specific tools to respond to new regulatory level, as it constitutes the Leadership of the Firm's Studies, Committee. requirements or client transformation needs, in order to coordinates the Knowledge Chairs (together with those facilitate the implementation of global corporate responsible for Management Solutions’ different core solutions. Methodology (R&D&i) competencies) and is an active part of the management of postgraduate programs offered by the Firm: Master's degree in 4 Research: compiling and design of client/industry best 4 Software: maintenance of the data science tools Business Consultancy offered jointly by Management Solutions practices in regulatory adaptation and management (credit, developed, and relationship management with scientific and the ICADE Business School, and Diploma in Business market and liquidity risk, economic capital, stress tests, software providers. Consultancy offered jointly by Management Solutions and business models, etc.). Instituto Tecnológico de Monterrey (among others). With regard to knowledge management, the R&D team directs Commitment to Science According to Unesco, science is a key tool for the 4Participating in science outreach actions and events. and coordinates Management Solutions’ publications system, advancement of knowledge, progress, peace and societies, both external and internal (white papers, alerts on publication 4Contributing to the RAC think tank to promote and is at the origin of all economic, social and political of new regulations, macroeconomic outlook reports, briefing initiatives for the advancement and dissemination of development. It is because of its immense value that papers and implications of new rules, etc.), which helps our science. Management Solutions integrates science into its CSR. professionals to update their knowledge on a daily basis. 4Pro-bono support to the RAC through our R&D Management Solutions has been fostering the function. This knowledge management activity is possible thanks to advancement of Science since its incorporation. Our R&D intensive collaboration from all our offices in all countries in 4Working with RAC’s Mathematics Area to research department was established as a platform to promote which Management Solutions operates. The R&D area monitors the most advanced mathematical algorithms and knowledge and serves, among other things, to promote the new regulatory developments in these countries with support models for risk management. continuous training of its employees in various scientific from on-the-ground professionals who collaborate to identify subjects (e.g. Mathematics, Statistics and Algorithms). With more than 700 scientists among its professionals, and analyze developments. Management Solutions is fully committed to constant Also, as a central component of its patronage activity, development and to positioning science as one of the R&D uses the Knowledge Area on the corporate intranet as the Management Solutions collaborates with the RAC (Royal fundamental pillars of its CSR, aimed at both its employees basic channel for sharing much of this knowledge with Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural Sciences) and its and society. Management Solutions professionals. Foundation through active sponsorships that include a number of activities in addition to financial support: It also disseminates knowledge through an app, developed to deliver alerts on the publication of regulatory news. R&D continues to work alongside those responsible for New 43 R&D 4 Quality Assessmen (QA): certification of the quality and Regulatory analysis Knowledge management consistency of the methodologies applied in projects. 4 Regulatory monitoring: the R&D area has an active system 4 New business models observatory: the R&D area supports the in place to monitor regulations on the Firm’s areas of detection and analysis of new business models that emerge in Economic analysis activity, which enables R&D to anticipate and detect the industries in which the Firm carries out its activity, generally 4 Outlook reports: the R&D area is expanding the coverage of regulatory publications at an early stage in geographical focused on digitally transforming current businesses. its quarterly outlook reports both in countries and in areas of influence. industries. The R&D area currently produces reports on 19 4 White papers: the R&D department produces in-depth, countries with the support of experts from the Firm’s 4 Alerts: publication alerts allow for immediate knowledge of innovative and concise monographic studies on hot topics network of offices: Spain, the United Kingdom, Germany, regulatory changes by our professionals and clients. within the Firm’s areas of activity that are of interest for our France, Poland, Portugal, Italy, the Nordics (Denmark, clients and professionals. An example of this is the last white Norway, Sweden and Finland), the United States, Mexico, 4 Analysis: on those new regulations with a greater impact paper prepared by R&D about organizational transformation Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Chile, Colombia and China. on or interest for clients, R&D prepares overviews and towards agile approaches. analysis of implications, contributing their synthesis and 4 Benchmark analysis: based on the knowledge base critical thinking capabilities. 4 Training materials: the R&D area provides support in the generated from these reports and through analysis of centralization and review of newly updated training materials, alternative information sources, R&D also carries out both internal and those used in third-party training. benchmark analysis from public information on the clients and countries in which the Firm operates. First Management Solutions Datathon The “First Management Solutions Datathon” was launched at the end of 2019 exclusively for the Firm’s professionals, consisting of a real business case to be solved using artificial intelligence, data science and machine learning tools. The challenge offered by this competition was to develop an automated machine learning system. These systems automate the development process of machine learning models: from data preprocessing to the prediction of the model that best fits that data. The projects will be submitted in January 2020 and the Management Solutions R&D methodology team will evaluate the projects based on their originality, quality of their code, and predictive capacity of the models. The prize for the winner will be attendance at the “London AI in Finance Summit”, that will be held on March 31 and April 1, 2020 in London. 44 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Making things happen Management Solutions, Making things happen We owe what we are to the trust that our clients have placed in Despite these initial difficulties, our development has been us. They have made it possible for Management Solutions to be extraordinary, averaging annual double-digit growth over the We have seen organic and sustained a leading international firm in business consulting just 17 years years. growth to 30 times our original size after it was established. It is a great pleasure for us to present the achievements listed throughout this publication. At Management Solutions we have remained true to our founding culture: a strong culture that unites us and Management Solutions was formed on December 30, 2002. simultaneously sets us apart from our competitors. A culture Upon its inception, the Firm was composed of 80 professionals based on the principles of commitment and dedication to and three offices in Spain (Madrid, Bilbao and Barcelona). service, delivered with humility, generosity and integrity. 17 years later, Management Solutions is more than thirty times We have also sought to perform our profession by relying on a larger, with a multi-disciplinary team of more than 2,300 highly in-depth knowledge of the business and the social reality, with talented professionals, and more than 900 clients, all of which the necessary critical approach. We have always understood are leaders (global or local) in regulated industries, and 28 that if something has value to our clients then it makes sense offices which serve as a base for carrying out recurrent projects and, as difficult as it may seem, can be achieved. in more than 40 countries across Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa. In short, we understand that our constant pursuit of excellence, based on talent, effort and training, is a necessary requirement The Firm has continued to grow at all times since is inception. to meet our goals. In each and every one of our past years as a firm, we have seen The Firm’s development growth in revenue, number of professionals, number of clients and number of countries in which we operate. An equally promising future Management Solutions looks to the future with the same It should be emphasized that these results have been achieved enthusiasm today as it did in year one. We are facing major organically, with a well grounded growth model. A model challenges, but if something has defined Management Turnover >€275 million based on the organized transmission of a culture, values and Solutions throughout its history, it has been its desire to excel principles that we understand to be differential and that have and deliver. remained unchanged regardless of economic cycles. Number of clients We intend to continue to achieve our ambitious new goals to During this fiscal year, the Firm has faced a complex lead the consulting business in regulated industries in all 800 clients macroeconomic scenario, though far less difficult than other geographies in which we operate, always for the benefit of our situations it has had to face since its incorporation. The clients, who are the most important stakeholders we look to beginnings were particularly demanding, with reduced critical support. mass, no brand recognition and lacking the capacity to respond Projects globally in all geographies in which our client base operated. >1,800 proyects Two years later, when Management Solutions began to consolidate in the market, there was a fire at our headquarters in Madrid (the Windsor building), which led to its complete Number of employees 2,300 professionals destruction but served to demonstrate the resilience of our team of professionals, who were able to keep focused on their projects with clients. 45 Making things happen 2003, Commitment to Excellence 2005, A world of solutions Management Solutions was With 80 professionals from Arthur Andersen and offices in The year began with a fire at the Windsor building (our incorporated on December 30, 2002 Madrid, Barcelona and Bilbao, Management Solutions set out on headquarters in Madrid), a significant challenge that was a journey at the end of 2002. The trust placed by clients in this successfully overcome and did not prevent us from increasing new business project made the launch of our Firm possible. our staff by 46% and strengthening our activity with major Committed to a strong global presence from the very international players. In 2005, we expanded our Mexico City beginning, the Firm gained a foothold in Spain, the United and Santiago de Chile offices and also strengthened our States, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Argentina in our Support Services Unit. first fiscal year. 2006, The value of a committed team 2004, Making things happen With an increasingly expanding brand, the New York office was The first fiscal year closed with growth of 18%. Management enlarged, the milestone of 500,000 consulting hours was Solutions won its first projects in Europe (Italy, United Kingdom exceeded and the Firm threw its weight fully behind the and Portugal) while expanding its presence in the Americas with creation of a R&D unit to be at the forefront of knowledge. the opening of a new office in São Paulo, going from 80 Social action and sport became part of the Firm’s everyday life. professionals to over 200 in only one and a half years. -First full fiscal year -290 professionals -Went from 80 to 130 professionals -180 clients -90 clients -Destruction of our headquarters (Windsor building, Madrid) -9 offices: three in Spain (Madrid, Barcelona, Bilbao) and six in the -Expanded our presence in the Americas (activity in Mexico and Chile) Americas (USA, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Argentina) -Creation of our Global Resources Unit -Start of industry events (Spain) -Creation of our Social Action Group in Spain 2003 2005 2004 2006 -200 professionals -370 professionals -130 clients -240 clients -10 offices (Italy office opening) -Exceeded half a million consulting hours -Regular projects in UK, Italy and Portugal -Expanded our New York office -First industry publications (newsletters) -Created our global R&D unit -First program to support the university and academic world -Internationalization of our Social Action Group (Europe, Americas) 46 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen 2007, One Team 2009, New challenges, same principles 2011, Values that make the difference In 2007 Management Solutions had over 500 professionals, In 2009, despite an increasingly adverse scenario, we reached Despite a market in decline, at Management Solutions we were growth of 40%; and a client portfolio of more than 300 leading one million consulting hours and initiated activities in Germany, able to increase our commitment to achieve a growth rate of organizations; 2007 noted the publication of our first Corporate while maintaining a sustainable and diversified growth 19%, strenghtening our commitment to talent, reaching the Social Responsibility Report. strategy. The Firm expanded its presence to other geographies size of 1,000 professionals and opening new offices in Beijing and industries, and reinforced its support of universities. and Warsaw, as well as enlarging our offices in Lisbon, Lima and Buenos Aires. 2008, Passion for the future The Firm’s strategy going forward included expanding our 2010, Spirit of achievement presence in other markets and geographies. This fact led to the A permanent effort was made to extend and adapt our range of 2012, Generating trust launch of our first projects in Asia, entry into the Portuguese solutions in order to provide the best response to our clients’ 2012 was another successful fiscal year in which we market, the opening of our London office, expansion of our needs. Also this year, we expanded our horizons by opening collaborated with more than 450 clients and expanded our energy and telecommunications practices into other countries, new markets such as Switzerland and Peru, and globalizing the boundaries with the opening of a new office in Bogota and two and the organization of the first regional conventions in Latin social action and the sports clubs with activities in all our more offices in the United States (Massachusetts and Alabama). America. offices. We continued to foster knowledge-sharing with new regional -Over 500 professionals -700 professionals -1,000 professionals -270 clients -320 clients -400 clients -11 offices (UK office opening) -13 offices (Germany office opening) -17 offices (China and Poland offices opened) -Publication of our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report -More than one million consulting hours -Enhanced our program of seminars with institutions and regulators (2005/2006) -Strengthened our relationship with regulators (Europe/Americas) -Increased support to the academic world (teaching, scholarships, -Launch of our patronage and sponsorship programs awards) 2007 2009 2011 2008 2010 2012 -650 professionals -750 professionals -1,200 professionals -300 clients -350 clients -450 clients -12 offices (Portugal office opening) -15 offices (Switzerland and Peru offices opened) -18 offices (Colombia office opening) -37% revenue growth -Enhanced core competencies in all industries and geographies -New regional conventions -First projects in Asia -Globalization of our model of relationship with universities and -In-house training program certified as a “Master’s Degree in -Energy and Telecommunications practices internationalization the academic world Business Consulting” (Universidad Pontificia Comillas, Spain) -First regional event in Latin America (conference on Basel II impacts) 47 Making things happen conventions in the Americas. Our commitment to training was 2014, Managing transformation Chile and Mexico (a new second office was opened in Mexico further demonstrated through the launch of the first Master’s In 2014 Management Solutions saw growth in all its: i) offices City). We also established closer links with regulators Degree in Business Consulting, developed jointly with the (especially in the US), also initiating activities in Africa, ii) (particularly with the European Central Bank) through the Universidad Pontificia Comillas in Spain. industries (particularly in Telecommunications) and iii) service creation of a regulatory hub in our Frankfurt office. lines (undertaking more than 800 projects whose common denominator was transformation). Governance of the 2013, Focused on our clients relationship with strategic suppliers was enhanced as was 2016, Building the digital era With growth at over 15%, 2013 was a successful year, especially investment in R&D and training (which grew around 20% with In 2016 Management Solutions once again grew by more than in the Americas. We reached more than 500 clients (large global respect to the previous year). 16%, doing so in all regions (especially in the USA and the main or local leaders in their respective markets), the activity with European markets), industries and service lines, adding more regulators and supervisors was strengthened and internal than 60 new clients and going over the 2.5 millon consultancy functions were enhanced to improve efficiency and control of 2015, Innovation for growth hours mark in the delivery of over 1,000 projects. During that our activity (creation of the Internal Audit function, review of In 2015 we achieved growth above 16% and exceeded two year, new offices were opened in Rome, Paris and Birmingham, global and local policies and procedures, external certification on million consulting hours (900 projects were formalized). During and the São Paulo headquarters were changed and expanded. the quality of processes –ISO 9001, etc.). that year, Management Solutions France was created, new offices Training investment also increased (by more than 30% were opened in the United States (Boston, Atlanta and compared to 2015) and our Master’s Degree in Business Birmingham), and we expanded our offices in the UK, Germany, Consultancy program was extended to Mexico in collaboration with the Instituto Tecnológico de Monterrey. -1,300 professionals -1,700 professionals -2,000 professionals -500 leading clients in regulated industries both globally and -Over 600 clients (60 new) -750 clients (90 new) locally -22 offices (Paris, Boston, Birmingham and Atlanta offices opened) -24 offices((Medellin office opening) -Significant increase in activity in the Americas -More than 2 million consulting hours -More than 1,300 projects (focus on digital) -ISO 9001 certification -Creation of a regulatory hub in Frankfurt -Expanded our services to the retail distribution industry -Creation of the Internal Audit area 2013 2015 2017 2014 2016 2018 -1,350 professionals -1,900 professionals -2,100 professionals -More than 500 clients (40 new) -660 clients (60 new) -Over 800 clients (close to 100 new clients) -More than 800 projects ongoing -23 offices (Rome office opening) -24 offices -Start of activity in Africa -Extension of the Management Solutions/Instituto Tecnológico de -1,700 projects (60% generated within the year) -First graduating class of the Master´s degree in Business Consulting Monterrey's Master’s Degree in Business Consultancy -Implemented the IT Transformation Plan offered by Management Solutions – ICADE Business School 48 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Management Solutions, Making things happen 2017, New Business Models technologies, new telecommunications systems, development of In 2017, Management Solutions grew particularly strong in management control systems, etc.). A new office was opened in Europe (Germany doubled its size) and the US (by more than Bilbao and our Bogotá office was expanded. 50%), adding more than 750 clients (90 new ones) and carried out over 1,300 projects. There was also increased activity in other industries (with a focus on the retail distribution sectors). A new 2019, Sustainable Growth office was opened in Medellin, and the Madrid, Bilbao, Rome, In 2019 Management Solutions delivered close to 3 million “Our clients are the reason we Warsaw, Boston and São Paulo offices were expanded. consulting hours, once again growing above 10%. It also are here and are at the center opened three new offices in Amsterdam (Netherlands), Oslo of all our actions” (Norway) and Quito (Ecuador), reinforcing its commitment to 2018, Generating Value through Digital Transformation, geographic diversification. In addition, during the same year In 2018 Management Solutions’ turnover exceeded 250 million the Firm joined the United Nations Global Compact, euros, and grew once again above 10% in an organic and strengthening its commitment to sustainability and CSR, diversified way, increasing its activity in all the geographies and obtained the ISO 27001 certification in cybersecurity, and At Management Solutions we have always been industries in which it operates, and in all its service lines. Also, the furthered ties with the academic and research communities clear about our priorities: first the client, then the Firm’s IT Transformation plan was successfully implemented with the launch of the iDanae Chair in Big Data and Analytics in team and finally oneself. We work with enthusiasm, (migration of environments, IT architecture with Big Data collaboration with the Polytechnic University of Madrid. combining talent, knowledge and skills to effectively solve their problems. Our main objective is to become our clients’ trusted -2,300 professionals partners, and for this we have to be permanently -Over 900 clients (100 new clients) attentive to their needs and fulfill our commitment to excellence. Our aim is to develop lasting -28 offices (La Coruña, Amsterdam, Oslo and Quito offices opening) -1,800 projects (70% generated within the year) relationships that generate value on both sides. -ISO 27001 cybersecurity certification Our commitment to those who place their trust in -Member of the United Nations Global Compact 2019 us is unlimited. If we are where we are today, it is because our clients have made it possible, and we always have that in mind when we plan our future. Today Management Solutions... -Is more than 30 times larger. -Has a multidisciplinary team of over 2,300 professionals with a strong corporate culture. Serves more than 900 global and local clients from regulated industries. Is a global partnership that effectively responds to its clients' José Ramón Gorrochategui needs. Partner at Management Solutions -Has a presence in more than 40 countries across Europe, the Americas, Asia and Africa, through 28 offices. Has a differentiated value proposition supported by cuttingedge R&D. 49 2019 milestones Management Solutions continues to focus on profitable growth and is becoming increasingly international and more diversified from both an industry and a geographical perspective. Above all, Management Solutions has an outstanding portfolio of global and local clients who are leaders in their respective industries. 10% growth >1,800 ongoing 70% projects of them originated during the year 50 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sustainable Growth Digital means we have to do things differently Under the motto “Sustainable Growth”, Management poverty reduction and eradication of illiteracy. This is because Solutions organized its Yearly Meeting in July to review the digitalization offers a virtual space on a global scale that Firm’s achievements after analyzing the international facilitates the removal of physical barriers to growth. environment and to set goals for the next year. This section summarizes many of the ideas expressed during the Meeting. Some good examples of this are changes in consumer habits, greater connectivity and access to information, an exponential We are facing major challenges, the world is transforming and increase in technological capabilities, the fact that data is seen doing so at great speed and in all areas. A change that we can as a source of value, and the possibilities offered by artificial say generates value for society in terms of life expectancy, intelligence. 52 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 milestones Consequently, business models are also transforming. All of this means we necessarily have to keep our value increase our client base. This client base is composed of large Companies are looking for innovative solutions, built in proposition permanently updated by intensifying our multinationals, corporations and leading local entities to increasingly collaborative environments, that take advantage investment in Research and Development (to which we which we have added 100 new clients with strategic of technological disruption in order to make their processes devote more than 10% of our turnover), advancing in industry importance in their respective markets. Also during 2019, we more efficient, improve the customer experience and make specialization, further internationalizing our operations, and further developed our relationship with regulators and the most of available information. Generating value through also reinforcing our commitment to talent, delivering supervisors in the markets in which we operate. digital transformation is a clear challenge today. excellence in recruitment (screening of some 200,000 candidates to cover 500 openings), investing in training (over Such growth would not have been possible without the But what really matters is that this creation of value should 250,000 hours dedicated to training our professionals), extraordinary team of professionals that make up our firm. A translate into sustainable growth; that is, growth that does promoting career development based on merit and managing talented, committed team that has inherited a strong not compromise future growth and even facilitates it. teams under a “one team” vision. corporate culture based on a set of values that make a difference. A global, multicultural, multidisciplinary, fully Many companies rise strongly, but many also fade away. At We do this by always staying true to our principles, integrated team that has grown from the base. A young, least 50% of all the companies listed on the Standard & Poor’s particularly in times of great change such as now, when principled and responsible team capable of providing 500 Index will have changed within the next 10 years (and the science and technology need to work hand in hand with solutions to the challenges our clients bring to us. five top companies on the list over the last ten years have strong principles that help determine right (what is beneficial been tech companies, when before there was only one). to society) from wrong (what is detrimental to society). In short, we have again exceeded all of our goals in all of the Relatively few companies are able to implement sustainable regions in which we have a presence, in all of the industries in growth models. In 2019 we once again surpassed our qualitative and which we operate and in all of our service lines. We face the quantitative objectives for the year, growing in excess of what future with enthusiasm and confidence, with the firm purpose Against this backdrop, many companies have relied on we had budgeted. Once more the Firm increased our market of helping our clients grow in a sustainable way. Management Solutions to transform their business models to share, and did so in a way that is organic, diversified and the new digital environment and thereby achieve sustainable sustained, irrespective of economic cycles while applying a growth. management model that maximizes our potential, guarantees professional development for our people and creates the basis At Management Solutions we want to be protagonists of this for sustained growth in the coming years. gigantic change by doing the following: introducing the digital dimension in strategic thinking, redesigning We have continued to widen our scope of activity to cover governance and organizational structures (particularly those new markets, as well as to consolidate our presence in related to data and models) reviewing work culture and countries in which we were already operating (we are now techniques to make them more agile and collaborative, present in more than 40 countries across Europe, the promoting a greater focus on results, redefining business Americas, Asia and Africa). All of our service lines have grown processes to improve the customer experience, redesigning in a balanced way and we have also made important progress operational processes to gain in efficiency and effectiveness, in industry diversification. advancing in data management and models to strongly develop artificial intelligence, protecting information and As a result, we have increased our presence in many of the systems from unwanted uses, redesigning systems organizations which we already collaborate with. By architectures that incorporate new technologies, and extending the provision of our services to new areas and developing mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating business divisions, with industry diversification driven by our business digitalization levels. expansion into the distribution sector, we have continued to 53 Diversification Geographical diversification Client diversification 1 1 During 2019 we have continued to make progress in our diversification process: Americas 4 Achieving consistent growth in the Americas, Europe and 49% Local Asia, and consolidating our activity in Africa. 30% 4 Intensifying our activity in all regulated industries, maintaining our leadership in Finance, gaining market share Europe 50% in Energy and becoming increasingly active in Telecommunications and Other industries. Asia and Africa 1% 4 Expanding our client portfolio. Multinational 70% 4 Updating our solutions offer: Strategy Sales and marketing management Management & financial information Risk management and control 4Over 900 active clients Governance, organization and processes Americas 4USA leads growth (+20%) 4More than 100 new clients: New technologies 4Sustained two-digit growth in Latin America, with Brazil, across industries Peru and Chile exceeding 25% across geographies 4Presence in 10 countries in Central America, with the 4Reinforced presence in leading clients: opening of our Quito office in Ecuador global leaders Europe local leaders 4Strong activity in the Spanish market and opening of our 4Stronger relationship with Regulators, Supervisors and La Coruña office International Organizations 4UK and Germany remain at the lead 4Reinforced relationship model with strategic suppliers 4Our United Kingdom and Germany offices consolidate their leadership 4Our offices in France, Italy, Switzerland, Poland and Portugal took off with growth above 50% 4Recurring activity in the Nordic countries and the Netherlands, with the opening of new offices in Oslo and Amsterdam 4Continued growth in the rest of Europe Asia 4Growth of our operations in Asia with our activity in Turkey and China continue to experience a strong momentum Africa 4Increased presence and activity in Africa 1 1 measured in consulting hours measured in consulting hours 54 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 milestones Sector diversification Diversification of solutions 1 1 Strategy and Sales Management 20% Risk 35% Financial Institutions Energy “At Management Solutions we want to contribute to the 78% 15% Technology and Operations 20% sustainable growth of our Telecommunications 5% clients in the digital age ” Management and Other Financial Information The transformation in which we are immersed is industries 25% taking place at a great speed, and is also a deep, 2% global transformation. In this context it is especially important to help our clients to generate value and to translate it into a 4Over 1,800 projects (70% new) in all our core competencies: sustainable growth, meaning, that which does not Finance 4Sustained growth (+5%) based on: compromise future growth and even facilitates it. New business models Greater specialization by business Agile organizations This means we need to understand the new Leadership in regulatory compliance (Basel III, TRIM, Process digitalization (customer experience, efficiency – IFRS 9, Stress Test, etc.) RPA–) Leaders in Digital Transformation Machine learning (artificial intelligence) competitive dynamics in depth, properly identify Energy Data and model governance the problems our clients face, provide innovative 4Strong growth of our operations (+35%) as a result of: Big Data and Blockchain architectures solutions and actively collaborate in the A broader client base Cybersecurity management of change. A broader service offering (based on digital Regulatory compliance (FRTB, NDD, IFRS 9/17, TRIM) All this with the firm purpose of helping them transformation, artificial intelligence, agile, etc.) generate value through the transformation of their Practice deployed in other countries (especially in business models in a way that is sustainable over the Americas) time. Telecommunications 4Growth of operations (+6%) based on: The addition of new clients Wider range of services Practice extended to other geographies Other industries 4Increased activity in industries such as distribution, IT, aeronautics, manufacturing, services and education Marcos Izena Partner at Management Solutions 1 1 measured in consulting hours measured in consulting hours 55 Growth and innovation Profitable growth Profitable growth R&D&i innovation Partners Our high internal organic growth levels guarantee a career Turnover growth progression model far superior to that of our competitors. Committee Support to Support to the R&D&i innovation Universities R&D Head entire Firm Investing in R&D&i and training are key differentiating elements in our value proposition to the market. Human Resources Management Methodology Knowledge Economic management analysis Our partnership model guarantees career progression that rewards individual merit for all our professionals. R&D staff Permanent structure of consultants from mathematics, physics and engineering disciplines 4Growth above 10%* 4Investment equivalent to 10% of the Firm’s capacity 4Close to three million consulting hours 4Permanent structure composed of 50 professionals working in 4Increasing share of our key markets teams dealing with: 4Organic and diversified growth Methodology (Innovation) All types of clients Knowledge management (core competencies, All countries regulations,benchmarks, publications, training, etc.) All industries Economic analysis All service lines 4Global coverage (all countries, industries and service lines) 4Preserving profitability versus volume 4Regulatory hub in Frankfurt, seat of the ECB 4Proactively managing inventories, billing and accounts 4”Joint Ventures” with universities receivable 4Global R&D Plan (more than 200 actions executed): 4Compliance with the Y20 strategic plan Methodology: creation of the iDanae Chair for Big Data and Analytics (UPM) Develoment of prototypes (model generator) Collaborations in Machine Learning and Deep Learning Knowledge management: Closely targeting of value propositions Updated training plan (with a special focus on Big Data and Data Science) Regulatory alerts service (through three channels: App, Web and Social Media) Over 100 specialized publications (internal and external) Economic analysis on 19 countries * Exceeding annual revenue of €275 million 56 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Human Resources 2019 milestones Human Resources Management Annual percentage increase in number of employees Training hours 4Growing from the base, with over 500 recruits and 250 4Emphasis on training: internships during the fiscal year Over 250,000 hours invested in training In 2019 we again exceeded the 4Merit-based promotion throughout the entire pyramid: Over 575 courses taught (80 new) qualitative and quantitative Top management reinforcement (10 new partners and Continuously updated training plan: 17 new directors) Sixth intake of students for the Management objectives we set for ourselves Greater managerial capacity (85 new managers and Solutions – ICADE Business School Master’s degree supervisors) in Business Consulting in Spain Organic growth in the senior layer Third intake of students for the Monterrey Tech 4Global pyramid management ( one team ) Diploma in Mexico 4Excellence in recruitment (over 200,000 candidates analyzed) Advanced training program in partnership with 4Strengthening of University and Postgraduate links: INSPER in Brazil Presence in more than 350 European, American and New contents: Agile, Big Data, Data Science, etc. Asian faculties External complement: focusing on the Over 250 collaboration agreements management team (CFA, FRM, PMP, CISA, ICAI-IC, Provision of training in several of the most prestigious etc.) universities in Europe and the Americas 4Ongoing assessment process (with enhancement of management assessment programs) 4Biannual mentoring program (aimed at aligning professionals' needs with the opportunities offered by the Firm) 57 Communication and organizational flexibility Communication Communication Organizational flexibility 4 Promoting the Management Solutions brand to our Head of Internal Corporate Departments stakeholders. Clients 4 Sharing value-added content (specialized publications, Human Resources Finance and Administration regulatory analysis, economic outlook reports, etc.). Publications 4 Maintaining a presence in prestigious institutions for all our Technology activity areas. Professional clubs Marketing and Communication Society Campaigns internet intranet Professionals 4 Supporting the academic world through partnerships, Awards and Sponsorships General Services & Infrastucture internships and specialized courses. Master and courses Tax 4 Acting as benefactors and sponsors in order to support culture, sports and the arts. Legal & Compliance Candidates Quality & Internal Audit 4 Becoming involved with those most in need through community outreach initiatives within our scope of action. 4New content on our corporate website and social media 4Enhanced internal corporate departments and functions: Organizational flexibility channels (with our debut on Instagram) Reinforced our corporate departments' international A fluid and continually adapting of organizational structure 4Further specialist publications: structure (HR IT, Compliance) oriented towards value creation allows us to adequately Publication of white paper “From Agile projects to Agile Stronger financial/tax management and control respond to our high growth levels. organizations“ Implemented IT transformation plan: Quarterly situational reports (64 reports) Platform migration (W10) Technical Notes and Regulatory Developments HR and Finance process digitalization 4Enhanced presence in professional and supervisory forums Information analysis using Big Data technology 4More Social Action, patronage and sponsorship: Opening of new offices in La Coruña, Ámsterdam, Oslo More than 40 community support activities organized and Quito, and expansion of our Madrid and Ciudad de by Management Solutions: Solidarity Summer, Solidarity México offices Cinema, Solidarity Christmas, Charity race, blood 4Global control function (Internal Audit, Quality Plan and donations, IT equipment donations, corporate Compliance): volunteering, participation in charity sports events, etc. Internal Audit and QA reports (yearly, half-yearly, 4Partnerships with NGO’s and foundations quarterly and monthly) 4Joined the United Nations Global Compact External Audit of Financial Statements (consolidated 4More support to our Sports Clubs in in all our offices: and individual) Over 1,000 participants in internal and external sports External certification on Processes (ISO 9001) tournaments External certification on Cybersecurity (ISO 27001) Organization of new sports events: Charity race, MS golf External certification on Criminal Compliance regarding tournament, seven-a-side soccer and paddle marathons, crime prevention (UNE19601) etc. Ongoing staff training on corporate policies 58 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2019 milestones “We have again exceeded all the goals we set for the year” We try to do what we do best: serve our clients with and committed team with strong analytical and business excellence. profiles for the industries which they serve. Once again, this year our results has been excellent, with As our motto dictates, we have made things happen! growth above 10%. The credit for this success undoubtedly goes to the extraordinary team of professionals that make up Management Solutions. This includes a talented, multicultural (compromising more Ignacio Layo than 40 nationalities), young, well-trained, ethical, responsible, Partner at Management Solutions Teatro Real of Madrid, venue of our Yearly Meeting 2019 59 Committed to our clients Consistently exceeding the expectations of our clients is instrumental to building our leadership position in the business consulting industry. >900 global and 100 local clients of which >40 are new countries in which we operate 60 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Client focus Our success is due to our clear focus on the client, with whom In addition, Management Solutions has continued to The client is the reason we are we work closely with and whose expectations we strive to strengthen links with regulators (central banks, international in business and is our main exceed in order to become a trusted partner. We implement a organizations, national regulators and supervisors, etc.) in the management priority client relationship model that allows us to know each client's specific needs and to be in a position to offer each client a main industries in which we operate. differentiated value proposition. Global model Management Solutions provides value-added services that Management Solutions has a strong presence in local stand out for the durability of results and practicality of markets, but always under the umbrella of global corporate implementation. policies. The whole Management Solutions group operates as a single unit rather than an association of local firms under one brand. Client diversification Management Solutions pursues sustained growth supported Acting and feeling as part of a team, sharing the Firm’s by client diversification, seeking a balance between large mission, goals, culture and values, are essential to successfully multinationals and national leaders. At year end, meet our clients’ transformation processes and strategic Management Solutions had over 900 active clients (100 of challenges, wherever they arise. them acquired in 2019), grouped into three major segments: multinationals of American or European origin, local entities, and national or regional confederations, which are all leading organizations in their respective markets. 62 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Quality control Committed to our clients As a professional services firm, our mission is to develop We perform quality control from beginning to end on all solutions that help our clients to fulfill their objectives as projects in order to guarantee quality levels both internally and Providing top quality effectively as possible. We are firmly committed to offering externally (services provided to clients). service is at the core of our services of the utmost quality, as this is the underlying motive of all our actions and the driving force behind our growth. Management Solutions has a Quality and Internal Audit Area business whose aim is to strengthen the Firm’s control framework and to For this reason, all of our internal processes are subject to strict ensure it complies with regulatory requirements (certifications, quality rules in the belief that, with the support of our highly audits, etc.). conscientious professionals, they will facilitate the achievement of this fundamental aim. This level of quality is based on the This area is global in scope and covers functions related to expertise of our professionals, for whom there are ongoing business activities as well as provides support to our training and refresher plans, and on the direct and active professionals across the Firm’s units. They are responsible for participation of more experienced staff on each project. the following: 4 Corporate policies. Quality control methodology 4 Quality (certifications from quality assurance agencies, The main aim of our quality system is to guarantee that every Quality Assurance process, etc.). job meets the levels of quality, value and service expected by 4 Criminal risk management and proposal contract clauses. the client. Accordingly, as a minimum, we must ensure that: 4 Internal audit. Quality Control Methodology 4 There is coherence and consistency between the job to be ISO 9001 quality certification Activities done and the final product, both being clearly documented. 4Project scope review The Spanish Association for Standardization and Certification 4Definition of review milestones 4 The necessary knowledge and experience have been applied. (AENOR) acknowledges that Management Solutions’ 4Design review management system is compliant with the ISO 9001 standard 4Intermediate review 4 The specified work has been competently carried out and for business consulting activities and related technologies. 4Final review correctly documented. 4Project file Deliverables UNE-EN ISO 9001 certification shows that the management 4 The final products satisfy the specific requirements and are 4Review plan system implemented in the Firm meets the highest quality produced within the agreed upon time frame. standards, ensuring resource availability, process control and 4Review reports continuous improvement in the provision of services. 4Design/intermediate review reports (for internal Each project is broken down into different activity stages or use) groups of activities. 4Final analysis 4Final report The activities to be performed, their order and required Proposal accepted by quality control Document of acceptance from client Authorized quality control documents techniques are detailed for each project stage while the Finance and billing structure resulting deliverables and roles involved in their production are Project plan with assigned responsibilities for also specified. each task List of deliverables Client satisfaction survey 63 Commitment to the industry In addition to conducting specific conferences on relevant ahead of the competition. In the context of large organizations, We share the expert knowledge topics of interest related to the Firm's areas of operation, we this adaptability has generally been determined by their ability generated by the Firm have an ongoing schedule of external knowledge sharing to change: change strategy, change processes, change activities, some of the most significant being our publications products, etc. and our presence in professional forums. While the principle of constant change has been generally accepted since the aforementioned phrase was first coined Publication of studies and industry reports some 2.5 thousand years ago, over the past century the increased prevalence of another concept has been witnessed From Agile Delivery, to an Agile Organization which, even though not novel, had remained fairly unexplored This white paper released by Management Solutions in 2019 in the past. This is the idea that the pace of change also needs provides insight into the main implications and challenges to be factored in. It is widely recognised that the rate at which faced by organizations that adopt Agile methodologies. variables change in today’s world is both unprecedented and continuously increasing (accelerated change). As such, it is not “The only constant is change”. The concept embodied in this only the ability of organizations to change that comes into phrase, credited to the Greek philosopher Heraclitus, has been question, but also the extent to which they can do so at a fastparticularly prevalent to many organizations’ strategy of enough pace. creating an adaptable business model, i.e. a model that allows businesses to adapt to ever-changing circumstances and stay Large organizations have traditionally employed various methodologies in order to deliver change, mostly involving a series of sequential steps (from ideation to delivery), performed by different teams. However, the previously mentioned pace of change is encouraging organizations to explore alternative methodologies, where change delivery is broken down into smaller components and managed by multifunctional teams. Many factors have led organizations to seek a new way of working in order to keep up with today’s accelerated pace of change, brought about by phenomena such as the exponential increase in connectivity, the global spread of mobiles, the widespread adoption of social networks, etc. The need of organizations to increase the pace at which they deliver change is multifaceted, and are evident by multiple occurrences on a global scale, such as the rapidly changing economic environment, technological advances that are disrupting entire industries, and increased political uncertainty. 64 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our clients The main factors underlying this trend include: operation, need to be able to adapt and become flexible in Increasing relevance of data order to keep up with the new competitive forces. This is The amount and quality of information that organizations are Emergence of disruptive technologies evidenced by the continued growth of the global start-up able to gather regarding their customers, products and Innovation and speed to market are two of the key revolution. Global venture capital funding is booming, with markets is also changing at a fast pace. The rate of change in requirements to capture and retain clients. New technologies over $140 billion invested and creating value at global level information creation is best demonstrated by the amount of such as Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence and the Internet estimated to be $2.3 trillion during the period 2015-2017 (a data created: 90% of worldwide data was generated in the past of Things are enabling companies to develop state-of-the-art 25.6% increase from previous years). 2 years. There are 2.5 quintillion bytes of data created each day products and services, bring them to the market before their at our current pace, and that pace is only accelerating with the peers, and learn from their errors when they fail. Organizations In the financial services industry, for instance, GAFA (Google, growth of the Internet of Things (IoT). that embrace digitalization are building resilient and flexible Apple, Facebook and Amazon) & FinTechs have shaken the processes that enable them to quickly reallocate critical confidence of leading institutions, right after the major setback Increased availability of information, coupled with advanced resources to adapt to the evolving needs of the customers. suffered due to the financial crisis and the regulatory wave that techniques that can be used to analyse it, have led to data This trend goes beyond IT businesses, as more and more followed it. Global investment in FinTechs increased steadily becoming a core strategic asset in successful organizations. A companies across all industries are introducing these new between 2014 and 2017 and accelerated in the first half of successful exploitation of this asset can drastically improve the technologies into their operating models. In addition, the 2018. service provided to the client, reveal ways to make processes emergence of digital leaders such as Google, Apple and more cost-efficient, and enable senior management to make Amazon, or new digitally native business models such as The fact that these new digital-born competitors do not suffer better informed business decisions. Spotify and Uber, has reshaped customer relationships and the constraints that traditional major entities have, such as outcustomer expectations around quality of product, quality of of-date legacy platforms and tighter regulations, has enabled The accelerated pace of change has curtailed organizations’ service and accessibility, enabling these companies to achieve an exponential growth of their influence and market share; capacity to anticipate the future and make long-term bets. This better results while being more efficient, and increasing their long-term potential is even greater. has resulted in shorter strategic cycles, where companies market share. define their strategy for the next 2-3 years, as opposed to 5-10 Shift to customer focus culture years. As such, organizations are required not only to change Increased political uncertainty Customers’ expectations and behaviors are evolving far faster their strategy, operations and culture, but also to accelerate The recent financial crisis, in addition to some other than most companies can address them. Expectations have and transform the way they deliver new products, services, circumstances, have disrupted the global political framework. become much more unpredictable than they used to be, processes and software. The rise of national extremism, coupled with various political stimulated by increased access to information through events such as the planned exit of the UK from the European channels such as social media and the internet. This has in turn Organizations need to quickly adapt to changes in the market Union, have impacted international trade, while at the same increased customers’ expectations of their service providers and the behavior of customers, owning the latest innovations time, increased overall uncertainty over the future state of and limited their tolerance to unfair outcomes. At the same is not enough. Being capable of quickly designing and building global business. As a result, organizations are decreasingly time, increased competition and lower costs for switching minimally viable products, test them with the clients, refine able to plan for the long run. providers have amplified customers’ bargaining power, them in rapid iterations, and finally select the one that meets making it more difficult for companies to develop and retain a the customer’s and the business’s expectations, is a key Changed competitive landscape loyal customer base. element for success in the current environment. In short, The global competitive environment is rapidly changing. organizations need to become agile. This concern seems to be Fueled by factors such as globalization, easier access to As a result, top organizations have shifted their focus in order shared across most industries. More than 500 senior executives information, and low barriers to entry, new disruptive to try to meet the changing needs of their clients, placing the from around the world were interviewed in 2018, and 92% of competitors are emerging at a fast pace. Such organizations customer at the center of their processes and strategies. them said they believe organizational agility is critical to can use digital technologies to reach a wide audience quickly, Companies need to become flexible, adaptive and receptive to business success. and at the same time, rapidly deploy new products and change to succeed in an environment with ever-changing solutions. As such, large, established organizations, often demands. burdened with a complexity that comes with decades of 65 Commitment to the industry Within this context, the present study aims at providing insight Macroeconomic outlook reports Regulatory notes into the present and future of Agile organizations. The document is structured in three sections, which correspond to Management Solutions continuously monitors developments As a firm providing professional consulting services for three objectives: related to the key macroeconomic indicators for the regulated industries, Management Solutions specifically economies in which the Firm operates so that the Firm can monitors the regulatory environment affecting the industries 4 Outlining the journey from traditional delivery techniques draw conclusions on expected developments for the future.. in which it operates. On a weekly and quarterly basis, the Firm to an Agile way of working. tracks major regulatory developments in the industries to This monitoring activity is reflected in our quarterly which it provides advice, and compiles technical notes on 4 Reviewing the implications and challenges for organizations “Macroeconomic Outlook Report”, a document that also regulatory developments that will have the greatest impact on in adopting Agile methodologies. provides insight into the key indicators affecting the industries those industries. Regulatory notes seek to summarize the rule, in which Financial Institutions operate (Banking and put it into context and explain some of its potential impacts. 4 Analyzing some misconceptions and lessons learned Insurance), and the Energy and Telecommunications through practical implementation experience, and industries. During 2019, Management Solutions prepared more than 10 providing an overview for the upcoming future of Agile technical briefs on the most relevant regulations published by methodologies. leading authorities. FinRegAlerts, Management Solutions’ financial regulatory alerts app Since 2018, Management Solutions’ financial regulatory alerts service was renewed through the launch of FinRegAlerts, an app for mobile devices developed by Management Solutions to monitor financial regulatory alerts issued by international, European and local regulators (United States, United Kingdom or Spain). FinRegAlerts currently includes access to the following contents: 4Publication alerts: summaries of documents published by international regulators (BCBS, FSB, etc.) and European regulators (European Commission, ECB, EBA, etc.), as well as summaries of documents published at local level (United States, United Kingdom or Spain). 4Quarterly and yearly regulatory outlooks: reports that collect publication alerts and anticipate key regulatory changes. 4Technical notes: summaries containing details of regulations that have a major impact on or hold the greatest interest for the financial industry. The App is available for free download from major application stores. 66 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our clients Organization and participation in specialized conferences and seminars The Spanish CDO Club We implement an ongoing program Management Solutions sponsored and participated as a of outreach activities and InspirAItion Day, Spain speaker in the event entitled Security and self-service: new participation in specialized forums challenges in the age of data democratization , organized by Management Solutions was a sponsor and participated as a the Spanish CDO Club. The firm demonstrated its experience speaker at the InspirAItion Day Congress, organized by SAS in and knowledge of the enterprise use of owning data, presented Madrid and attended by representatives of organization from a cross-industry benchmark and moderated a debate. different industries. The Spanish CDO Club is a forum in which more than 50 Chief The event, the largest on Artificial Intelligence and Innovation Data Officers and data managers from major Spanish held in Spain and in which Management Solutions was the companies in the financial, insurance, energy, main sponsor, was organized with the aim of sharing the key telecommunications, tourism and retail industries participate in. current and future issues in IT development that already have an impact on people and organizations. The conference featured more than 30 speakers and discussion panels divided into two broad areas: Inspiration for Business (I4BIZ) and Bootcamp Inspiration for Data Scientists (I4DS) , which dealt with real cases of application of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Computer Vision in business, without losing sight of the human side of technology. Management Solutions’ presentation was entitled Graph theory applied to the assessment of default in companies and shared with the audience Management Solutions’ experience in Machine Learning (subject matter of a white paper published by Management Solutions) as well as current trends in default modeling. The Spanish CDO Club 67 Commitment to the industry IFRS 17 Practical Applications course, Spain Cycle of Conferences on New Technologies and their European Energy Trading CIO Forum, Spain Economic and Social Impact, Spain For the second consecutive year, Management Solutions Management Solutions participated for the second time in the participated in the teaching of a course about the main Management Solutions participated in the Cycle of European Energy Trading CIO Forum by conducting an implications of the new IFRS 17 accounting standards for Conferences on New Technologies and their Economic and analysis among conference participants regarding innovation insurance companies, that was organized by the College of Social Impact, organized by the Foundation for Applied trends in the energy trading service and support model. Actuaries of Catalonia (CAC). Economics (Fedea) and the Circle of Entrepreneurs of Spain with the aim of showing the degree of implementation of The CIO Forum is an initiative born to help boost IT innovation The conference, which was attended by more than 30 Artificial Intelligence in Spain as well as its uses and potential and efficiency in highly specialized sectors such as energy representatives from different insurers, looked into the development paths. trading, and to facilitate the adoption of technology that quantitative impacts of the new principles on insurance allows trading activities to be carried out within the new companies’ financial statements under the different contract Management Solutions had the opportunity to share its regulatory requirements. The event brought together CIOs valuation methodologies proposed, which are expected to knowledge of digital transformation in the business field while from some of the most important energy trading players at take effect in 2022, and the substantial impacts of these also participating in the discussion panel on Artificial European level (including companies in the Oil & Gas sector principles on different areas within insurance companies. Intelligence and its uses in different productive sectors. BP, REPSOL, Shell, Equinor and Petroineos, as well as Utilities IX annual Challenges for the Immediate Future seminar, Spain Management Solutions participated as a speaker at the IX annual Challenges for the Immediate Future seminar organized in Madrid by the Centro de Cooperación Interbancaria CCI (Center for Bank Cooperation), which is composed of 130 entities (banks, savings banks, rural savings banks and other deposit institutions). On this occasion, the Observatory held at the Bank of Spain's conference hall took place in two parts: one dedicated to the global payments situation, and another focused on the new tools and services that are evolving in traditional banking. The presentations focused on the future of cash, innovation in payments and new tools (blockchain) applied to payments, as well as data management, outsourcing to the cloud and AI applied to processes. Management Solutions’ presentation shared with those present the Firm’s experience in the management of IT risks within the cloud outsourcing lifecycle. INTEGRA, a transformation experience, Spain 68 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our clients Endesa, Iberdrola, RWE, E .ON, Uniper, Engie, EDF, Vattenfall, current issues relating to the scarcity of resources and to Risk.net Model Risk Management conference, United Statkarft and Axpo). global warming. Kingdom The analysis carried out by Management Solutions, which was The conference dealt with topics relating to the Sustainable Management Solutions participated as a speaker at a two-day presented at the Endesa facilities in Madrid, revealed key Development Goals (SDGs 14, 15, 16) promoted by the United training conference on Model Risk Management (MRM) innovation trends in the service and support models trading Nations and brought together several experts on the subject, organized in London by Risk.net and attended by activities. The results obtained were of prime interest to the such as Mr. Christopher L. Gilbert (SAIS Bologna Center, Johns representatives from the main local and international financial participants and revealed the most significant challenges Hopkins University) or Mr. Eduardo Schwartz (Distinguished institutions with a presence there. facing energy companies related to capturing value from Research Professor at UCLA and Ryan Beedie Chair in Finance innovation in service and support models. SFU), in addition to renowned professors in the area of During the conference, which brought together the industry’s resources and econometrics such as Ms. María José Gutiérrez main leaders in the area of risk management and was (UPV-EHU University of the Basque Country), who reviewed attended by representatives from financial institutions such as INTEGRA, a transformation experience, Spain the consequences of shortages in some natural resources for HSBC, DekaBank, Barclays and Bank of England, attendees had Managements Solutions participates as a speaker in the event economic sectors such as fishing and mining. the opportunity to discuss key issues for the industry and “INTEGRA, a transformation experience” that was held in the share their views on model risk management applied to ALM, Campus building that Red Eléctrica de España (REE) has in Tres IRB, IFRS 9, CECL and other models. Model Risk Management in Banking, United Kingdom Cantos (Madrid) and attended by employees of REE Group and representatives of other guest companies, mainly from the Management Solutions sponsored and participated as a Management Solutions’ presentation, co-delivered by Mr. electricity sector. speaker in a Model Risk Management in Banking conference Javier Calvo and Mr. Diederick Potgieter (from the PRA/Bank of organized in London with the aim of sharing key trends in Apart from participating in the opening discussion panel model risk management and assessing the effectiveness that featuring REE’s General Manager for Transportation Ms. Eva both Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning can add to Pagán and Information Technology Director Ms. Ana María model management. Anca de Ramos in addition to representatives of other guest companies, Management Solutions gave a presentation on The event, of which Management Solutions was the main risk management in electrical infrastructures together with Ms. sponsor of, was attended by representatives from institutions Eva Rodicio, Risk Control Department Head at REE. such as the Bank of England, Santander, Société Générale, Bank of America, HSBC, UBS and Barclays, among others. Climate Change Econometrics and Fisheries Natural Management Solutions' presentation, Model risk: Myths Resources, Spain debunked and burning trends , shared the Firm's experience Management Solutions sponsored the “Climate Change in MRM (subject matter of a white paper published by Econometrics and Fisheries Natural Resource” conference Management Solutions) as well as current trends in model risk organized by Universidad Pontificia Comillas ICAI-ICADE, management. which brought together academics from different fields of expertise, representatives from the business world and regulatory authorities with the aim of providing answers to Climate Change Econometrics and Fisheries Natural Resources, Spain 69 Commitment to the industry The seminar, entitled “Model risk management and model validation in banks”, brought together the heads of the modeling, validation and audit departments from some of the leading local financial institutions and International banks present in Germany, who met to exchange the latest trends and tips about dealing with model risk in their dayto-day operations. Management Solutions’ presentation, analyzed the components that should be in place when building a solid Model Risk management framework while providing advice about regulatory expectations and industry best practices regarding the required governance set-up, as well as information on more specific topics such as the evaluation of model risk in a tiering system. Risques de Modèle, Mythes et tendances, France Model Risk Management in Banking, United Kingdom Management Solutions sponsored and participated as a speaker in the Risques de Modèle, Mythes et tendances conference organized by Revue Banque in Paris, attended England, author of UK regulations on model risk), was titled DekaBank, DZ Bank AG, Rabobank, Sberbank, attendees had by representatives from international financial institutions. Building a risk management model framework and reviewed the opportunity to discuss key issues for the industry and to the current MRM regulation in the United Kingdom and its share their views on model risk management applied to IRB, The event, of which Management Solutions was the main future outlook. It provided a detailed view of the components IFRS 9, CECL and other models. sponsor, was organized with the aim of sharing key trends in a model risk management framework: organization, in model risk management and assessing the effectiveness governance, policies and procedures, inventory, data and Management Solutions' presentation was entitled Building a that both Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning can MRM tools. risk management model framework and reviewed the current add to model management. The conference, moderated by MRM regulation and its future outlook, providing a detailed Management Solutions, was attended by representatives view of the components in a model risk management from institutions such as Banque de France, Société Risk.net Model Risk Management conference, Germany framework: organization, governance, policies and Générale, BNP Paribas and ABN Amro. Management Solutions participated as a speaker at a two-day procedures, inventory, data and MRM tools. training conference on Model Risk Management (MRM) Management Solutions' presentation entitled Model risk: organized in Frankfurt by Risk.net and attended by Myths debunked and burning trends , aimed to share the Model risk management and model validation in banks” representatives from the main local and international financial Firm's experience in MRM (subject matter of a whitepaper seminar, Germany institutions with a presence in Germany. published by Management Solutions) as well as current Management Solutions participated again in a model risk trends in model risk management. During the conference, which brought together the industry's event that brought together the heads of the modeling, main leaders in the area of risk management and was validation and audit departments from some of the leading attended by representatives from financial institutions such as German and International banks present in Germany. 70 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our clients Head of Non-Financial Risks for the Group), together with other Bank executives. Management Solutions’ presentation (A importância da integração do Risco Operacional na gestão num contexto de mudança) was aimed at increasing attendees’ awareness about how the accelerating and deep changes affecting the financial industry today are impacting the operational risk profile of financial institutions, and discussing how Operational Risk can be integrated in the bank’s management processes as well as in day to day activities. Model Risk Management: Risk, Pricing and other modeling types, Sweden Management Solutions participated as a speaker in the seminar “Model Risk Management: Risk, Pricing and other modeling types” organized by Risk.net in Stockholm and Risques de Modèle, Mythes et tendances, France attended by representatives from some major Nordic and international financial institutions. Conference on MRM in the financial industry, Francia The conference dealt with the challenges arising from the The event aimed to share the key trends on model risk, new regulatory framework, providing a very practical view review the main regulatory guidelines and the governance In 2019 Management Solutions continued to organize that leveraged the experience acquired by the Firm from that goes with MRM, and provide an overview of how to semiannual seminars on Model Risk Management for Société implementing these regulations in Polish financial build a model risk framework for both pricing and other Générale within the framework of its MRM Group program. institutions. types of models such as retail banking. The seminar was The seminars were aimed at showing key developments and attended by representatives from entities such as Danske future challenges in MRM, as well as conducting different work Bank, Nordea, Swedbank, the European Investment Bank Annual meeting on Operational Risk, Portugal sessions to reach a consensus on key issues. and Lloyds, among others. Management Solutions participated as the only external In addition to Management Solutions’ presentations, the speaker at the annual Operational Risk meeting organized Management Solutions' presentation was entitled Building conference was attended by MRM experts from global by Santander Bank Portugal to raise awareness within their a model risk management framework , and shared with financial institutions. organization about the importance of managing this risk. those present the Firm's experience in MRM (subject area of a whitepaper published by Management Solutions) and the The meeting was attended by more than 200 employees of current trends in model risk management. Adapting to the New Definition of Default, Poland the Bank including managers and coordinators of the Management Solutions teamed up with the Association of business and support areas (first line of defense) and, since Risk Nordics 2019, Sweden Polish Banks (ZBP) to organize an event on adapting to the it was promoted by the Risk Division, was also attended by New Definition of Default which was attended by more than Mr. Alfredo Fernández (CRO) and Mr. Andrea Pozzi (Global In addition to being one of the sponsoring firms, 50 financial institutions in the country. Management Solutions gave a presentation on Basel III 71 Commitment to the industry finalization and Basel IV impacts at Risk Nordics 2019, one 12th Annual Banking Credit Risk Management Summit, sources, nature, volume and uses of the information utilized of the most relevant industry events in the Nordic countries Austria by financial institutions for strategic development. held in Stockholm. Management solutions sponsored and delivered a The forum focused on the evolution of Big Data The two-day event, which focused on key risk issues for presentation at the 12th Annual Banking Credit Risk environments from a project (siloed) approach to a Data banks in the Nordic region, brought together more than 50 Management Summit in Vienna (Austria), attended by Lake integration approach, including the need to create an risk management leaders from the region’s largest representatives from major local and international financial enterprise-wide harmonized logical data model that will institutions, as well as European and local regulators such institutions with a presence in the country. ensure the information can be properly understood and as the EBA and the ECB. updated so it can later be used to its full potential. Other The conference brought together some of the industry’s issues discussed included Data Lake hosting approaches, Management Solutions’ presentation was entitled Basel III leading experts in risk management and was attended by the best approaches to install reporting layers in or on the Finalization & Basel IV Impacts and reviewed the key representatives from institutions such as Unicredit, ING, Data Lakes, and alternatives to support business cases that regulatory changes as well as the expected impact on the Credit Suisse, Nordea, etc. Attendees had the opportunity will allow the CDO areas to obtain the significant European industry. to discuss key issues for the industry such as the challenges investments required to build a data governance model in and implications of credit risk management, IFRS 9, the new these environments. regulation for AIRB models, how to define and develop an adequate risk appetite framework, the main challenges in IV International Congress on Risk Management in the stress testing, and major innovations associated with credit Dominican Republic risk management digitization. Management Solutions participated in the IV International Management Solutions’ presentation, delivered by Javier Congress on Integral Risk Management for the Banking Calvo and entitled Model risk: myths debunked and Sector in the Dominican Republic, organized by the Banking burning trends , reviewed the latest trends in model risk Superintendence (SIB). management, going beyond best practice in European and US banks and raising a discussion on issues still unresolved The conference, which aimed to analyze current financial in relation to this subject, such as the management of the system trends and their impact on the risk management of risk implied in the use of artificial intelligence models and financial intermediation institutions under international the quantification of model risk. best practices, brought together nearly 400 attendees, mainly members of Boards, Chair persons, Executives and risk managers in EIFs throughout the region. Governing Big Data: Challenges and Key Factors to Success, United States Management Solutions’ presentation, entitled Trends in Management Solutions organized a discussion panel for Model Risk Management , reviewed MRM regulations and Chief Data Officers (CDOs) in New York, attended by a their future development, addressing in detail the key number of professionals from top financial institutions. elements for defining and implementing an integral MRM framework. Under the title ”Big Data governance: Challenges and Key Factors to Success”, attendees were able to discuss the 29º Congreso de la AMA, México challenges and keys to successfully implementing Data Governance strategies in Big Data environments, a critical Management Solutions participated in the 29th AMA issue for the industry given the exponential growth in the (Mexican Association of Actuaries) Congress held in Puerto Regulatory challenges and the role of the actuary, Chile 72 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our clients CDO Latam Summit, Peru Model Risk Management: Risk, Pricing and other modelling types, Sweden Vallarta and attended by more than 400 representatives of Informative breakfast about Solvency II, Colombia Under the title Adopting change , the congress the actuarial, financial and risk areas of nearly 90 companies reviewed the overall changes that the insurance in the Mexican insurance sector. Management Solutions organized in its Bogota office an industry has been experiencing and the implications for informative breakfast about Solvency II with teams from 20 the Latin American market, as well as the current The conference, titled “Growth with profitability and Colombian insurance companies. situation and perspectives for the Peruvian insurance solvency within the framework of good governance”, was sector, with a focus on the opportunities arising from attended by speakers from the CNSF (Mexico’s National On this occasion, Management Solutions shared its innovation and the use of emerging technologies in the Commission of Insurance and Bail Bonds), international experience with the implications of adapting to Solvency II, a industry. insurance companies present in Mexico and other local challenge for insurance companies with an impact on the firms. areas of business, methodology, data, processes and systems. Management Solutions participated in the seminar Digital Health , which dealt with current trends, Management Solutions participated in the discussion panel opportunities, and the challenges faced by the health Insurance Day, Peru “Impacts of Solvency II type regulations: from actuarial insurance sector to adapt to new technologies. results to decision-making”, which closed the conference In addition to being one of the sponsoring companies, that included different speakers who presented their Management Solutions participated in the Insurance Day CDO Latam Summit, Peru experiences regarding the role of the actuary in the German, organized by the Peruvian Association of Insurance English, Spanish and Mexican markets within the context of Companies (APESEG), attended by key representatives from Management Solutions participated in the “CDO Latam Solvency II. the Peruvian insurance industry. Summit” that was held in Lima. The event, which aimed 73 Commitment to the industry implementation of Basel III in the Chilean market, Management Solutions had the opportunity to share its experience with applying the standard in Europe to representatives of the main Chilean financial institutions. 9th International Congress on Risk Management, Brazil In addition to its role as a sponsor, Management Solutions participated, for the nineth consecutive year, as a speaker in the international congress on risk organized by FEBRABAN (Brazilian Federation of Banks), which was attended by representatives from regulators and major financial institutions from Brazil as well as other parts of the world. The goal was to share the view of regulators, financial institutions and professional service providers on certain aspects relating to the latest risk management trends and challenges in financial institutions. 9th International Congress on Risk Management, Brazil Management Solutions' presentation was entitled “IFRS 9: Integration in Management” and shared a framework of to share new trends and technologies on data science that will The event was held at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile practical challenges based on the international experience that be key in the future, brought together top company executives and attended by representatives from Chilean insurance the Firm has in IFRS 9. from a number of industries in the region, including the companies. The seminar consisted of two sessions, one focused financial, energy and telecommunications sectors, among on the role of the actuary under a risk-based supervision model Finance 5.0 seminar organized by Banco Santander, Brasil others. and on the implementation of IFRS 17, and another one that included two technical workshops, taught by SOA members, Management Solutions participated as a speaker at the In addition to being a sponsor, Management Solutions which dealt with Solvency II and IFRS 17 topics. “Finance 5.0” seminar organized by Banco Santander in São moderated a panel on Culture: how to get the company to Paulo, attended by transformation leaders from the Bank's adopt and use data in which Marco Bonilla, Global Executive Management Solutions’ presentations shared the Firm’s Finance Area. Director of Advanced Analytics at BBVA, was the guest speaker. experience in the industry, notably the implications of adapting to Solvency II and IFRS 17. The event, which brought together close to 350 guests from the areas of finance and technology, addressed key issues on how Regulatory challenges and the role of the actuary, Chile technology is impacting the Finance function and how it will Basel III application to credit risk in Europe, Chile Management Solutions participated as a speaker at the first affect processes and required roles in the future. annual seminar on “Regulatory challenges and the role of the Management Solutions participated in the presentations on the actuary” organized in Santiago de Chile by the Society of application of Basel III to credit risk in Europe, delivered to the Management Solutions’ presentation was titled Technology Actuaries of the United States (SOA), the world’s most Association of Banks and Financial Institutions of Chile (ABIF). and the challenges faced by the Finance function and prestigious actuarial institution. Prior to the publication of a law that will govern the reviewed the challenges the Finance function needs to address 74 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our clients as a result of a changing environment marked by new business The workshop presentations, given by Management Solutions models, increasingly demanding regulators, the emergence of professionals with expertise in this area, shared the Firm's new risks and the development of new technologies. experience in IFRS 9 implementation at the international level, with particular emphasis on the challenges that this could pose for institutions present in Brazil, and examined the key Workshop on IFRS 9 and GDPR, Brazil operational impacts of the new General Data Protection Management Solutions organized, in collaboration with ACREFI Regulation on systems and processes on a strategic and “Our deep sector knowledge (Associação Nacional das Instituições de Credito, governance level. helps to develop differential Financiamento e Investimento), a workshop entitled value propositions for our “Regulatory Challenges: IFRS 9 and the General Data Protection clients” Regulation (GDPR)” that was attended by representatives from regulators and the local and international financial institutions present in Brazil. The workshop aimed to share key trends and challenges in both IFRS 9 and the Brazilian Data Protection Regulation (LGPD) This specialization allows us to anticipate clear approved in August 2018. answers to key challenges for the different industries in which we work. We are firmly committed to sharing our sector knowledge. This is why we have a selective presence in major industry forums in the countries where we operate, and publish specialized studies on relevant issues for each industry. We also seek to transfer best practice between industries, identifying issues that are better resolved in one industry than in another. All of this is possible because we work for organizations that are leaders in their respective industries and geographies. Javier Calvo Partner at Management Solutions Finance 5.0 seminar organized by Banco Santander, Brazil 75 Committed to our professionals The human factor is essential at Management Solutions. Engaging our professionals is a primary objective for us. For this reason, we strive to provide the best professional environment for them to develop their talent. >200,000 résumés >500 received new recruits >250,000 hired training hours provided 76 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report One team We are convinced that Management Solutions offers all its We are aware that both optimum professional development We strive to provide our professionals employees everything necessary for maximum professional and achieving excellence in our projects require effort and with the best environment to develop development, such as working: sacrifice, two words that form an undeniable part of our their talent 4 in the industry’s most relevant consulting projects, corporate culture. In our experience, this effort is rewarded by our clients’ recognition and by the achievements attained by our professionals as they gradually shape their career. 4 for major companies, leaders in their respective markets, Aside from the rewards our professionals reap through this 4 next to top management at companies as they face effort in the professional sphere, we devote special attention national and international challenges, to facilitating the best working environment and supporting them in everything we can: training, IT resources, supporting 4 with an extraordinary team of professionals whose documentation, accessible internal communication (Intranet), values and corporate culture are a reference in the Human Resources policies (employee benefits, mentoring industry, programs, international relocations, evaluations), medical services, etc. 4 by following a clearly defined career plan and continuous training. Distribution of workforce By age By gender 5% Over 40 40% Women 60% 45% 20% 25-30 Men 30-40 30% Under 25 By profile By nationality 1% Asia and Africa 25% Mathematical 45% 40% Functional Americas 59% Europe 30% Technical 78 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Human Resources policies Committed to our professionals Recruitment and selection who have passed the selection process and received a letter of offer). All of them are assigned a mentor (Senior or More than 200,000 résumés were Onboarding new professionals and therefore creating jobs for Experienced Senior) whose mission is to guide them, answer received in 2019 young people is one of our goals. Recruiting the best talent is any questions they may have, offer advice on project types one of our greatest challenges. Our Human Resources team is and corporate culture and, thus, create a sense of belonging always on the look for professionals who share our corporate to facilitate their future onboarding. values and fit the right profile: people with a solid academic history, who are dynamic, have a drive toward selfAround 2,000 people participated in our mentorship program advancement, have endurance, maturity, responsibility and in 2019. Close to 400 members of our management team the ability to integrate themselves into cross-functional teams. (Partners, Directors, Managers and Supervisors) acted as mentors to over 1,600 professionals in their first to sixth year, Recruitment is essentially carried out through the following contributing to their professional development within the channels: presentations and seminars at universities, job fairs, Firm. our corporate website, contacts with career services at key European and American universities and business schools and The mentoring program forms part of our corporate policy, employment portals. which is why it is applied on a global scale and uniform basis throughout all Management Solutions units. Our Human Resources team ensures that the selection process is transparent and fair, based on equal opportunities, objectivity and candidate confidentiality. Internal career advancement Career development within the Firm is one of Management During the process, candidates have the opportunity to get to Solutions’ basic pillars. Thus, a new graduate can progress know the Firm, discover our values and become acquainted quickly to become a qualified professional in highly with our work methodology. sophisticated areas of business management. This is possible mainly due to two factors: Management Mentoring program: the mentor’s role Solutions’ professional career and hierarchical structure. The Our mentoring program, aimed at all professionals in the Firm Firm guarantees a clearly defined career plan, where up to Experienced Senior level, was created with the goal of professional development depends only on own merit and listening and providing guidance to our professionals and proven results. This development is aided by our evaluation helping us do our best to align their aspirations with the system, in which professional skills and possible areas for needs of the Firm. improvement are identified. Mentorship is performed by Partners, Directors, Managers and The evaluation process at Management Solutions is based on Supervisors, and its main function is to identify the concerns recognition of the each person’s effort in the exercise of their of professionals, advise them and become fully involved in professional responsibilities. Therefore, this process is key to their future career. assessing performance throughout the year, as well as identifying each consultant’s professional skills and potential The scope of the mentoring program was expanded a few areas for improvement. years ago to include future employees of the Firm (candidates 79 Human Resources policies The evaluation for managerial profiles differs from that for Management Solutions is a partnership, offering each International assignments non-managers given the nature of their work and the professional the opportunity to become a partner of the Firm. responsibilities acquired. Consequently, the evaluation is Management Solutions’ multinational activity is on the rise. conducted based on objectives that each manager defines and This growth calls for increased travel between offices and, Employee benefits validates with the partner responsible at the beginning of each in some cases, relocation abroad. Work in other locations fiscal year. Management Solutions’ professionals receive a number of provides an opportunity for the Firm’s professionals to benefits in addition to their salaries. These benefits vary acquire international experience while working in teams The evaluation process is carried out in two phases throughout depending on the regulations in each country, the most that are not only multidisciplinary but also multinational. the fiscal year: the first, to ensure the correct understanding of common being: the objectives set; the second, to evaluate overall performance In all cases, particularly with regard to long-term postings, during the year and determine the variable component and the 4 Health insurance. the goal of the Human Resources department is to make promotion based on the degree to which objectives were 4 Accident insurance. 4 relocation as smooth as possible by taking the following Life insurance. 4 achieved. into account: Luncheon vouchers. 4 Childcare vouchers. The evaluation is an excellent opportunity for improvement, for 4 Special conditions with financial institutions. 4 The personal preferences of the professionals exchanging comments and views between the evaluee and the 4 Sports and corporate wellness programs. involved. evaluator and providing the correct guidance on the work to be 4 Corporate agreements. 4 Compensation and benefits (meals and carried out. accommodation, relocation bonus, flybacks, insurance and other benefits to facilitate relocation). 4 Logistical support to relocate. 4 Employment, tax advice and procedural formalities. Career plan Remuneration policy Our Remuneration Policy reflects the distribution of fixed and Management Solutions guarantees a clearly defined career path, where variable pay for our professionals, as well as the different career development depends exclusively on individual merit, with no Partner 13-16 years social benefits offered. limit to professional growth. Director All professionals have a fixed pay component according to From the time they join the Firm, all consultants embark on a 1-2 years their profile and evaluation. For some profiles, this fixed professional career during which they will climb to different component is supplemented with a variable pay component. levels of our corporate ladder according to their merits, taking Manager 4-6 years Receiving the variable pay component will in any case be on new responsibilities and leaving their previous functions subject to each professional’s evaluation, permanence in the to the upcoming consultants. Supervisor 2 years 6 years Firm until the end of the fiscal year, and participation in the achievement of the Firm’s objectives. This annual promotion system supports ongoing 2 years development and ensures all professionals can, over Experienced Senior time, and depending on their achievements, Equality Plan and Anti-discrimination Policy potentially become partners of the Firm. Senior 2 years Management Solutions’ corporate culture establishes equal opportunities, without any form of discrimination, as 2 years Assistant one of its basic principles. For this reason, since its 80 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals inception, the Firm has implemented measures to promote Finally, Management Solutions’ compensation policy makes no 4 Participation in the “Promentor” training program for the equality, regardless of the provisions of the legal system in distinction between men and women. Our salary bands are inclusion at work of young people with disability, launched each of the countries where it operates. exactly the same regardless of gender, based only on category by the Prodis Foundation. and goal achievement. In order to articulate all measures implemented and to 4 Participation in events promoted by third parties with the ensure strict compliance, Management Solutions has an aim of achieving the integration of people with different Equality Plan that establishes the Firm’s policies on equal Universal accessibility for people with disability disabilities. treatment and opportunities for men and women, designed Management Solutions has an ongoing commitment to fight to prevent any situation of professional discrimination, direct against any type of discrimination. In addition to complying or indirect, especially on grounds of sex, access to with the regulations applicable in each country (e.g. in Spain, employment, professional classification, training, promotion, the law on integration of people with disabilities), this remuneration, working time arrangements, as well as the commitment is articulated through a number of actions: reconciliation of work, personal and family life. 4 Collaboration agreements with different organizations (such An Anti-Discrimination Policy was approved in 2016, which as Down Madrid and Ilunion Viajes) with the aim of served to formalize principles already being applied by facilitating and promoting the social and job insertion of Management Solutions to avoid any type of discrimination in people with disabilities in ordinary work environments. the Firm. Also, Management Solutions, aware of the importance that work-life balance has for its professionals, has established some measures in order that all employees may have a satisfactory professional career, and to make sure that achieving a work-life balance does not prevent women from accessing jobs, or from being promoted later in their careers. Among the measures aimed at helping employees reconcile their work and family life are reduced working hours, permits, leave, flexible working hours, summer work hours, etc. In its commitment to equality, the Firm will continue to strengthen its policies in this area. In particular, through the following actions: 4 Continue to disseminate and inform employees about existing measures within the Firm’s work-life balance policy. 4 Continue to promote the use of new technologies available to the company for meetings: videoconferencing, teleconferencing, wireless, etc. 81 Training Management Solutions pays particular attention to training Universidad Pontificia Comillas/Instituto Tecnológico de Management Solutions places special its professionals, spending more than 10% of capacity on Monterrey and Management Solutions and, in the case of emphasis on training its professionals, this goal. the Master’s degree, comprises around 600 training hours investing more than 250,000 training Our consultants join the firm with a wide variety of academic over two years. hours in 2019 profiles. For this reason, professional life at Management Both the Master’s degree and the Diploma aim to provide Solutions begins with a training plan aimed at ensuring a the knowledge and skills needed to deliver excellent strong common knowledge base that will prepare our performance in the field of business consulting. This includes people for the new challenges and responsibilities they will the following: immediately assume. 4 Mastering the basic subjects essential for the performance In the first two years, training is provided through our of consultancy work, including economics, accounting, Master's degree or Diploma programs in several offices, applied mathematics and statistics. meaning that all professionals joinining Management Solutions in these offices receive the Master’s/Diploma in 4 Learning the regulatory framework, market trends and Business Consultancy, which is jointly provided by current situation of the financial, energy and telecommunications industries. 82 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals 4 Acquiring advanced expertise of the financial sector, its to put data analysis at the center of the Firm’s value training in the first two years, 100 hours at senior and products, and the management of its risks and processes. proposition. experienced senior level and 40 hours from supervisor level onwards. 4 Mastering the technological tools necessary for A Business Training Program was launched this year for undertaking professional consultancy work, including senior professionals in our Brazil office in collaboration with Through our training courses, designed for each professional office automation, statistical software and database design. the Insper Institute, one of the most prestigious higher category and seminars to develop specific capabilities, we education institutions in Latin America. aim to provide the best training opportunities to expand 4 Applying the skills and knowledge acquired in different knowledge and develop skills. contexts and using them to solve a wide range of The contents of this program include commercial problems. management and marketing focused on financial services, For the purpose of advancing the knowledge areas most digital transformation and problem solving. relevant to each region, and thus contributing to local Since 2016, the Management Solutions ICADE Business business growth, Management Solutions offers regional School Master’s degree in Business Consulting has included a In addition to the initial training plan, Management courses as part of an overall training program comprising specialization in Data Science targeted at technical and Solutions’ consultants have extensive training opportunities local, global and regional courses. methodological profiles, which provides the necessary tools throughout their career, averaging 600 hours devoted to Graduation of the sixth Master’s Degree in Business Consulting intake ICADE’s Main Hall held the Commencement Ceremony of the 6th Graduating Class of the Master’s Degree in Business Consulting offered jointly by Management Solutions and ICADE Business School, which saw the graduation of 170 Management Solutions professionals. The graduation ceremony was attended by the Master's sixth graduating class students, tutors and teachers in the Master's program, and friends and family who wanted to accompany students in their graduation. The event was hosted by Ms. Ana Soler (Vice-Rector for Institutional Relations and University Registrar at Comillas Pontifical University), Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer (Chairman of Management Solutions), Mr. Jaime Pérez Renovales (General Secretary and Secretary of the Board and Head of Human Resources at Grupo Santander), Mr. Javier Márquez (Vice-Dean of the Economics and Business Studies Faculty at Comillas Pontifical University) and Mr. Tomás Curto (Director of the Master's program). Before the graduates were handed their diplomas, attendees were addressed by Mr. Víctor Sánchez Pollo, who represented the students, Mr. Jaime Pérez Renovales, who acted as the honorary sponsor for this graduating class, and Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, who represented Management Solutions at the ceremony. After the diplomas were presented, with a special mention to Mr. Víctor Sánchez Pollo, Ms. Mr. Jaime Pérez Renovales, Renovales, honorary sponsor to the sixth Master's Degree in Business Consulting intake, Spain Irene Jubeto and Mr. Ander Barrutia who achieved the three best academic records, the ceremony was closed by Ms. Ana Soler. 83 Training 4 Local courses. Courses designed for professionals in a Specialized external courses Language courses particular office or unit and supported by the Human Resources team. Specialized courses or seminars for professionals to update Language courses English, Portuguese, Italian, German, knowledge, obtain certifications or receive specialized Spanish, etc., are offered depending on the specific needs of 4 Global courses. Courses designed for professionals within a training in a specific area, for a specific project or for R&D&i. our professionals in each of the Firm’s units. These can be specific category or across categories in all of Management group courses (for all professionals) or one-on-one private Solutions’ offices. lessons (for Supervisors and above). Skills courses 4 Regional courses. Courses designed for all professionals Courses aimed at developing the skills needed for within a particular region. professional practice (team management, leadership, Online training platform development of lasting customer relationship models, etc.), Management Solutions has an e-learning training portal that mostly taught by leading outsourcers in the market, complements the online training section available on the Specialized Knowledge courses targeted at professionals from all our offices who have corporate Intranet. The portal makes it easier for the Firm’s On-site courses involving an evaluation test are delivered by reached Senior level or above. professionals to follow Management Solutions’ training plan, the Firm’s Partners, Directors, Managers and Supervisors allowing them to access specific training materials throughout the first years of the professional’s career. Training program in collaboration with Insper, Brazil In 2019, Management Solutions launched a training program for senior professionals in our Brazil office, designed in collaboration with Insper. Insper, a leading higher education and research institution in Brazil, has designed a training program targeted at senior professionals in our Brazil office that includes contents related to commercial management and marketing in financial services as well as digital transformation and problem resolution. Around 30 Management Solutions professionals participated in the program’s inaugural session held at the Insper headquarters in São Paulo. The program is a strong addition to the Firm's training plan. Training program in collaboration with Insper, Brazil 84 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals (documentation, multimedia support, exercises and case content and skills was incorporated into the training plan 4 There have been more collaborations with universities studies) online. through the creation of new training hubs: Banking and around the world. Transactional Banking, Public Administrations and Every year we review and update the Firm’s global training Servicing. Improved teaching methods: plan, expanding it while adding new courses in order to provide greater uniformity and consistency among the 4Emphasis was made on training aimed at earning 4 The use of distance learning tools has been encouraged, different countries, as well as improving contents and international certifications, including certifications in risk with new online content. adapting them to the new environments. In particular, management and assessment (such as FRM, ERP and CFA), during 2019 i) content was updated, ii) improvements were technology (CISA for systems auditing, CCA for Big Data, 4 Physical presence has been reinforced for some courses made in the group-wide alignment of the Firm’s training AI solutions and specialist vendor solutions), and considered to be particularly significant. plan, and iii) teaching methods were further improved. certifications in project management (PMP) and Agile (PSM and PMI) were maintained. Content update: Content alignment: 4 Content relating to methodology, machine learning and new technologies was reinforced. 4 There has been further alignment of courses taught in all units, in terms of subject matter, category and teaching 4 Content relating to regulatory developments in risk hours. management and accounting, proprietary tools, specialist One-day Executive Seminar A one-day training course for Management Solutions’ senior executives was held on June 20 at the Teatro Real in Madrid (Spain). After the opening address by Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, Chairman of Management Solutions, a number of presentations were delivered by outstanding speakers that covered topics such as the current economic situation and the challenges faced by companies in the current context of digital transformation: 4Mr. Manfred Nolte, Professor at Deusto Business School. 4Mr. Roberto Maranca, Data Excellence Vice President Schneider Electric. 4Ms. Elena Gil, Global Director for Big Data at Telefonica and CEO at LUCA. 4Mr. Nicolás Oriol, Head of Digital Transformation at Bankinter. 4Mr. Juan García Cascales, Partner at Management Solutions. 4Mr. Manuel Ángel Guzmán, Head of R&D at Management Solutions. One-day Executive Seminar, Spain 85 Training Management Solutions’ training plan content Currently our training courses are structured around 21 hubs, aligned to the Firm’s areas of business. Commercial Corporate strategy and business Operational risk Operational risk, SIRO, internal control Telecommunications industry basics, strategy and challenges, business management, digital and internal Telecommunications methodology, etc. regulation, etc. management marketing, etc. control Course on Accounting, financial statement analysis, Finance: Regulatory and capital reporting, MIR and professional Professional services for Public financial reporting, IFRSs, accounting Risks Reporting accounting process, etc. regulatory updates, etc. services for Public Administration. Administration Finance: Database design, Architectures, Big Data, Management control, information systems, Conduct, compliance, AML, Paladin, MRM management transfer rates and costs, etc. Other risks Technology NNTT, Digitalization, Technology Risk and Gamma, etc. control Assessment, Cloud, Blockchain. Applied mathematics, financial modeling, Organization and governance, Process Interpersonal skills, code of conduct, ethics, Organization and transformation, Agile methods, project Data Science tools (SAS, R, Python), statistical models and Skills training for managers, training for trainers, Machine Learning sessions. Moodle, etc. processes management, governance, wholesale/retail backoffice, etc. Wholesales Financial markets, treasury, fixed and equity Financial system, business analysis, banking AAMM and private Banking Asset management and private banking. business income, derivatives, project finance, etc. business, etc. banking Regulation, capital and RORAC, risk Risk management in the energy industry, Credit risk management, provisions, ICAAP/ILAAP, Energy Servicing Real estate and debt servicing. regulation, commodities, etc. stress test, pricing, risk appetite, etc. Market risk Associated regulation (SEPA, PSD2, etc.), Market risk, counterparty risk, liquidity risk, Insurance sector and regulations, premium Transaction Insurance settlement and custody, transaction and ALM ALM, structural risks, etc. engines (Prophet and AFM), etc. banking products, etc. Other training components complement the technical content: certifications, languages, and skills courses. 4 Risks and valuation: FRM, ERP, CFA 4 Solution: SOA, Prophet, Tableau 4 Systems audit: CISA Certifications 4 Project management: PMP 4 Big Data: CCA 4 Agile: PSM, PMI 4 AI: Azure, AWS, Google Cloud Languages 4 English, German, Portuguese, Italian, French, Spanish, etc. 4 Skills: Code of Conduct and Criminal Risk, PRL 4 Data science: Mathematical methods, modeling courses (classification models, stochastic processes and industry E-learning modeling), R and Python reinforcement, specific programming techniques 4 Technology: Courses on Java, Cloud with AWS, Git, Cloudera, etc. 86 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals Our training plan’s structure Our training plan’s structure, content and length are career-linked, with more than 250,000 training hours taught globally. It is also adapted to local needs and based around our areas of knowledge. The contents cater to the needs of our consultants as they progress through their career, and includes technical, skills and language training. “We strive to offer our The plan is structured around knowledge hubs associated with the Firm’s areas of business: professionals the best environment for their professional development” Adapted to all units Structured around knowledge hubs 4 Knowledge hubs match the Firm’s areas of business: The Firm implements a rigorous selection process that seeks excellent academic results combined with Industries: banking, insurance, energy, telecommunications, strong personal skills. others. 4 Uniform training across units, although adapted to specific Core Competencies: Strategy, Commercial management and marketing, Transformation: Organization and processes, Risk We offer a career plan based on merit and backed needs. management and control, Management and financial 4 In some units, it includes agreements with universities. information, and New technologies. by organic and sustained growth. We closely 4 Also taken into account are geographic and client-based criteria, monitor our employees’ careers to help them develop the talent, knowledge and skills required to with courses being adapted to the reality of our offices and to specific client needs. succeed in their profession. We also deploy a training plan that has the highest recognition in the market for the quality and diversity of its content. over 50h/year Skills Management team All in all, we are proud to be able to say that our professionals are truly unique. over 150h/year Languages Senior / Specialized External courses Experienced Senior training and certifications over 600h/2 years Overall technical skills Consultants Cristina López Partner at Management Solutions 87 Occupational risk prevention and medical service We have robust occupational risk prevention policies in place as well as an excellent on-site medical service Medical Service for the Madrid office, Spain Management Solutions implements occupational risk Management Solutions is one of the first companies in Spain to 4 Lighting levels in working areas. prevention and medical service policies that comply with have used pharmacogenomics and genetics for personalized 4 Average air velocity in the air-conditioning system. current regulations in the countries in which the Firm is medical prevention measures and the treatment of serious 4 Classification of indoor air quality (AIDA method) based present. Our professionals are offered private medical diseases. on the indoor and outdoor CO2 concentrations in offices. assistance programs, as well as access to other services, 4 Indoor air quality, determining airborne bacteria and depending on the country in which they are located. Prevention targets both the work environment and the workers fungi concentration as well as CO and CO2 levels. themselves. For example, the following is a description of policies and Employees services applicable to our main office in Spain. Environment Medical assistance covers accidents at work and Management Solutions’ Work Health and Occupational Risk Studies are conducted on environmental hygiene and noise occupational disease, as well as pathologies due to common Prevention Service covers four preventive disciplines: levels. A risk assessment and a prevention plan are regularly illness or non-work related accidents. There is also a updated. Prevention guidelines are issued, and are accessible to procedure for international travel – regardless of whether 4 Occupational Medicine employees via the corporate intranet. Additionally, the following travel is for professional reasons, volunteering in Social 4 Safety at work environmental controls are monitored on a regular basis: Action programs or personal reasons consisting of the 4 Industrial Hygiene provision of hygiene-health information on the country of 4 Ergonomics and Applied Psychosociology 4 Food supplied through the vending machines. destination as well as information on the necessary vaccines 4 Thermohygienic conditions of office space by monitoring or prophylaxis against diseases such as malaria. The Occupational Health Service works in four areas: temperature, relative humidity and light levels as well as air prevention, care, counseling, and predictive medicine. quality. 88 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals The medical services provided include an on-site 4 For women over 35, the risk of having breast cancer in the Training in RP at Work. All professionals take a basic physiotherapy service, which is available to all Management next 5 years or later in life has been calculated following occupational risk prevention course developed by our own Solutions employees as necessary. models from the American Cancer Society. From a certain risk prevention technicians. Primary intervention teams also age, men are tested for tumor markers of prostate cancer. take specific courses in centers set up to provide this type of training. 4 Cervical Cancer Prevention Plan. Depending on the Health insurance Furthermore, Management Solutions professionals can sign personal characteristics of each patient, HPV tests are Documentation. A number of useful documents on up for an optional private health assistance service, which is carried out to determine the presence of this virus in the occupational risk prevention are available on the Medical subsidized by 50% by the Firm. In addition to the extensive cervix. Services section of the corporate intranet: catalogue of medical providers offered, this service includes an expense reimbursement method, reduced dental Anti-smoking treatments. These are ongoing campaigns 4 Directory of risks and preventive measures. This document treatment rates, refractive surgery for short-sightedness and according to patients’ needs. is a summary of the possible circumstances that may lead medical assistance while traveling. to certain risks and preventative measures that can be Fight against high blood pressure. Holter monitoring of blood taken to avoid them. pressure is carried out as part of the medical tests needed for 4 Basic rules on fire prevention and handling fire Health information accurate diagnosis. extinguishers. Prevention is key to fire safety. The services offered by Management Solutions surpass the 4 Basic evacuation procedures. Procedures to be followed standards set by organizations and public institutions General advices and vaccines for international travel. Protection should the building’s evacuation alarm go off. regarding health and safety at work. The Intranet establishes a against illnesses on trips to certain countries. These 4 Safety and Security within facilities. Basic safety and system of communication with employees that offers campaigns are carried out on an ongoing basis. security rules to be followed while using any facilities professionals comprehensive information regarding health, as outside office hours. well as risk-prevention guides and news of interest. Venous thromboembolism and lung thromboembolism 4 Basic safety and security rules to be followed while at the prevention campaign. For women who require certain drugs clients' facilities. A road safety plan has been designed and (e.g. to treat polycystic ovaries) that increase the risk of as part of annual actions a study has been designed and Special campaigns venous thrombosis, there is a procedure for the study of analyze the level of drowsiness and the potential impact it Influenza vaccine. Prevention of influenza development at the genetic variables that will make it more likely to establish a can have on work-related traffic accidents, applying the start of autumn. thrombotic process so it can be prevented it before it Epworth scale. happens. Cardiovascular disease prevention plan. Ongoing prevention of cardiovascular disease (heart attacks, strokes, etc.) through regular checkups, following the protocols established by the Occupational risk prevention National Cholesterol Education Program, Adult Treatment Annual checks. A risk prevention expert periodically checks the Panel III. facilities to prepare or update a safety and security plan while also conducting a basic safety and security assessment. Cancer Prevention. 4 During routine medical check-ups, colon cancer risk Ergonomic studies. At the request of either the employee or stratification tests are carried out and advice is given the medical service, ergonomic studies are carried out by a according to the check-up results and the personal and qualified Risk Prevention at Work officer to correctly adapt a family history, based on guidelines from the Spanish workstation to the person. Gastroenterology Association. 89 Employee support services Support areas functionality, mobility and connectivity, all of this is under the The main purpose of our Internal principle of maximum efficiency. Corporate Departments is to generate The main purpose of the Firm's Internal Corporate value for the Firm Departments is to generate value for the Firm. This value The Firm’s professionals are provided with tools enabling them to work and access information quickly and securely generation largely focuses on providing efficient administrative and support services to all professionals. from various locations: Management Solutions’ offices, clients’ Although some of these services have already been described offices, from their own homes and from transit areas (airports, in previous sections, they include other areas such as employee support services hotels, etc.). Information Technology, Documentation and General Services. Documentation Knowledge sharing is very important at Management Information Technology Solutions. Providing access to information is an essential The Information Technology area aims to provide the Firm element of support enabling our professionals to efficiently with the technology (applications, systems and undertake their projects. The documentation service communications) required for developing and supporting the organizes the information generated, making a distinction business under four fundamental criteria: security, between internally produced and third party documentation: 90 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals 4 Internally produced: legislation and regulatory documents, Credit card Corporate wellness training courses, presentations, in-house publications, macroeconomic outlook reports, etc., available via the Two agreements are in place to enable Management Management Solutions professionals’ can take advantage of a corporate Intranet. Solutions’ professionals to access credit cards that are totally program that allows them access to gyms and other corporate free of charge and offer special terms regarding payment, wellness facilities at advantageous conditions. 4 Third party documentation: books, publications and credit limits, insurance and other advantages. specialized information sources, available upon request Other offers from the Firm’s Library Services. Travel agent Apart from the corporate agreements, Management Solutions frequently receives offers addressed to its employees from Management Solutions’ professionals can benefit from a Infrastructure and General Services financial institutions, car dealerships, gyms, cultural number of advantages and exclusive prices, both with regard institutions, etc. Infrastructure and logistics management, graphic design, to business trips and to personal travel and vacations. This translation, etc., are services that complement all the above service is managed through the Intranet and via a site and are aimed at facilitating the work of Management customized for Management Solutions by our supplier. Solutions’ professionals. The work of the infrastructures team is necessary for efficiently managing the opening and start-up of new offices or the extension of existing ones. In this regard, in 2019 saw the opening of our Amsterdam, Oslo and Quito offices, the Management Solutions offers expansion of our Madrid headquarters and the refurbishment a fitness platform to its of one of our Mexico City offices (Anzures). professionals Corporate agreements Every Firm employee is entitled to certain benefits through To reinforce our existing sports and corporate wellness their employment at Management Solutions. activities, in 2019 Management Solutions hired the services of a sports platform that allows Management Access to special deals on banking services for groups Solutions professionals to access gyms and other activities at discounted prices. The Firm provides its professionals with some of the best deals on banking services available for groups, including special conditions for salary bank accounts, cards, loans, mortgages, virtual banking, etc. 91 Internal communication Internal communication is not just about conveying corporate 4Information related to Internal Corporate Departments Internal communication is an element messages, but is an element of cohesion and integration (Human Resources, Marketing and Communication, General of integration for all Management among the Firm’s different offices and areas. Services and Infrastructure, Technology, etc.). Solutions professionals 4 Information on R&D: information on ongoing initiatives by Corporate Intranet the R&D Area as well as direct access to publications, Provides the main channel for internal communication other business reports and other regulatory notes published by than electronic mail, and is updated, maintained and improved this area. by the Marketing and Communication Area. 4Information, content, photographs, etc. on activities Our VPN (Virtual Private Network) connection and the recently organized by Social Action or the Sports Club. launched MDM (Mobile Device Management) software for BYOD mobile devices enable all Management Solutions professionals to access the corporate intranet from anywhere in Global Yearly Meeting the world without having to be physically in the office. Management Solutions’ main internal communication event is its Yearly Meeting. This is an annual global convention that Our Intranet contents, which are translated into three brings together a large part of the Firm’s professionals and is languages (Spanish, English and Portuguese), cover many held in July in Madrid, marking the close of our fiscal year. topics. Some of the most significant are the following: At this annual meeting, the partners offer Management 4News: current news concerning both the Firm (key projects, Solutions’ professionals a summary of the results for the fiscal new clients, links with universities, events, etc.) and year, the milestones achieved and the challenges for the industries or areas of activity in which we operate (selected upcoming year, all grouped according to our six strategic and summarized by our R&D Department). pillars: diversification, profitable growth, R&D innovation, human resources management, communication, and 4Financial and macroeconomic information on the main organizational flexibility. countries in which we operate: data on daily movements of major stock price indices, daily interest rates and exchange Our Yearly Meeting includes the participation of some of our rates, GDP, inflation, etc. main clients’ CEOs, directors and top executives as well as representatives from the academic world. 4Documentation: documents on rules and regulations, training courses, presentations, internal publications and This gives our professionals the opportunity to listen to reports, corporate policies, etc., classified under the different approaches and perspectives on areas related to their Knowledge Area. activity, delivered by top leaders of great prestige. 4Access to corporate applications. 4Access to personal information: project assignment, payroll, personal account, etc. 92 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals Yearly Meeting July 2019 Royal Theatre. Spain Mr. C.S. Venkatakrishnan Barclays Group Chief Risk Office Ms. María Dolores Dancausa CEO of Bankinter 93 Internal communication Yearly Meeting 2019 Guest speakers at previous Management Solutions Yearly Meetings Yearly Meeting 18. Royal Theatre Yearly Meeting 10. Municipal Congress Palace Management Solutions’ Global Yearly Meeting 2019 was Mr. Rafael Miranda, President of Acerinox Mr. Jorge Morán, Head of Global Insurance and Direct Banking held on July 19th, bringing together around one thousand Mr. Michael Kemmer, Member of the Board of Directors of the at Grupo Santander professionals from the Firm under the theme “Sustainable Association of German Banks (2010-2017) Mr. José Antonio Olavarrieta, General Manager of CECA Mr. José Luis López, Vice President and Director at Banesto Growth”. Yearly Meeting 17. Royal Theatre Mr. Rodrigo Echenique, Vice President of Banco Santander, Yearly Meeting 09. Municipal Congress Palace As in previous occasions, the event included a review of the Chairman of Banco Santander Spain and Chairman of Banco Mr. Francisco González, Chairman of BBVA Firm’s achievements in FY19 and challenges for FY20 and Popular) Mr. Juan Carlos Rebollo, Director, Accounting and Control at Grupo Mr. Gonzalo Gortázar, Managing Director of CaixaBank, First Iberdrola Mr. Fernando Madeira, CEO of Terra Latinoamérica featured the participation of top executives from some of Vice Chairman of Repsol and Chairman of VidaCaixa our main client companies. Mr. José Antonio Álvarez, CFO of Grupo Santander Yearly Meeting 16. Municipal Congress Palace The Yearly Meeting, held at the Teatro Real in Madrid, began Mr. José María Roldán, Chairman of AEB and Vicepresident Yearly Meeting 08. Municipal Congress Palace of EBF Mr. Ángel Cano, CEO of BBVA Group Mr. Francisco Iniesta, Associate Director, IESE Business School with a review of the market environment, by Mr. Ignacio Mr. Jaime Pérez Renovales, General Secretary and Secretary of Layo (Partner at Management Solutions), and continued with the Board – Head of Human Resources at Grupo Santander Mr. Honorato López Isla, Vice-Chairman and CEO of Unión FENOSA a presentation by Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer (Chairman of Mr. José María Nus, Director at Banesto Management Solutions) describing the progress made by Yearly Meeting 15. Royal Theatre Yearly Meeting 07. Meliá Castilla Mr. Teppo Paavola, Sr. EVP, GM of New Digital Businesses at Mr. Adolfo Lagos, General Manager of Grupo Santander the Firm during the year ending August 2019, as well as the BBVA challenges for the future in terms of diversification, Mr. José Sevilla, General Manager, Risk Division at BBVA Group Mr. Juan Colombás, Executive director and Chief Risk Officer Mr. Gregorio Villalabeitia, Vice-Chairman and Director at Telefónica at Lloyds Banking Group innovation, human resource management, profitable Mr. Marcel Planellas, General Secretary, ESADE growth, organizational flexibility and communication. Mr. Víctor Matarranz, Head of Group Strategy and of the Executive Chairman’s Office at Banco Santander Yearly Meeting 06. Meliá Castilla On this occasion, Management Solutions professionals had Mr. Marcial Portela, CEO of Santander Brazil the privilege of listening to guest speakers Mr. C.S. Yearly Meeting 14. Municipal Congress Palace Mr. Manuel Méndez del Río, CRO of BBVA Mr. Emilio Saracho, Deputy CEO, EMEA at J.P. Morgan Mr. Jorge Gost, CEO of Banco Pastor Mr. Francisco Gómez, CEO of Banco Popular Venkatakrishnan (Barclays Group Chief Risk Office) and Ms. Mr. Carlos J. Álvarez, CFO of Gas Natural María Dolores Dancausa (CEO of Bankinter). Ms. Eva Castillo, Director at Telefónica Mr. Jaime Requeijo, Head of CUNEF Yearly Meeting 13. Royal Theatre Yearly Meeting 05. Congress Palace Building Mr. Emilio Botín, Chairman of Santander Bank Mr. Fernando Ramírez, CFO of Repsol YPF Group Mr. Antonio Brufau, Chairman of Repsol Mr. Ignacio Sánchez-Asiaín Sanz, CIO of BBVA Mr. José Igncio Goirigolzarri, Chairman of Bankia Mr. Juan Andrés Yanes, Deputy General Manager, Global Risk Division Mr. Julio L. Martínez, Rector at Universidad Pontificia Comillas at Grupo Santander Mr. Francisco Gómez Roldán, CEO of Abbey Nacional PLCD Yearly Meeting 12. Municipal Congress Palace Ms. Josefa Peralta Astudillo, Dean of Faculty of Economics and Mr. Manuel Soto, 4th Vice-Chairman of Grupo Santander Business, ICADE Mr. José María Abril, Vice-Chairman of Telefónica Mr. Antonio Huertas, Chairman of Grupo Mapfre Yearly Meeting 04. Royal Theatre Mr. Matías Rodríguez Inciarte, Vice-Chairman and CRO of Grupo Yearly Meeting 11. Municipal Congress Palace Santander Mr. Alfredo Sáenz, 2nd Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Mr. José María Fuster, CIO of Banesto and Head of Strategic Officer of Grupo Santander Technology at Grupo Santander Mr. José Luis San Pedro, Chief Operating Officer of Grupo Mr. Juan Antonio Hernández Rubio, CFO of Unión FENOSA Iberdrola Mr. Juan Hoyos, Managing Director of McKinsey Spain and Portugal Mr. Alfonso Alonso, Global Director of Transformation at Ms. Susana Rodríguez Vidarte, Director at BBVA Group and Dean of Telefónica Deusto’s Commercial University 94 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals “Our internal communication policy is the backbone for cohesion and integration of all our professionals” The Firm has experienced extraordinary growth from the start. This growth has led to our presence Yearly Meeting, Meeting, The Netherlands in more than forty countries across Europe, North America, Central America, South America, Asia and Africa. Local Yearly Meetings After the presentations, our professionals attending the event enjoyed a dinner at a well-known venue in London. This has required us to pay special attention to In 2019, more than 1,000 professionals participated in the internal communication as a key tool for conveying Yearly Meetings held in the UK, Germany, The Netherlands, our principles and values in each and every one of the geographies in which we are present. Yearly Meeting Germany USA, Brazil, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Peru and Colombia. These meetings have served as an effective communication Members of our German office met at Frankfurt for their local outlet, allowing professionals who have not attended the Yearly Meeting. The meeting reviewed the current economic This is why we have a thorough internal Global Yearly Meeting in Spain to access the same environment, the achievements of 2019 and the challenges communication plan in place allowing us to convey information and be part of the Firm’s achievements and for 2020, both at Management Solutions’ global level and the Firm’s values and principles, strategy, challenges. specifically for the German office. achievements, challenges and other global information to all our professionals, no matter After the presentations, our professionals were able to enjoy a where they are, as well as to cater for the specific needs of each of our offices. Yearly Meeting United Kingdom dinner in one of the hotel’s event rooms, closing the day with Professionals from our UK office gathered at a convention a small party at a well-known venue in Frankfurt. center for their Yearly Meeting 2019, during which they reviewed the Firm’s past year achievements and goals for the Yearly Meeting Netherlands next year in the UK. Our professionals were also able to listen to guest speaker Mr. Marcelino Castrillo, Managing Director, In 2019, professionals from our Netherlands office held their first Bárbara Chiloiro Personal & Premier Banking at RBS. Yearly Meeting. Under the motto Sustainable Growth , the Partner at Management Solutions 95 Internal communication Firm's achievements in fiscal year 2019 and challenges for the Yearly Meeting Mexico The meeting reviewed 2019 achievements as well as the next one were reviewed both globally and for the Amsterdam challenges set for 2020, both globally and specifically for the office. Our Yearly Meeting in Mexico was held at a downtown hotel in Firm's activity in Argentina. The day closed with a lunch at the Mexico City and was attended by more than 250 professionals same venue where the convention was held. After the meeting, attendees enjoyed a dinner gathering at one from the Firm. The meeting focused on the current economic of hotel's meeting rooms, where they enjoyed a pleasant environment, the achievements of 2019 and the challenges for Yearly Meeting Chile evening. 2020, both at the global level within Management Solutions and specifically for the Mexico office. Our Chile Office Yearly Meeting 2019 was held at a downtown hotel in Santiago and was attended by Chile professionals as Yearly Meeting Brazil The conference closed with a gala dinner at one of the well as staff from other offices currently in Santiago. More than Our Brazil yearly meeting, held at an emblematic convention conference hotel halls. 100 professionals attending the meeting reviewed the Firm’s center, began with the review of Management Solutions’ 2019 past year achievements in Chile as well as the goals for next performance in Brazil. Also reviewed were the Firm’s global year. Yearly Meeting Argentina and local goals for the next fiscal year. Argentine office professionals gathered at a hotel complex in The Yearly Meeting in Chile ended with a dinner and party at a After the presentations, more than 200 professionals were able Buenos Aires for their Yearly Meeting. well-know city venue. to enjoy a party held at the same venue. Yearly Meeting, Meeting, Mexico Fiesta del Yearly Meeting Global, Global, Spain 96 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals Yearly Meeting United States The United States Yearly Meeting was held in Boston and was attended by US professionals from our New York, Boston, Atlanta and Birmingham offices. Professionals attending the event had the opportunity to review the goals achieved by Management Solutions during the past year and to discuss the Firm’s challenges for the following year in the US. After the meeting, our professionals were able to enjoy a closing dinner held at an emblematic venue in the historic Boston city center. Yearly Meeting Peru Yearly Meeting, Meeting, Peru Peru office professionals gathered in Lima for their Yearly Meeting, where they reviewed the achievements of the past fiscal year and the challenges set for the next, both globally for the Firm and specifically for the Firm’s activity in Peru. The seminar closed with a dinner at a well-known restaurant in Lima. Yearly Meeting Colombia Professionals from our Colombia office met in Bogota for their local Yearly Meeting, in which they reviewed past year achievements as well as the challenges set for 2020, both globally for Management Solutions and in relation to the Colombian office. The seminar closed with a dinner at a restaurant in Bogota. Yearly Meeting, Meeting, Brazil 97 Sports Club The Sports Club started as part of an initiative by Management The II Charity Golf Tournament was also organized in 2019 Around 1,000 professionals Solutions to promote and facilitate the practice of sports (more information is provided in our section on Social participated in the tournaments and among its professionals by organizing internal championships Action). activities organized by our Sports and sponsoring participation in outside inter-company competitions. Club in 2019 Golf clinics Throughout the year, about 30 Management Solutions Championships organized by the Firm professionals had the opportunity to participate in two During 2019 Management Solutions organized several initiation and improvement clinics organized at the sporting events. Santander Golf Jim Mc Lean School, considered to be number one in the world by the specialized press. Management Solutions Golf Tournaments 3rd Management Solutions’ Charity Race In 2019 Management Solutions held a Golf Tournament at the Santander golf course, where more than 50 players In 2019 the Firm organized the third Management Solutions’ participated including Management Solutions employees, Charity Race that included participation from more than 700 clients and collaborators. people including employees, family members, clients and Internal Golf Tournament, Spain 98 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals collaborators. More information about the Management Financial City sports facilities in Boadilla del Monte (Spain). Beach volleyball tournament, Germany Solutions Charity Race is provided in the Social Action The marathon, divided into male and mixed brackets, section. consisting of a qualifying, one-set semifinals phase, and finals Professionals from our German office met in Düsseldorf for played in best-of-three set matches, on a day where a friendly their first beach volleyball championship. The activity began atmosphere prevailed among the participants. on Friday with dinner at a restaurant in the city during which Internal tournaments at the Madrid office, Spain players were able to meet both their partners and their rivals The Madrid office futsal and paddle tournaments were held for the tournament, and continued the next morning with the 3rd Paddle Tournament at Management Solutions for the fourteenth consecutive year in 2019. Around 100 competition’s matches. Portugal professionals (divided into 8 teams) participated in the futsal tournament, competing in a preliminary phase and play-offs 20 professionals from our Lisbon office, divided into 10 pairs, Tennis League, United Kingdom for the title. The paddle tournament brought together a total participated in Management Solutions Portugal's III Paddle of 46 players (23 pairs) in its male, female and mixed pairs. Tournament, an activity that was held in the Campo Grande The UK Office Sports Club organized a tennis league for the Paddle Club and stood out for its positive atmosphere and first time, with players divided into two categories according competitiveness. to level of skill beginner, intermediate, or advanced and 2nd Management Solutions Paddle Marathon included 20 participants. Before the tournament, participants 30 Management Solutions professionals participated in the had the opportunity to attend weekly training sessions where 2nd Management Solutions Paddle Marathon held at the the advanced players were able to share their skill with the 2nd Management Solutions Paddle Marathon Beach volleyball tournament, Germany 99 Sports Club beginners, helping them with exercises to improve their November in São Paulo. The tournament, which consisted of a Mixed soccer championship, Chile technique, mobility and endurance. qualifying round with two teams advancing to the final, featured a high level of competitiveness and friendly Our Chile Sport Club organized a new edition of the internal atmosphere. mixed soccer championship in which more than 40 employees Soccer Championship, United Kingdom participated, divided into four mixed teams, as they competed The UK office also organized its first mixed soccer tournament, on a day marked by competitiveness and sportsmanship Mixed Soccer Championship, Peru with more than 50 professionals participating. The competition shown by all participants. featured a mini-league phase and a number of qualifying The Management Solutions’ Lima Sports Club organized an matches, after which the senior team beat the young team of internal mixed soccer championship in which 28 people new consultants. participated. Divided into four teams, the Firm’s professionals External championships met for 30-minute matches, cheered on by other colleagues Inter-company team sports tournaments from the office who watched the event from the stands, Soccer Championship, Brazil creating a fun and competitive environment for everyone Management Solutions participated in the 2019 Madrid RC 45 Management Solutions professionals, divided into four involved. indoor soccer intercompany championships, both in the men's teams, participated in the fifth Management Solutions soccer and women's categories, and in the male indoor soccer championship, held during the months of October and category in Barcelona. Management Solutions is runner-up in women's 7-a-side inter-company soccer tournament Management Solutions’ women's 7-a-side soccer team won a silver medal for finishing second in the Madrid RC Intercompany League. After competing in a previous rounds during April and May, the team managed to finish in fourth place, making it to the qualifying rounds for the title. Management Solutions defeated Deloitte by 3 to 2 in the semifinals, but was defeated 3-0 by the Kunlaburu Foundation in the final. Management Solutions’ women's 7-a-side soccer team, Spain 100 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to our professionals The winners of the Firm’s internal men's soccer tournament are In Madrid, more than 50 professionals form the Firm, divided into race (in Madrid and Barcelona), all organized in Spain. Also the currently competing in the 2019/2020 edition of this inter16 teams to participate in the “2019 Corporate Race”, a race for “J.P Morgan Corporate Challenge” in UK and Germany, and the company tournament. The women's soccer team from Madrid teams of 2, 3 and 4 people (running 6 or 10 km routes) with “Winter Run” in United Kingdom; “Race for the Cure” in Italy; and men's team from Barcelona are also participating in this more than 20,000 runnners involved. “Somerville 5K ‘Detour’ Road Race” and “Rumpshaker Race” in tournament. United States; “FUCAM race” in Mexico; the “UNICEF race” and Professionals from our São Paulo office had the opportunity to “Bogota’s Green race” in Colombia, and the “Global 6K for water” Our New York office mixed soccer team came in first place for participate in the “Pão Açúcar” marathon, the largest relay race worldwide. More information on all these events is provided in the second year in a row at the New York Corporate Co-Ed in Latin America, for the eleventh consecutive year. 44 runners, the Social Action section. Indoor Soccer League and the Management Solutions’ Mexico divided into mixed teams, ran the 42 km on behalf of male and female soccer teams participated once again in the Management Solutions. inter-company tournaments held in the Mexican capital. In addition, many Management Solutions professionals took part in different charity runs held in various countries, such as a Races Management Solutions’ Charity Race, the Entreculturas Management Solutions professionals participated in various Foundation Run for a cause race (in Madrid and Barcelona), the races organized in different countries during 2019. IX Down Madrid race, the AECC’s On the move against cancer” Management Solutions achieves second place in the Madrid Corporate Run Sixteen Management Solutions teams participated in the twentieth edition of the Madrid Corporate Run, held in Madrid with over 20,000 people running individually and in teams of 2, 3 or 4 runners that formed a composite time. The Firm's participants delivered an outstanding performance with the Management Solutions team winning second place in the mixed 6K category. Madrid Corporate Run, Spain 101 Committed to the environment Management Solutions is aware of how its activities contribute towards sustainable growth, and is therefore committed to supporting society in the countries in which it operates. Working in partnership with the academic community, creating employment, upholding respect for human rights and caring for the environment are a part of its corporate strategy. The Firm’s growth is managed as to be compatible with the principles of >350 sustainable development. collaborations >7,000 with universities Social Action >30 Volunteers Social Action campaigns 102 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report University Interaction with universities is an essential objective for Comillas Pontifical University over two years. The sixth intake University interaction is key to Management Solutions. Management Solutions has always of new Master’s students graduated in 2019, while the eighth our social responsibility policy recognized the value of maintaining close relations with class began. universities. Besides contributing towards employment for new graduates, Management Solutions has provided them Mexico saw the completion of our second class for the with the opportunity to develop an excellent professional Diploma in Business Consulting taught in partnership with career. Management Solutions was able to do this through the Monterrey Institute of Technology to all new recruits in collaborative agreements that allow the Firm to provide our Mexico offices, and the start of the fourth cohort. internships and work placement programs, teach lectures and seminars, cooperate in research programs, present practical Also in 2019, Management Solutions launched a training case studies, participate in job fairs, and support university program for senior professionals in the Brazilian office in foundations and associations. partnership with the Insper Institute, one of the most prestigious higher education institutions in Latin America, In September 2012, Management Solutions reinforced its links offering commercial management and marketing content with the university world by launching Spain’s first ever applied to financial services, digital transformation and Master’s degree in Business Consulting, taught jointly with problem solving. Commencement Ceremony of the 6th Graduating Class of the Master’s Degree in Business Consulting Management Solutions ICADE Business School, Spain 104 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Work experience programs 4 Centro Universitario de Estudios Financieros (CUNEF) 4Universidad de Extremadura 4City University 4Universidad de las Américas Puebla Management Solutions contributes to the transmission of 4ESADE 4Universidad de León University-Business knowledge through agreements with the most 4Facultad de Ciencias de la Universidad de Lisboa 4Universidad de los Andes prestigious universities in the world while onboarding interns that, 4ICADE Business School 4Universidad de Málaga depending on their merits, may become future Management 4Imperial College London 4Universidad de Navarra Solutions professionals. 4ISM International School of Management Frankfurt 4Universidad de Utrecht 4London School of Economics 4Universidad del País Vasco In fiscal year 2019 more than 200 students took university 4Politecnico di Torino 4Universidad Diego Portales internships with the Firm. This work experience allows the students 4Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile 4Universidad Nacional de Colombia selected by the Firm to receive early exposure to the business world. 4Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú 4Universidad Politécnica de Madrid 4The University of Alabama Tuscaloosa 4Universidad Politécnica de Valencia 4Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona 4Universidad Pontificia Comillas 4Universidad Autónoma de Madrid 4Universidad Rey Juan Carlos Seminars and expert courses Through its partners and other members of the management team, 4Universidad Carlos III 4University of Warwick Management Solutions has an active and pro bono presence in 4Universidad Complutense de Madrid 4Warsaw School of Economics education within its sphere of action. In 2019 we continued our 4Universidad de Buenos Aires work with universities, both in undergraduate and post-graduate 4Universidad de Burgos studies and in business schools: 4Universidad de Deusto LSE Careers Patrons, Management Solutions gave a presentation as part of an advanced program United Kingdom on Connected Industry, Leadership and Digital Transformation run by Comillas Pontifical University, Spain In 2019, Management Solutions joined LSE Careers Patrons, one of the main sponsorship programs at the Management Solutions collaborated with the Comillas Pontifical University Chair for Connected Industry for the third London School of Economics (LSE), a university consecutive year, giving a presentation as part of the University’s advanced program on Connected Industry, Leadership renowned both in the UK and worldwide. and Digital Transformation, which involves professionals from various industries such as energy, manufacturing, aeronautics, professional services, etc. The LSE Careers Patrons program, involving around 30 leading companies in different industries, aims to serve The presentation, given by Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, President of Management Solutions, and attended by Mr. Mariano as a contact point between the university and the Ventosa, Vice-Rector for Research and Internationalization at Comillas Pontifical University, Mr. Antonio Muñoz San Roque, business world, facilitating the organization of Director of ICAI, and Mr. Bernardo Villazán, Co-Director of the Connected Industry Chair, reviewed the context of profound networking events with students and alumni, specialized transformation in which we are currently immersed in terms of changing consumer habits, greater accessibility to seminars, access to job offers, etc. Also, thanks to the information, hyper-connectivity, technological disruption , etc. In addition to the global nature of the digital revolution and contributions of the participating companies, the LSE can how it impacts the strategic thinking of companies, their organization, work culture, governance, processes and systems continue to support some of its community programs, was also a topic of discussion. such as its volunteer center. 105 University Company presentations and job fairs fair, and whose experience can be of great value to students in Cátedra iDanae en Big Data y Analytics en la UPM, Spain their final year as well as recent graduates who aspire to join Company presentations and job fairs constitute a our organization. In 2019, the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM) and fundamental meeting point between University students in Management Solutions signed a collaboration agreement for their senior year and employers. In addition to collecting résumés, Human Resources also the creation of the iDanae Chair (intelligence, data, analysis conducts psychological tests on-site as well as working and strategy after its Spanish acronym) on Big Data and Management Solutions maintains a high profile in major job breakfasts and case studies with students to speed up the Analytics with the aim of promoting technology knowledge fairs. Our stand attracts thousands of university graduates recruitment process. development, dissemination and transfer, and fostering R&D&i interested in learning more about the consultancy business, in the area of Data Analysis. our projects and the career opportunities offered by a rapidly expanding firm such as ours. Sponsorships and Collaborations with Foundations This chair aims to focus on developing four components that Management Solutions regularly supports Foundations and are part of the value chain of society’s most important assets The value added by the participation of Management University Faculties through sponsoring awards, today: information and knowledge. Solutions in job fairs comes from the presence of professionals commencement ceremonies, etc. from the Firm who once studied at the university hosting the 4 Intelligence, through the generation of algorithms that provide solutions to current challenges. Business Challenge Modeling Contest, Spain The Mathematics Faculty of Complutense University of Madrid (UCM), with the support of four professional services firms, organized the Business Challenge Modeling contest, aimed at the Faculty’s degree and double degree students, who had to solve business challenges using mathematical methods within the scope of Machine Learning. Management Solutions sponsored one of the awards, consisting of a monetary prize for the students, which went to the Pythonidae team (made up of Mr. Arturo Acuaviva, Ms. Beatriz Herguedas, Ms. Inmaculada Pérez and Mr. Jorge Villarrubia) for their solution to the problem “Bicimad route and stand optimization . The Arcano team (composed of Mr. Enrique García, Mr. Héctor García and Mr. Juan Francisco Ramos) received an honorable mention. 106 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment 4 Data, as a source of information for obtaining knowledge. iDanae Chair quarterly newsletter For educational and information purposes, the findings of this surveillance are reflected in an updated list of themes 4 Analysis, through robust techniques and advanced models, One of the lines of work developed by the iDanae Chair (interpretability of models, ethical, legal and social incorporating machine learning techniques. (where iDanae stands for intelligence, data, analysis and implications of Artificial Intelligence, predictability and strategy) is the analysis of meta-trends in the field of Analytics. modellability, data augmentation and data democratization, 4 Strategy, designed based on the analysis of trends in To identify meta-trends, it is important to analyze public and etc.) that will be developed in quarterly reports with the aim knowledge technology so as to generate a long-term private investment projects as well as the issues highlighted of providing a view on specific trends or topics of interest. development plan going forward. by organizations, companies and other related stakeholders. In 2019 the Chair published the first of these quarterly The chair has a clear formative and informative intent. For this The iDanae Chair will conduct active surveillance through reports entitled Interpretability of Artificial Intelligence reason, it organizes training sessions on topics of interest observing and monitoring different sources, such as the models , available through the iDanae Chair’s website and related to data analysis, as well as other outreach events and outcome of different European analytics working groups, the Management Solutions’ website. informative sessions. The chair also has a scholarship plan to strategic plans of the United States Government on artificial support the best students in their academic career, and intelligence research and development, and other relevant awards a prize to the best final year project. international analyses and publications. iDanae Chair Awards in Big Data and Analytics The iDanae (intelligence, data, analysis and strategy) Chair in Big Data and Analytics, which emerged within the framework of the collaborative work between the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM) and Management Solutions, awarded prizes for the best Final Year Projects to Mr. Alejandro Fernández Cabrera, class of 2017/2018, and Mr. Mariano Blanco Cantero, class of 2018/19. The prizes were awarded after a competitive process among students qualifying for an honors scholarship, whose work was assessed based on criteria that takes into consideration the project’s technology and innovation, its applicability in business, and the creator's ability to explain the project in front of a project evaluation panel. iDanae Chair Awards in Big Data and Analytics, Spain 107 University Breakfast conference organized by the ICADE Business Club, Spain The conference, organized by the ICADE Business Club and moderated by Management Solutions President Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer and the club’s Vice President, was addressed by Ms. María Dolores Dancausa, CEO of Bankinter, with the presence of Mr. Julio Luis Martínez SJ, Rector of Comillas Pontifical University. This was attended by more than 150 Club members, including several Management Solutions partners and directors. The presentation given by Ms. María Dolores Dancausa was entitled “Bankinter and the challenges facing the financial industry”, and was followed by a discussion during which the CEO of Bankinter answered questions asked by attendees about the economic context, the financial industry and Bankinter’s specific case. Ms. María Dolores Dancausa during her speech at the breakfast discussion, Spain ICADE Business Club Foundation, created in 1997, fulfills its purpose through support university students in their final years of study by organizing lectures, courses and seminars, issuing reports, helping them to enter the labor market through the The ICADE Business Club is a non-profit association founded publications and studies, promoting research, etc. always with organization of networking events, internship programs, case by a group of former University students who are now the purpose of improving and promoting education and studies, seminars, etc. business professionals, together with the Dean and Deputy research in the field of engineering. It also participates directly Dean of the Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences at the in the corporate world by offering prizes and awards to XIII Modelling Week, Spain University of Comillas, to foster entrepreneurship among the recognize outstanding engineering work. university community and to create a true forum for reflection Management Solutions participated in the XIII Modeling Week, and influence in Spanish society. an annual meeting organized since 2007 by UCM’s Mathematics Deusto University Foundation, Spain Faculty and the Institute of Interdisciplinary Mathematics. Through some of its partners, Management Solutions The Firm works together with the Deusto Foundation (Deustu collaborates with the initiatives that the Club organizes for the Fundazioa) of prestigious Deusto University in the Basque The event, which is the result of a collaboration between benefit of both alumni and current students of Comillas Country, Spain, to give significant donations to use on universities and industry, presents Master’s students from Pontifical University. furthering the Foundation’s goals. The goals include investing several universities UCM, Oxford, Florence and Leicester, etc., in research, promotion, studies and dissemination projects. with real problems, proposed by companies from different sectors of activity, to be solved using mathematics as a tool, The Bilbao School of Engineers Foundation under the supervision of instructors. UCLU Business Society, UK In 2007, Management Solutions became a partner in the Bilbao Higher Technical School of Engineers Foundation, which aims Management Solutions joined the UCLU Business Society as a On this occasion, Management Solutions, which has been to ensure excellence in all the educational and research sponsor in 2013. UCLU Business Society is a university society participated in the Modeling Week since 2009, raised a case of activities carried out by the School of Engineers. The within University College London whose main function is to fraud detection in credit portfolios, supporting a group of students in its resolution. 108 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Management Solutions taught a Workshop on Agile/Scrum at Machine Learning seminar at ICAI, the University of Utrecht, Spain Netherlands As part of the Machine learning II subject taught in the Management Solutions conducted a training session for Master’s degree in Big Data, Management Solutions University of Utrecht students as part of the University’s collaborated with Comillas Pontifical University to teach Career Services program. The agenda of the day a seminar on the use of data science techniques for the consisted of a theoretical introduction to Agile characterization of energy customers and their methodologies followed by a dynamic Agile Lego Session integration in the commercial management process. for students to be able to experience the challenges and “Our support to the academic benefits of these new working methods. world is one of the pillars of The seminar dealt with the definition of segmentation the firm's commitment to its models for commercial purposes and the development environment” of a methodology for integrating these models into the business and measuring their profitability. Developing a close relationship with universities has been a priority for Management Solutions from the start. We have shown this commitment through multiple initiatives, from collaboration agreements for scholarships and internships with key universities in the countries where we operate, to the provision of specialized classes and seminars, to cooperation in research programs, and even sponsorship of university foundations and associations. We are also happy to be able to contribute to the creation of young employment for recent graduates every year, offering them the possibility of embarking on an excellent professional career. Arantza Zárate Partner at Management Solutions Awards to the best Final Year Project at ICAI, Spain 109 University Imperial Tank business game Business case on Cybersecurity and Business case on Machine Learning organized at Imperial College Technology Risk at UPM, Spain Techniques and their implementation London, UK in the financial industry at UDLAP, In this day and age of digital transformation, managing Mexico Management Solutions organized a business game for technology risk is critical to ensuring the viability of a students of Imperial College London. Called Imperial company. Management Solutions conducted a seminar Management Solutions organized a business case at the Tank, the game divided the students into two groups: the at the Polytechnic University of Madrid’s Computer University of the Americas Puebla to explain the basic entrepreneurs, who had to develop an innovative Science Faculty, during which students were presented mathematical methodologies in a Machine Learning business idea and sell it to as many investors as possible; with a practical case on decision-making and also given model (functional part) and their use in commercial and the investors, whose aim was to choose the most the factors to be taken into account in a security incident software, as well as in product acquisition models in profitable options, taking into account the such as the management of the Wannacry event, the banking and in helping to prevent unrecognized charges entrepreneurs’ negotiation and communication skills as most notable ransomware attack in recent years that (technical part). well as their creativity and critical thinking. attracted a large media attention due to its global scope. Try IT! 2019, Spain In addition to sponsoring the event, Management Solutions participated as a speaker at Try IT! 2019, a conference aimed at sharing trends in the information technology industry that was organized by the School of Computer Science of the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM). During the conference, experts in different computer science fields shared their knowledge of the latest trends in IT and their implications for business with the School’s students. Management Solutions’ presentation, titled “Data lakes and Lambda architecture”, explained how this architecture integrates and makes sense of the Hadoop ecosystem components, and allows you to maintain response times to real-time data requests despite increased data volume. ETSINF Commencement Ceremony at UPV, Spain 110 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Awards for the best 2017/2018 ICAI Final Year Projects, Spain Management Solutions sponsored one of the award categories for the best 2017/2018 Final Year Projects from the ICAI (Comillas Pontifical University) School of Engineering. Since the awards are organized around themes, Management Solutions sponsored the “Integration of Artificial Intelligence into the business processes” prize, which was awarded to the project “Analysis of the European cross-border physical flows applying machine learning techniques”, developed by Ms. Laura Estevez and directed by Mr. Santiago Moreno and Mr. Eugenio Sánchez. Mr. Miguel Ángel Poblet, a partner at Management Solutions, handed the award during an event chaired by University Rector Mr. Julio Martínez SJ with the presence of Mr. Antonio Muñoz, Head of the School, and Mr. Agustín Delgado, Head of Innovation, Sustainability and Quality at Iberdrola, who was guest of honor at the event. Awards for the best ICAI Final Year Projects, Spain Awards to Computer Engineering graduates from UPV, Prizes and awards to the best End of Year Projects and “SmartXa: technology solution for mobility monitoring in Spain academic results, Spain neurodegenerative diseases. ”The award ceremony took place during the Forotech, an event organized by the Deusto Faculty Management Solutions sponsored the diploma award During 2019 the Firm reinforced its involvement with university of Engineering that aims to bring engineering and technology ceremony for graduates of the Technical School of Computer students by sponsoring a number of prizes to the best Final closer to society. Mr. Iker Yabar also presented the prize for the Engineering at the Polytechnic University of Valencia (UPV). The Year Projects and best academic results. best Computer Science Final Year Project from UPV/EHU, which event was attended by approximately 1,100 people including went to the work “Extracting indicators of similarity between students, and their families, UPV teachers and representatives Specifically, Management Solutions sponsored awards for the bilingual documents” by Mr. Mikel Laburu. of companies engaged with the University. The diplomas were best Final Year projects from the IT departments at Universidad presented to academic year 2018/2019 students of the de Deusto, Universidad del País Vasco/Euskal Herriko In Barcelona, Mr. Josep Rotés, a partner at Management Computer Engineering Degree, the Master's Degree in Unibertsitatea (UPV/EHU), Universitat de Barcelona and Solutions, presented the prize for the best Computer Science Computer Engineering, and the University-specific Master's Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona for the 2018/19 academic degree results from Barcelona University that went to Mr. Martí Degree in Information Management, graduating from the year with the aim of recognizing the most innovative Final Year Huerta for his performance over the four-year period. The Technical School of Computer Engineering at UPV, and Projects within the digital transformation area, placing award ceremony took place at the Assembly Hall of Barcelona included an award to the best academic records in each degree particular emphasis on the proposed technologies, the University’s historic building, on the emblematic Gran Via de category. possibility to innovate on the solutions provided and their Les Corts Catalanes. Mr. Víctor Alicart, a manager at practical use in business. Management Solutions, presented the prize for the best The event was chaired by Mr. Eduardo Vendrell, Vice Rector for Computer Science degree for the Barcelona Autonomous Studies, Quality and Accreditation at UPV, and addressed on Mr. Iker Yabar, Director at Management Solutions, handed the University. The ceremony took place as part of the graduation behalf of Management Solutions by Mr. José Manuel Navas, prize to the best Computer Science Final Year Project from ceremony organized by the University's School of Engineering who received a recognition award for the firm's special Deusto, which went to Mr. Jon Ibáñez Gilsanz for his work at the Campus de la Vila hotel. relationship with the University. 111 University Conducting workshops on “conflict management and with real case studies from typical consulting projects, involved in the evaluation of the projects as a member of the decision making” at ICAI, Spain exploring the importance of teamwork in order to achieve panel created for each area composed of the Head of the objectives. School, a representative of the sponsoring Firm and the In 2019, Management Solutions professionals conducted 11 professor responsible for the project, who are tasked with workshops on “conflict management and decision-making” deciding which projects are to be awarded. Sponsorship of Awards to the best Final Year Project at (as part of Professional Skills Diploma for Engineering degrees ICAI, Spain at ICAI), which were attended by more than 200 second-year Business Family and Family Business Program at Deusto, ICAI degree course students. In 2011 Management Solutions joined the sponsorship of Spain awards to the best Final Year Project at ICAI (Escuela Técnica During the workshops, students were able to review the Superior de Ingeniería, Universidad Pontificia Comillas), thus In 2019, Management Solutions sponsored the Business importance of teamwork through different dynamics and continuing the work carried out by the Firm to support senior Family and Family Business program developed by Deusto exercises aimed at reinforcing teamwork skills and achieving year projects in collaboration with ICAI since 2005. Business School and INSEAD with the aim of systematically objectives while working as a team. Specifically, students addressing the essential concerns of the business family/ proactively participated in dynamics focused on improving Organized by subject areas, in 2019 Management Solutions family business, sharing and comparing experiences, group decision making, managing stress using different sponsored the award to the area of Integration of artificial generating open and inspiring debates, provoking critical techniques, and practicing how to give and receive criticism intelligence into the management process , by making a reflections, and consolidating an agenda for the future. within the team. This workshop allowed them to experiment financial contribution towards the awards and becoming Management Solutions Award for the best ADE Final Year Project on “Data Analysis and Data Science”, Spain In 2019, Comillas Pontifical University ICAI-ICADE and Management Solutions signed a collaboration agreement for the creation of the Management Solutions Data Analysis and Data Science Award, aimed at recognizing the best ADE Final Year Project in this field. The formal event to sign the agreement was chaired by Ms. Mª Teresa Corzo, Dean of the Economics and Business Studies Faculty at Comillas ICAI-ICADE Pontifical University, and Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, President of Management Solutions, and was also attended by Mr. Javier Márquez, Vice Dean for Institutional Relations and Research and Ms. Marta Ramos Aguilar, Final Year Project Awards coordinator, as well as by Ms. Cristina López and Mr. Miguel Ángel Poblet, Management Solutions partners. Signing of the agreement for the Management Solutions Award to the best ADE Final Year Project on “Data Analysis and Data Science”, Spain 112 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sponsorship and patronage Committed to the environment The sponsorship and patronage of business and cultural Thanks to the support and financial contribution of its activities is always present in Management Solutions’ members, this Club has managed to sustain its activity for The Firm keeps an active policy business strategy. Thus, the Firm collaborates, to the best of over 20 years in four broad areas: energy know-how, on sponsorship and patronage its abilities, with university foundations, cultural institutions training, publications and on-line dissemination. and other non-profit associations. Spanish Risk Management Club Royal Theater in Madrid, Spain Management Solutions is a member of the Board of Management Solutions is a Sponsor of the Royal Theater in Trustees of the Spanish Risk Management Club and, with its Madrid. With the economic contribution we make to the financial contributions, helps to create and sustain the Royal Theatre (for the fourteenth consecutive year now), we activities that form part of the Club’s founding purpose. help with the dissemination, appreciation and knowledge of lyrical arts, music and dance. In addition, through the The main objectives of this new association are to act as a contribution we help with the following: protecting and meeting point and provide a forum for debate on the promoting the enrichment of our artistic heritage, systems and methods used to manage, monitor, analyze preserving and advancing the research of Spain's musical and measure the risks arising from financial activity. The and operatic heritage while promoting and encouraging association also acts to foster the exchange of ideas, attendance by the general public to its performances and other activities. Mr. Alfonso Serrano-Suñer, Chairman of Management Solutions, is a member of the Royal Theater's Board of Trustees, which forms the institution’s main sponsors under the chairmanship of Mr. Alfredo Sáenz. The Board of Trustees aims to promote the participation from society in the smooth running of the Royal Theater. Spanish Energy Club (ENERCLUB) Management Solutions is a member of the Spanish Energy Club (ENERCLUB). The ENERCLUB was established to provide a forum for dialogue and for the exchange of ideas among companies and professionals in the energy industry, with the main goals of fostering new ideas on the rational use of energy, the conservation of the environment and sustainable development. Board of Trustees of the Royal Theatre of Madrid, Spain 113 Sponsorship and patronage experiences and opinions on best practices in this field. Its improve the organizational standards of the corporate Institute of Spanish Actuaries objectives also include maintaining close contact with functions involved in risk measurement, and to share regulatory authorities and other bodies pursuing the same knowledge of risk measurement criteria in order to improve Management Solutions is a supporting member of the goals, and disseminating knowledge through the organization their operation and use. Institute of Spanish Actuaries (IAE), Spain’s main actuarial and development of FRM (Financial Risk Manager) training association and a full member of the Groupe Consultatif programs and internet courses. Actuariel Européen and the International Actuarial Bundesverband deutscher Banken, Germany Association. As a trustee of the Club and with one of its partners sitting on Since 2015, Management Solutions has been a member of the the Board of Directors, Management Solutions contributes to Bundesverband deutscher Banken (German Banking The Institute’s main functions are to: represent its members the financing and maintenance of the various activities that Association), which represents 200 private commercial banks in any issues related to its activity, organize and foster all are organized. and 11 regional associations. The association aims to serve as kinds of studies and activities related to the actuarial a meeting point between the financial industry, the profession, collaborate with the competent bodies and government, the industry’s regulators and supervisory authorities when the professional activity needs to be British Bankers’ Association, UK authorities through forums, industry events and specialized regulated (this regulation will adhere to the most rigorous In 2014 Management Solutions became an associate member publications. scientific and ethical principles), exercise authority, protect of the British Bankers’ Association (BBA), a leading UK and monitor the professional activities of the Institute organization that represents the interest of more than 240 members, resolve any professional issues that may arise financial institutions operating in more than 180 countries. Royal Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural among its members and establish and maintain Science, Spain relationships and exchanges with national or international The BBA promotes and supports policies and initiatives that Management Solutions sponsors the Friends of the Royal bodies of a technical, scientific or professional nature while are favorable to both their members and the wider public, Spanish Academy of Sciences Association (ARAC) as a sign of pursuing activities totally or partially related to the with their centered on 3 priorities: i) Ensuring the correct its social commitment to the academic world and research. Institute’s purposes. relationship between financial institutions and customers, Through this sponsorship the Firm also supports the sharing regardless of size, ii) Promoting growth in the UK, working and transformation of scientific knowledge. With the Royal Consorcio Alastria, Spain towards consolidating it as a global financial center, iii) Raising Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural Science (RAC) and its standards in the banking industry – both professional and Foundation, the active patronage goes beyond financial In 2017, Management Solutions, together with Spain’s key ethical. support. banking, energy and telecommunications organizations, founded the world’s first multi-industry network that uses The Royal Academy of Exact, Physical and Natural Science is a Blockchain to enable and speed up digital transformation AIFIRM Associazione Italiana Financial Industry Risk Spanish public organization devoted to the study and across industry and business. Managers research of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, Management Solutions has been a member of AIFIRM engineering and other science related disciplines. The Alastria network safeguards the identity of participants (Associazione Italiana Financial Industry Risk Management) and ensures all operations carried out on the network are since 2016. AIFIRM is an association that brings together and The ARAC's goals are mainly to facilitate RAC’s objectives and to indelibly recorded, allowing participants to offer and receive represents professionals in the financial, banking and facilitate the dissemination of scientific and technological services with legal effectiveness in Spain and in accordance insurance industries working in the risk departments of the advances and outreach activities. with European regulations. country’s main financial institutions. The organization aims to 114 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Management Solutions supports the Friends of the Royal Theater Foundation, Spain For the third consecutive year, Management Solutions collaborated with the Foundation through an economic contribution, once again showing its commitment to the sponsorship and patronage of cultural associations and institutions as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility strategy. In addition, in 2019 more than 70 Management Solutions professionals renewed their support for the Friends of the Royal Theater Foundation, whose aim is to support, encourage, and develop Teatro Real’s activities and cultural projects, also supported by an economic contribution from the Firm. Management Solutions’ participation in the consortium will objective is to prepare documentation that facilitates the of Commerce in Spain and the Spanish Chamber of allow the Firm to participate in the design of Spain’s first understanding and implications of digital transformation, Commerce in the UK. The aim of these institutions is to DLT, build projects and offer services on the platform, as well primarily focusing on companies while providing strengthen ties between organizations. as innovate and contribute to society in Spain by creating a educational and practical content that is supported by Blockchain products and services platform. academics and experts. Our membership in these chambers of commerce reinforces our ties with leading institutions and Currently, more than 30 professionals with expert organizations in the markets in which Management Círculo de Empresarios, Spain knowledge on subjects from the most important sectors of Solutions operates. Círculo de Empresarios in Spain is a thought and debate the Spanish economy participate in this venture. think tank that serves the Spanish society. It aims to promote free market and free enterprise principles, recognize the social value of entrepreuners as creators of jobs, wealth and Chambers of Commerce general wellbeing, and to advance entrepreneurial spirit. Management Solutions is a supporting member of the Spanish Chamber of Commerce in China, the Brazil Chamber Through its Chairman, Management Solutions collaborates of Commerce in Spain, the Spanish Chamber of Commerce with the Institution, and since 2017, has been directing the in Brazil, the Polish-Spanish Chamber of Commerce, the Working Group on Digital Transformation. Their main Spanish Chamber of Commerce in Italy, the British Chamber 115 Cooperation agreements Síndrome de Down Madrid Foundation National Organization of Spanish Blind People Management Solutions has signed several cooperation To strengthen its commitment to facilitating job integration In 2014, Management Solutions signed a cooperation agreements with various for people with Down syndrome and intellectual disabilities, agreement with Ilunion Travel, an agency belonging to the Management Solutions signed an agreement with the ONCE Group of Companies and their Foundation (National foundations and organizations Síndrome de Down Madrid Foundation (Down Madrid) in 2015 Organization of Spanish Blind People), that strengthened its that promote charitable, as part of the Stela Aided Employment program, which aims commitment to employing people with disabilities. Since to facilitate and promote the social and professional then, Ilunion Travel has been providing travel agency services entrepreneurship and social integration of people with Down syndrome and intellectual to the Firm (including everything related to booking integration causes disabilities into ordinary work environments. transportation, managing hotel bookings for business trips, etc.). Down Madrid is a non-profit organization declared of public usefulness whose mission is to achieve individual autonomy Ilunion Travel is qualified as a Special Employment Center (for and social inclusion for people with Down syndrome and companies whose goal is to provide people with disabilities other intellectual disabilities. with productive and remunerative work). Ilunion’s commitment is to promote equal opportunities and full inclusion for people with disabilities through job creation and Créate Foundation to work towards universal accessibility. Management Solutions is a founding sponsor of Fundación Créate, a non-profit organization established in 2011 in response to the need to train people to adapt to a Microfinance Project continuously changing society. The BBVA Foundation for Microfinance is a not-for-profit entity whose purpose is to promote access to credit and other As part of its board of trustees, Management Solutions financial services for society’s most disadvantaged groups in collaborates with the Foundation’s mission: promoting quality order to facilitate the development of small-scale productive and innovation in education to awaken the talent and activities, while contributing to the improvement of living entrepreneurial spirit of children and young people by standards of families and the sustainable development of the researching, developing and implementing educational communities in which the Bank operates. methodologies, techniques and innovative tools for use in schools and other learning environments. The Foundation has initially focused its efforts in Latin America (work is already underway in Puerto Rico, Panama, In addition to actively participating in events and programs Peru, Colombia, Chile and Argentina), since this region organized by the Foundation, in 2018 Management Solutions constitutes the network’s corporate center. In addition to sponsored the 2nd Madrid Mini-Marathon, organized by the capital, this region will benefit from shared governance and Créate Foundation with the aim of promoting individual and management systems, a common technological base, facilities team sports as a holistic endeavor that develops different to raise finance on international markets, the general personal dimensions. The event involved nearly 5,000 young advantages derived from economies of scale and from the people between the ages of 10 and 17 from 43 schools in scope afforded by this network. Madrid that ran 4.2 kilometers, 10% of a marathon. From code to project”, Créate Foundation 116 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Management Solutions has worked in partnership with the From code to project” educational program Foundation’s Risk Area to design and implement a credit risk As a member of the Créate Foundation board, in 2018 and for the sixth consecutive year, Management Solutions model for microfinance, integrate this model in the encouraged its professionals to participate in program From code to project , a new way of teaching the Technology, contracting process, design and implement an IT platform for Programming and Robotics subject with the goal of promoting the development of an entrepreneurial IT project. This risk management and improve commercial and operational program also fosters critical thinking and problem solving skills while teaching students about programming and robotics efficiency. by professionals from the Firm who are experts and knowledgeable in this field. Solidarity Program at work in collaboration with AECC This program allows students to learn the subject in an applied and real way; a group of Management Solutions professionals shared a session with 11-year-old (6th grade) students from the CEIP Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba school in Madrid, advising them in a personalized way about the design of their project (project model, mission and values, brand). In March 2012, Management Solutions joined this initiative launched by Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (AECC), which consists of spreading monthly health messages targeted at business groups related to the prevention and early detection of cancer. Management Solutions has continued participating with the Solidarity Program in 2019 through distribution of AECC newsletters on healthy eating, which explain the importance of prevention and instilling healthy habits among young people while raising awareness about different types of cancer. individualized occupational training to enable people with Collaboration agreements with schools intellectual disabilities to be placed in ordinary jobs while offering employment services with ongoing support to In 2018, Management Solutions signed a Collaboration Prodis Foundation encourage equal opportunities in hiring, retention and Agreement with the French Lycée and the Everest School in Management Solutions collaborates with Promentor, a promotion in the workplace. The Foundation also provides Madrid to offer their high school students their first work training program launched by the Prodis Foundation for the intellectually disabled workers who exercise their right to experience. For three days, groups of students from both inclusion of young people with disabilities in the workplace, work in ordinary jobs with continuous training throughout schools were able to learn about the Firm’s operation, mission by hiring professionals from the Foundation. their lives and gives them the necessary support so that they and goals, the values shared by Management Solutions are able to enjoy their leisure time and fully participate in professionals as well as the industries in which the Firm Prodis Foundation's aim is to provide people with disabilities their community. operates and the lines of service it provides. This was achieved with the necessary support to improve their lives and the lives by meeting with different professionals to get a close view of of their families. The Foundation launched the Promentor In order to meet these objectives, the program starts with a the different types of projects carried out, in addition to initiative in 2005 in partnership with Universidad Autónoma “Training for Job Inclusion” course (recognized by participating in a case study on consulting. de Madrid. Universidad Autónoma de Madrid as their own qualification), after which all graduating students enter the “Supported This initiative seeks to help people with intellectual disabilities Employment” program, which provides them with the to design a Life Project through individualized plans based on necessary support to join the labor market. PCP (Person-centered planning). The Foundation also provides 117 Social Action Since the Social Action Group was first created, Management society. That year, a group of fifteen Management Solutions The Firm encourages and Solutions professionals have conducted numerous activities in professionals accepted the proposal offered by the Firm supports initiatives for solidarity association with various NGOs and charities. which would cover all travel expenses, to spend their summer carried out by its professionals Throughout 2019, Management Solutions has organized and vacation collaborating with the Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata, India. This is how our Solidarity Summer was born, an sponsored community development projects promoted by the activity that continued in 2007 with Guayaquil, Ecuador, as a Social Action Group and has endorsed and financially destination, and took place again in Kolkata from 2008 to 2011. supported many other solidarity activities carried out by staff. Since 2012, our Solidarity Summer involves collaborating with the “Volunteers on the ground” program run by NGO Ayuda en Solidarity projects organized by Management Acción. In 2012 and 2013, our professionals travelled to Hogar Solutions: Teresa de los Andes in Bolivia, a home supported by this Spanish NGO that looks after 200 children with different levels Solidarity Summer of intellectual disability. Between 2014 and 2016 the volunteer Since 2006, Management Solutions has been facilitating program took place in Santo Domingo de los Tsáchilas, in participation by its professionals in a summer volunteer Ecuador; while in 2017 the activity was carried out in Waslala program organized by an NGO, through which those who are (Nicaragua), together with the Madre Tierra Foundation interested are given the opportunity to collaborate with a (FUMAT), with the aim of reducing the poverty of rural solidarity project that seeks to help the most disadvantaged in households. Solidarity Summer in Kolkata, India 118 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment In 2018 and 2019 our Solidarity Summer program took place need by taking advantage of the proximity of the Christmas given to the Bizkaia Food Bank to be later donated to people again in Kolkata. In 2019, more than 50 volunteers joined season and using a movie release as a way to encourage without resources. from our offices in Spain, United Kingdom, Poland, the United participation. In Spain, in 2019 this event was held States, Mexico, Colombia, Brazil, Peru and Chile. Given the simultaneously in Madrid, Bilbao and Barcelona. In Barcelona, where the Solidarity film screening event was high participation, volunteers were organized into different held this year for the first time ever, more than 300 people groups and had the opportunity to teach some support The Madrid event brought together more than 2,500 people, gathered and managed to collect more than 600 kilos of food classes and organize a number of daytrips for children cared including our professionals, former members of our Firm and and children's products (porridge, diapers, etc.) that were for by different New Light centers, in addition to some of our main clients and their families. Thanks to the delivered to the Banc dels Aliments in Barcelona. collaborating with Mother Teresa centers, Pre Dam center for generosity of all attendees, we were able to collect almost the terminally and chronically ill, Shanti Dan for women and 6,500 kg of non-perishable food, baby food and diapers, The children were the real stars of the day and those who girls with a disability, and the Shishu Bhavan orphanage, which were delivered that morning to the Madrid most enjoyed the screened movie and videos, as well as the where they undertook different tasks such as washing headquarters of the Missionaries of Charity to be distributed shows and workshops offered by the actors upon arrival and clothes, preparing food, and helping to care for the children. to people in need who visit their charitable dining halls every throughout the reception following the movie. Social Action day. volunteers organized these activities, arranged the logistics for the day and delivered all that was collected to the Solidarity Film Preview In Bilbao, the ninth edition of Management Solutions’ charitable institutions. In 2005 Management Solutions launched its Solidarity Solidarity Film Preview event gathered 800 people who Cinema initiative, a family activity to collect food for those in together were able to collect around 1,500 kg of food that was Solidarity Film Preview, Mexico City Solidarity Film Preview, Santiago de Chile 119 Social Action The success of this initiative in Spain has gradually spread to Solutions is a founding patron of this organization that helps After the success of the first edition, in October the Firm other Management Solutions offices. In 2019, Solidarity to promote innovation and entrepreneurship among children organized a second Charity Race, which was attended by Cinema events also took place in Mexico City, São Paulo and and young people. close to 600 people, which is double the participation Santiago de Chile. achieved in the first Charity Race. Both races had an added social purpose, since the water In Mexico, Solidarity Cinema was held for the fourth time and distributed to the runners was from AUARA, a social enterprise First Management Solutions’ Charity Golf Tournament brought together close to 300 Management Solutions that dedicates 100% of its dividends to a social purpose professionals and clients and their families. Their generosity related to the lack of water in the world and the problems that In 2019 Management Solutions held its first Internal Golf made it possible to collect 1,000 kilos of nonperishable food this can cause. Tournament at Golf Santander, organized to collaborate with that was delivered that same day to Fundación Clara Moreno y Créate Foundation, of which Management Solutions is a Miramón, an institution whose purpose is to transform the The first of the two races, designed so that both running founding sponsor of. 90 players, including Management lives of girls and adolescents at risk of ending up on the enthusiasts and families could enjoy a day of sports with a Solutions professionals, clients and collaborators, streets through comprehensive care programs. charitable purpose in the Financial City Forest at Boadilla del participated in the Tournament, held at the Santander Golf Monte (Spain), was entered by close to 300 people who Course in Boadilla del Monte. The Chile office held their third Solidarity Cinema in 2019, participated in different runs: 5 and 10 km, 2 km nonbringing together around 200 people including MS competitive walk, and 300, 500 and 1,000 meter children's The funds raised will be used to support the educational professionals, some of our main clients and collaborators, and races depending on their age. programs and activities organized by Créate Foundation, to their families. The Firm collected nearly 300 kilos of nonperishable food that were delivered to Hogar San Ricardo, a residence for children with severe mental disabilities who are sent there by the National Service for the Protection of Minors when they are in a situation of abandonment, are socially vulnerable and/or do not have a parent or guardian. In Brazil, the volunteers from our São Paulo office accompanied the children from the Santo Amaro Home (an institution that cares for 30 children and adolescents between the ages of 0 and 17 who have no resources and are in situations of extreme social risk) in what was a great afternoon full of fun. The activity began with the screening of a children's movie at a cinema in a well-known mall in São Paulo. The children enjoyed the film with popcorn and soft drinks, and at the end had dinner at a local restaurant. 3rd Management Solutions Charity Race In 2019 Management Solutions held its third Charity Race, organized to raise funds to collaborate with the educational programs and activities of Créate Foundation. Management Solidarity Film Preview, Madrid 120 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment promote innovation and entrepreneurship among children Donation of computers and cell phones treatment in addition to recycling tons of plastic tops in order and young people. to eliminate some CO2 emissions, which is one of the main Management Solutions regularly collaborates with different causes of climate change. organizations by donating used computers and cell phones Blood donation campaigns once they have been replaced. This helps to reduce the Firm's Given the positive response to this initiative by the Firm’s In 2007 Management Solutions’ Social Action Group launched environmental footprint while also allowing us to fulfill the professionals, we continued to collect tops during 2019, the Firm’s first blood donation campaign in collaboration need that society's underprivileged groups have for these reaching a total of 50 kilos. with the Spanish Red Cross. This initiative has since taken tools. place every year with more than 38 volunteers participating in the Madrid donation. Solidarity projects carried out by Management Plastic tops collection for solidarity Solutions professionals and supported by the Firm in In 2019, the initiative was also held in both Management At the beginning of 2013, following a suggestion by one of cooperation with NGOs and charities Solutions’ offices in Mexico City, in partnership with Blooders the Firm’s professionals, Management Solutions launched an Pro-Am Tournament organized by the Deporte y Desafío A.C. 50 volunteers were able to participate in this initiative, initiative across all its offices to collect plastic tops for charity Foundation, Spain which shows the awareness and impact of our professionals in order to collaborate with the “Tops for a new life” can have through these types of campaigns. program. This program, run by the Seur Foundation, seeks to The Tournament, in which Management Solutions help children with health problems who need medical participated for the tenth year, was held at the Santander golf 3rd Management Solutions Charity Race in Madrid, Spain 3rd Management Solutions Charity Race in Madrid, Spain 121 Social Action course in Boadilla del Monte, and included the participation of 10 teams (including a professional golfer on the European Tour and four amateur players). Christmas Solidarity Over 500 Management Solutions professionals brought hope to families in need through a “Solidarity Christmas” campaign, organized for the eleventh consecutive year and consisting of several initiatives in Spain, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Poland, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, United States, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Peru, Chile and Argentina. In Spain, the “True Magi campaign was organized to raise gifts for children in shelters in several Spanish cities who would otherwise not have received any gifts on Three Kings Day. The campaign was once again a great success and, thanks to the participation of more than 140 Management Solutions professionals from Madrid, Barcelona and Bilbao, it became possible for disadvantaged children in these centers to receive the gifts they had previously asked for in a letter to their individual Magi. Our United Kingdom office collaborated with the Toy Appeal campaign to collect gifts for children from families without resources in East London. The campaign was organized by ELBA, a foundation that seeks to combine the efforts and resources of the private sector to offer possibilities for improvement to local communities in need. The Social Action Group in our German office once again launched a food collection to collaborate with Frankfurtel Tafel, an organization that helps disadvantaged families by delivering food packages and organizing social canteens. Our offices in France, Poland and Italy collaborated with different local hospitals through gift collections that were delivered by the volunteers to the children admitted during the Christmas season. 122 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Our Netherlands office collaborated for the first time with the toys that had previously been collected (especially school sisters of Management Solutions professionals) showed their Stichting Babyspullen, an organization that helps families supplies for the next school term), they shared a day of games artistic skills. The winning entry was produced by Martina, 5, without resources that have recently had a baby by providing and activities with the children. and Samuel, 3. them with essential items for the little ones (clothes, bottles, milk, etc.). In addition to the donation, volunteers spent an Also, professionals in our Peru office organized a Christmas Children's day in Brazil afternoon at the center helping to sort donated clothing and chocolatada for more than 130 children who are supported by preparing packages that would later be delivered to families. the Institute for the Education of Adolescents and Working During children's day , professionals from our São Paulo office Children INFANT, an organization whose mission is the holistic organized a fundraiser to buy non-perishable food, a television Professionals in the Management Solutions Portugal office development of working children and adolescents (NNATS) in and board games for the Lar Grossarl Shelter, with the aim of joined efforts to provide children cared for by Ajuda de Berço Peru and the Latin American region, as well as advancing the promoting their social and family reintegration and improving with the toys they asked Santa for. Ajuda de Berço is an promotion of their rights and raising awareness in order to the quality of life for the children at the shelter. organization that takes care of children aged 0-3 in a situation contribute to a fair and dignified society. of risk at two different shelters in Lisbon. The volunteers also had the opportunity to share in a small In Chile, the Viejito Pascuero campaign was organized once party organized for the 11 to 17 year-olds supported by the Lar Likewise, professionals from our US offices collaborated with St. again in collaboration with Jardín Infantil Tai Tai, a center that Grossarl shelter, during which the gifts were delivered. Jude Children’s Research Hospital by collecting gifts for children cares for close to 70 children between the ages of 3 and 5 in the and teenagers with cancer and other serious illnesses who were Estación Central community. The aim of the campaign was to in the hospital during the Christmas period. provide each child in the center with a Christmas present. The involvement of professionals from our Chile office meant all In Mexico, the “Be a Child’s Wise Man” campaign was organized children received their present directly from Viejito Pascuero again in collaboration with Casa Hogar Amparo, an institution during a celebration organized by the center’s volunteers. whose purpose is to ensure the optimal, holistic development of the girls at risk of exclusion, providing them with education, In Argentina, our office collaborated for the first time with the protection and a family atmosphere with values based on love. Pedro de Elizalde Public Children's Hospital. Volunteers Thanks to the participation of professionals from our Mexico collected puzzles, board games and storybooks that were then City offices, all the girls in this Casa Hogar received the gifts they delivered directly to the children in the hospital. had asked for in their letters to their individual Wise Men. Christmas with Ayuda en Acción Our Colombia office collaborated with the “Building dreams” project from the Catalina Muñoz Foundation, which seeks to For the thirteenth year running, Management Solutions' serve vulnerable communities through the construction of Christmas cards were made in collaboration with an NGO. prefabricated housing modules. Thanks to the Firm’s Ayuda en Acción was the NGO chosen this year and all contribution and selfless effort of professionals in our Bogota proceeds from the purchases of Christmas cards went to office, it was possible to build a prefabricated house for a family collaborate with ”Schools for the future , a project that the without resources. NGO launched in Mozambique to help children in the area receive a complete and appropriate education. Professionals from Management Solutions Brazil collaborated once again with Casa da Criança Santo Amaro, a São Paulo To choose the card's design, a now traditional competition shelter for 6 to 14 year olds in need, by organizing a was organized in which more than 200 young participants volunteering afternoon during which, in addition to handing (the children, nephews and nieces as well as brothers and Christmas with Ayuda en Acción 123 Social Action Volunteering with Down Madrid, Spain Campaigns to support Mozambique after Cyclone Idai, Portugal Volunteering at the Saica 2 Children’s Home, Brazil Volunteering with Down Madrid, Spain Campaigns to support Mozambique after Cyclone Idai, Portugal Management Solutions Brazil’s Social Action group organized In January 2010, Management Solutions’ Social Action Group an Easter community support campaign at the Saica 2 launched an ongoing collaboration to support the Down’s In light of the damages caused by Cyclone Idai, which Children’s Home, an institution that takes care of children Syndrome Foundation of Madrid which involved the devastated Mozambique on March 14, the Portugal Social without resources who are at risk of extreme social situations. organization of indoor soccer matches between the Firm’s Action Group organized a collection to help the thousands of professionals and the children under the Foundation’s care. affected families. Thanks to the generosity of Management Management Solutions’ volunteers had the opportunity to Solutions professionals, the Firm collected non-perishable food, share a fun day with the children of the Home and give to each Also in collaboration with the Foundation, our Social Action baby food, basic necessities and medicines. All of it was given of them an “Easter kit”. Group has organized several single day volunteering events in to the firefighters in the city of Lisbon (RSB), who were which Management Solutions professionals share a fun day of organizing and sending the aid to the African country in leisure activities (for example, at multi-adventure parks or at collaboration with the Mozambique embassy in Portugal. Festa Junina, Brazil natural related centers) with a group of children with Down’s On the occasion of the traditional Brazilian holiday “Festas syndrome. “No child without a mustache milk collection campaign, Juninas”, the Social Action Group in our São Paulo office Spain organized its second “Festa Junina Solidária”, aimed at raising In 2019, our Social Action Group once again organized a funds for future Social Action activities, as well as collecting volunteering activity in collaboration with Down Madrid, in In 2019, Management Solutions joined the No child without a warm clothing in good condition and non-perishable food to which volunteers had the opportunity to share a day at the mustache campaign launched by Caixabank in collaboration collaborate with a shelter that welcomes homeless people. amusement park in Madrid with Down Madrid young with the Food Bank to collect milk cartons for children without individuals. resources. 124 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment The event held in Frankfurt served as a benefit and created awareness for the German Sport Aid Foundation and the German Disabled Sports Youth, while the London race helped to raise funds for the Alzheimer’s Society, the United Kingdom’s leading dementia charity. London Winter Run, United Kingdom A group of professionals from the Firm met in Central London to complete the 10 km run past some of London's most iconic landmarks. The race, which was entered by some 23,000 runners, was part of the Winter Run Series , a series of races held in different UK cities, all with the aim of raising funds to help Cancer Research UK in its fight against the disease. J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge, United Kingdom Management Solutions' teams performed outstandingly, with one of our professionals winning fourth place. “Race for the Cure”, Italy The campaign is carried out coinciding with the end of the In both the virtual and physical race, Management Solutions school year, since over the summer many children at risk of made an economic contribution (by taking care of the Professionals from Management Solutions Rome participated social exclusion do not have food that is essential to their registration costs of all physical race participants and donating for the first time in “Race for the Cure”, a charity event growth and they have to go to social canteens in order to eat. 1 euro per kilometer traveled by those MS professionals who organized in some 100 cities around the world by the Susan G. participated through the app). Komen Foundation with the aim of raising funds to help prevent, treat and cure breast cancer. The event, which in Global 6K for water, Spain World Vision, an NGO present in 100 countries worldwide, has addition to the race included four days of charitable sporting Management Solutions participated in the Global 6K for water, been working since 1950 to improve the life and future of events and health activities at Circus Massimo in the Italian a race organized by the NGO World Vision to raise funds for millions of children in six areas (nutrition and health, education, capital, brought together about 80,000 people. children from disadvantaged areas through projects to help child protection, water and sanitation, and economic security them access water. In addition to the physical race held in for families). The Susan G. Komen Foundation against breast cancer is an Madrid, the organization made it possible for anyone to international non-governmental organization that was created collaborate with the solidarity goal through a virtual race in 1982 and has a network of more than 75,000 volunteers with J.P. Morgan Corporate Challenge, Germany and United allowing runners to accumulate kilometers anywhere in the a goal of eradicating breast cancer. Kingdom world using an app, which meant Global 6K for water has been the first global competition open to the participation of Management Solutions professionals participated at the J.P. 6th Running against cancer race, Spain all our offices. Morgan Corporate Challenge held in Frankfurt and London. Both races were part of an initiative organized by J.P. Morgan Over 60 Management Solutions professionals participated for across different countries with the goal of promoting values the sixth consecutive year in the Running Against Cancer race such as teamwork, health and commitment to the environment. organized in Madrid by the Asociación Española Contra el 125 Social Action Cáncer (AECC) to raise funds for research on this disease. The race consisted of three course distances (2, 4 and 10 km) through the center of Madrid and included 18,000 participating runners. AECC is an NGO, set up in 1953, that brings together patients, their families, volunteers and professionals who work side by side in prevention and awareness raising, while also supporting individuals and funding cancer research projects in order to better diagnose and treat the disease. 3rd Barcelona running against cancer race, Spain Management Solutions professionals participated in the 3rd Barcelona running against cancer race in Barcelona by the Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (AECC) to raise funds for research. “Run for a cause, run for a light for girls”, Spain Somerville 5K ‘Detour’ Road Race, United States The race consisted of three course distances (5 and 10 km and a 2 km non-competitive walk) through Fórum Park and had 5,000 participating runners. 9th Down Madrid race, Spain Green Race 2019, Colombia “Run for a cause, run for a light for girls”, Spain A group of Management Solutions professionals participated in More than 20 professionals from Management Solutions met at Management Solutions professionals participated in the Madrid the 9th Down Madrid race organized by Down Madrid. the Simón Bolívar Park in Bogota for the fourth time to and Barcelona edition of the charity race “Run for a cause, run Management Solutions was a sponsor with the aim of raising participate in the Green Race initiative organized by Natura for a Light for Girls”, organized by the Entreculturas foundation funds for leisure and sports projects for people with Down Foundation -a civil society organization dedicated to the to raise funds to collaborate with the Light for Girls program, syndrome and other intellectual disabilities who are supported preservation, use and management of biodiversity to generate an initiative that takes place in 12 countries in Africa and by the foundation. social, economic and environmental benefits-, and Fundación America to support over 12,700 girls and adolescents who are Grupo Argos -an organization focused on the preservation, at risk of violence by promoting their access to education while The event, held in the Juan Carlos I park in Madrid under the restoration, sustainable use and protection of biodiversity as providing prevention and care. motto “Your kms = their inclusion”, gave participants the option part of a wider environmental conservation purpose. Banco de of completing a 2.5km, 5 km or a 10 km run, and resulted in the Bogotá also helped organize this initiative. The race, organized by the Entreculturas Foundation (a nonparticipation of over 5,000 runners. After the race, Management profit Jesuit NGO that focuses on education as an instrument Solutions, along with other sponsors, received recognition from Under the slogan Nature wants you to run for the forests and for development, transformation and dialogue between Down Madrid for its collaboration in this event. water the goal of the race was to renew local forests as three cultures) in 13 Spanish cities, resulted in the outstanding native trees will be planted for each runner registered in the performance of the Firm's professionals who achieved victory in race. The race also focused on raising awareness about the the male category for both the 5km and the 10km races. need to respect the environment. 126 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Somerville 5K ‘Detour’ Road Race, United States For the sixth year in a row, professionals from our Boston Office met in Somerville, Massachusetts, to participate in the 24th annual race Somerville 5K 'Detour' Road Race , organized with the aim of raising funds to support local homelessness. Somerville Homeless Coalition is a non-profit organization “Our professionals are the ones which has the mission to provide homeless and near homeless that lead the firm's social persons and families with individualized supportive services commitment in each and every and tailored housing solutions with the goal of obtaining and one of our offices ” maintaining affordable housing. Rumpshaker Race, United States Management Solutions is actively involved in the More than 20 Management Solutions professionals participated communities where it operates. Through the Social in the 11th Annual Rumpshaker Run held in Birmingham with Action Group, it organizes many solidarity activities 5th FUCAM Race, Mexico the goal of promoting awareness about colorectal cancer. in collaboration with different NGOs and charities. The race, which offered two options (a 5k run and a one-mile Professionals from all our offices, backed by the non-competitive walk), both through the center of Birmingham, Firm, show a selfless dedication to those most at a Thanks to the participation of 6,000 runners, it will be possible Alabama, raised $98,000 for Rumpshaker a nonprofit disadvantage by engaging in various solidarity to plant 18,000 native trees that will grow in Fundación Natura organization whose mission is to promote awareness about activities with positive impacts. reserves. colorectal cancer, raise funds to fight and treat it, and provide hope for colorectal cancer survivors and those fighting the The Firm is very proud of the strong social 2019 UNICEF 10K, Colombia disease. commitment shown by its professionals. A group of Management Solutions professionals participated at 5th FUCAM Race, Mexico the 2019 UNICEF 10K race in Bogota, an annual initiative organized by the United Nations International Children's More than 50 Management Solutions professionals participated Emergency Fund (UNICEF) to improve the lives of children and for the first time in the FUCAM race, an initiative that brought adolescents in vulnerable areas of Colombia and safeguard their together close to 7,000 people who, under the motto Making rights. breast cancer a disease of the past , ran to raise funds that will go towards breast reconstruction for 150 women. Under the slogan I run , nearly 6,000 participants gathered at Bogota's Parque Simón Bolívar to run in support of the country's FUCAM is a non-profit organization whose mission is to provide most vulnerable children. timely diagnosis, treatment and monitoring of breast cancer for Mexico's most unprotected and marginalized socio-economic groups. Rodolfo Castilla Partner at Management Solutions 127 Environment We are particularly sensitive to any environmental impact that may be caused by our activity While our activity has very limited environmental impact In 2013, Management Solutions prepared an Environmental 4 Reduce production of pollutants: gas emissions into the (environmental aspects of office-based activities), this is a Good Practice Guide, which provided all of its professionals atmosphere, soil and groundwater contamination, etc. matter of special concern for our Firm. The environmental with a basic understanding of environmental management, management model adopted by Management Solutions is and established a set of practical, useful and educational 4 Minimize and properly manage waste, cutting back waste based not only on ensuring continuous compliance with all recommendations aimed at changing or improving common generation and encouraging re-use and recycling. relevant regulatory requirements regarding the environment, behaviors within the office while decreasing the but also on exceeding requirements wherever possible. environmental impact caused by office activity and by each 4 Raise awareness to educate and inform others of the need individual. to protect our environment. Under this approach, the Firm seeks to implement best environmental practices in its internal operations to help slow Thus, the actions prescribed in the Environmental Good 4 Contribute to a sustainable development model, where the down consumption and minimize waste. Also, Management Practices Guide have the following primary goals: actual use of resources does not compromise the social Solutions is committed to raising awareness and involving its and environmental development of future generations. employees in environmental matters, according to their level 4 Improve energy efficiency and optimize the use of natural of responsibility, and providing the necessary knowledge to resources: water, energy, raw materials, etc. The measures explained below are supplemented by the enable implementation of good environmental practices. Firm’s participation in the Spanish Energy Club (ENERCLUB), 4 Preserve natural resources. an important platform for dialogue and a forum for companies and professionals in the energy industry to promote sustainable development and environmental preservation. 128 | 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Committed to the environment Reduced resource consumption For this reason, all buildings housing Management Solutions Waste management offices integrate various energy saving systems, such as Our type of activity and intensive use of technology make our thermostats, advanced insulation systems, movement sensors, Fluorescent lights and toner cartridges environmental impact very limited, as we do not generate any energy saving lights, automatic opening and closing faucets, waste of those considered to be dangerous. In spite of the low etc. For fluorescent lights and toner cartridges found in all of our polluting nature of our activity, we monitor our consumption offices, once depleted, they are deposited in special purpose levels of those resources we use the most (electricity, water and Our Madrid headquarters in Torre Picasso obtained the Aenor containers in the buildings housing our offices, or they are paper) and are committed to any recycling and optimization Certificate for Environmental Management that accredits the returned to the supplier for proper reuse or recycling. In 2019, initiatives. Firm’s commitment to environmental protection while also toner consumption was reduced by 2%. ensuring that it implements sound environmental practices. Paper Paper and packaging In addition, we must add the energy saving systems of printers Because of our activity, paper consumption is without a doubt and computers. This year 50% of our office space has switched Paper and packaging that can be recycled are separated one of the Firm’s most significant environmental impacts. to a LED lighting system, allowing us to save approximately appropriately so that management companies can properly However, increasing awareness on the part of all professionals 50% in energy expenditure on lighting. recycle them. In addition, our Madrid, Bilbao and Barcelona makes it possible to achieve reduced consumption levels. offices have special containers for placing confidential We intend to continue to reduce our use of these resources in documents that must be destroyed. An external company is In 2019, the use of paper sheets per person decreased by 2%. 2020 by promoting responsible usage among our responsible for collecting these containers on a weekly basis This reduction was achieved through initiatives such as setting professionals among other measures. as well as destroying and recycling these documents. During defaults on printers to double-sided mode, and through 2019, the amount of recycled paper increased by 10% growing awareness among professionals of the need to use compared to the previous year (representing more than ten Carbon footprint information in electronic form (such as training courses tons of recycled paper). available online through the Intranet and our online training The progressive implementation of technologies such as platform). videoconferencing, telepresence, live video streaming or the Computers and cell phones VPN connection, has led to a significant reduction in the Also, every year we make progress in reducing the number of number of trips made by our professionals, allowing for more As explained in the section on Social Action, the Firm’s global printed copies of publications and other paper items such as efficient energy management and contributing to the fight policy on computer equipment and mobile phones involves brochures, cards, event invitations, etc., as we promote the against global warming by reducing our corporate carbon donating devices that are still in good working condition to use of digital versions. As an example, in 2018 it was possible footprint. various NGOs. Equipment in worse condition is sold for parts to reduce the use of paper for corporate event tickets by that are reused, or if the model is no longer current, it is sent 100%, as these tickets were replaced by QR codes. In addition, city (and in many cases intercity) journeys made to a company for recycling. by Management Solutions professionals take place using a transport platform that since 2019 has been emissionsPower usage neutral. The platform achieved this by investing in projects The sound management of electricity in our daily activities is a that combat deforestation in parts of the Amazon rainforest to key factor in reducing the Firm’s energy impact. Therefore, offet the carbon footprint caused by their cars. Management Solutions not only relies on the awareness of all professionals, but pays particular attention to the location of its offices. 129 If you would like to express an opinion or doubt or make a suggestion about the information in this document, please contact: Marketing and Communication Department Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso 1, Torre Picasso 28020 Madrid, Spain marketing-comunicacion@managementsolutions.com Tel. (+34) 91 183 08 00 Fax (+34) 91 183 09 00 Madrid Beijing Plaza Pablo Ruiz Picasso, 1 1 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue 28020 – Madrid 100004 – Beijing Barcelona New York Avda. Diagonal, 654 1120 Avenue of the Americas 08034 – Barcelona NY 10036 – New York Bilbao Boston Pza. Euskadi, 5 21 Custom House Street 48009 – Bilbao MA 02110 – Boston La Coruña Birmingham* Avda. de Linares Rivas, 30 420 20th Street North 15005 – La Coruña AL 35203 – Birmingham London San Juan de Puerto Rico 6 Bevis Marks 154 Calle Rafael Cordero EC3A 7BA – London PR 00901 – San Juan Frankfurt Mexico City (Santa Fe) Bockenheimer Landstraße, 51-53 Prol. Paseo de la Reforma, 1015 60325 – Frankfurt am Mainv 01376 – Ciudad de México Paris Mexico City (Anzures) 14 Avenue D’Eylau Mariano Escobedo, 748 75116 – París 11590 – Ciudad de México Amsterdam Medellin Strawinskylaan 3051 Carrera 43 A, 1-50 1077 ZX – Amsterdam 050021– Medellín Oslo Bogota Edvard Storms gate 2 Carrera 7, 71-21 0166 – Oslo 110231 – Bogotá Warsaw Quito Emilii Plater, 53 Avenida Río Amazonas 4545 00-113 – Warszawa 170135 – Quito Zurich São Paulo Bellerivestraße, 201 Rua Funchal, 418 8034 – Zürich 04551-060 – São Paulo Milan Lima Via Giuseppe Mengoni, 4 Av. Coronel Andrés Reyes, 437 20121 Milano San Isidro 27 – Lima Rome Santiago de Chile Vía Vincenzo Bellini, 22 Enrique Foster Norte, 21 00198 Roma 755-0163 – Santiago Lisbon Buenos Aires Avenida da Liberdade, 245 Avda. Alicia Moreau de Justo, 140 1250-143 – Lisboa C1107AAD – Buenos Aires * From wich Atlanta is managed For more information on the Firm please visit: www.managementsolutions.com or at our social network channels © Management Solutions 2020 All rights reserved This publication may not be reproduced, distributed, publicly released or transformed, wholly or in part, freely or onerously, using any means or methods, without the prior written consent of Management Solutions. The contents of this publication are provided for information purposes only. Management Solutions does not accept any liability for the use that might be made of this information by third parties. The use of this material by anyone without the express authorization of Management Solutions is forbidden.
