Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Cover Story 001 Creating value to realize the Company Philosophy Contribute to the development of a safe, secure, and prosperous global society by offering Original & High Level products and services with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm sustainability of a safe, secure, and Company Achieve continuous growth with sustainable superior profits through innovation, using all prosperous global society Vision knowledge of all parties and contribute to the sustainability of society 1. Make energetic organization synthesizing the knowledge of all employees 2. Capture growth drivers through innovation Company Policy 3. Be a leader in the global market 4. Contribute to the creation of a society that is friendly to people and the Earth as a good corporate citizen Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Sustainability Policy The Anritsu Group believes our business should increase our long-term value through contributions to the sustainability of global society with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. ❶ We will contribute to building a safe, secure, and comfortable society through our business activities, based on our long-term vision. ❷ We will maintain harmony with the global socio-economy and society through ethical company activities. ❸ We will contribute to the preservation of the global environment by promoting environmental management for the coexistence of people and nature. ❹ We will build strong partnerships by promoting communication with all stakeholders. 001 Cover Story 005 Group CEO Message 007 Solving Social Issues Through Business 016 Sustainability Management CONTENTS 019 Environment 040 Social 065 Governance 082 Other Information Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Cover Story 002 At a Glance Japan Number of Employees EMEA 2,272 Number of Employees 338 Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) EMEA: Europe, Middle East, Africa Americas Number of Employees Asia and Company Founded: 1895 Others Number of Employees Anritsu Corporation (Japan) 654 42 617 Subsidiaries: (as of August 31, 2020) Number of Employees (Consolidated) 3,881 (as of March 31, 2020) Revenue 107 billion yen Revenue Breakdown by Business Revenue Breakdown by Region Other Operating profit margin 17.4 billion yen Businesses Asia and Japan 9% Others 16 % Test and 37% 34% 107 107 Operating margin Measurement PQA Business Business Profit from continuing operations 13.4 billion yen 21% billion yen 70% billion yen (FY2019) (FY2019) EMEA ROE 15 % PQA Business: Americas *Results are rounded off for each item. (FY2019, Anritsu Group on a consolidated basis) Product Quality Assurance Business 10% 19% Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Cover Story 003 Who We Are “Original & High Level” Ensuring Connectivity of 5G/IoT Creating Ultra-HighSupporting the Anritsu contributes to the creation Speed Networks Manufacture of Safe Foods of a society securely connected to Anritsu supports the realization and Pharmaceuticals 5G and IoT by supplying measuring of ultra-high-speed networks by Anritsu helps people lead healthy lives instruments to support the providing measuring instruments by offering contaminant detectors and development and manufacturing to check the waveform quality of checkweighers for verifying the quality of of mobile and IoT devices as well transmission signals in optical/ processed foods and pharmaceuticals. as wireless base stations. digital networks and transmission equipment. Contributing to the Resolution of Social Issues Contributing to the Resolution of Social Issues Contributing to the Resolution of Social Issues ● Development of mobile ● Construction and devices that can be used maintenance of base ● Development of high-speed ● Construction and ● Distribution of safe ● Reducing food ● Improving regardless of manufacturer or stations to ensure ubiquitous data transmission devices and maintenance of optical and and secure foods and loss manufacturing telecommunications operator connectivity data centers digital networks pharmaceuticals efficiency P.009 Test and Measurement Business P.009 Test and Measurement Business P.011 PQA Business Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Cover Story 004 Who We Are Sincerity, Harmony, and Enthusiasm “Sincerity” “Harmony” “Enthusiasm” The Anritsu Group sincerely responds to social issues such The Anritsu Group conducts business globally. All employees The products of the Anritsu Group support the creation of a those related to human rights and the environment. And collaborate worldwide to improve Group customer support society based on increasingly sophisticated telecommunications as part of our measures to prevent global warming, we are systems while deepening their knowledge of the latest market through the development of measurement technology. The introducing renewable energy generation equipment as a trends and needs as well as our solutions and products. unyielding passion of employees at our manufacturing sites for unique contribution to in-house power generation. innovation and skill enhancement support the production of high-quality products. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 事業を通じて解決する社会課題 Group CEO Message 005 With Our Sustainability Management, We Contribute to the Realization of “Safe and Secure Society” Hirokazu Hamada Representative Director, President of Anritsu, Group CEO To contribute to the sustainability of society, the Anritsu Group intends to be a sustainable company by realizing the “safe and secure society” by further efforts to protect the Earth’s environment as well as addressing social issues through our business activities with the understanding and cooperation of customers and other stakeholders. is introducing innovation that enhances everyday life through the For a Safe and Secure Society evolution of digital technologies. Communications services provide In April 2018, the Anritsu Group formulated its Sustainability the infrastructure upon which DX relies. Policy to increase its corporate value through contributions to Since its foundation in 1895, Anritsu has supported the the sustainability of global society with sincerity, harmony, and development of a society as a pioneer in the telecommunication enthusiasm. equipment industry and contributed to the development of Under the policy, we set targets linked to SDGs, and in our telecommunications systems, leveraging its measurement business activities we provide technologies, products, and solutions technology as the core. Further technological innovations in 5G that contribute to the building of safe and secure infrastructure that (fifth-generation mobile communications systems) and the progress leads to the foundation for industries and technological innovation. of DX represent opportunities in which the Anritsu Group can From aforementioned, we take group-wide actions to establish offer high social value and continue to support a communications industries that contribute to the construction of sustainable society infrastructure that constitutes the foundation for social innovation. and to promote innovation. In the area of ESG, we have raised themes such as “environmental protection”, “harmony with society”, Protecting Life and Health and “governance” as the important issues we should address. We properly disclose those activities and leverage stakeholder In the food industry as a source of life and health, the Anritsu Group understanding and expectations to increase our corporate value as contributes to the distribution of safe and secure foods and helps a key management issue. reduce food loss by providing inspection equipment for detecting contaminants as well as solutions for automating and controlling production to eliminate both surpluses and shortages of raw Supporting 5G Communications as a Foundation materials. We are also enhancing our quality assurance business to for Social Innovation ensure the safety of pharmaceuticals. In addition, we provide optical Online services in the fields of business, healthcare, education, modules for medical devices and video surveillance systems that and public services are dramatically proliferating as a means for allow for a prompt response in the event of natural disasters that preventing the spread of COVID-19. This trend increases the urgency put human lives at risk. of developing and manufacturing a safe, secure, and robust network The Anritsu Group is implementing its Beyond 2020 plan with infrastructure that is essential for our business activities and daily the goal of achieving sustainable growth starting in 2020. This plan life. Digital transformation (DX), which plays a key role in Society also states that we are committed to supporting the safety and 5.0, proposed by the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations, security of society. We will create and develop our businesses from Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 事業を通じて解決する社会課題 Group CEO Message 006 the perspective of social issues and contribute to a society through raising the percentage of private renewable energy generation within two weeks by employees’ thorough understanding of initiatives unique to Anritsu. to about 30% by around 2030 as our commitment to mitigating Business Continuity Management and their experiences of past global warming, and we publicly announced this target. Our floods. focus in this initiative is on in-house power generation rather than The Anritsu Group has an important social mission to secure purchasing green power certificates. This is unique and based on communication infrastructure and the safety of foods and our philosophy that “we directly contribute to the wider use of pharmaceuticals. Group management is responsible for reducing renewable energy by introducing renewable energy generation and eliminating risks associated with infections and natural disasters equipment and generate and consume renewable energy within and will spare no effort to address them. the Group.” We believe this will help achieve SDG goals and targets. Promoting Sustainability Management Ensuring Employee Safety and Security, and My mission, as I see it, is to lead the Group in a better direction so Business Continuity that we are recognized and supported as a corporate entity that contributes to resolving social issues by meeting the demands COVID-19 has rapidly spread across the world and is a major of society, such as respect for human rights, strengthening problem that all humankind must work together to solve. The governance, and protecting the environment under the declaration, Anritsu Group has done its best to address the virus by exploring “No one will be left behind.” the possibly of helping those who fight it, with the equipment, We must establish a corporate culture that allows employees Unique Initiatives for Reducing CO2 Emissions to technologies, and supplies the Group possesses. with diverse values to come together and grow through friendly In the course of pursuing business, the Anritsu Group places competitions, regardless of gender or national origins, and take Prevent Global Warning top priority on doing everything possible to protect employees on new challenges with an enterprising spirit toward creating a Climate change due to global warming causes large-scale natural from infection, such as by reducing the chance of personnel contact corporate group that supports the development of a society with disasters, famine, and poverty as a result of deteriorating conditions and preventing the spread of droplet infection. Preparing for natural advanced technologies and offers fulfilling jobs and comfortable for food production, and thus it threatens the sustainability of disasters is also essential for protecting employees and businesses. workplaces. Through these efforts, we will globally exert the Group’s society. We must therefore strive to reduce greenhouse gas In fiscal 2019, the operations of the 1st Factory in Koriyama were total capabilities with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. emissions as a company. disrupted by flooding caused by typhoon No. 19, which also Due to the nature of its business, the Anritsu Group has affected regional suppliers. Consequently, the supply chain was relatively little impact on the environment. Nevertheless, following exposed to the effects of climate change. We were, however, able to discussions with related sections, we set a long-term target of recover quickly from the damage and resume product shipments Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business Test and Measurement Business Communications semiconductor manufacturers ● 007 The Future Goal of Our Sustainability Communication module manufacturers ● Smartphone manufacturers ● Management Wireless base station manufacturers ● Telecommunications operators ● Automobile makers ● Solving Social Issues Through Business IoT terminal manufacturers ● Test and Measurement Business PQA Business Home electronics manufacturers ● ● ● Aerospace industry ● Put in place a robust network Reducing food loss The Future Goal of Our infrastructure ● Ensuring product quality Others Sustainability Management Anritsu Group PQA Business Put into place a safe and secure Processed food producers ● Developing a Safe, Secure, infrastructure which leads to Company Philosophy the building of a sustainable Information and Sensing & Devices Business Pharmaceutical manufacturers ● and Prosperous Global Others Company Vision society and encourages innovation Communications Business ● Put in place a robust network ● Put in place a robust network Society infrastructure infrastructure ● Ensuring healthy lives Company Policy ● Preventing and mitigating natural Anritsu will contribute along with its customers to the disasters resolution of social issues through its business operations. Customers The Company takes on challenges to meet the needs of society and places great value on communication with stakeholders while working to advance the sustainability of a global society. Sustainability Policy Challenges to Meet the Needs of Society (ESG) Promoting Global Environmental Maintaining Harmony with the Global Expanding and Strengthening Information and Communications Business Upgrading Alleviating Protection Socio-Economy Governance telecommunications labor Contributing to the creation of a sustainable Together with our diverse human resources, we Ensuring ethical corporate activities through Financial services providers ● infrastructure shortages Educational institutions ● society with sustainable consumption and seek to contribute to the creation of workplaces risk management and transparent, fair, quick, corporate production practices where each individual can achieve personal and resolute decision making Advanced Eliminating Local governments ● growth and experience job satisfaction. ● Increasing the share of private ● Corporate governance automotive information renewable energy generation of total ● ● Establishing compliance as a part of our safety Telecommunications operators ● Respect for human rights and diversity disparities energy consumption ● Human resources development mind-set ● Reduction in CO2 emissions volume ● Occupational health and safety ● Promoting risk management Others Contribution (energy consumption volume) and ● water usage volume Supply chain management that gives due regard to human rights Areas ● Developing and manufacturing high-quality Mitigating Sensing & Devices Business and environmentally friendly products natural Reducing ● Medical equipment manufacturers ● Supply chain management that lowers environmental impact disasters food loss Telecommunications operators ● Ensuring Preventing Telecommunications parts manufacturers ● food safety global Others and security warming The Creation of Shared Value through the Promotion of Communication Contributing to the creation of shared value with ● Providing information to and communicating collaboration among all stakeholders with stakeholders Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 008 Anritsu’s Value Chain and Its Strengths for Supporting Business Anritsu contributes to the creation of a safe, secure, and prosperous society by addressing social expectations such as environmental protection and respect for human rights throughout our entire business operations, from planning to development and the ultimate disposal of products. To that end, the Company is establishing a value chain through co-creation with stakeholders. Solving Social Issues Through Business Anritsu’s Strengths Anritsu Group ● R&D capabilities ● Relationships of trust ● Advanced ● Cooperating with ● Relationships of trust ● Experienced ● Realizing circular Put into place a safe and secure ● Environmentally with suppliers manufacturing, logistics operators and track records with maintenance economy by recycling advanced companies adjustment, and ● In-house designing of customers engineers used products infrastructure which leads to the inspection technologies product packaging ● Global sales network ● Extensive internally ● Flexible, high● maintenance service building of a sustainable society Remote sales variety, low-volume promotion and encourages innovation manufacturing system Test and Measuring Business ● Put in place a robust network infrastructure Measuring solutions for the telecommunications market Planning and Material Shipment and Sales Manufacturing Maintenance Disposal Development Procurement Distribution (Customers) PQA Business ● Reducing food loss ● Ensuring product quality ● Environmentally ● Environmentally ● Environmentally ● Reduced CO2 ● Product quality and ● Stable performance of ● Resources recycling Quality assurance solutions for the friendly products friendly materials friendly emissions safety Anritsu products (effective use of production lines of processed foods ● Product quality and ● Reducing human manufacturing ● Reduced waste ● Reducing resources) safety rights risk to the ● Product quality and environmental impact and pharmaceuticals supply chain safety ● Providing appropriate information Information and Communications Business Social Demands ● Put in place a robust network infrastructure ● Energy/resources● CSR procurement, ● Improving ● Simplified, reusable ● Improving customer ● Global support system ● Calibration and ● Preventing and saving, hazardous Green procurement manufacturing packaging; changing satisfaction ● Remote support and reselling used mitigating natural disasters substance-free design ● Conducting due efficiency packaging materials ● Product assessment maintenance measuring ● Product assessment diligence on human ● Installing solar panels ● Modal shift (trucks to ● Energy-saving instruments Bandwidth control devices, video rights ● trains) products ● Maintaining a high ● ISO 9001 certification surveillance system ● Response to the recycle ratio by Enhancing product Modern Slavery Act thorough sorting introduction and ● Response to conflict operation guides by minerals using the website Sensing & Devices Business ● Put in place a robust ● Respect for human rights ● Human resources development ● Occupational health and safety ● Corporate governance network infrastructure ● Compliance ● Risk management ● Ensuring healthy lives ● Promoting communication with stakeholders Optical devices, Ultrafast electron Anritsu Initiatives devices Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 009 Test and Measurement Business With a mission of being the first to deliver optimal testing and measurement solutions with its advanced measurement technologies, Anritsu contributes to the creation of industry and advances in innovation that assist with the development of a sustainable society by helping customers maintain safe and secure communication infrastructure. Evaluating and Inspecting the Development, Manufacturing, Construction, and Social Issues and Future Society Customer Needs Maintenance of 5G Infrastructure Using Anritsu’s Measuring Instruments Anticipating the next social Leveraging 5G advantages transformation through digital to create a prosperous future transformation Smart Devices Mobile Network Core Network Cloud with solutions that address 40G/100G social issues 5G New RAT 100G/400G 5G Social Issues C-RAN SDH/WDM Data Center ● Digital transformation LTE-A CPRI ● Strengthening NB-IoT telecommunication LTE OTN Internet PCI-E SDN/NFV infrastructure Small Cell Ethernet AOC Multiple ● Improving telecommuting Ultrahigh-speed, simultaneous environment large-capacity Base station development, Evaluating the quality of a connections ● Reducing traffic accidents Device development and Development of data manufacturing, installation, high-speed, high-capacity manufacturing center devices Ultra-low latency ● Improving industrial efficiency and maintenance data transmission lines ● Eliminating regional disparities Factories Customers Customer Needs and Interests ● Quick response to cutting-edge 5G technology Remote monitoring Solutions for the Compatible with radio ● Global support Compatible with 100G/400G Responding using a bit error development/manufacturing frequency and optical for a Agriculture Construction ● High Return on Investment high-speed communications rate test leading the industry of 5G/IoT devices/modules wide range of products ● Reducing environmental impact, etc. Farming support Remote control Automobiles Healthcare Developing, ● Communication and measurement technologies and products covering optical, wired, wireless, Manufacturing, and and protocols Selling Advanced Strengths ● Seamlessly supporting customers, from development to manufacturing and maintenance Measurement ● Rapid deployment of cutting-edge products through partnerships with customers and suppliers Solutions ● Global development and sales systems that provides timely support to customers Autonomous driving Telemedicine Anritsu Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 010 Anritsu’s Test and Measurement Business Support Customers Develop 5G Smartphones Millimeter wave-compliant 5G smartphone under development Let’s launch new models martphones are now essential tools for daily communication. The smartphone under development is of smartphones at an early S Cutting-edge 5G smartphones are expected to transfer a required to have its performance verified stage by verifying their with a GCF 1 -certified testing instrument performance with Anritsu 5G larger volume of data faster than 4G in real time and new services and to clear inspection specified by Conformance Testing System, and applications will be created that leverage these advantages. which acquired the world’s wireless communication standards. 5G smartphones, as with conventional smartphones, are required to meet international wireless communication standards and clear stringent inspections under these standards before they The test is conducted by placing a 5G first GCF certification (as of April 2020) for a millimeter spurious 4 emissions test! smartphone inside the anechoic chamber are launched into the market. Anritsu was the first in the industry (OTA chamber 2 ). The millimeter wave 3 to develop, manufacture, and market a testing system for these test requires sophisticated measurement inspections. The Company helps customers such as smartphone technology. Customer makers and communications operators launch 5G smartphones at an early stage using the system. The diagram on the right is an example of a 5G-compliant automated testing system that enables users to quickly review hundreds of test patterns. G l o s s a r y 1 GCF (Global Certification Forum) An organization that formulates network operations and testing standards for the certification of mobile terminals to ensure the global interoperability of mobile terminals 2 OTA chamber A chamber that blocks external radio waves and prevents the internal reflection of radio waves to transmit and receive radio waves over the air and measure the performance of a smartphone 3 Millimeter wave Conventionally refers to waves with a frequency of 30–300 GHz. The term includes waves with a frequency of 27.0–29.5 GHz for 5G in the telecommunications industry in Japan Anritsu 5G Testing System 4 Spurious emissions Unwanted frequency components other than the design intent of signals ME7873NR, a New Radio RF Conformance Testing System Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues 事業を通じて解決する社会課題 Through Business 011 PQA Business The PQA Business provides solutions for automating the quality inspection process on production lines of the food and pharmaceutical industries. Representative Anritsu initiatives (presented below) address social issues faced by the food industry and account for over 80% of our PQA business. Realizing the Automation of Quality Inspection Process with Social Issues and Customer Needs Anritsu’s Quality Assurance Solutions Future Society Stable supply of safe and Increasing the sophistication secure foods Production Line of quality assurance for food to achieve: Social Issues ●  A safe and secure society ● Stable supply of healthy, tasty ●  A sustainable society with little foods food loss ● Assurance of safe and secure food quality ● Reducing food loss ● Alleviating labor shortages Weighting and Filling Packaging Inspection of Mass, Contaminants, and Packaging Packing Customer Needs and Interests ● High-speed, high-precision inspection Customers ● Excellence in sanitation and ease of cleaning ● Easy maintenance ● Automated production lines and remote monitoring ● Improved productivity through the use of data Automatic electronic Quality management/ weighing machines X-ray inspection systems Metal detectors Checkweighers control systems Developing, Manufacturing, ● High-speed, high-precision inline quality inspection technology and Selling Fast, Precise, and ● Adaptability for introducing inspection equipment into diverse production lines Strengths Highly Reliable Inspection ● Extensive maintenance service system and experienced maintenance engineers in Japan Equipment ● Past record and top-class market position in the food inspection market in Japan Anritsu Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 012 Anritsu’s PQA Business Contributes to Reducing Food Loss by Increasing the Sophistication of Quality Assurance mid a dramatic rise in food demand due to a growing A population and economic development, the problem Achieving a stable high-sensitivity inspection with new dual energy sensors and AI improves accuracy for of food loss, or food that is discarded rather than consumed, has detecting tiny bones. become a major social concern and is the target of an SDG. In this Inspected Products Principal Detectable contaminants context, many food manufacturers cite reducing food loss as a key issue along with improving food taste and ensuring safety and Determining Acceptance Glass, plastic Hard rubber Fragments of Bones, seashells, chips, etc. (packing, etc.) stone etc. security. Various food processors and distributors have been raising awareness of the issue and cooperating to reduce food loss. Advances in sterilization, storage, and packaging technologies can significantly extend the expiration dates of processed foods, Sausages leading to reduced food loss. However, foods that are fit for consumption longer can remain for extended periods on the market or shelves at home, while recalling or discarding these products can lead to substantial losses. For food manufacturers, extending OK Acceptable products are passed to expiration dates reduces the risk of food loss, but the increased risk the next process. of losses when the products are recalled highlights the need for the Meat strictest standards in quality assurance. Unacceptable products are Not OK Anritsu’s quality assurance solutions have been used to eliminated from the line. prevent the intrusion of defective products at the manufacturing process and minimize the risk of product recalls. Our state-of-theart X-ray inspection equipment with dual energy sensors and AI Inspection Images for Unacceptable Products can effectively inspect and pull from the line certain products, Snacks Contaminants Contaminants including overlapping items that are difficult for conventional detected detected Sausages (indicated in red) Chicken breast (indicated in red) equipment to inspect. We are contributing to reducing food loss further by increasing manufacturing yield with improved accuracy in determining product acceptance. Anritsu’s Inspection Equipment XR75 DualX X-ray System Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 013 Information and Communications Business Anritsu contributes to realizing a safe, secure, and comfortable society with its customers by providing highly reliable solutions to improve communications quality and video surveillance solutions while leveraging its advanced technology. Application of Our Video Surveillance Social Issues and Solutions to Telecommuting Future Society Customer Needs Microsoft Office 365 Office SightVisor Windows Update Anticipating the next social Creating a communications SaaS transformation through digital Telecommuting environment that ensures innovation. SightVisor stress-free, comfortable Internet IP River surveillance Disaster prevention office network connectivity anywhere, anytime Social Issues ● Dramatic rise in traffic due to Office/data centers PureFlow Improving SightVisor communications quality increased telecommuting and by setting aside a band for SightVisor online education Business server vital traffic with PureFlow ● Increase in natural disasters Displaying images from surveillance Road surveillance cameras transmitted via an IP network such as torrential rains and connecting the monitors earthquakes Eliminating unstable access to an operating server High-resolution images, from surveillance cameras across due to an increase in the number of telecommuting a wide area to monitor rivers and roads, are displayed on Customer Needs and Interests employees by introducing PureFlowWS1 to implement monitors in the disaster prevention office. They capture Realizing a society in which ●  Easily dealing with priority control of the communications band. multifaceted information from multiple locations to measures to prevent and communication failures in a company (late transmission, Customers prevent and mitigate the impact of disasters. mitigate natural disasters have advanced and everyone can disconnection) live securely ● Accurately grasping the state of a monitoring site with visual images in real time Bandwidth Controller PureFlowWS1 Video Information System SightVisor2 Improving communications quality and stabilizing Broadcasting high-vision images on a nine-window network access screen Developing, Manufacturing, and Selling Highly Reliable ● Proprietary technologies and solution proposal capability Strengths Communications Network ● Strong installation base Equipment Anritsu Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 014 Sensing and Devices Business Anritsu contributes to realizing a safe, secure, and comfortable society by improving convenience in our lives together with customers through the provision of optical devices that constitute core components of industrial products and Ultrafast electron devices across the world. Social Issues and Future Society Customer Needs SOA Anticipating the next social Helping to resolve social issues transformation through digital through digital transformation transformation and high-speed, high-capacity SLD light source communications Social Issues ● Building a robust communications infrastructure Data center Optical transceiver Optical coherence tomography (OCT) that handles increased data for ophthalmology traffic Anritsu’s SOA, a low-noise optical signal amplifier, between Incorporating Anritsu’s SLD light sources into ophthalmic ● Increased number of patients data centers for long-distance optical communications, OCT systems allows for high-resolution retinal examination, with eye diseases due to the realizes a reliable communications environment. leading to the early detection of age-related macular degeneration and glaucoma. aging population Realizing a society in which Customer Needs and Interests ● Secured quality of optical signals Customers people of all generations can enjoy healthy lives due to transmitted through optical medical advances fiber that constitutes part of the communications infrastructure ● Development of a highresolution retinal examination device Semiconductor Optical Amplifier (SOA) SLD Light Sources for Optical Sensing for Medicine Amplifies weak optical signals of High resolution imaging for long-distance communication ophthalmic OCT systems Developing, Manufacturing, and Selling ● Advanced device technologies, many with compound semiconductors Strengths High-performance, Highly ● Realizing flexible responses and high product quality through integrated processes Reliable Devices Anritsu Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Through Business 015 R&D and Intellectual Property that Support the Anritsu Brand Value The Anritsu Group contributes to realizing a sustainable society with its customers by developing “Original & High Level” products and solutions and delivering them globally through the acquisition, retention, and utilization of advanced technologies. Strategic Intellectual Property Management Sources of “Original & High Level” Participating in Standards Acquisition Retention Utilization EMEA Asia and Japan Americas Organizations Others Use of Intellectual Property Participating in 11 Intellectual property is an important Technologies of the Anritsu Group (Excerpt) management resource for ● Test and ● Test and ● Test and ● Test and sustainable corporate growth and Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Mobile communications Automotive IoT closely related to the Company’s ● PQA organizations business strategy. Making full use ● More 2G, 3G, 4G, and 5G connectivity (as of March 2020) of R&D results, researchers and ● Signaling technology ● Wide range of wireless the intellectual property division WEB Participating in Organizations ● Signal analysis technology technologies work together to register them ● Communications analysis as intellectual property rights in Anritsu Group's R&D Structure technology Management accordance with the business Strategy Group R&D consists of the Advanced Research strategy. Laboratory, which handles R&D activities for Partnership with basic and future technologies, and the product Cloud computing Business Customers ultra-high-speed serial Common fundamental development divisions of each business. technology Strategy interface Disclosure of New Products The Test and Measurement business of the and Technologies Company operates R&D sites in Japan, the Americas, ● Ultra-high-speed digital ● FPGA design technology Information on new products and EMEA, Asia and others. It is accelerating innovation R&D signal technology ● Software design technologies is published on the ● Optical analysis technology through the effective use of technologies it owns as technology well as diverse human resources. Company’s website, where the Ratio of R&D expenses to Anritsu Group’s technical journal net sales Anritsu Technical and research Advanced Research Laboratory 12% papers published in the journals of X-ray contaminants Mass inspection various academic societies are also Cooperation Cooperation Cooperation inspection available. ● Image processing ● High-speed, high-precision WEB Anritsu Technical Test and (FY 2019) technology dynamic weighing Measurement PQA Business Other Businesses ● Application of deep technology ● Weighing stabilization Business Product development Product development WEB Changes in R&D expenses Product development department department learning department technology Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Sustainability Management 016 System for Promoting Sustainability Anritsu has aggressively pursued sustainability activities based on its Company Philosophy, Company Vision, Company Policies and MESSAGE Sustainability Policy that was formulated in April 2018. Anritsu Group Stakeholders Board of Directors Shareholders Akio Takagi and Investors Senior Executive Officer General Manager, the Sustainability Promotion Management Strategy Conference Center Customers To achieve the SDGs, a shared goal of the international community, Anritsu looks ahead into the future and promotes activities through Sustainability Promotion Center Management Areas Suppliers its business that contribute to the resolution of social issues together with customers, and to respond to the social requirements Act Plan on ESG. Also, we are tackling those themes such as development of measuring instruments supporting telecommunications that are Members Employees the foundation of technological innovation, development of quality KPI (Sustainability) Management ■ Representatives of business divisions assurance inspection instruments that effectively reduce food loss, and operating companies ■ Representatives of sections that advance Anritsu’s unique actions against global warming, as well as support Regional Check Do issues in response to social demands Societies of human rights. ・ Respect for human rights and diversity One thing we emphasize in our activities is what we refer to as ・ Human resources development “recognizing issues as his/her own.” It is important for each employee ・ Occupational health and safety ・ Supply chain management Sustainability Promotion Committee National and Local to think about and act when it comes to solving social problems Governments ・ Quality and product safety that affect our business and private lives. We are committed to be ・ Environment an ethical company. We conduct related activities with “Sincerity, ・ Corporate governance ・ Compliance Harmony, and Enthusiasm,” as stated in our Corporate Philosophy NGOs and NPOs ・ Internal control systems and Sustainability Policy. Moreover, we trust that our contribution ・ Risk management to the sustainability of a global society will result in improvement of ・ Information security ・ Information disclosure, IR and SR Social our corporate value and hence making us a sustainable company. contribution activities Global Environment Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Sustainability Management 017 Providing Information to and Communicating with Stakeholders Anritsu establishes good partnerships with stakeholders by providing disclosure information in an appropriate and timely manner and ensuring transparent, fair, prompt, and resolute decision making to its various stakeholders. Stakeholders Status of Activities Examples of Communication Opportunities and Related Sites ▶ Investor relations briefings Covered period: April 2019−March 2020 WEB Rating Information for Stocks and Corporate Bonds ▶ Shareholders meetings ◦ Participated in three overseas IR events (North America, Hong Kong, and Singapore) and five domestic ▶ IR individual interviews Shareholders/ conferences. Conducted multiple face-to-face discussions proactively with investors in North America and Asia. WEB Disclosure Policy ▶ IR activities for overseas investors Investors ◦ Interviewed 249 Japanese investors and 224 overseas investors ▶ Convened the Information Disclosure Committee Meetings, in which members of ◦ Provided a voice from shareholders and investors as feedback to the board of directors Management Strategic management participated Conference and shared it on the intranet for managerial level employees ▶ Responded to questionnaires for assessment ◦ Creating cutting-edge products and services with a high degree of safety and quality and providing appropriate Customers product and service information, satisfying customer inquiries. ▶ Customer help line and information on a website ◦ Facilitate development in partnerships ◦ Hosted a social gathering for our suppliers to explain our business policies and material procurement policy and ▶ Suppliers Gathering ▶ Information Exchange Meeting give awards as well as information exchange meetings ◦ Jointly promoted green procurement with suppliers ▶ Exhibition of suppliers products and technologies Suppliers ◦ Created business opportunities through activities such as supplier product exhibitions, seminars, and technical ▶ Partner QU (Quality Up) Activities exchange meetings ▶ Established a collaboration room ◦ Promoting Partner QU (Quality Up) Activities to facilitate proposals for improvements and requests from suppliers ▶ Questionnaire at the time of interview ◦ Implementation a questionnaire at the time of interviews to receive feedback on interviews with our employee ◦ Implementation of surveys into satisfaction levels of employees ▶ Employee satisfaction survey ◦ Implementation of ethics questionnaire ▶ Ethics questionnaire Employees ▶ Establishment of Helpline ◦ Establishment of Helpline ◦ Support of self-education ▶ A range of other training Contributions include; Fun Science Classroom sponsored by Atsugi City Board of Education, The Anritsu Cup, an Atsugi city invitational U12 Soccer Tournament, Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition, Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition hosted by a Regional ◦ Developing community-based social contribution programs under the three pillars of “partnerships for educating citizen group in Atsugi, Donation of unused socks to the Atsugi City child consultation Societies youth,”“contributing to local communities,” and “protecting the environment (biodiversity conservation)” office, Radio Production Experience Class, sponsored by the Koriyama City Board of Education, Fukushima Prefecture, and Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Campaign WEB Corporate Philanthropy NGOs and ◦ Information sharing in the event of disaster ▶ Provided support for the emergency response to Typhoon No. 19 (Hagibis) NPOs ◦ Delivered donations to Japan Platform (JPF), a registered NPO Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 ESG Highlights 018 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Target Approved by the SBT Initiative COVID-19 Countermeasures and Business Continuity Severe natural disasters associated with climate The company is continuing to conduct its usual change due to global warming have been occurring sales and maintenance services and provide around the world. The Anritsu Group, which is products while placing priority on preventing working to address social issues through its business, employees from being infected. Measures has set its greenhouse gas reduction target for 2030 include a telecommuting program, in which as its commitment to addressing the issue. The target the ratio of telecommuting employees varies was approved by the SBT Initiative in December gradually to respond quickly to the changing 2019. The SBT determined that the level of our target rate of infection. To deal with a possibly is scientifically based from the perspective of achieving the 2°C target stated in the Paris prolonged spread of the infection, we are Agreement. Anritsu will promote in-house power generation and the consumption working to ensure employee safety and security as well as business continuity by of renewable energy to achieve the target. adopting new normal in business and taking measures such as installing partitions. ESG We also donated DS2 masks that we had in storage to Atsugi City Hospital, a Highlights facility for treating COVID-19 patients. P.027 Climate Change and Energy: Goals P.081 Business Continuity Management: Response to Infectious Diseases Anritsu takes on ESG-related challenges that it believes are important and is working to realize a PGRE30 Renewable Energy sustainable global society. Supporting Telecommuting Customers We formulated the Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30* as a voluntary action plan to mitigate climate change. Under the plan, we will promote the introduction of solar power generation equipment as a renewable energy source and increase the ratio of the Anritsu Group’s share of private power generation of total energy consumption to about 30% around the year 2030 from 0.8% for fiscal 2018, the base year. This ambitious initiative targets a renewable energy ratio that significantly exceeds the Japanese government’s 2030 target of 22−24%, in which solar power generation comprises 7%. Anritsu will take Anritsu website on this new challenge and thereby contribute to realizing a sustainable society. The company’s online customer support services are particularly focused on the handling of an increase of telecommuters. In the Test and Measurement business, we hold Web exhibitions and *Private Generation of Renewable Energy, with the number 30 representing both 30 present solutions that meet the requirements of advanced communications systems such as 5G in the year 2030, the approximate target year, and the target ratio of about 30% for inand ultra-high-speed networks. We also offer remote demonstrations, webinars, and product house power generation. operating guides on our special site for telecommuters. In the PQA business, in addition to the above services, we provide solutions that enable the remote monitoring of inspection equipment and P.028 Climate Change and Energy: Established Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30 troubleshooting for recovery. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 019 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Environment 020 Environmental Management 026 Climate Change and Energy Boundary of Global Environmental Protection While the boundary of global environmental protection extends to the entire Anritsu Group, in principle 031 Water Resources the reporting boundary for numerical data, such as environmental impact, encompasses Anritsu Corp. and the following Group companies. 033 Preserving Biodiversity Group Companies in Japan Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd., Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., 035 Preventing Environmental Pollution Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd., Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd., Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd., 037 Resource Recycling Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., AT Techmac Co., Ltd., Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. 039 Data Links Group Companies Outside Japan Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu Ltd. (U.K.) Notes: Within the Anritsu Group, the Hiratsuka site refers to the facilities of AT Techmac Co., Ltd. in Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture; the Tohoku site refers to those of Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. in Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture; and the Atsugi site refers to the Anritsu Corporation and those of other Group companies in Atsugi City, Kanagawa Prefecture. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd., Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd., and Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. were absorbed and merged with Anritsu Corp. as of April 1, 2020. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 020 ■ Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Environment Contributing to environmental protection Environmental Management through climate change mitigation efforts in our business operations Policy Note that this policy is applicable to all items in the “Environment” section. Stance on Social Issues Anritsu’s Environmental Policy consists of Environmental Principles and Action Guidelines. Recently, ESG (environmental, social, governance) and the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) have come to Environmental Policy Akio Takagi play critical roles in corporate activities. Protection of the Senior Executive Officer, Chief Environment and Quality Officer global environment is considered particularly important Environmental Principles as it directly impacts the goal of creating a sustainable Anritsu strives to give due consideration to the environment in both the development and manufacture of our products. Through Almost every year, we experience a lot of heartbreaking news society, and companies are expected to actively tackle sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm, we will endeavor to foster a about occurrences of devastating disasters such as typhoons this issue. prosperous society at one with nature. and torrential rains. We can hardly deny such disasters are Anritsu has been ensuring that our business Action Guidelines most probably caused by global warming. To address the activities, employee awareness and behavior strictly We create “Eco-Offices”, “Eco-Factories”, and “Eco-Products” based issue of climate change, Anritsu has formulated a plan for comply with environmental policies. We have also been on the “Eco-management” of our company and the “Eco-Mind” of working on reducing the environmental impact of our every one of us. reducing CO2 emissions and obtained approval from the 1. Over the whole life cycle of a product, from design and development, to SBT Initiative. Furthermore, under the leadership and firm products, which leverage our measurement technologies procurement, manufacturing, marketing, distribution, and usage by customers, through disposal, we conduct environmentally conscious business activities. determination of the Group CEO, we have formulated the and connect societies together. Through these efforts, 2. We have set up an organizational and operational structure to perform Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30, which sets long-term we are contributing to the resolution of climate change, environmental management activities, and have established and maintain an environmental management system that we continuously improve. targets for increasing the ratio of private power generation creating a recycling-oriented society, and preventing 3. We comply with legal and regulatory controls and make every effort from renewable energy such as solar power. Through these environmental pollution. In addition, we are focused on to continuously improve the environmental performance to meet the administering an environmental management system requirements from stakeholders. efforts we contribute to SDGs Goal No.7 and No.13. In addition, 4. In order to contribute to the prevention of global warming and conservation influences from destructive logging as well as marine and soil that integrates environmental activities into our business of biological diversity, we promote energy saving, the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and expansion and appropriately disclosing information. recycle), and environmental pollution risk reduction in all of our offices and pollution to biodiversity are becoming increasingly serious. factories. We will therefore continue our sincere effort through our 5. We provide Eco-Products by saving energy, saving resources, and reducing business activities with considerations such as climate change hazardous substances. 6. We cultivate Eco-Minds by providing appropriate environmental education and countermeasures, resource recycling, and pollution prevention training. hence contributing to the conservation of biodiversity and protection of the global environment. *The Action Guidelines apply only to the Domestic Anritsu Group Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 021 ■ Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links In addition, Anritsu has stated its intent to “contribute to the Goals preservation of the global environment by promoting environmental management for the coexistence of people 2020 VISION: Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain and nature” in our Sustainability Policy. As part of its environmental management, Anritsu has set out its 2020 VISION goal as, “Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain.” In order to achieve the goal of establishing a world-class environmental brand, WEB Environmental Policy we are striving to develop and produce environmentally friendly (energy-saving, resource-saving, and hazardous substance-free) products on a P.001 Sustainability Policy global scale and also to understand and improve the environmental impact of all of our bases throughout the entire product value chain. Structure What we refer to as a “Structure” is applicable to all items within the Development of Environmentally Friendly Products “Environment” section. (Saving Energy and Resources, Reducing Harmful Substances, Beneficial to the Environment) Anritsu has established deliberating bodies, chaired by an Environmental Management Executive Officer (Anritsu Corporation, the Chief Environment Officer), to promote Supplier Overall business activities Transport Use by Customers Disposal environmental management. The Environmental Management Transportation/ Executive Officer is responsible for reporting any Material procurement Factories and Offices Employee business trips Packaging Customer use Waste environment-related matters, such as risks and issues, to the CO2 26,078t CO2 (Scope 1 and 2) 12,443 t CO2 3,685 t CO2 3,254 t CO2 51,520 t CO2 34 t Management Strategy Conference and during Capital goods Wastewater 65 thousand m3 Employee commuting Board of Directors. CO2 Waste 223 t 7,625t CO2 3,671 t NOx (Japan) 697 kg Deliberating Fueland energy-related SOx (Japan) 291 kg Waste disposal Objectives and Members Body activities not included in BOD (Japan) 358 kg CO2 245 t Address challenges that Anritsu Group must tackle as a single Scope 1 or 2 Global global entity Landfill amount 14 % CO2 Environmental Members: 2,064t Management Responsible officers from the three major locations of Japan, the Meetings United States and the United Kingdom Promote the environmental management system of the Domestic Anritsu Group Identifying and improving the environmental profile of all our locations around the world Environmental Members: Management Officers responsible for the environment at each division* of Committee the Domestic Anritsu Group, and the officers responsible for Figures are calculated in accordance with the “Basic guidelines on calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain.” The figures listed here are those for fiscal 2019. the Internal Control Department, Legal Affairs Department, and Sustainability Promotion Center WEB Environmental Impact Across the Entire Value Chain Promote the development and production of products that do Promotion of not contain hazardous substances such as those banned under the RoHS directive of Europe RoHS Group Members: Meeting Representatives from the Development Department, SCM Department, IT Department, and Environment Department *Environmental management activity unit Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 022 ■ Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links GLP2020 Environmental Initiative Priority Fiscal 2020 objectives Fiscal 2019 progress Anritsu is currently undertaking the GLP2020 Environmental Initiative, its three-year mid-term business theme Address SDGs, transition to GRI Standards, continue 〇: plan and the final stage for achieving its 2020 Vision, that began in fiscal 2018. participating in the Ministry of the Environment’s • Nikkei’s SDGs Management Survey: Ranked in the top 34 Environmental Reporting Platform Development Pilot corporations Theme 2 Project and revitalize communication with investors • CDP’s Climate Change Survey: B Rank assessment (manageBiodiversity Conservation ment level) Priority themes Continuous improvement 〇: Climate Change Measures Resource Recycling Pollution Prevention themes Reduce CO2 emissions related to products (Scope 3*1 2020Vision Category 1 and 11*2, 3 • Established emission targets for 2030*4 for Scope 3, Category 1 and 11, and received SBT Initiative’s*5 approval. • Explained to our suppliers about our initiatives to reduce Theme 1 Eco-Management Make improvements through the integration of business processes with the management system Category 1 emissions and requested their cooperation. Theme 3 • Calculated how much of a reduction in product power Eco-Communication Theme 2 consumption is needed for each business unit to achieve the Improve the quality of information disclosure to elevate the environmental brand target of Category 11 emission reduction and formulated target reduction scenarios. Theme 3 Theme 4 Eco-Products Strengthen energy-saving and resource-saving products Provide products that do not 〇: contain hazardous substances Address additional and revised product and enviTheme 5 Effectively use water and Reduce chemical substances ronmental regulations, such as RoHS in Europe, and • Installed equipment that analyze and detect four new subEco-Office, Eco-Factory Reduce CO2 emissions firmly instill the 3Rs and prevent risks continue to provide products that do not contain stances that were added to the list of substances prohibited hazardous substances by the RoHS Directive. Eco-Mind Cultivate an Eco-Mind • Started implementing measures for the ten substances in the Theme 4 RoHS Directive for development of new products which fall Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain under Category 9*⁶ of the directive. • Implemented and launched an internal system to manage information regarding Europe’s RoHS Directive. Objectives and Progress toward Objectives by Priority Theme in the GLP2020 Environmental Reduce Scope 1 and 2*⁷, ⁸ CO2 emissions by 2% per 〇: Reduced emissions by 17.6% compared with fiscal 2015. Initiative year compared with fiscal 2015 (26% reduction by GLP2020 Environmental Initiative has largely progressed as planned. Remaining issues will continue to fiscal 2030)*⁷ be addressed. Theme 5 Set long-term CO2 emissions target for 2030 and 2050 〇: Established long-term emission targets*⁹ (Scope 1 and 2) for 2030 and received SBT Initiative’s approval. In addition, set Priority provisional long-term emission targets*10 for 2050. Fiscal 2020 Objectives Fiscal 2019 Progress theme In departments involved in product realization △: Quality management systems (QMS) and environmental processes, the management system (MS) is intemanagement systems (EMS) have been identified as in-scope for grated into their business processes. Targets related the integrated internal audit. Integrated MS internal audits were *1 Scope 3: Indirect CO2 emissions from non-energy sources to quality and environment are set and managed scheduled for two departments in fiscal 2019, although the audits *2 Scope 3, Category 1: Purchased products and services through the integrated MS. will actually be conducted in fiscal 2020. *3 Scope 3, Category 11: Use of sold products Construct and administer a mechanism to review 〇: *4 Emission Target for 2030 for Scope 3, Category 1 and 11: achieve 30% reduction from fiscal year 2018 by fiscal 2030 in emissions from Theme 1 compliance with environment-related laws and • Environment officers from our offshore offices have conducted purchased products and services and use of sold products. regulations globally environmental internal audits in parts of our domestic organiza*5 SBT Initiative: a partnership between the World Wildlife Fund, the old Carbon Disclosure Project, the World Resource Institute, and the tions. UN Global Compact, which helps companies scientifically determine how much they must cut emissions to achieve the goal of limiting • The environmental internal audit checklist used by our offshore the increase in the global average temperature to below 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels (likely to reduce further to 1.5 degrees) counterparts was shared. • Checklist for Anritsu Infivis (Thailand) was implemented. *6 European RoHS directive Category 9 products: monitoring and control equipment as defined by European RoHS Directive *7 Scope 1: Direct CO2 emissions *8 Scope 2: Indirect CO2 emissions from energy sources *9 Target for 2030 for Scope 1 and 2: 30% reduction from fiscal 2015 by fiscal 2030 *10 Target for 2050 for Scope 1 and 2: 60% reduction from fiscal 2015 by fiscal 2050 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 023 ■ Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Activities / Achievements Environmental Educational Programs We will make every effort to ensure prompt and effective Internal auditor training Internal auditor follow-up communication with our stakeholders by disclosing our New employee education program education Environmental Audit environmental information, responding to environmental surveys, Education for technology Education for sales departIn fiscal 2019, the Anritsu Group’s main production bases in Japan General education departments ments and exchanging opinions. and the U.S. were subject to periodic external audits for ISO Onsite consignment worker High-pressure gas handler Chemical substances education courses manager training 14001:2015, conducted by an external certification body, and were Framework for Collecting Environmental Impact Data recertified as being compliant. The Anritsu Group has developed a framework and is administering In July, the Domestic Anritsu Group examined the conformance, Environmental Awards System a collection of environmental impact data such as electricity usage effectiveness, and environmental performance of our environmental The Domestic Anritsu Group gives awards to employees who have from its business sites including those overseas. The environmental management system in an internal environmental audit. In October, obtained environment-related qualifications, impact data collected from business sites is stored in a database we conducted an internal audit focused on verifying the status of groups that have carried out environmental projects in the AQU and used in aggregate data and to create business documents. legal compliance. In November, we invited environmental officers Innovation Activities* and employees who have ▪Framework for Collecting Environmental Impact Data from our offshore offices to conduct internal audits in parts of our offered proposals for improvement. Registrant at site A domestic organizations. As a result, no non-conforming items were In fiscal 2019, 22 Group projects and 56 proposals were Environmental discovered. recognized with environmental awards. impact data registration tool Opportunities for improvement indicated by external audits *Activities undertaken by the Domestic Anritsu Group to improve operational efficiency, Environmental Registrant at site B impact database and observations pointed out by internal audits are reported to the quality, and other aspects. Environmental impact data Environmental Management Committee and shared horizontally registration tool across all management organizations. Each management Environmental Communications Environmental impact Aggregate data data collection too Registrant at site X organization takes the necessary remediation actions, which are Anritsu actively communicates with stakeholders inside and outside Environmental then checked during the internal audit conducted in the following the Company using various platforms. impact data Business documents registration tool fiscal year. The Domestic Anritsu Group has implemented many ways to respond to environment-related inquiries from its stakeholders. Environmental Education for Employees We publish its Integrated Report and Sustainability Report, place Development of Environmentally Friendly Products To raise the environmental awareness of each employee and advertisements about the environment, and release environmentThe Anritsu Group actively promotes the development of encourage them to actively engage in environmental activities, related news features. We also provide environmental information environmentally friendly products to be certified as Excellent we provide general education every year for all employees in tailored for each group of stakeholders, including publishing “Anritsu Eco-Products or Eco-Products by conducting global product the Domestic Anritsu Group as well as environmental education Environment News” for customers and the quarterly publication of assessments of every product under development. This responds programs designed for each job type and rank. These programs are Eco Club environmental magazine via the Intranet for employees to customer demand for products that save energy and resources also attended by the suppliers. as well as its English version of Global Eco Club for overseas and are free of hazardous substances. They also meet stakeholder General education in fiscal 2019 included the topic of plastic employees starting fiscal 2019. expectations for reducing environmental impact. Moreover, waste. There were 2,744 participants in the course, including 2,642 In addition, as in previous years, Anritsu continued to participate this helps us to manage risks and identify new opportunities. who attended Web-Based Training. in the Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Environmentally friendly products accounted for about 88%, and Platform Development Pilot Project. Excellent Eco-Products, the highest rank in environmentally friendly Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 024 ■ Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links products, about 80% of sales of measuring instruments for fiscal CO2 Emissions Across the Life Cycle of Our Products 2019. The Domestic Anritsu Group conducts product life cycle assessments to monitor the CO2 emissions at each stage of the product life cycle. In addition, the Domestic Anritsu Group calculates environmental preservation costs associated with designing ▪CO2 Emissions and Breakdown across the Life Cycle of Product Groups (Fiscal 2019) environmentally sound products as well as the associated economic Manufacturing Distribution Use Disposal Total CO2 emissions for each product group (average) kg-CO2 benefits. In fiscal 2019, the total environmental preservation cost was 16.1 million yen with associated economic benefit expected to Desktop measuring instruments 3,724 be 171.2 million yen. Handheld measuring 55 instruments WEB Global Product Assessment, Environmentally Friendly Products, Excellent Eco-Products Checkweighers 2,825 X-ray inspection systems 9,591 Adaptive Gateway NN4000 Series (Eco Product) Metal detectors 2,455 The Adaptive Gateway NN4000 series is for IP converter of analog leased lines Network appliances 1,633 to Long-Term Evolution (LTE) lines using analog infrastructure. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 (%) These converters are typically installed inside outdoor boxes and therefore require many design considerations, such as size, ease of installation, electricity requirements and operating temperature. To address these issues, we designed Environmental Considerations in Supply Chain Management Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations the product to be small, energy-efficient and operable over an extended The provision of environmentally friendly products requires the The Domestic Anritsu Group confirms the status of environmental temperature range. We successfully reduced the size of the printed circuit board use of parts and materials that reduce environmental impact. The regulatory compliance through internal audits and at Environmental and reduced power consumption by selecting energy efficient electrical parts Anritsu Group upholds environmental considerations in supply Management Committee meetings. In fiscal 2019, Anritsu did with a wide operating temperature range. We also positioned the redundant antenna in its optimal position and designed the AC power source as a separate chain management through green procurement and conducts not receive any complaints or citations for violations of laws and unit. In addition, we designed the casing and the research on the chemical substances in the parts it purchases, in regulations related to the environment. heat-dissipating part in aluminum and integrated accordance with the Basic Rules of Procurement. them, which resulted in reduced size and weight and P.055 Supply Chain Management a wider operating temperature range (from -20°C to +60°C). Compared to conventional products with the same functionalities, the N4004A is 83% smaller, 71% lighter and consumes 66% less electricity. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 025 ■ Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links ISO 14001 Certification Acquisition Status Environmental Impact Mass Balance*1 (Fiscal 2019) WEB Environmental Impact Mass Balance Data The Anritsu Group has acquired environmental management system ISO 14001:2015 certification for our core development and manufacturing bases in Japan and the United States. The coverage Input Output rate of the system is approximately 70% when based on the Electricity CO2*⁴ number of Anritsu Group employees. Electric power used in 30,472 MWh (7.2%) CO2 emitted as a result of using factories, offices, etc. electricity, gas, fuel or other green12,443 t (-2.3%) house gasses Gas City gas, LPG, and natural gas NOx*⁵ 206,924 m3 (0.8%) used as energy in factories, Nitrogen oxides generated as a 697 kg (-46.6%) Anritsu Corporation (The Domestic Anritsu Group) offices, etc. result of using gas and fuels Fuels SOx*⁵ Heavy oil, diesel, and gasoline Sulfuric oxides generated as a 291 kg (-42.9%) 399 kℓ (-5.5%) result of using gas and fuels ◦ Certification Date: August 1998 used in factories, offices, and vehicles, etc. Wastewater ◦ Updated: February 2019 Wastewater discharged from 64,978 m3 (11%) ◦ Certification Organization/Number: Japan Quality Assurance Water manufacturing sites and offices Organization/JQA-EM0210 Municipal water, groundwa79,588 m 3 (9.4%) ter (excluding recycled water) BOD Biochemical oxygen demand in 358 kg (37.3%) • Anritsu Corporation (Includes all sales centers) wastewater • Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Chemical substances General waste in Japan Greenhouse gases such as 152 kg (93.2%) • Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Waste other than industrial waste HFC, PFC, SF6, N2O that is generated as a result of 37 t (3.8%) • Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. business activities (such as kitchen waste and waste paper) • Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Chemical substances • Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Chemical substances that are , 10 t (33.1%) Industrial waste in Japan regulated by laws in Japan*2 3 Waste generated as a result of • AT Techmac Co., Ltd. business activities, that is regulated 80 t (19.5%） • Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. by the ‘Waste Disposal and Public Cleaning Law' such as sludge, • Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Chemical substances waste plastics, waste acid, and PRTR 2t (-10.2%) waste alkali • Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Waste outside Japan All waste generated by business 106 t (-7.3%） Paper activities Copy paper used in factories 25 t (-16.3%) and offices Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Recycle ratio 85 % (3%) Packaging material Packaging material for 364 t (2.7%) transportation of products Non-recycle ratio 15 % (-14.4%) ◦ Address: 490 Jarvis Drive, Morgan Hill, CA 95037 ◦ Certification date: March 2007 ◦ Updated: May 2018 *1 Environmental impact mass balance: Environmental impact expressed in the form of a balance sheet in which substances entering the company are identified and listed by name and ◦ Certification organization/number: AMERICAN GLOBAL STANDARDS, mass in one column and substances and mass exiting the company are identified and listed in the other column to more clearly display the relationship between business activities and LLC/AGS-USEMS-051618-1 environmental impact. Percentage figures in parentheses in the input and output tables indicate year-on-year changes. *2 Substances regulated by law include toxic, deleterious and hazardous substances, organic solvents, and specified chemical substances. *3 A heavy oil used as fuel is not included. *4 Calculated using the “Emissions factor by electric utility” under the Ministry of the Environment’s “Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System” for electric power in Japan; the emissions factor reported by electric companies for electric power in the United States; the emissions factor from the BEIS GOVERNMENT GHG CONVERSION FACTORS FOR WEB Anritsu Corporation ISO 14001 Certification (English) COMPANY REPORTING for electric power in the United Kingdom; and the emissions factor under the Ministry of the Environment’s “Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System” for energy other than electric power in Japan and outside of Japan. Data include the CO2 conversion values for greenhouse gases other than CO2. WEB Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) ISO 14001 Certification *5 For NOx and SOx, annual emissions are calculated based on values measured annually. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 026 Environmental Management ■ Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Environment Climate Change and Energy Our Response to TCFD Recommendations Stance on Social Issues Information Disclosure in Accordance with the TCFD Framework The Anritsu Group’s initiatives for addressing climate-change, summarized below, are disclosed in accordance with TCFD’s recommended Intense climate-related disasters cause major damage framework. nearly every year. In 2019, the Japanese government designated two typhoons, the Reiwa 1 Boso Peninsula Governance Strategy Typhoon and the Reiwa 1 East Japan Typhoon, as Climate-change related risks are managed by the executive officer in charge of Anritsu has analyzed risks and opportunities related to climate change in view of the environmental activities under the supervision of the Group CEO. The executive 2 Degree Celsius (2DS) scenario. The analysis revealed that, under the scenario, we Extremely Severe Disasters. As the impact of climate officer oversees the Environment and Quality Promotion Department, which plays may face changes in regulation and experience physical impacts in short-, mid-, and change caused by global warming becomes more a vital role in the Anritsu Group’s business, and chairs the Global Environmental long-term timeframes. This represents a major risk not only to our own business but Management Meetings and the Environmental Management Committee in Japan. also to our entire value chain, and we have therefore positioned climate change as serious and pronounced, companies are expected to This structure ensures that risk management is given due consideration, planned, our most critical issue and defined science-based targets (SBTs). To achieve these, do more to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gasses executed, and consistently managed across the global organization. Major risks we will invest in renewable energy generation facilities and expand our capability associated with the Anritsu Group’s business and management are appropriately for consuming the energy we generate. This will directly impact the rising volume of in their business operations and take action to address reported during the Management Strategy Conference and Board of Directors. electricity generated using renewable energy sources, and we strongly believe this is natural disaster damage. In addition, risk management items, plans, status, and reports of the annual the most direct way to address climate change. Recognizing climate change as the biggest issue management cycle are also presented to these entities. in environmental management, the Anritsu Group is P.075 Promotion of Risk Manaegement: Structure focused on reducing CO2 emissions throughout its value chain and offering products and solutions that mitigate Risk Management Indicators and Targets damage associated with natural disasters. Under the Basic Risk Management Policy, to ensure the effective management of risks In December 2019, the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) approved the Anritsu We proactively publicize our countermeasures to across the entire Company, the Environment and Quality Promotion Department Group’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets as science-based targets under climate change and disclose related financial information creates an inventory of potential risks, including those related to climate change, from the 2DS scenario. sources such as the results of the annual environmental impact assessment conducted ◦ Scope 1 and 2: By fiscal 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% according to recommendations that the Task Force on by each business division and Group company, the Environmental Management compared to the fiscal 2015 level. Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)* published Committee, and during Global Environmental Management Meetings. Each identified ◦ Scope 3: By fiscal 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the risk is assessed and its business impact is evaluated based on legal and regulatory purchased goods and services as well as the use of sold products by 30% in June 2017. requirements as well as global trends. The division creates a finalized list of risks and compared to the fiscal 2018 level. opportunities related to climate change from this inventory. As deemed necessary, the The Anritsu Group established the “Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30” plan * An international initiative launched by the G20 Financial Stability Board (FSB) list is reported during the Management Strategy Conference and Board of Directors. as one measure for reducing greenhouse gasses and also began to expand its in 2015 to improve the disclosure of information related to the financial The risks and opportunities on the finalized list are assigned for remediation to the capability to generate renewable energy. impact stemming from climate-related risks and opportunities. related business division or to the Environment and Quality Promotion Department if an item is understood to impact the entire Company. Currently, the Group is in the P.028 Established Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30 process of identifying emerging risks in 2030 and 2050, which will be included within the scope of the GLP2020 Environmental Initiative. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 027 Environmental Management ■ Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Risks and Opportunities (2 Degree Celsius Scenario) Goals Examples of Transition Risks A portion of the climate-related investment budget, approximately 800 million yen (deemed as 1/10 of Fiscal 2020 Targets Fiscal 2019 Progress the overall budget), was invested to build a new global headquarters building (ZEB Ready*) as the initial Reducing Scope 1 and 2 CO2 〇: Reduced by 17.6% compared to the fiscal 2015 level. emissions by 2% per year compared step for the Scrap-and-Build initiative in the Atsugi head office area. The investment made to renewable to the fiscal 2015 level (26% reduction by fiscal 2030) energy through the solar power generation facilities is expected to pay off in approximately 10 years, Setting long-term CO2 emissions 〇: Established 2030 long-term reduction targets for CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) and received with some variation depending on the installation environment and conditions. In regard to the Paris reduction targets for 2030 and 2050 approval of the SBT Initiative. Established 2050 long-term targets. Agreement and recent global trends, we expect that energy-related laws and regulations, including the Reducing product-related CO2 〇: emissions (Scope 3, Category 1 and • Established emissions targets for 2030 for Scope 3, Category 1 and 11, and received SBTi’s approval. Act on the Rational Use of Energy, will tighten and that additional measures such as carbon taxes will be 11) • Explained to our suppliers about our initiatives to reduce Category 1 emissions and requested their cooperation. introduced. There will be a need to cut back even further on our energy consumption and greenhouse • Calculated how much reduction in product power consumption is required for each business unit to gas emissions. In order to respond to these risks, it is vital that we diligently execute our energy-saving achieve the target of Category 11 emissions reduction and formulated target reduction scenarios. measures, replace and rebuild aging equipment and buildings to improve energy efficiency, and install Targets Fiscal 2019 Progress renewable energy facilities. SBT Scope 1 and 2: By fiscal 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by Reduced by 17.6% compared to the fiscal 2015 30% compared to the fiscal 2015 level level. * ZEB refers to a Net Zero Energy Building. ZEB Ready is a progressive building that incorporates the necessary features for achieving ZEB Scope 1 and 2: By fiscal 2050, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 60% status. It is well insulated, equipped with highly efficient energy-saving equipment, and achieves more than 50% energy savings in compared to the fiscal 2015 level*1. primary energy consumption, excluding non-renewable energy sources. SBT Scope 3: By fiscal 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting Reduced by 4.4% compared to the fiscal 2018 from the purchased goods and services and the use of sold products by level. 30% compared to the fiscal 2018 level. Examples of Physical Risks Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30 Share of private renewable energy generation The Anritsu Group procures parts and materials from locations around the world, and floods and major Using the Anritsu Group’s energy consumption*2 in fiscal 2018 as reached 0.9% a reference, invest in solar panels and increase the share of private In January 2020, installed an additional 57 kW typhoons brought on by climate change mean that there is some risk of suppliers in affected regions renewable energy generation from 0.8% of its energy consumption to in solar power generation facility in the Atsugi area. Also, a 1,100 kW solar power generation being unable to supply necessary parts and materials. In response, the procurement department about 30% by around 2030. facility is being built in the Anritsu Company and scheduled for completion in October 2020. has mapped the main manufacturing and sales locations of our suppliers and formulated a system We expect the ratio of private renewable energy in which we can grasp potential damage immediately. The system also allows the Anritsu Group to generation to reach 4.3% in FY2020. *1 SBT Initiative’s evaluation has not been requested. make purchases from several companies. The first factory of Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., in Koriyama City, *2 Excluding AT Techmac Co., Ltd. power consumption, which is not applicable to the wholly owned subsidiary. Fukushima Prefecture, is another example. It is located near the Abukuma River, which is at high risk of flooding during torrential rains. To mitigate flood risk, the company built its second factory in a flood▪CO2 Emissions and Reduction Targets in Scope 1 and 2 (Market-based) GHG排出量長期削減計画 free zone within city limits in 2013. Major production lines were moved to the new location, and the (t-CO2) ■Denmark SBTi Approved Target 16,000 15,109 remaining production lines in the first factory were moved to the second floor. As a result, even though 14,279 ■ U.K. 14,000 12,797 12,736 12,443 30% Reduction the first factory suffered from flooding during the Reiwa 1 East Japan Typhoon, and the water level rose 12,000 10,576 ■ U.S.A. 60% Reduction up to 1.5 meters on the first floor, the company was able to resume operations and shipments within 10,000 8,000 ■ Sales offices, etc., in Japan two weeks. 6,044 6,000 ■ Tohoku site ■ Hiratsuka site 4,000 2,000 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2030 2050 (FY) ■ Atsugi site Reference Year SBT Target Target Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 028 Environmental Management ■ Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Activities / Achievements standard, and we wanted to contribute directly to expanding CO2 Emissions Throughout the Entire Value Chain renewable energy offerings. For this reason, we chose not to rely ▪Value Chain CO2 Emissions by Scope (Fiscal 2019) Established SBT solely on purchasing renewable energy certificates but instead to Cat. 12: End-of-life treatment of sold products 0.03% Direct emissions (Scope 1) Cat. 5: Waste generated in operations 0.22% 1.49% The Anritsu Group has established install our own renewable energy generation facilities. Cat. 3: Fueland energy-related activities targets for reducing greenhouse In fiscal 2019, we expanded the generation capability in the not included in Indirect emissions derived Scope 1 or 2 from energy use gas emissions* to be achieved by Atsugi site and added 57 kW in solar power generation facility. We 1.87% (Scope 2) 9.76% 2030. These were approved by the are also in the process of building a 1,100 kW solar power generation SBT Initiative in December 2019 as facility at the Anritsu Company. We will continue to advance toward Cat. 4: Transportation and distribution 2.94% scientific-based targets for achieving the Paris Agreement’s goal of achieving the 2030 reduction target for greenhouse gas emissions. 110,618t-CO2 Other indirect Cat. 7: Employee emissions (Scope 3) commuting 3.32% 88.75% limiting the increase in the global average temperature to less than *“PGRE” stands for Private Generation of Renewable Energy, and “30” refers both to the Cat. 6: Business travel two degrees above pre-industrial levels. approximate target year 2030 for achieving the goal and to the target ratio of about 30%. 3.33% Cat. 2: Capital goods * Scope 1 and 2: By fiscal 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% compared to the 6.89% Cat. 1: Purchased goods and services Cat. 11: Use of sold products fiscal 2015 level. 23.57% 46.57% Scope 3: By fiscal 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the purchased goods and services, as well as the use of sold products, by 30% compared to the fiscal (t-CO2 ) 2018 level. CO2 emissions FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 volume Total CO2 emissions 162,957 141,906 138,683 110,258 110,618 Established Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30 volume*1 Scope 1 1,722 1,698 1,591 1,574 1,649 We established the Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30* plan Solar power generation facility, currently Solar power generation facility Scope 2 13,387 12,581 11,206 11,162 10,794 (PGRE 30) as an additional measure for achieving the reduction under construction (U.S.A.) (Atsugi site) (Market-based*2) (Location-based*3) 15,310 14,741 12,354 11,991 11,804 target for greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2). Using the Scope 3*⁴, ⁵, ⁶, ⁷ 147,848 127,626 125,885 97,522 98,175 Anritsu Group’s energy consumption in fiscal 2018 as a reference, Category 1 80,332 69,608 73,008 29,057 26,078 Category 2 17,606 5,806 5,737 4,996 7,625 the plan is intended to invest in solar power generation facilities Category 3 1,068 1,022 989 998 2,064 (a renewable energy source) and increase the private renewable Category 4 2,645 2,184 1,702 2,791 3,254 Category 5 34 19 127 145 245 energy generation ratio from 0.8% to about 30% by around 2030. Category 6 2,829 2,621 3,554 4,002 3,685 The goal of PGRE 30 is to install and commission over 6 MW (6,000 Category 7 3,879 3,743 3,434 3,404 3,671 Solar power generation facility Category 11 39,358 42,590 37,304 52,096 51,520 kW) in solar power generation facilities across our main business (Tohoku site) Category 12 96 33 31 33 34 sites, the Atsugi site, the Tohoku site, and the Anritsu Company in *1 The calculated value of actual emissions was verified by a third party. Total CO2 California, U.S.A. According to data from the Agency of National ▪Renewable Energy (Annual Electrical Output) (MWh) emissions volume is calculated as the sum of CO2 emissions volumes from Scope 1, 2 (market-based), and 3. Resources and Energy, the ratio of energy generation using FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 *2 Market-based refers to a calculation method that reflects emissions according to renewable sources in Japan in 2018 was 16.9%, 6.0% of which was Solar energy 241 227 233 241 246 specific electricity providers. *3 Location-based refers to a calculation method that reflects the average emissions of from solar. These numbers are extremely low compared to those * Amount of renewable energy generated was reviewed by a third party. grids through which energy is consumed. of other countries. We view our target of supplying about 30% of * The Koriyama Second Factory was installed in fiscal 2013. The global headquarters *4 We revised the calculation method for Category 1 data beginning in fiscal 2018. building was installed in fiscal 2015 and expanded in fiscal 2019. *5 We revised the lifetime usage period in the Category 11 calculation beginning in fiscal 2018. our energy requirement with a proprietary solar power generation *6 Category 8, 10, and 13−15 are not applicable to the Anritsu Group’s business activities system to be extremely high compared to the current Japanese and have therefore been excluded from the calculation. *7 The calculation for Category 9 is extremely difficult, and therefore no calculation was made. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 029 Environmental Management ■ Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links ▪Reduction in Energy Consumption and CO2 Emissions during the Use of Sold Products* 1, 2 Energy-saving Activities at Factories and Offices Reducing CO2 Emissions from Purchased Goods and Services We have mainly focused our efforts on reducing energy Anritsu is working to reduce CO2 emissions related to the purchased FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018*5 FY2019 consumption, as more than 98% of Anritsu Group CO2 emissions goods and services (Scope 3, Category 1), particularly those with a Reduction (Scope 1 and 2) are from energy consumption. In fiscal 2019, high ratio of CO2 emissions across our entire value chain. This is in in Energy 27,748 36,713 31,241 71,744 85,847 Consumption the Anritsu Group’s energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) line with our overall goal of achieving the SBTi-approved Scope 3 (GJ)*3 increased by 6.4% compared to the fiscal 2018 level. This was due target. It is imperative that we collaborate with suppliers to reduce Reduction in CO2 1,611 2,162 1,604 3,569 3,978 Emissions (t-CO2)*⁴ to an increase in the number of overtime hours worked, a result Category 1 emissions. So that the results of our collaboration are *1 Conversion coefficient × time spent in operation over one year × sales volume of increased demand for measuring equipment, triggered by accurately reflected in our reports, we directly collect CO2 emissions × reduction in power consumption when compared to a conventional product the arrival of 5G. In the Domestic Anritsu Group as well, energy data from suppliers. In fiscal 2019, our CO2 emissions were reduced functioning and performing at the same level. *2 Hardware products developed by the Domestic Anritsu Group, for which product consumption increased by 2.9% compared to the fiscal 2018 level. by approximately 10% compared to the fiscal 2018 level. We will assessments have been conducted However, we implemented a raft of measures that included a review also continue to discuss with our suppliers at a forum for the *3 Source for conversion coefficient: Act on the Rational Use of Energy *4 Source for conversion coefficient: national average coefficient based on the Law of the operation status of our air conditioning equipment and the exchange of information regarding reducing Category 1 emissions Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming new installation of high-efficiency air conditioning equipment, and request their cooperation. *5 Reflects revisions regarding annual use, implemented beginning in fiscal 2018 which contributed to an approximately 1.2% reduction in energy エネルギー使用量 consumption (crude （原油換算） oil equivalent). Reducing CO2 Emissions from the Use of Sold Products Reducing CO2 Emissions from Transportation Anritsu is working to reduce CO2 emissions related to the use of sold The Domestic Anritsu Group is actively working on reducing ▪Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Conversion) (kL) products (Scope 3, Category 11), which has the highest percentage CO2 emissions from the transportation and distribution (Scope 12,000 of CO2 emissions across the entire value chain. This is in line with our 3, Category 4) by promoting a modal shift from trucks to railway overall goal of achieving the SBTi-approved Scope 3 target. In fiscal transportation and reviewing and optimizing loading methods, 9,000 8,265 8,274 7,983 7,698 7,774 2019, although the sales volume of energy-intensive products in among other measures. the Measurement Business increased, the CO2 emissions factor was 6,000 lower, and overall CO2 emissions were reduced by 1.1% compared to the fiscal 2018 level. In addition, we have calculated the level of 3,000 reduction in product power consumption that is needed for each business unit to achieve the Category 11 emissions reduction target 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) and formulated target reduction scenarios. In the coming years, ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tohoku site ■ Sales offices, etc., in Japan we will continue our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions under these ■ U.S.A. ■ U.K. ■ Denmark targets and scenarios. Other Targets of the Domestic Anritsu Group Results for Fiscal 2019 Improving the basic unit of energy by 1% every 15.8% improvement year toward fiscal 2020 (program promoted by the from the base year (fiscal electric and electronics-related industries in Japan 2012) for establishing a low carbon society) Achieve annual reductions of at least 1% in the basic unit of energy consumption per real sales for the past 7.2% improvement five years under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 030 Environmental Management ■ Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links ▪Energy Consumption* and Reductions* by Energy Type 1 2, 3, 4 Third-party Verification of CO2 and Other Emissions Climate Change Survey Results by CDP (GJ) In order to ensure the reliability of the report, we sought and The score for Anritsu’s response to the CDP questionnaire on climate Type of energy*⁵, ⁶ FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Reductions received third-party verification from the Sustainability Accounting change for fiscal 2019 was “B: Management level,” which is the same Total energy consumption in 320,197 309,232 298,178 301,108 320,481 -285 Co., Ltd. regarding our CO2 emissions (Scope 1, 2, and 3), annual score as fiscal 2018. This means that the Company is taking action to the Organization renewable energy power generation and total energy consumption. mitigate climate risk and its impact. Subtotal for nonWe will continue our efforts to enhance the reliability of our renewable energy 23,713 25,927 24,066 24,364 23,539 173 Sources information disclosure and reduce CO2 emissions throughout the Class A heavy oil*⁷ 5,202 6,830 5,476 5,018 4,439 763 entire value chain to prevent global warming. Light oil*⁷ 285 262 223 224 165 120 Gasoline*⁷ 9,925 10,165 9,113 9,098 8,926 999 Related Data Kerosene*⁷ 969 969 969 932 859 110 ▪Scope 1 and 2 CO2 Emissions Volume per Sales (Market-based) (t-CO2/100 million yen) City gas*⁸ 2,216 2,409 2,824 2,750 3,054 -838 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 LPG*⁹ 189 158 146 115 78 110 Scope 1 and 2 CO2 Natural gas*⁷ 4,927 5,134 5,315 6,227 6,018 -1,091 Emissions Volume 15.8 16.3 14.9 12.8 11.6 per Unit (Sales)* Purchased 296,076 283,304 274,112 276,744 296,942 -866 electrical power*⁷ * Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions (market-based) / sales － － － － 408 Regional 408 heating*10 *1 Method for calculating energy consumption: volume purchased × conversion coefficient *2 Method for calculating reduced energy consumption: 2015 energy consumption – 2019 energy consumption *3 Base year for reduction comparisons is fiscal 2015 *4 Reason for choosing the base year: 2015 was chosen as this was the year the global headquarters building was completed, in March, subsequently ushering in major changes in the use of energysaving equipment. *5 There was no consumption of air conditioning, steam, sold energy, or renewable energy sources. *6 Energy consumed outside the organization was not included due to the difficulty of documentation. *7 Source for conversion coefficient: regulations in line with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy *8 Source for conversion coefficient: Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: Act on the Rational Use of Energy, Procedure for periodic reports under Articles 15 and 19 (2) (revised March 30, 2018) *9 Source for conversion coefficient: Agency for Natural Resources and Energy: Act on the Rational Use of Energy, Procedure for periodic reports under Articles 15 and 19 (2) (revised March 30, 2018) 50.8 x (1/458) (propane/butane m3 equivalent). *10 Source for conversion coefficient: reports from operations in Denmark ▪Energy Consumption per Sales (GJ/100 million yen) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Basic unit 335 353 347 302 299 of energy consumption (sales)* * Total energy consumption/sales Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 031 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy ■ Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Environment Water Resources Goals Water Risk Regional Evaluation We have evaluated the water risk associated with the Domestic Stance on Social Issues Fiscal 2020 Targets Fiscal 2019 Progress Anrisu Group Companies, Anritsu Company (Morgan Hill, California, Maintain Domestic Anritsu Group ×: 62,161 m3. An increase of 5.9% comU.S.A.) and Anritsu Ltd. (Luton, U.K.), that serve as our main bases water consumption at less than pared with fiscal 2017. Water is irreplaceable for us to lead our daily lives and for for development and manufacturing, using Aqueduct, a water risk 60,000 m3 (about the level consumed conducting economic activities. Yet today water resource in fiscal 2017) evaluation tool developed by the World Resource Institute. The depletion and water conflicts have emerged as major results of our review of what is called an “Overall Water Risk” for these issues around the world due to factors such the rising Activities / Achievements sites were “Low (0–1)” and “Low-Medium (1–2).” However, despite global population, economic growth of developing the fact that Anritsu Company is in what is referred to as a “Low” risk countries, and climate change. Although Anritsu does Reducing Water Consumption region according to the tool, we still believe we are exposed to high not require large quantities of water for its businesses, we Most of the Anritsu Group’s water usage is in toilets, for the washing water risk since we adhere to rules and regulations governed by the are engaged in major development and manufacturing of hands and so on. The Domestic Anritsu Group has reduced state of California, which is subject to a high risk of drought. In fact, sites in high water risk areas, including the Anritsu water consumption through efforts such as leakage inspections, the state experienced record-breaking droughts from 2011 to 2017, Company (U.S.A) in the state of California, U.S.A., and we upgrading to water-saving toilets, and the use of circulated water in and in 2015 all residents were asked to reduce their water use by are therefore no exception in the global situation. That production facilities. The Hiratsuka site uses alkaline washing agents 20%. is why Anritsu believes that efforts to use limited water to degrease metallic materials, and the rinsing water used by the resources efficiently and appropriately are important. facility in this process is reused by circulating it through filters and Water Resources in Regions Experiencing Water Shortages ion-exchange resins, which reduces annual water consumption by The Anritsu Company was able to reduce its water consumption approximately 40 m3. by about half from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2015 through efforts such In the Domestic Anritsu Group, in fiscal 2019 water usage as replacing a water-intensive lawn with plants that can withstand increased by 4.1% compared with fiscal 2018 due to an increase in dehydration and introducing water-saving toilets. In fiscal 2019, the overtime hours worked in the development and manufacturing however, water consumption increased significantly. A newly departments as a result of increased sales. introduced production process increased water consumption, and as California’s drought rules were relaxed, the Company resumed watering plants to maintain its grounds. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 032 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy ■ Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Consideration for Water Resources ▪Amount of Water Intake by Type*, Wastewater by Type, and Recycled Amount (m3) Anritsu Group draws on two sources of water. We use underground FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 water for flushing toilets at the Atsugi site, and we use city water, Total Amount of Water Intake 82,794 80,352 70,837 72,777 79,588 which in turn uses surface water drawn from rivers for its source, at Subtotal 65,207 63,382 54,371 55,774 61,585 all our facilities. Atsugi site 37,320 34,798 30,277 30,181 31,695 At the Atsugi site, we have reduced our use of groundwater to Hiratsuka site 805 750 716 700 659 about a quarter of the volume, compared to the level about 15 years Tohoku site 12,353 11,888 11,203 11,363 11,711 ago, by upgrading to water-saving toilets. Meanwhile, at the global City Water Intake Sales offices, etc., in 66 69 47 476 93 headquarters building, we installed a rainwater permeation basin to Japan facilitate the penetration of rainwater into the ground for groundwater U.S.A. 14,011 15,477 11,858 12,858 17,312 recharges and preventing flooding caused by heavy rainfall. U.K. 421 401 270 196 116 Denmark 232 － － － － ▪Efforts to Protect Water Resources Groundwater Intake Atsugi site 17,587 16,970 16,466 17,003 18,003 Atsugi Hiratsuka Tohoku Total Wastewater Amount 71,570 65,741 58,373 58,530 64,978 Details of our efforts U.S.A. Site Site Site Subtotal 59,217 53,853 47,170 47,167 53,267 ○ ○ ○ Introduced a body detection sensor for men’s toilets Atsugi site 48,191 45,004 40,935 41,364 44,364 Introduced water-saving toilets ○ ○ ○ Hiratsuka site 805 750 716 700 659 Introduced automatic faucets ○ ○ Amount Deposited to Sales offices, etc., in ○ 66 60 47 476 93 Used groundwater for flushing toilets Sewers Japan ○ Reuse of rinse water from the metal U.S.A. 9,530 7,639 5,202 4,431 8,036 degreasing unit ○ U.K. 394 401 270 196 116 Installed a rainwater permeation basin Installation of Valves to Conserve Water ○ ○ Denmark 232 － － － － ○ Installed a sound emulator, “Otohime,” Amount Deposited to for toilets Tohoku site 12,353 11,888 11,203 11,363 11,711 Rivers Conducted leakage inspections ○ ○ ○ Recycled Amount Hiratsuka site 40 40 40 40 40 ○ Upgraded to high-efficiency water heaters Recycled Rate (%) Hiratsuka site 5 5 5 5 6 ○ Replanted plants that can withstand *City water and groundwater are our only two sources for water intake. dehydration Replaced to a drip water supply system ○ Cessation of Watering in Rainy Season ○ ○ Introduced a waterless method for cleaning windows ○ Arranged an inspection of a water supply facility by external institutions ○ ○ Participated in Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Efforts ○ Participated in a cleanup of the Sagami River (River cleanup activities) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 033 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources ■ Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Environment Preserving Biodiversity Policy Activities / Achievements Stance on Social Issues The Anritsu Group has analyzed the relationship between the In addition to environmental impact reduction activities in line with Company’s business activities and biodiversity and concluded that the Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy, we actively participate Biodiversity provides natural resources that are essential we have no specific business activities that have a direct impact on in social contribution activities, such as greening and cleanup for daily life and business activities. If it is lost, human biodiversity. Our basic policy for preserving biodiversity is therefore activities, to expand the global environment’s ability to regenerate survival would be threatened, posing a major risk to focused on activities aimed at reducing environmental impacts and itself. In the initiative to green Company premises, we are planting corporate sustainability. is centered on the following three areas. species that best match the climate and soil of the site as potential Throughout the Anritsu Group’s value chain, from natural vegetation. the procurement of raw materials to the disposal of a ▪Global warming prevention to mitigate climate change product, there are factors in business operations that ▪Resource-saving and recycling to manage overexploitation and Joined the Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren Promotion Partners affect biodiversity such as the discharge of waste and habitat loss The Domestic Anritsu Group has endorsed Nippon Keidanren’s chemicals and the consumption of energy. We therefore ▪Control chemical substance usage and releases as well as other Declaration of Biodiversity and participates as a promotion partner have an obligation to work on biodiversity conservation risk mitigations to manage pollution and habitat loss to exercise leadership in creating a society that values and supports and have a basic policy to reduce environmental impact, biodiversity. while also engaging in social contribution activities for In addition, as part of our social contribution activities, we are protecting the natural environment. actively participating in tree planting, local clean-ups, and other activities that help to preserve biodiversity. For information on our goals for “Promotion of Global Warming Prevention,” “Promotion of Resource-saving/ 3R’s,” and “Reduction in Chemical Substance Usages/Releases and Promotion of Risk Mitigating Measures” based on our Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy, please refer to each relevant item under “Environment.” Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 034 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources ■ Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Acquired FSCTM CoC Certification Supporting the Kanagawa No Plastic Waste Declaration Participation in the Nijyu-maru Project (Double 20 campaign) In January 2020, the printing department in A dead blue whale calf was found washed up on the shores of The Domestic Anritsu Group in fiscal 2017 pledged its contribution Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. acquired FSCTM CoC Yuigahama beach in Kamakura, Kanagawa prefecture in 2018. A toward achieving the Aichi Biodiversity Targets as part of the Nijyucertification*, which contributes to achieving later autopsy found a store of plastic garbage in the calf’s stomach. maru Project*, which is being run by the International Union for the the SDG 15 “Life on Land.” As well as using Kanagawa Prefecture considers itself a “SDGs Future City” and views Conservation of Nature – Japan (IUCN-J). recycled paper, the team uses FSCTM-certified this incident as a “message from the whales.” In line with the SDG *Project that seeks citizen groups, companies, local governments, etc., to declare their paper for printing and producing catalogs, for creating a sustainable society, the prefectural government intention to join the effort to achieve the 20 Aichi Targets agreed at the 10th Ordinary Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity reports and other materials. issued the Kanagawa No Plastic Waste Declaration with the aim of (COP10). working toward a solution for the issue of marine pollution, which *The Forest Stewardship CouncilTM (FSCTM) is a global, not-for-profit organization dedicated is becoming increasingly severe, especially in regard to the problem Activity Name Actions Aichi Targets to the promotion of responsible forest management worldwide. FSCTM defines standards based on agreed principles for responsible forest stewardship that are supported by of micro-plastics. Anritsu is not only a supporter of this activity, but This project has been active environmental, social, and economic stakeholders. To learn more, visit www.fsc.org also conducts clean-up activities in the areas around its Atsugi and Participation in the Mt. since 2000 and focuses on revivHabitat destruction ing forests cleared by the 1996 Preserving vulnerable Fuji “Forest fund-raising” typhoon over a span of 80 years. ecosystems Ecosystem Hiratsuka sites, works to prevent plastic pollution in rivers and the greening project Anritsu has been a participant servicing ocean through participation in Sagami River clean-up activities, and since 2006. works to educate its employees through general environmental We planted trees and vegetation appropriate to the climate and programs and the quarterly publication of Eco Club environmental Greening when soil of the area on the grounds Habitat destruction constructing a new and surrounding area of the magazine. building Anritsu global headquarters Ecosystem servicing building, for which construction was completed in March 2015. Thinning trees as part of the Mt. Fuji “Forest fund-raising” greening project Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 035 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity ■ Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Environment Preventing Environmental Pollution Goals Wastewater Management The Atsugi site operates an industrial wastewater treatment facility Stance on Social Issues Fiscal 2020 Target Fiscal 2019 Progress to detoxify industrial wastewater containing acids and alkali and Maintain zero excess of the voluntary 〇: Zero excess maintained. wastewater discharged from small boilers used to adjust humidity Toxic chemical pollutants in the air, water and soil management limit for industrial inside cleanrooms. We upgraded the facility, modifying the wastewater (Atsugi site) adversely affect human health and the environment structure to incorporate a breakwater to prevent any leaks of raw and also trigger global warming. The list of laws and We will work to maintain zero excess of the voluntary management water, intermediary wastewater, or chemicals used for treatment regulations focused on the handling and discharge of limit. from the tanks. We are working to reduce risks by, introducing a chemical substances is extensive and becoming stricter. double monitoring system to ensure that water exceeding the In its product development and manufacturing, Activities / Achievements permitted pH limit would not be discharged into the surrounding Anritsu handles chemicals, and if they were not properly environment. In addition, we manage the quantity of heavy metals managed, they would seriously affect the surrounding Regulatory Compliance by running simple analysis on a weekly basis and calling in third environment. For our sustainable business activities, it The Domestic Anritsu Group is working to prevent environmental party specialists every three months to analyze other check items as is critical that we maintain appropriate control over the pollution by establishing voluntary management standards that agreed with the government. use and discharge of these chemicals. We will continue are stricter than laws and regulations for wastewater quality, air and At the Hiratsuka site, we degrease and wash metal materials to focus on pollution prevention toward creating a noise. using alkaline washing agents, and the degreasing solution is sustainable society while achieving our corporate The voluntary management standards for wastewater quality are collected in batches. Since the water used for rinsing is circulated, growth. based on historical data, and the limit for the amount of pollutants this is not released as process wastewater. While there are no specific in wastewater is about half of that of the regulatory requirement. facilities that discharge industrial wastewater at the Tohoku site, we have installed a pH monitor and emergency cutoff valve to address WEB Wastewater quality data for the Domestic Anritsu Group the risk of water exceeding the permitted pH limit being discharged WEB Air quality data for the Tohoku site from boilers and septic tanks in the event of malfunction. WEB Noise data for the Domestic Anritsu Group Each site has developed response procedures to address the potential leakage of chemical substances due to human error or natural disaster. Regular equipment inspections and training are also conducted, and necessary revisions are made to prepare for unexpected accidents. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 036 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity ■ Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling Data Links Chemical Substances Management ▪Regulated Chemical Substances in Manufacturing by the Anritsu Group Groundwater Management In regard to chemical substances, the Domestic Anritsu Group 7 Groups of substances: CFC (chlorofluorocarbons), halon, tetrachlorIn regard to organochlorine substances, we completely eliminated Banned methane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, HBFC (hydrobromofluorocarbons), applies unique standards for determining banned or restricted substances bromochloromethane, methyl bromide the use of trichloroethylene at the Atsugi site in 1970 and chemical substances considering such factors as environmental 1,1,1-trichloroethane in 1993, though we continue to voluntarily regulations, hazardousness, safety and health, and disaster Suppressed 7 Groups of substances: HCFC (hydrochlorofluorocarbons), trichloroanalyze and monitor the five designated organochlorine ethylene, tetrachloroethylene, dichloromethane, HFC (hydrofluoroprevention. Expert evaluators, each assigned to specific categories, substance carbons), PFC (perfluorocarbons), SF6 (Sulfur hexafluoride) substances in groundwater at regular intervals. While levels assess the chemical substances in question and determine whether of tetrachloroethylene were higher than permitted under they can be used in the company. environmental standards, this substance has never been used by We also inventory all chemical substances used by Domestic Measures for Regulated Toxic Chemical Pollutants of Products the Anritsu Group. The results of the soil survey showed that Anritsu Anritsu Group divisions and employ a chemical substances The European Union published was not responsible for trichloroethylene contamination. This data management system that makes a record of the amount of chemical Directive (EU) 2015/863 in 2015 suggest that the source of contamination originated upstream from substances purchased, used, and disposed of every three months. adding 4 phthalates (DEHP, Anritsu’s location, which the local government also agrees with. We We use this database to assess the amount of substances subject to BBP, DBP, and DIBP) to the list will continue to conduct regular analysis and monitoring of the site. the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, calculate the of restricted substances in the WEB Groundwater data for the Domestic Anritsu Group total stored amount of hazardous materials as designated by the EU’s RoHS Directives. We had Fire Service Act, calculate as greenhouse gas emissions, and monitor already taken the necessary Analyzing phthalates designated chemical substances in line with revisions to laws and precautions for Category PCB Management regulations. We also consider replacing substances as necessary 3 products related to our IT and communication devices in the In respect to condensers of high concentration PCB waste at the with alternatives that are safer and have a lower environmental Information and Communications business before the restrictions Atsugi site, which account for a significant portion of PCB waste, impact. Moreover, we conduct risk assessments when using came into force at the end of July 2019. Our main products, processing at the Japan Environmental Storage & Safety Corporation chemical substances that are subject to the reporting requirements measuring equipment and products in the PQA business, fall under (JESCO) Tokyo Facility was completed in fiscal 2016. Our analysis of the Industrial Safety and Health Law. Category 9, and we will implement the necessary measures as also revealed that pressure-sensitive copying paper came under the In fiscal 2019, the handling volume at the Tohoku site of the restrictions come into force in July 2021. To reduce the risk of category of low-concentration PCB waste, therefore we contracted methylnaphthalene, a substance found within the Class-A heavy discharging chemical substances into distribution, we have been a government-certified treatment company to properly complete oil used in boilers, exceeded 1 tonne again. As this substance using fluorescent X-ray analyzers to selectively examine purchased processing of the waste and confirmed completion in fiscal 2016. falls under the PRTR Law, we calculated the transfer amount components for the presence of hazardous substances, particularly We also outsourced the treatment of low-concentration PCB and submitted reports to the appropriate regulatory authorities. the original six substances that are restricted in the RoHS Directives. transponders, which were completed in fiscal 2018. With regard to the Methylnaphthalene is burned in boilers and very little is released In fiscal 2019, we started selective testing on the presence of four remaining ballasts containing a high concentration of PCB, we are in externally, but we will still work to reduce handling volume moving additional phthalates with newly introduced analyzers. In addition, the process of outsourcing waste processing to the JESCO Hokkaido forward. since phthalates can migrate, we also check surfaces that come in Facility, with completion expected in fiscal 2020. And we regularly contact with the products during manufacturing. report storage status to the Kanagawa Prefectural government based on our strict management guidelines, which comply with the storage standards for specially controlled industrial waste. Anritsu does not store PCB waste outside of the Atsugi site. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 037 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution ■ Resource Recycling Data Links Environment Resource Recycling ▪Change in Volume of Waste (Domestic Anritsu Group) Goals 国内アンリツグループ廃棄物排出量 (t) Stance on Social Issues Fiscal 2020 Target Fiscal 2019 Progress 150 Maintain zero emissions*1 at the 〇: Maintained zero emissions. 112.7 116.4 101.6 106.1 102.1 The volume of waste is increasing as the world’s Domestic Anritsu Group 100 population grows while a culture of mass production, Maintain industrial waste volume at ×: Exceeded industrial waste volume of 67 the Domestic Anritsu Group at 67 tons (68.3 tons*2 in fiscal 2019) mass consumption and disposables becomes wider tons or lower 〇: Maintained general waste output spread, resulting in shortages of natural resources and 50 Maintain general waste and put at the Atsugi site at 36 tons or lower below 36 tons (33.4 tons in fiscal 2019) placing a heavy burden on the environment. To address this, companies around the world are expected to *1 Zero emissions is defined as achieving a directly landfilled and burned disposal rate of 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) manage and dispose of their waste properly and reduce less than 0.5% *2 Excluding irregular disposals resulting from layout changes, etc. General waste: ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tohoku site the amount of waste generated. ■ Sales offices, etc., in Japan It is our social responsibility to contribute toward Industrial waste: ■ Atsugi site ■ Hiratsuka site ■ Tohoku site tackling the waste issue. To this end, we properly handle Activities / Achievements ■ Sales offices, etc., in Japan the waste generated by our plants and offices as well Waste Reduction as our products when they reach the end of their life. In The Domestic Anritsu Group is promoting 3R activities and the addition, we aggressively practice the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, separation of waste in our offices and production lines. For example, and recycle) while also reducing the amount of waste we we have reduced waste wood by replacing special wooden frames generate and using environmentally friendly materials. used to ship components produced abroad to Japan with rented reusable plastic frames, and we have also improved the recycling method for part of our waste solvent from thermal to material recycling. In fiscal 2019, our industrial waste volume exceeded our target. This resulted from a few one-off scenarios including the use and disposal of wood by a department that typically does not use wood and the use and the disposal of packaging materials for research and experiment activities. We will continue to promote the 3Rs and work to reduce waste further. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 038 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution ■ Resource Recycling Data Links ▪Volume of Waste Generated by the Domestic Anritsu Group by Treatment ▪Eco-friendly Packaging Efforts at the Domestic Anritsu Group Recycling Center (t) Packaging Target Product Action Result Anritsu led the measuring instrument industry in establishing the Method Group Method and Waste Treatment Type (Including valuables) Method Type FY2019 Desktop measuring Adopted polyethylene Material Reduction in Recycling Center at Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., as a division in 2000. 156.1 equipment and foam as a cushioning packaging material Anritsu Kousan obtained a license to engage in the industrial waste Waste metal handheld measuring waste volume (waste Polyethylene 95.2 equipment shipped material is polyethdisposal business in 2002 and started operating in fiscal 2003. The Waste paper foam packaging overseas*1 ylene foam)*2 2.8 (PEF packaging) Volume reduction of Waste oil 40% (compared to center is primarily engaged in treating used products received from Material recycling Waste glass and ceramic 2.2 film packaging) customers. 1.6 Desktop measuring Adopted method Reduction in packWaste plastics equipment shipped where product is held aging material waste In fiscal 2019, the Center received 108 tons of used products Film packaging 1.1 overseas*3 between two layers of volume (waste materiSludge elastic film al is elastic film)*2 and equipment generated by the Anritsu Group and recycled nearly Waste plastics 43.7 Unit components Adopted air-based Reduction in pack100% of the waste after disassembling and sorting, shipping 92.3% and small measuring cushioning material aging material waste 36.8 H160 Air-based Animal and plant residue equipment shipped that can withstand volume (waste materiof the resultant material as valuable resources. cushioning 16.2 overseas atmospheric pressure al is air film)*2 Waste oil materials changes in air transAnritsu Kousan also promotes the refurbishment of used 10.4 port Waste wood Thermal recycling Handheld measuring Adopted cardboard as Reduction in packagproducts. A selection of equipment used in demonstrations is Sludge 3.6 equipment for doa cushioning material ing material waste volCardboard as mestic and overseas in packaging Package ume (waste material is reconditioned and calibrated by Anritsu and then delivered with a Waste paper 2.4 a cushioning locations standard attachments cardboard)*2 Volume and optional parts reduction of 40% one-year guarantee, thus extending the lives of the products. Waste alkali 1.3 material in the open spaces (compared to when packaging 0.6 within the cardboard Access Master equipWaste acid cushioning material ment is packaged ▪Recycling System for Used Products using urethane foam Products shipped Adopted reusable Reduction in waste Finite Resources domestically (mainly boxes for delivery and volume by 94% Environmental Considerations in Packaging calibration instrupickup (cushioning compared to regular ments) material is also reuspackaging*4. The Domestic Anritsu Group seeks to reduce the volume of Eco-logistics able) Material Recycling Materials Simplified product packaging materials. Together with our packaging subcontractors, packaging (Packaging Chemical Recycling Anritsu Group with protective we have completely discontinued the use of shock-absorbing polyethylene) Thermal Recycling Recycling Center Large products Adopted method Achieved zero waste material for packaging made of urethane foam produced by using shipped domestically in which product emissions through a Disassembly Design/Production (mainly Anritsu Infivis was wrapped in shift from disposable a liquid concentrate containing Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) No packaging products) stretchable film and crates to reusable pipe Disposal Landfill Selection Sales put in a reusable pipe frames. diisocyanate, which is designated as a Class I Designated Chemical container Zero Emission Substance under the PRTR Law. For the substitute packaging *All packaging materials must protect the product from shock and vibrations while in method, we assess and introduce suitable materials and methods to transport. Customers each product to strive for environmentally friendly packaging. *1 Desktop measuring equipment and handheld measuring equipment being developed and shipped overseas from fiscal 2016 is, in principle, shipped using PEF packaging. *2 Reduction in packaging material based on a comparison of urethane foam waste with waste when item in parentheses is used *3 Used for large measuring equipment and measuring equipment with a shape for which PEF packaging is problematic *4 Assuming eco-logistics boxes are reused 20 times Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 039 Environmental Management Climate Change and Energy Water Resources Preserving Biodiversity Preventing Environmental Pollution Resource Recycling ■ Data Links Environment Data Links Page in this Reporting Theme Content Title Format Website Report Environmental policy Environmental Policy Text document (HTML) 020 https://www.anritsu.com/en-us/about-anritsu/sustainability/environment Environmental impact summary encompassing Environmental Impact Encompassing the Entire Value Chain Historical data by year (Excel) 021 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-data/lca.xlsx the entire value chain List of excellent Eco-products Excellent Eco-products List (HTML) 024 https://www.anritsu.com/en-us/about-anritsu/sustainability/environment/eco-products － CO2 emissions across the life cycle of our prodCO2 Emissions and Breakdown across the Life Cycle of Product Environmental Graph of fiscal 2019 data 024 ucts Groups Management Eco-friendly procurement guidelines Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification Booklet (PDF) 055 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/ja-jp/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-supplier-information/Guide-Eg.pdf Environmental management system certificaAnritsu Corporation ISO 14001 Certification (English) Certificate (PDF) 025 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/iso14001/jqa-em0210-en.pdf tions Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) ISO 14001 Certification Certificate (PDF) 025 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/iso14001/ems-certificate.pdf Spreadsheet of historical data by year Input/output data Environmental Impact Mass Balance 025 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-data/mass-balance.xlsx (Excel) － Graph of historical data and target by CO2 Emissions & Reduction Targets in Scopes 1 and 2 (Market-based) 027 year Greenhouse gas emissions CO2 Emissions Across the Value Chain per Scope Graph of fiscal 2019 data 028 － CO2 Emissions Across the Value Chain per Scope Spreadsheet of historical data by year 028 － Scopes 1 and 2, and CO2 Emission Volume per Sales (Market-based) Spreadsheet of historical data by year 030 － Climate Change/ Energy Renewable energy generated Renewable Energy (Annual Electrical Output) Spreadsheet of historical data by year 028 － Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) Historical data by year 029 － Consumption and CO2 Emission during the Use of Sold Products Spreadsheet of historical data by year 029 － － Energy consumption Energy Consumption and Reductions by Energy Type Spreadsheet of historical data by year 030 Energy Consumption per Sales Spreadsheet of historical data by year 030 － Efforts to protect water resources Efforts to Protect Water Resources List 032 － Water Resources － Amount of Water Intake by Type, Wastewater by Type and Recycled Water consumption Spreadsheet of historical data by year 032 Amount Spreadsheet of historical data by year Wastewater quality Wastewater Quality Data for the Domestic Anritsu Group 035 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-data/water-quality.xlsx (Excel) Spreadsheet of historical data by year Preventing Air quality Air Quality Data for the Tohoku site (Excel) 035 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-data/air.xlsx Environmental Spreadsheet of historical data by year Pollution Noise Noise Data for the Domestic Anritsu Group 035 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-data/noise.xlsx (Excel) Spreadsheet of historical data by year Groundwater Groundwater Data for the Domestic Anritsu Group 036 https://dl.cdn-anritsu.com/en-en/about-anritsu/environment/environmental-data/groundwater.xlsx (Excel) Change in Volume of Waste (Domestic Anritsu Group) Graph of historical data by year 037 － － Resource Waste emission Volume of Waste Generated by the Domestic Anritsu Group by Spreadsheet of fiscal 2019 data 038 Recycling Treatment Method and Waste Type Environmental considerations in packaging Eco-friendly Packaging Efforts at the Domestic Anritsu Group List 038 － Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 040 Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social 041 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 047 Human Resources Development 051 Occupational Health and Safety 055 Supply Chain Management 059 Quality and Product Safety 061 Customer Service and Support 063 Performance Data Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 041 ■ Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social We develop our employees into talented Respect for Human Rights and Diversity workers who maximize our business output and contribute to society. Policy Stance on Social Issues As a company developing its business at the global level, Anritsu streamlines policies and guidelines based A company is a group of people with different ways of on international standards, including as set out in the thinking and different senses of value, and an employer International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental is responsible for giving due consideration to the human Principles and Rights at Work, the 10 principles of the UN Takashi Sakamoto rights of each employee. In order to better secure Global Compact, the Guiding Principles on Business and Executive Officer, Chief Human Resource and Administration Officer human resources and respond to the risks and needs of Human Rights endorsed by the UN Human Rights Council, and a diversifying market in an aging society with a declining ISO 26000:2010, which provides guidance on how companies Anritsu needs employees with ability and leadership in order birth rate, we also believe it is increasingly important can operate in a socially responsible way. In the Charter of to operate its business, maximize output and contribute to for companies to promote diversity management. For Corporate Behavior for guiding the Anritsu Group in the society while responding to the complex, ever-changing market Anritsu, for which overseas sales account for 66% of total conduct of its social responsibility, we declared we will respect environment. I have responsibility to establish a corporate system sales (in fiscal 2019), maintaining its current business and the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and that allows employees to work with passion and a sense of mission. achieving the growth strategy set out in “Beyond2020” will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, Anritsu changes its business in response to an evolving requires creating an environment in which a diverse gender, and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and marketplace. Employees at Anritsu also go through changes. group of employees can work actively and share their will never accept child labor or forced labor. All these vectors of change must be optimized to establish an values. The Code of Conduct sets forth the ethical standards for employer-employee relationship in which each party encourages all Anritsu Group employees and stipulates that we will not the other to reach a higher level. With my sights set on not only discriminate in word or deed or engage in acts of violence the 2020s but also the 2030s and beyond, I work together with or impair personal dignity and that we will seek to deepen business management to draw up organizational reform and our understanding and act to respect human rights through human resource strategies that correspond with the changes and educational programs and other appropriate means. needs of all parties. Finally, we will continue to practice diversity and inclusion throughout the entire Group as stipulated in our Diversity Policy. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 042 ■ Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management WEB Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior March in 2024 (the ratio in 2020: 3.3%), apart from maintaining Complying with the Modern Slavery Act the ratio of female employees among all new recruits at 20% We are particularly focused on human rights issues and as part of WEB Anritsu Group Code of Conduct or higher, the percentage of which we attained in April 2020. supply chain due diligence in compliance with the UK Modern WEB Diversity Policy For additional details, please see the Career Development for Slavery Act and have released the UK Modern Slavery Act Statement. Cultivating Female Leaders section. In 2020, we also released the Australian Modern Slavery Statement. Structure P.056 Supply Chain Management: Modern Slavery Act Activities / Achievements Under the leadership of the Human Resource and Administration Department, the Sustainability Promotion Center, the Legal Respecting Human Rights Career Development for Cultivating Female Leaders Department, and the Global Procurement Operation Division, the In March 2006, Anritsu declared its support for and participation in Initiatives are underway at Anritsu to support female employees so Anritsu Group engages in activities aimed at promoting respect of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which are that they become more directly involved in the process of growing for human rights for all members in our value chain, including our grouped into four categories: Human Rights, Labor, Environment, the Company and raising its corporate value while also supporting employees, customers, and suppliers. In order to promote respect and Anti-Corruption. The Anritsu Group as a whole promotes these them to maintain a healthy balance between work and private for diversity in a number of ways, including by advancing the career principles alongside its sustainability-related activities. Anritsu Group life. Because of the nature of our business, we tend to recruit more development of women, promoting Life-Work Balance, hiring employees in Japan are required to submit letters of confirmation graduates with a science background than in the liberal arts, and more persons with disabilities, and developing the careers of nonthat provide assurance they understand and agree with the Code of that factor has made the hiring of women rather difficult. In fiscal Japanese employees and senior employees, we set up the Diversity Conduct of the Anritsu Group. We also seek to address and improve 2016, we set the goals of boosting the ratio of female employees in Promotion Team, a special team for those tasks, within the Human the status of human rights issues through the use of corporate Japan to 20% of all new recruits by 2020 and improving our work Resource and Administration Department in fiscal 2016. ethics surveys and consultation points. environment for female employees. As a result of some measures, such as public relations activities focused on female graduates, the P.074 Estabilishment of the Compliance :Hotline Goals ratio of female new recruits reached 20% in April 2020. To support female employees in their career development efforts, we have The Anritsu Group is focusing on the promotion of workstyle In the supply chain, we seek the understanding and cooperation increased the number of participants in level-based training and reforms through the creation of a company where employees of our supply chain partners through Anritsu CSR Procurement organized several kinds of workshops. Fiscal 2019 and 2020 saw can work to the best of their abilities, the promotion of diversity, Guidelines in establishing a supply chain based on a respect for the promotion of several female employees into management as well as improved productivity as a mediumto long-term goal. human rights, labor, health and safety, and the prevention of positions. While maintaining the ratio of female employees among Anritsu promotes a corporate culture that allows a diverse range of corruption and consideration of the environment. all new recruits at 20% or higher, we are seeking to raise the ratio of employees to demonstrate their personal abilities by providing a female employees among all managers to the industry’s average or P.055 Supply Chain Management workplace in which they can play an active role regardless of race, higher by the end of March, 2024. We remain determined to keep nationality, gender, age, views on work, faith and region, sexual increasing the number of female employees, supporting their career orientation or disability. development efforts, and improving our work environment so it will To promote the career development of women, a particular nurture many of our female employees into corporate leaders. area of focus, we set a new goal of raising the ratio of female managers at or above the industry average by the end of Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 043 ■ Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management ▪Initiatives for Women’s Career Development Female Executives and Major Initiatives Employees In the appointment of directors, Anritsu looks beyond gender or nationality to consider knowledge, experiences and abilities as well as to diversify the board. In fiscal 2019, Keiko Shimizu was appointed as on outside director (member of the Audit & Supervisory Committee), and Hanako Noda WEB Message from the CTO, Anritsu Integrated Report 2020 Executives was appointed as executive officer and CTO. Noda has cultivated an extraordinary passion for cutting-edge technology and has exercised great leadership since she joined Anritsu as a new graduate recruit. In fiscal 2017, we revised the tier-based training system for young workers and leaders, which had accepted only workers recommended by department managers until fiscal 2016, to allow participation by anyone who meets certain conditions. This helped raise the female participation rate from around 12% through fiscal 2016 to 17% in fiscal 2017, 20% in fiscal 2018, and 13% in fiscal 2019. Other measures, such as the training program aimed at supporting the advancement of women’s careers, also proved to be successful, leading to the appointment of three female managers (30% of all newly appointed managers) in fiscal 2019 and Managers two female managers (14% of all newly appointed managers) in fiscal 2020. Toward the new goal of raising the ratio of female managers to or above the industry average* by the end of March 2024, we keep promoting the appointment of female employees who are committed to growing our business and raising our corporate value. P.063 Performance Data (Social): Employee data, employment conditions for female employees around the world *For reference: the industry’s average ratio is 3.3% as of March 2020. Various training programs exclusively for female employees have been held since fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2019, a round-table discussion was held by female employees who were pursuing promotion into management positions. We will continue to provide female employees with career development programs in fiscal 2020 and beyond. FY2019 Round-table Discussion for Female Employees ▪ Results of the Questionnaire Survey Conducted with FY2019 Round-table Talk Participants Participants: female applicants who have previously taken the Management Course Exam*. Q1 Did you share your concerns or Q2 Did the round-table discussion offer a good occasion Number of participants: 10 questions with other participants? to find someone whom you could share information *Examination to measure the levels of knowledge in marketing, management and accounting with or seek advice from in the future? (Only those who pass the exam are qualified to become managers.) ● Objectives Leaders 10% (1) Provide an opportunity to think about their future careers in a clear and specific manner ■Yes, I did. ■Yes, it did. (2) Help them establish a network of female employees 40% ■Yes, but not completely. 20% ■Neither yes nor no. ● Subjects of the round-table talk ■Neither yes nor no. ■No, it didn’t. ■No, I didn’t. ■No idea. 60% (1) Life-work balance: “What is your ideal work style?” “What needs to be done to realize a balance?” 70% (2) Career development: “What is it like to be a manager?” “What are your career goals?” 新卒採用者に占める女性比率の推移 (persons) (Unit: %) 60 40 Anritsu hires new employees on a gender neutral basis in all positions, be they in office administration or 33 ▪ Ratios of Female employees among New Graduate Recruits of the Anritsu 新卒採用者に占める女性比率の推移 technical areas. We attained the goal of raising the ratio of female employees in Japan to 20% of all new recruits 32 Corporation in Japan by 2020 as a result of public relations activities focused on female students and the best use of websites and 45 30 job fairs. The average ratio of female employees among all new recruits during the period from fiscal 2016 to 2020 (persons) 24 (Unit: %) 60 34 40 was 23%. We retain the goal of raising the ratio of female employees to 20% of all new recruits and also seek to 19 33 increase the number of female employees who will play an active role at the Anritsu Group. 30 18 27 25 20 32 23 17 18 45 19 30 New recruits 24 34 15 12 22 19 10 14 30 18 11 27 25 20 3 6 5 6 23 17 18 190 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 15 12 22 10 14 ■ Male ■ Female 3 6 5 6 11 ● Ratio of female employees 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) 0 ■ Male ■ Female ● Ratio of female employees Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 044 ■ Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Life-Work Balance ▪Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child-Rearing (5th Stage, April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2020) Placing the lifestyle of each individual at the center of how they Objectives Measures Action spend the 24 hours of each day and where they place work in that • Implemented Ikuboss*¹ e-learning for managers (2017) • Altered “36 agreement”, revising upper limit on overtime • Implementation of management training on supporting day, the Anritsu Group is focused on enabling its employees to enjoy Increase initiatives for reducing overtime work and work/life balance, workstyle reforms work (2017) • Implemented telecommuting to allow employees to cope a harmonious Life-Work Balance (we use this term to emphasize “life” improve working conditions toward Work-style • Considering a system allowing workers to choose from a with the time difference with some overseas locations (2018) Reform variety of workstyles • Launched campaign to review labor union/management first, rather than the more common “work-life balance”). We seek to working relationship (2017, 2018) improve employee productivity by encouraging them to pursue a • Considered new work styles such as telecommuting (2019) fulfilling personal life as well as an equally fulfilling professional life, Review and reinforce systems to support childWith the goal of promoting life-work balance, Anritsu is Introduced an hourly-based leave system and expanded the committed to creating an environment in which it is easy for acceptable reasons for taking childcare and parental leave as by allowing them to work in a way that is well balanced with their rearing employees to take leave. part of the support leave*² (2018) personal pursuits. In line with the Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan • Held seminar on balancing work with nursing care responsiCreate an environment where employees can balance Providing an environment in which our employees can bilities (2018) to Support Child-Rearing (5th stage), which began in fiscal 2017 (see work with nursing care responsibilities balance their work with any nursing care responsibilities. • Conducted survey on nursing care conditions (2018) the table on the right), we have focused on promoting improved *1 Managers who understand the importance of joining child-rearing. life-work balances among our employees and have accordingly *2 Support Leave covers a range of reasons including child-rearing and nursing, commuting to hospital, and school events. been working to advance awareness of revised workstyles and reductions of overtime work. We will continue to strive to improve ▪Anritsu Corporation Childcare Leave Usage Results working conditions in fiscal 2020 toward workstyle reforms. Efforts Reporting Period Gender by labor and management through the Committee for Promoting FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Life-Work Balance are also under way, and we acquired the Kurumin Male 22 23 14 Total number of employees eligible to take childcare Double Star certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and leave Female 8 4 7 Welfare in 2018. Male 3 2 2 In regard to childbirth and childcare, the Domestic Anritsu Total number of employees who took childcare leave Female 8 4 7 Group has a system that exceeds legal requirements including in Male 2 2 2 terms of leave, reinstatement, and shorter work hours, both before Total number of employees who returned to work following childcare leave Female 2 12 4 and after childbirth as well as during child-rearing. To ensure that employees applying for these programs, regardless of their gender, Total number of employees who have been with the Male 4 4 4 Company for one year or long since returning to work can balance work and childcare with greater peace of mind, we after childcare leave taken during the three years Female 19 15 19 preceding the reporting years* disseminate information companywide to establish familiarity with Male 100% 100% 67% the programs and raise awareness to inspire greater understanding. Rate of employees who returned to work after childcare leave During fiscal 2019, seven female and two male Female 100% 100% 100% employees took parental leaves. We continue One-year-later retention rate of employees who Male 100% 100% 100% to work on raising awareness and improving returned to work after childcare leave Female 100% 100% 100% the understanding of the opportunity among *For fiscal 2019, the total shows employees who have been with the Company for one year or longer after returning to work, with childcare leave taken between fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2018, as of employees. March 31, 2020. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 045 ■ Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management ▪Parenting and Childcare Programs LGBT Consideration End of academic End of academic year The Anritsu Group is taking a proactive stance in improving the Pregnancy Childbirth 1-year-old End of April of the 3-year-old Start of elementary following year education year (end of March) (end of March) for environment for LGBT employees, including by creating a function for third grade sixth grade Support leave (hospital visits within the internal and external consultation points for addressing for fertility treatment) Support system for balancing work with childcare responsibilities Leave for fertility treatment LGBT issues and installing multi-gender bathrooms. Our recruitment Leave for prenatal Leave for post-natal entry sheet no longer has a gender section. We will continue to hospital visits hospital visits Maternity leave work to foster a climate of diversity and acceptance. Leave (8 weeks before and Childcare leave* *Childcare leave is allowed in special circumstances until child after giving birth) reaches the end of the month in which he or she turns two. Special leave for men at the time of Promoting the Careers of Non-Japanese Employees childbirth (5 days) Men’s parental leave to The Domestic Anritsu Group hires employees, including new experience childcare Childcare leave* recruits and mid-career employees, regardless of nationality as it Leave for nursing children participates in employment-related events organized by overseas Support leave (child vaccinations, school events, etc.) universities, accepting interns from universities in Japan and Restrictions on engaging in overseas, and hiring exchange students in Japan. As of March 31, hazardous operations Mitigation measures 2020, 54 foreign nationals are employed mainly at our worksites in for commuting Work breaks Time off for nursing Japan. We broadened our in-house training programs for employees Work-related during pregnancy (time off for child-rearing) Restrictions on overtime, working overtime who are not fluent in Japanese. We will continue to develop a on holidays, and late nights working environment that supports the engagement of nonTime off for nursing (shorter work hours) Japanese employees. Restrictions on working overtime, on holidays and late nights Flex-time system for child-rearing (shift in core working times) Status on Employment of Those with Disabilities ■Female ■Male ■Both As of the end of March 2020, the ratio of employees with disabilities at the Anritsu Corporation was 1.87%, which fell below the legally mandated employment rate of 2.2%. The Company continues to engage in related recruitment activities, including in cooperation with outside organizations such as Hello Work, the Japanese government’s employment services center. We are committed to creating a comfortable workplace where people with disabilities can work together with others and to the best of their abilities. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 046 ■ Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management ▪Employment Rate for People with Disabilities at the Anritsu Corporation ▪Labor Membership Rates at the Three Domestic Anritsu Group Companies (%) (As of March 31, 2020) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Labor Union Labor Union Regular Company Participation 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.20 2.20 Legal disability Members Employees Rate (%)*1 employment ratio Anritsu Corporation 620 855 72.5 1.78 1.89 1.72 1.74 1.63 1.87 Ratio of employees with disabilities Anritsu Networks*2 52 77 67.5 *As of March 31 for each fiscal year Anritsu Customer Support 54 69 78.3 *1 Labor union participation rate = labor union members/regular employees Applying the Skills of Senior Employees *2 Anritsu Networks was merged into the Anritsu Corporation on April 1, 2020. The Domestic Anritsu Group operates an employment extension program in which employees can continue working after retirement at age 60. In principle, we grant extensions to all applicants, who are then able to continue applying the ample knowledge, experience, and advanced skills they have gained over the years and provide guidance and training for the next generation. To enhance productivity we will continue to promote diverse working styles and develop a working environment in which diverse personnel can excel at their careers. Labor Union and Dialogue Between Labor and Management Anritsu respects freedom of association and the right of employees to collective bargaining. The Constitution of Japan guarantees the rights and activities of labor unions, including the right to organize, as well as bargain and act collectively. Members of the Anritsu labor union in fiscal 2019 included those in general positions at the Anritsu Corporation, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. and Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. (excluding part-time workers and managers). With the goal of building a sound labor-management relationship, representatives from each company regularly interact and share information with the Anritsu labor union, and issues raised in the process are discussed and solutions negotiated on an individual basis. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 047 Respect for Human ■ Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social Human Resources Development Policy educational and training systems and programs. We offer an award system to recognize quality of work, initiative, Stance on Social Issues The real source of a company’s value is the diversity of its human and the acquisition of skills and qualifications, as we believe it is resources, and for the Anritsu Group, where technology is a core important for employees to have a sense of accomplishment and Competition for human resources in Japan is likely to competence, the hiring and development of human resources their self-development efforts honored in the form of an award intensify as country’s labor force shrinks in line with capable of leading technical innovation is a key management issue. whenever they deserve it. its low birthrate and aging society. Moreover, as the With that in mind, and without regard to nationality or gender, the world gets closer to a sustainable, super-smart society Domestic Anritsu Group is focused on continuously developing Goals (Society 5.0, the fourth industrial revolution, etc.) due employment plans that prioritize diversity in both education and to endeavors to incorporate cutting-edge technologies training programs to support the independent growth of our Hiring (such as 5G, IoT, robots, AI, and big data) into every type employees. ▪Securing a certain number of new graduate hires of industry and people’s everyday lives, companies are ▪Hiring employees regardless of nationality expected, more than ever before, to create scientific and Structure technological innovations. Education and Training Anritsu as a company that aims to contribute to the Under the Chief Human Resource and Administration Officer at Anritsu ▪Expanding self-development support programs creation of this kind of society through “Original & High Corporation, the Human Resource and Administration Department ▪Improving training programs for next-generation leadership Level” products and services must therefore hire recruits and Domestic Anritsu Group Human Resource Departments develop candidates with great potential and develop them so they become employment plans and educational training systems in line with highly efficient and capable. the goal of training employees who will contribute to and the Activities / Achievements development of a global society through our businesses. Our hiring committee, chaired by the vice president and chief Hiring New Graduates human resource and administration officer, reviews and discusses As part of the selection process when hiring new graduates in recruitment policies and implementation plans. Through discussions Japan, Anritsu spends a considerable amount of time confirming with business division leaders on the committee and managers, that the Company and prospective hire both understand each the committee continually works toward securing the quantity and other’s expectations during interviews. While time may be limited, quality of human resources required by the Company. we are committed to ensuring a match by deepening mutual As part of the efforts to develop employees into valuable understanding through discussion. The turnover rate over the first human resources, division leaders and the Human Resource and three years for new graduates who joined the Company via the Administration Department to discuss how to improve or enhance selection process centered on these kinds of discussions over the Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 048 Respect for Human ■ Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management three years was 0%, 5.9%, and 0%, respectively, and well below The education and training of engineers, which used to be Division, launched in April 2020, to help newly hired engineers the turnover rate of about 29% for companies of equal scale (500 conducted at the initiative of each business division, is now the become full-fledged engineers and to plan and provide crossto 900 employees) and the turnover rate of about 20% for the responsibility of human resources staff. A team was put together in sectional educational programs for engineers across the Anritsu manufacturing sector, as announced by the Ministry of Health, fiscal 2020 in cooperation with the business departments to which Group. Labour and Welfare. the trainee engineers belong. It also works with the Engineering P.041 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity ▪Number of New Graduates at the Anritsu Corporation in Japan (persons) April 2018 April 2019 April 2020 Level-based training 34 Self-study programs Executives 27 25 （Learning content) New graduate hires (22 male, 5 female) (23 male, 11 New appointment training Off-site training (19 male, 6 female) female) Genre-based content, including ▪Anritsu Corporation: Turnover Rate over the First Three Years for New Graduate Hires (%) Appointments thinking skills, people, objects, money, language education Joined the company in April 2015 0.0 Self-improvement ● Thinking about your own career Joined the company in April 2016 5.9 (one of 17 left) Voluntary programs (participation allowed for Easy ways in which anyone can learn Training & Hands-on Professional education based on job type Career counseling Joined the company in April 2017 0.0 ● Learning management Management Training (MDP) Producing results and developing human resources ● Web-Based Training those who meet certain conditions) Education and Training Mid-career, leadership Simulating the experience of being a manager ● Online English language To encourage employees to build their strengths independently conversation and update their skills at their own initiative, Anritsu provides on● Acquiring awareness and independence as a ● Correspondence businessperson courses the-job training as well as educational and training programs. OnLeadership Basic ● Fostering awareness of group outcomes the-job training allows employees to gain the skills and experience ● Training (YDP) Leadership role-playing built up by the Company over its many years of operation, while Communication, leadership, teamwork the programs encourage them to pursue self-study and personal Diversity acceptance and developing a ● Management school growth. nurturing attitude ● English conversation classes Our educational and training programs are built on the ● Understanding Anritsu Second concepts stated as, “choosing whwr own capabilities and strengths.” year ● Understanding the actions and awareness necessary Comprised of level-based training and a self-development program New hires to work in an organization (Learning Content), the programs are shared across the Anritsu Joined ● Acquiring the basics as a productive member of society Know your own abilities the Company Group. The average hours of training each year per employee at the Domestic Anritsu Group was 8.8 hours in terms of program hours offered by the Human Resource Department in fiscal 2018. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 049 Respect for Human ■ Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Level-based Training Improving Training for New Employees excitement of handling global projects and understand the key The Anritsu Group’s Leadership Basic Training (YDP) and SelfIn fiscal 2019, we revised group work programs in the training for points of global business such as the importance of collaboration improvement Training & Hands-on Management Training (MDP) are new employees in order to develop their understanding of the with colleagues in and outside Japan. designed to develop employees into mid-level leaders—the nextactions and awareness required to work in an organization. Using We also send employees outside Japan so they can gain experience generation of Company management. Some overnight sessions hands-on training in a real-world experience, the program focuses working in foreign countries. In addition to improving language were replaced with one-day sessions to give due consideration on promoting team-based results with each person acting in a skills and promoting cross-cultural understanding, the program to the life-work balance of participants and make the programs leadership role. In fiscal serves to promote the formation of overseas connections. more accessible. We are currently reviewing and revising the 2020, the group work MDP program to include greater emphasis on the importance of program, which we Global Training for the Test and Measurement Business attaining personal growth and development, contributing to better further refined, was held At our overseas bases, Anritsu holds global training for about 100 business performance, and strongly engaging in work, as we believe online because new sales engineers involved in the Test and Measurement business. these factors are great motivators. employees who joined This comprises sessions on a wide range of subjects such as new us in April 2020 were products, new product functions, market trends, Anritsu solutions, Self-development Program (Learning Content) teleworking due to the success stories, demonstration know-how, sales strategies, and Training new recruits remotely via the Internet In fiscal 2017, in addition to the self-development program COVID-19 pandemic. product road maps. comprised of correspondence courses, we introduced Learning Training in fiscal 2019 included a greater number of 5G-related Content, which includes Web-Based Training and online or inFostering Candidates for Next-generation Leadership sessions. person classes.The number of applicants has increased since fiscal As part of our business succession plan, which focuses on finding Each year, participants not only become more knowledgeable 2017 around three times the number in fiscal 2016. Moreover, the and fostering management candidates, we traditionally send through the lectures but also gain practical skills, such as by program now offers a course for Japanese employees to improve those selected for participation to management school, and we operating instruments to gain an understanding of selling points their English skills and another for foreign nationals to learn are considering an optional educational menu that will allow while also learning how to demonstrate them effectively. In fiscal Japanese, both of which were added in the wake of the increasing development in line with individual departmental policies. 2018, Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. was added to the group responsible globalization of our business. Moving forward, we plan to prepare for organizing the device products training program. and further improve the environment for employees to learn on Global Human Resources Development their own. The Domestic Anritsu Group is working to expand its business ▪Learning Content: Comparison of Total Applications Submitted overseas. Developing human resources capable of leading these Old Updated Content overseas businesses represents a key challenge for achieving Content FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 growth in the coming years for the Anritsu Group. In developing Domestic Anritsu Group total global human resources, we think it is important not only to raise 169 547 448 500 (number of applications) the level of language proficiency but also to develop the mindsets Anritsu Corporation (number of 81 313 247 272 of employees so they can effectively work around the world. applications) Total 250 860 695 772 During new employee training, we provide opportunities Sharing market trends and new product functions for participants to learn typical global projects from experienced leaders. Through their stories, new employees experience the Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 050 Respect for Human ■ Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Global Training for the PQA Business Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. engages in the business of product quality assurance (PQA) solutions, which support the safety and security of food and pharmaceutical products around the world. The company holds a repair and maintenance training event for employees and distributors in and outside Japan. In fiscal 2019, the event attracted more than 80 service engineers from 12 countries. The knowledge and skills gained are documented in charts or maps and shared across the Company. For the mission of providing prompt, reliable services for the ongoing evolution of testing instruments, Anritsu Infivis is always creating a corporate environment in which all members learn from each other and mutually improve their abilities. Global PQA training in Chile Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 051 Respect for Human Human Resources ■ Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social Occupational Health and Safety Policy Structure Stance on Social Issues At the Anritsu Group, we believe that in order to enable every The executive office overseeing occupational health and safety employee to achieve their full potential, we must secure employee at Anritsu Corporation is in charge of safety and health for the More than ever before, companies are expected to safety and health and create comfortable and efficient workplaces. Domestic Anritsu Group and is tasked with formulating and establish workplace environments where every employee As part of our efforts to achieve that, the Company emphasizes implementing safety and health related matters common to the can work safely and in good health through reinforced “Respect for Employees,” as stated in its Charter of Corporate Group. We also have a safety and health management system that measures to prevent occupational accidents as well as Behavior, and “Improving the working environment,” in the complies with all relevant laws and regulations. overwork-related deaths and mental disorders, which Anritsu Group Code of Conduct, which stipulates the creation of a To maintain and improve the health of Group employees, a have become greater social concerns. For the Anritsu compliant work environment in which employees can do their jobs variety of initiatives and support services are provided by industrial Group, where about 4,000 employees strive to create with enthusiasm in safety and good health. physicians, counselors, and health staff assigned to the Anritsu value, it is imperative to continually renew our efforts to In addition, with the goal of the Company and health insurance Corporation Health Management Center. These include regular maintain such an environment, as we believe it leads to union playing an active role in maintaining and improving the worksite visits, a variety of medical checkups, post-stress check higher employee morale, productivity, and creativity and health of each employee, we have separately established the follow-ups, and individual consultation services for mental and boosts the quality of our corporate activities. Anritsu Group Health Management Policy for the Domestic Anritsu physical health. We set up a task force on January 31, 2020 that helps Group. The Anritsu Corporation holds a meeting of the Laborto protect employees from COVID-19, and several related Management Occupational Health and Safety Committee every measures are in place across our operations. month. As described on the following page, the committee is Anritsu Group Health and Productivity Management Policy structured to encourage information-sharing and the horizontal P.081 Business Continuity Management: Response to Infectious Diseases implementation of measures across the Domestic Anritsu Group. The Anritsu Group believes our corporate value is founded on the Matters discussed by the committee are promptly disclosed along ability of each employee to work to the best of their abilities and in with the minutes via the intranet to all employees. good health. With the goals of creating an environment in which all employees have an interest in health, are cognizant of their own health challenges, and take measures on their own to maintain and improve their heath, the Anritsu Group companies and the Anritsu Health Insurance Association work together to promote effective health and productivity management throughout the Group. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 052 Respect for Human Human Resources ■ Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management ▪Anritsu Corporation Occupational Health and Safety Committee (Fiscal 2019) ▪Progress in our Medium-term Health Management Plan After these occurred, we reviewed work procedures, Chairperson General health and safety manager (Executive in charge of Main focus FY FY FY FY2020 implemented structural measures, and performed a risk safety and health) KPIs points 2017 2018 2019 Targets assessment to prevent recurrence. For fiscal 2020, we renewed our ☆ Ratio of employees Two individuals (one of whom is selected by the Anritsu Vice-chairpersons labor union) determination for zero occupational accidents across the Domestic Minimization exhibiting glycometab40% or 42.0% 43.4% 44.5% Committee members Eight (four of whom are selected by the Anritsu labor and mainteolism (HbA 1c 5.6% or under Anritsu Group and have made efforts to attain the goal. In fiscal union) nance higher) of the 2019, there were six commuting accidents involving Domestic ☆ Ratio of employees Industrial physicians, employees of the Domestic Anritsu Group, health insurance union demographics with risks to Maintaining Anritsu Group employees, and two were lost workday cases. The leaders, and secretariat members also participated. The Anritsu labor union has a union 1 future health exhibiting elevated shop agreement with Anritsu. blood pressure 9.9% 9.4% 9.7% at FY2017 leading causes were falling after a trip while walking and falling maintenance, levels (140/90 or higher) stable and from a bicycle after improperly braking. We will continue working continuous The Anritsu Corporation and Anritsu Labor Union have a collective to raise employee awareness of risks while walking, riding a bike, or ★Mental leave rate (leave employment Maintaining agreement that sets forth certain matters concerning health and 0.4% 0.4% 0.4% at FY2017 ratio at year’s end) driving a car. levels safety. More specifically, it stipulates that the Anritsu Corporation, as Betterment of the owner of the business, shall implement appropriate measures ▪Workplace Accidents at the Domestic Anritsu Group (Fiscal 2019) 2 finding rate at ☆ at periodic checkups the abnormal Abnormal findings rate 59% or 57.9% 57.9% 59.9% to ensure the safety of employees and maintain and improve the under Number of accidents (+/from the periodic mediType cal checkups previous year) health of employees; maintain the Occupational Safety and Health ☆ Ratio of employees with Lost workday cases 3(+3) Committee and generate selection criteria for the committee; proper body weight (40 67.7% 68.4% 67.2% 69 % or higher Restricted workday cases 1(-5) conduct educational programs on health while providing health Improved years of age and older) 3 awareness of Commuting accidents 6(+2) checkups for employees; and restrict employees from engaging in health ☆ Ratio of employees 28 % or habitually exercising (40 26.5% 27.0% 28.6% Lost workday cases due to dangerous or hazardous work. None of the work conducted by the higher years of age and older) commuting accidents (more 2(-1) Domestic Anritsu Group’s employees falls under tasks associated than or equal to a day) Establishing Certified as an Excellent Continued health and Enterprise of Health and with or at high risk of the incidence of specified diseases. 4 productivity Certified Certified Certified certifica国内アンリツグループ労働災害度数率 Productivity Manage▪Frequency Rates of Lost-worktime Injuries (per One Million Hours) management ment tion ━ All industries ━ Manufacturing ━ Domestic Anritsu Group Goals ☆: Indicates current and target values based on periodic checkup results in the head office area of Kanagawa Prefecture 2.00 1.83 1.80 ★: Indicates current value for the Domestic Anritsu Group 1.61 1.63 1.66 Safety Goal 1.50 The Domestic Anritsu Group targets zero accidents. P.064 1.15 1.20 1.20 Performance Data (Social) : Occupational Health and Safety 1.06 1.02 1.00 Health Goal 0.64 0.65 The Domestic Anritsu Group continues to work toward Activities / Achievements 0.50 0.21 meeting the targets of the three-year medium-term health 0.00 0.00 management plan for fiscal 2018–2020. Results of Safety Efforts and Major Measures 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) We fell short of attaining zero accidents in fiscal 2019 because of three lost workdays and one restricted workday case resulting from accidents caused by unsafe behavior. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 053 Respect for Human Human Resources ■ Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Participation in Labor Standards Initiative evaluates companies in the following five aspects, which are also Training and Seminars Since fiscal 2018, the senior manager for the Human Resource used by the METI and Tokyo Stock Exchange in their joint selection For employees working at the Domestic Anritsu Group, in-house Management Team, Human Resource and Administration of the Health and Productivity Stock Selection: (1) management seminars on health are held in addition to occupational safety Department, of Anritsu Corporation has served as the director of philosophy, (2) organizational training. In fiscal 2019, we organized seminars on sleep, female the Kanagawa Institution of Occupational Safety and Health and structure, (3) implementation of health, and dietary education. A mini-lecture on diseases is the deputy chief of the institution’s Atsugi Branch, contributing to systems and measures, (4) evaluation also held for prediabetic employees to reduce the incidence of the improvement of occupational safety and health standards in and improvement, and (5) compliance employees with glycometabolism abnormality, which continues Kanagawa Prefecture and the Atsugi district. and risk management. to be a significant health concern. Also, we OHSAS 18001 Certification continue to implement Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (in the U.K.) obtained initiatives for raising certification for OHSAS 18001:2007 in Work-Style Reform for Employee Wellbeing employee health May 2012, an international standard At the Domestic Anritsu Group we are promoting work-style reform awareness. for occupational health and safety with the goals of boosting productivity, generating innovation, and management, and had the certification raising corporate value while simultaneously prioritizing the safety Seminar on dietary education renewed in May 2018. Through a framework and health of every employee. Measures to ensure appropriate work for realizing the international standard’s hours based on the Group-wide management policy have been ▪Seminars, Lectures, and Educational Presentations for Domestic Anritsu principles of “identifying and controlling put in place as part of the reform, and these include shortening Group Employees (Total Number of Participants: 868) (Fiscal 2019) health and safety risks,” “reducing the overtime work, minimizing midnight-shift work, and strict (Persons) potential for accidents,” “aiding legal compliance,” and “improving observance of the “no-overtime day” rule. Contents Participants overall performance,” Anritsu EMEA promotes the establishment of a We have abandoned the old notion that those who work longer Seminar on health for women 50 work environment that is safe and free of risks to employee health. do better. We believe in efficiency, and we therefore encourage In-house open Seminar on sleep 81 seminar employees to start working on the official start time, not to work Seminar on dietary education 57 Certified as an Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management in 2020 after 7 p.m. unless necessary, as the office lights are turned off Disaster management training 450 In 2020, Anritsu Corporation was certified for the fourth consecutive at that time, and to shorten meetings by streamlining agendas. Traffic awareness training 26 Basic lifesaving training 24 year by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan (METI) Development staff telecommute when they work late evenings Bicycle safety workshop 66 as a White 500 (large enterprise category) Company in the Health or early mornings to communicate with overseas colleagues in In-house lecture/ Health and safety education for new employees 53 and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program different time zones. education Occupational health education for new employfor meeting the criteria on regular medical checkups, work-life The telecommuting adopted by all Domestic Anritsu Group ees 54 balance, health maintenance, lifestyle disease prevention, and companies after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic currently Health and safety education for new employees 7 (foreign employees) mental health support. remains in place as a preventive measure to protect employee The program recognizes enterprises that demonstrate health. outstanding health and productivity management aligned with the healthcare recommendations of the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. It Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 054 Respect for Human Human Resources ■ Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Other Activities for Occupational Health and Safety Activities for Occupational Health and Safety in General ◦Review of the status of activities and formulation of accident prevention measures by the Occupational Health and Safety Committee ◦Enhancing the awareness of safety and health through training at different organizational levels, and providing training on specific issues such as risk assessment ◦Implementing occupational health and safety education when part-time, contract, or other non-regular employees are hired Activities with a Focus on Safety ◦Reducing the risk of accidents by conducting inspections before introducing, relocating, or changing equipment, or when purchasing chemical materials ◦Providing a safe, secure, and comfortable workplace by assessing working environments, workplace patrols, emergency drills, and basic life-saving training Activities with a Focus on Health ◦Health checkups (periodic, special, when starting employment, for overseas assignee) and implementation of and follow-up for the stress check system ◦Questionnaire screening, interviews by industrial physicians and health maintenance measures for overtime workers ◦Mental healthcare education and counseling for senior executives Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 055 Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational ■ Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social Building and Maintaining a Flexible Supply Chain Management Supply Chain at the Side of Our Partners Policy Stance on Social Issues We believe in the importance of moving as one with the entire supply chain, together with our suppliers, in conducting Large-scale natural disasters and the COVID-19 pandemic procurement, and linking this activity to the mutual growth of have been creating severe risks for business continuity. all parties. With this conviction, we established our Basic Rules of Expanding the capabilities and sophistication of the Procurement in 2005 and have since asked our suppliers to comply supply chain also poses significant challenges associated with those rules in addition to the Anritsu Group CSR Procurement Hiroyuki Fujikake Vice President, Chief SCM Officer with labor issues, potential human rights violations, and Guideline and Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement environmental pollution. Specification. Through those rules and guidelines, we construct a Anritsu’s products play an important role in realizing comfortable While the Anritsu Group’s procurement activities supply chain that respects human rights, gives due consideration and convenient living through a sophisticated telecommunications are international, in order to consistently provide highto labor, health and safety, fair trade and ethics as well as the network and in ensuring the quality and safety of foods and quality products for customers around the world, the environment. pharmaceuticals. Anritsu’s SCM is responsible for establishing a Group must possess a flexible, internationally extensive management structure throughout the whole supply WEB Anritsu Basic Rules for Procurement flexible supply chain as one team, side-by-side with its customers and suppliers, to produce high value-added products and quickly chain while also paying due consideration to ESG WEB Anritsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline deliver them to the markets. To that end, SCM depends on concerns. Besides granting equal opportunities to all WEB Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification establishing commonly shared values across the supply chain, suppliers in and outside Japan and selecting suppliers which in turn requires sharing information. Consequently, every through fair competition, the Anritsu Group complies effort must be made to enhance information sharing and maintain with all relevant laws and regulations, commercial Structure close communication between Anritsu and its partners. practices, and social norms, and it respects human Everyone involved in the supply chain talks about dreams rights in all its partnerships. We can only respond to the We operate procurement hubs in the U.S., China, and Japan. Our and creates dreams to provide high value-added products expectations and demands of society by building great current effort to unify our parts evaluation criteria globally will allow that are low-cost, reliable and yet easy to make, procure, and relationships with suppliers and managing the supply the procurement hubs to use suppliers approved by other hubs, maintain while responding to exchange rate fluctuations. We chain seamlessly and comprehensively. prompting better coordination across our worldwide procurement will continue to work on its realization. operations. In addition, our Global Preferred Suppliers (GPS) system certifies suppliers for making them available for all Anritsu Group companies. The system has not only helped us to streamline procurement Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 056 Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational ■ Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management operations but also to facilitate the sharing of development Activities / Achievements Modern Slavery Act roadmaps and technical issues with suppliers. The use of this system Focusing on human rights issues in particular in its supply chain can further reduce the TTM (time to market) of our products. Ten Anritsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline due diligence, Anritsu remains in compliance with the UK Modern suppliers have been certified so far through the GPS. In fiscal 2010, we formulated the Anritsu CSR Procurement Slavery Act. Anritsu Corporation and Anritsu EMEA Ltd. are legally Guideline, which complies with the Supply-Chain CSR obliged to disclose a statement to remain in conformity with the Goals Deployment Guidebook published by the Japan Electronics and Act, and both companies have uploaded the statement to their Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). respective websites every year since 2016. In regard to efforts made We are working toward the following objectives stated in the Along with posting the Guidelines on our website, we also ask that to comply with the Act in fiscal 2019, we cited the aforementioned GLP2020 mid-term business plan. our suppliers have an understanding of and take CSR questionnaire surveys and onsite inspections at the premises initiatives for CSR Procurement at the outset of business with new of suppliers in the statement. Since the Australian Modern Slavery 1. Promote global CSR procurement suppliers and during policy briefings with suppliers. Act enacted in 2018 is also applicable to Anritsu Corporation, the ◦ Promoting CSR procurement as one team together with Company is preparing a statement for submission to the Australian suppliers in and outside Japan throughout the whole supply WEB Anritsu Group CSR Procurement Guideline government by the end of 2020. chain. ◦ Reinforcing global supply chain management through a due Supply Chain Due Diligence Conflict Minerals diligence process In evaluating a new supplier, we investigate the supplier’s credit Anritsu is also working continuously on the issue of conflict standing, review quality and environmental management, and minerals. Following the 2012 adoption of the final rule of Section 2. Promote global green procurement inspect their factory. Since fiscal 2011, we have asked suppliers to 1502 (the Conflict Minerals Regulation), Anritsu declared its support. ◦ Promoting green procurement as one team together with submit a Letter of Consent for our CSR procurement practice and To prevent the use of conflict minerals in its products, the Company suppliers in and outside Japan throughout the whole supply have received consent from many suppliers. As means to verify the holds briefings for its suppliers. When a customer submits inquiries chain. stance of suppliers to CSR, we also conduct a questionnaire with related to this issue, it asks suppliers in Japan and abroad to ◦ Reinforcing global supply chain management by increasing our suppliers, including questions about human rights, labor issues, investigate and provides the findings to the customer. Environmental Partners occupational health and safety, fair trade, ethics, product quality and safety, and information security. In addition, we conduct an onsite WEB Anritsu Basic Rules for Procurement P.057 Environmental Partner Certification System audit. In fiscal 2019, we visited two secondary suppliers in China and Taiwan for audits. Through interviews with their employees and the inspection of written rules, educational materials, and transaction records at the departments concerned, we ensured that both suppliers had systems for promoting CSR with controls against the violation of human and labor rights and for protecting employee health and safety. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 057 Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational ■ Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Compliance in Practice WEB Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification Suppliers Gatherings We conduct fair and transparent business by strictly following our We host a gathering for suppliers every January. In 2020, we invited Code of Conduct, which includes not accepting entertainment or Environmental Partner Certification System 318 participants from 148 suppliers in and outside Japan. The gifts, or buying or selling stocks based on the insider information Anritsu launched the Environmental Partner Certification System in focus selected for this year’s presentations by our Group CEO and from suppliers. Furthermore, comment boxes for collecting fiscal 2001 to promote green procurement. Under the system, we business representatives was 5G, including explanations about its feedback from suppliers are placed in the negotiation rooms of evaluate the environmental initiatives taken by suppliers and certify commercialization, the introduction status of local 5G systems, and our head office and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. in an effort to promote suppliers who excel in their commitment to the environment. We initiatives taken by Anritsu. The main products of all of our business CSR procurement based on the direct feedback from our suppliers. modified the evaluation process in September 2019 and have since segments were exhibited for the first time at this event to increase We continue to work hand in hand with suppliers to promote CSR evaluated suppliers in the sole aspect of managing the chemical participant understanding of our business and growth strategies. procurement. substances contained in products. Evaluations are undertaken At the event in December, we called for even stronger using a check sheet with the ratings of A, B, and C, and suppliers partnerships to expand our value chain through collaboration and Education of Procurement Staff rated A or B are recognized as Environmental Partner Companies. co-creation under our global procurement system. Awards were For new recruits and transferees assigned to our procurement As of May 2020, we have 210 Environmental Partner Companies. We also presented to suppliers who excelled in all of the aspects of sections, we provide training on CSR procurement based on the support the improvement efforts of suppliers who need assistance quality, delivery and pricing. Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline, in addition to Web-Based in managing chemical substances contained in products. Training programs on SDGs, the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, the ▪Rating in the Environmental Partner System Subcontract Act of Japan and ISO 9001. Case studies on human rights and labor issues are also conducted by procurement team A-rated Reliable management members to exchange opinions and raise staff understanding and B-rated Basic requirements satisfied Anritsu implemented awareness of the issues. support and C-rated Unreliable management improvement activities Green Procurement Specification The Anritsu Group created the Green Procurement Specification to promote, along with suppliers, the production of eco-friendly Exhibition of Supplier Products and Technologies products in fiscal 1999 and has since conducted green procurement, Every year, we hold an event to showcase products manufactured giving preference to eco-friendly parts and raw materials. The Green by our suppliers and their technologies. The event also provides Procurement Specification were revised into the Anritsu Group an occasion for our engineers to share information with their Global Green Procurement Specification in fiscal 2016 to involve all counterparts at our suppliers. The event for fiscal 2019 was Group members, including overseas production sites. Whenever held in December with 44 suppliers under the theme of nextrevisions are made to international regulations on chemicals, generation technologies for 5G, IoT, cars and data centers, featuring such as the RoHS Directive and REACH regulations in Europe, we millimeter wave and microwave components, printed circuit board update our Specification to ensure compliance with those renewed technologies, optical components. Seminars by suppliers were also regulations by ourselves and by our suppliers. offered to keep participants abreast of the latest market trends and cutting-edge technologies. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 058 Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational ■ Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Promoting Partner QU Proposal Activities communication, and we believe that those relationships will help us We are promoting the Partner QU (Quality Up) Activity as a and suppliers overcome any disaster or crisis. communication channel for suppliers so that they can offer proposals for improvements, requests, and opinions concerning Anritsu. We also accept proposals in a broad range of areas, beyond procurement, such as sales and marketing, technology, manufacturing, services, health and safety, the environment and CSR, and all proposals serve to improve our business operations. A council for the Partner QU Activity deliberates and determines whether to adopt proposals and grants awards to suppliers present outstanding proposals. In fiscal 2019, we received 35 proposals, including one recommending a change in design to reduce cost while another proposed a different procurement method for faster delivery. We adopted 26 proposals this year. Collaboration Room Anritsu maintains several collaboration rooms within the Company to revitalize communication between our development engineers and suppliers. We invite different manufacturers and agents to dispatch their sales engineers in a daily rotation, provide an environment conducive to generating new solutions, and strive to play a leading role in promoting development. Supply Chain BCP We have in place the following BCP(Business Continuity Plan) for promptly resuming our normal procurement operations in the event of a natural disaster. (1) The latest locations of suppliers’ production sites are mapped out to quickly grasp which suppliers may be affected by a natural disaster. (2) Responses to be taken by us are categorized according to the possible scale of the natural disaster and the potential damage that may result. We maintain good relationships with suppliers through frequent Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 059 ■ Quality and Product Safety Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social Quality and Product Safety Policy Quality Officer at the Anritsu Corporation. The committees include the Quality Management System Committee, which consists of the Stance on Social Issues Anritsu’s quality policy and related conduct policy are shared by presidents of the Domestic Anritsu Group, and the Internal Quality Group companies in Japan. Under the corporate philosophy of Audit Committee. The Quality Management System Subcommittee, Every business must have a comprehensive approach “contributing to the development of a safe, secure and prosperous consisting of the Quality Managers of the Domestic Anritsu Group, to satisfying customer needs and earning their trust, not global society by offering ‘original and high-level’ products and reviews the Group’s quality policies and improvement initiatives only managing the quality and safety of their products services with sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm,” we constantly to reinforce quality management across the Group in Japan. The but also protecting the environment and keeping the improve the quality of our products and services to meet customer Product Liability (PL) Committee, set up to supervise product business ready for contingencies that may arise at any needs and social demands. safety, is chaired by the Quality Management Executive Officer and time. consists of representatives from various sections, including public The Anritsu Group’s social mission is to contribute to relations, legal affairs, internal control, procurement, and servicing Quality Policy the realization of a safe, secure and prosperous society. along with the Quality Managers of the Domestic Anritsu Group. To achieve this, it must provide safe and secure electric Supply satisfactory products to customers and society with sincerity, The PL Committee draws up operational strategies for potential equipment with top priority on preventing product harmony, and enthusiasm. product accidents, designs preventive measures, and reviews accidents and a commitment to constantly raise quality the effectiveness of those measures. The Quality Management Group-wide. Executive Officer annually reports on quality circumstances at the Conduct Policy Management Strategy Conference. • Work with sincerity and seriousness not to make nonconforming products. ▪Domestic Anritsu Group’s Quality Management System Structure • Handle after-processes considering customers and harmony with President others. • Propose improvement with enthusiasm. Quality Management Quality Officer Executive Officer Quality Management System Committee Structure PL Committee Quality Management System Subcommittee For the sake of maintaining, improving, and ensuring product Internal Quality Audit Committee quality and effectively operating its quality management system, the Domestic Anritsu Group maintains committees headed by the Anritsu Group Companies Quality Management Executive Officer, who serves as the Chief Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 060 ■ Quality and Product Safety Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Customer Service and Support Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management ISO 9001 Acquisition Status Activities / Achievements Strengthening Proactive Prevention Processes Since 1993, Anritsu has been ISO 9001 certified, the international In addition to periodic lectures on software quality improvement, standard for quality management systems. We consistently Improvements through the Integration of the Management Systems we organized a seminar on techniques for proactively preventing manage quality Group-wide for all processes, from product design, In fiscal 2020, we will begin conducting a checklist-based internal quality defects. In fiscal 2020, we will launch an initiative to development, and production to servicing, repair, and maintenance. audit on the integration of quality and environmental management incorporate those techniques into our operational processes. All Group companies currently engaged in the development systems. In fiscal 2019, our ISO 9001 certification was renewed by or manufacture of products are certified under ISO 9001. The external auditors, with an expanded scope including the Partner Promoting Global Quality and Environmental Actions certification rate for the Anritsu Group’s quality management Solution Division. We convene our global quality management meeting concurrently system is 100%, while the rate based on the size of our labor force is with the annual Global Environmental Management Meeting. approximately 75%. Strengthening Environmentally Friendly Products At the meeting, participants from Japan, the U.S., and the U.K. In order to respond to the requests from customers and other shared information about the status of quality management. We WEB Companies with ISO 9001 Certification stakeholders to reduce environmental impact, the Anritsu Group also conducted an internal quality audit at operation sites toward has worked on the energyand resource-saving features of its establishing a quality assurance system that would allow us to Goals products under the GLP2020 Quality Initiative. deliver high-quality products worldwide. The CO2 emissions reduction plan and targets set in fiscal 2019 The Domestic Anritsu Group identified the following themes for the were approved by the SBT Initiative. We are further promoting GLP2020 Quality Initiative, its mid-term management plan covering the development of energyand resource-saving products and fiscal 2018−2020. strengthening collaborations with suppliers to achieve the Scope 3 Fiscal 2019 Progress and indirect CO2 emissions targets for corporate value chains. Themes Performance P.029 Reducing CO2 Emissions from Purchased Goods and Services, and 1. Improvements through the Generated a checklist for internal audit Reduced CO2 Emissions from the Use of Sold Products on QMS/EMS integration. ISO-certified integration of management with expanded scope, including Partner systems Solution Div., from external auditors. Enhancing Regulatory Compliance and Product Safety Management 2. Strengthening energyand Mapped out Scope 3 CO2 emissions reducresource-saving products tion targets, which were approved by the Phosphorus, which is sometimes used as a flame retardant in resins (environmentally friendly products) SBT Initiative as science-based targets. for electronic components, carries the risk of causing a short circuit 3. Strengthening legal and regulatory Established and implemented a system for or smoking that could result in a product accident. Therefore, the compliance as well as product controlling specified hazardous substances safety management for product safety. Anritsu Group specified phosphorus as a hazardous substance for 4. Strengthening proactive Held a seminar on proactive prevention product safety and started monitoring its content in our purchased prevention processes techniques. parts. We also established and implemented a new process for Shared quality information worldwide. controlling specified hazardous substances for product safety. 5. Promoting global quality and Conducted internal audits on quality at environmental actions operation sites. Moreover, we provided employees with quality management training focused on legal compliance, product safety, and preventing quality fraud. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 061 ■ Customer Service and Support Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social Customer Service and Support Policy knowledge about products are assigned to respond efficiently to customer inquiries. The Measurement Support Center liaises Stance on Social Issues In the Charter of Corporate Behavior, the Anritsu Group stipulates through a CRM*¹ system with the Sales & Marketing Team and that the Group “will provide customers with socially useful products Repair & Maintenance Team to offer brochures, generate quotations, Communications infrastructure and safe food products and services and appropriate information, and will communicate and provide operational instructions and troubleshooting for are indispensable to modern society. with customers in good faith. This will result in high customer customers. The repair and calibration of instruments are assigned Businesses in these sectors focus on productivity and satisfaction and trust.” In the Code of Conduct, We states that the to Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of quality assurance in addition to the development of new Group“ will continuously provide creative, high level products and Anritsu Corporation. products and services. services that would satisfy the needs of our customer.” We strive to Anritsu in the Americas introduced the Voice of the Customer The Anritsu Group maintains a global network be a company that is and will continue to be trusted and chosen by Program as part of its CEM*². This allows us to collect customer to provide customers with the products and support customers around the world. feedback and discuss it along with data analysis findings, placing us services they need at any time or place. in a stronger position to identify the root causes of problems and We build relationships of trust with customers and Structure implement improvements that will boost customer satisfaction. seek to address social issues with them by doing our best The PQA Business, which has a corporate body in each of to respond sincerely to their requests or orders. Through various points of contact with customers, including sales five countries apart from Japan, operates repair and maintenance and marketing and repair and maintenance services as well as our centers or agencies in 56 nations. Those centers and agencies corporate website, the Anritsu Group provides customers with are staffed by employees with rich field experience, providing supports to solve their business issues. Since customers vary by customers with exactly the support they need, around the clock, business segment, our customer service and support are managed 365 days a year. The PQA Business streamlines its operations separately by the department in charge under each business group. through a CRM system and regularly conducts training programs for its staff in and outside Japan to provide reliable and secure Service and Support by Major Businesses customer service. *1 System for managing customers. The Test and Measurement Business deploys repair and *2 Approach used to track potential added value at touch points between businesses and maintenance service centers at 14 locations in 12 countries so that customers by focusing on customer experience and feelings. customers around the world can use Anritsu’s products worry-free. The R&D centers in the U.S., China, and India offer development support for customers. In Japan the Measurement Support Center serves as the point of contact with customers, and staff with ample Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 062 ■ Customer Service and Support Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Performance Data Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management The Information and Communications Business provides product support as well as comprehensive system support services, including the pre-purchase verification of connection with customer communication systems, training on use and management methods, and troubleshooting. The Sensing & Device Business, which supports customers across the world through a system established with Group companies and sales agents outside Japan, has enhanced its information service by focusing on customer convenience. For instance, the Sensing & Device Business offers basic product information and guidance for product selection along with a presentation of products by type of device on its section of the website. Anritsu holds global training for the Test and Measurement, PQA, and Sensing and Devices businesses toward enhancing product support. P.047 Human Resources Development The Anritsu Group is enhancing its online support service to respond to increased teleworking as a result of COVID-19. P.079 Business Continuity Management Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 063 ■ Performance Data Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Social Performance Data Employee Data ▪Employee Data for Anritsu Corporation (as of March 31 of each fiscal year) ▪Number of Employees by Age Group (as of March 31, 2020) (Persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Under 30 30−50 51 and over ▪Employee Data by Global Region (as of March 31, 2020) Number of 684 695 705 726 715 731 Domestic Anritsu Group 342 1,273 657 (Persons) Male (177) (176) (184) (198) (198) (194) employees Asia and Global (number of 105 108 110 118 121 124 Anritsu Corporation 140 478 237 Japan Americas EMEA Female Others Total managers (4) (4) (4) (3) (2) (4) included in 789 803 815 844 836 855 Number of regular total count) Total (181) (180) (188) (201) (200) (198) employees 2,272 654 338 617 3,881 Female Anritsu Employees Globally (as of Fiscal Year-end on March 31) Male 42.0 42.4 43.0 43.7 44.1 44.4 Male 1,924 461 274 445 3,104 Average age Female 38.4 39.4 39.9 40.6 41.2 41.5 ▪Ratio of Female Employees (number of female employees / number of all employees) Female 348 193 64 172 777 Total 41.5 42.0 42.6 43.3 43.7 43.9 (%) Male 17.8 18.2 18.9 19.5 19.9 20.3 Non-regular Average FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 508 36 30 10 584 working years Female employees 15.9 16.5 17.0 17.1 17.5 17.7 Total 17.5 18.0 18.6 19.2 19.6 19.9 Japan 13 14 14 14 15 15 Annual rated working hours 1,860.00 1,867.75 1,867.75 1,852.25 1,852.25 1,860.00 Americas 30 31 31 31 31 30 ▪Employee Data for the Domestic Anritsu Group (as of March 31 of each fiscal year) Average days of paid 15.1 15.6 15.5 16.3 16.3 16.2 holidays used per year EMEA 21 20 19 19 21 19 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of employees who 9 5 5 11 6 9 Asia and others 26 26 28 27 27 28 Total number of regular took paid childcare leave employees of the 2,212 2,244 2,249 2,251 2,248 2,272 On a global Number 19 19 19 19 20 20 Domestic Anritsu Group Number of consolidated basis employees of eligible 4 9 5 9 11 11 Male 1,917 1,932 1,938 1,936 1,919 1,924 whose employees employment Female 295 312 311 315 329 348 has been Number of ▪Ratio of Female Managers (number of female managers / number of all managers) Foreign nationals 30 38 44 49 51 54 extended employees (%) beyond normal over 3 7 2 6 8 8 Average age (regular retirement age retirement FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 42.3 42.6 42.6 43.2 43.6 43.9 age hired employees) Japan 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.0 1.1 1.8 Average working years 19.2 19.3 19.8 20.3 20.7 20.9 Americas 19.7 22.7 24.7 23.0 20.2 18.3 (regular employees) ▪Turnover Rate for Anritsu Corporation Number of non-regular EMEA 15.9 17.0 19.7 22.1 23.5 21.6 566 537 500 428 506 508 Number of Employees employees Number of Personnel Turnover Rate (%) Who Left Asia and others 19.0 18.2 21.7 21.6 24.1 23.4 Ratio of employees with disabilities at Anritsu 1.78 1.89 1.72 1.74 1.63 1.87 16 855 1.8 On a global 9.4 9.6 10.2 9.9 10.5 10.4 Corporation (%) Notes 1. Target year: fiscal 2019 consolidated basis Ratio of employees 2. Calculated in accordance with the formula provided in the Japan Company Handbook with disabilities at the 3. Turnover rate = number of employees who left in the target fiscal year / (number of regular 1.74 1.70 1.76 1.70 1.75 1.95 Domestic Anritsu Group employees at end of fiscal year + number of employees who left in the target fiscal year) (%) (reference) 4. Definition of employee who left: Among regular employees, those who leave the Company for reasons other than retirement or promotion to directorships, or those whose transfers were cancelled Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 064 ■ Performance Data Respect for Human Human Resources Occupational Supply Chain Quality and Product Safety Customer Service and Support Rights and Diversity Development Health and Safety Management Occupational Health and Safety ▪Occupational Safety and Health-related Figures FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Ratio of employees who underwent Percentages based on the results of regular (group) checkups for the Anritsu Group in Kanagawa Prefec100 100 100 a regular checkup (%) ture Ratio of employees who underwent Percentages based on the results of regular (group) checkups for the Anritsu Group in Kanagawa Prefec56.7 72.5 73.7 a regular complete checkup (%) ture Ratio of employees found to have a Percentages based on the results of regular (group) checkups for the Anritsu Group in Kanagawa Prefec57.9 57.9 59.9 health issue in a regular checkup (%) ture Percentages based on the results of regular (group) checkups for the Anritsu Group in Kanagawa PrefecRatio of employees who smoke (%) 22.1 21.8 20.5 ture (smoking rates among employees aged 40 or older) Percentages based on the results of regular (group) checkups for the Anritsu Group in Kanagawa PreRatio of employees who regularly 26.5 27.0 28.6 fecture (rate of employees aged 40 or older who exercise two or more times per week and 30 or more exercise (%) minutes per session) Annual scheduled hours worked 1,877.3 1,872.2 1,875.2 Average for the Domestic Anritsu Group Average monthly overtime hours Average monthly overtime worked by regular employees of the Domestic Anritsu Group excluding those 14.8 16.9 18.4 worked in management positions at fiscal year-end Rate for regular employees of the Domestic Anritsu Group excluding those in management positions at Annual paid holiday usage rate (%) 79.0 78.2 77.0 fiscal year-end (number of paid holidays used / number of paid holidays granted for the fiscal year × 100) Number of on-the-job accidents 7 6 4 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Number of accidents resulting in 0 0 1 Included in the total for the Domestic Anritsu Group leave (of four or more days) Number of cases of work-related 0 0 0 Included in the total for the Domestic Anritsu Group illness Number of days of leave from work 0 0 52 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Number of deaths 0 0 0 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Statistical values for the Domestic Anritsu Group (number of deaths and injuries / total labor hours × Rate of lost-worktime injuries 0.00 0.00 0.647 1,000,000) Accident severity rate 0.000 0.000 0.011 Statistical values for the Domestic Anritsu Group (number of lost work days / total labor hours × 1,000) Number of commuting accidents 15 4 6 Total for the Domestic Anritsu Group Number of accidents resulting in 5 3 0 Included in the total for the Domestic Anritsu Group leave (of four or more days) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 065 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Governance 066 Corporate Governance 070 Internal Control 071 Establishment of Compliance 075 Promotion of Risk Management 077 Information Security 079 Business Continuity Management Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 066 ■ Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Governance Corporate Governance April Establishment of Corporate Governance Department (functional integration into 2018 Corporate Governance Structure Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance Management Strategy Center) May Start of Board of Director Anritsu has always employed an advanced corporate governance Effectiveness Evaluations structure. The Company introduced an executive officer system in (conducted every year) Company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee 2000. Also, as part of its thorough approach to IR, Anritsu established April Review of agenda items 2016 an IR Department in 2001 to conduct engagement with the market. for the Board Meeting (raising of criteria for In 2004, the Company acted ahead of other companies to establish inclusion in agenda, October Establishment of Anritsu Corporation General Meeting of Shareholders a Compensation Advisory Committee that later became the etc.) Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Compensation Committee, and in 2005 invited outside directors. In 2015, Anritsu opted to become a company with an Audit & June Introduction of Performance-linked Stock Compensation Program (change from Supervisory Committee. This early adoption made Anritsu the previous SOP program) Audit & Supervisory second listed company to do so. Committee Board of Directors June Appointment of lead independent outside directors, This series of actions went well beyond the movement to establishment of Independent Committee strengthen corporate governance that accelerated in Japanese June Establishment of Management Audit Department Management Nominating companies from 2014. Audit Department Corporate Committee 2015 June Transition to the structure of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee Governance Division Compensation 2012 January Establishment of Nominating Committee Committee Accounting Auditors 2011 June Increase in number of outside directors to three Independent Committee 2010 June Increase in number of outside directors to two 2006 April Establishment of an internal audit department (Internal Control Improvement Center) Management (Currently Global Audit Department) Global Audit Strategy Department Conference Enforcement Organs 2005 June Invitation issued to one outside director 2004 March Establishment of Compensation Advisory Committee (change of name to Compensation Committee in January 2016) Group Test and Other Headquarters Measurement PQA Business Subsidiaries, Functions Business Group Group etc. 2001 April Establishment of IR Department (IR Promotion Center) 2000 June Adoption of executive officer system Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 067 ■ Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Criteria for Selection of Directors Composition and Activities of the Advisory Committees Selection of Internal Directors Selection of Outside Directors Number Organiof times Composition Purpose convened The Company considers internal director candidates who From the perspectives of the balance of knowledge and experience zation in FY2019 have advanced expertise who can be expected to display high of the Board of Directors as a whole and of incorporating the Anritsu established the regulations for the Audit & Supervisory Committee competence in business execution, and to contribute to business viewpoints of diverse stakeholders into the oversight and system and the accompanying subsidiary rules and at the beginning of the term, the selection of performance. Viewing human resources in light of “Anritsu Value,” appropriate management of the Group’s business activities, the chairperson, the selection of full-time Audit & directors, the allocation of auditing work, and other matters necessary the Company comprehensively evaluates self-awareness as a leader Company comprehensively judges candidates with consideration of Supervisory ● Norio Igarashi☆ ● Toshisumi Taniai to carry out the duties of the Audit 10 & Supervisory Committee members of the Company, understanding of the Company’s management diversity of fields of expertise, backgrounds, and other factors, also Committee ● Keiko Shimizu are agreed. The committee reviews the audit results of the previous fiscal year, evaluates risks of management philosophy, personal capacity, ability to take action, imagination, taking into account independence from the Company. concerns for the current fiscal year, and deliberates on and formulates ethical sense, and other factors. audit policies, priority audit items, annual audit plans etc. ▪Reasons for Selection of Internal Directors ▪Reasons for Selection of Outside Directors Bears the duties of supplementing the role of the Board of Directors in the appointment, selection, removal, and Name Reasons for Selection Name Reasons for Selection dismissal of directors and executive officers, and improving validity and transparency in the appointment, Hirokazu Tasked with product development and domestic/overseas marketing at Takaya Seki Mr. Seki was deemed qualified as an outside director for his abundant Nominating selection, removal, and dismissal of the Test and Measurement Business Group, Mr.Hamada currently leads the knowledge and outstanding insight as a specialist in global corporate directors and executive officers. 3 Hamada entire Anritsu Group business as the Company’s Representative Director, governance. Committee President and Anritsu Group CEO. Mr. Hamada was deemed qualified as a board of director for possessing broad knowledge and experience in business ● Takaya Seki☆ ● Kazuyoshi Aoki operations that include industrial and technological trends. ● Hirokazu Hamada ● Norio Igarashi ● Akifumi Kubota ● Keiko Shimizu Akifumi Having had been in charge of the Accounting & Control Department for Bears the duties of supplementing the Company and overseas subsidiaries, and Mr.Kubota is now responsible Kubota for finance strategy and Group business administration as CFO and Chief Kazuyoshi Mr. Aoki was deemed qualified as an outside director for having specialized the role of the Board of Directors in determining compensation for Corporate Officer. Mr. Kubota was deemed qualified as a board of director for knowledge, abundant experience of and remarkable insight into finance and directors and executive officers, and his extensive knowledge and experience in the areas of finance, accounting, Aoki accounting from his background as a manager responsible for finance and improving the fairness, validity, and transparency of compensation. and corporate governance. accounting of a listed company, and also for having a wealth of experience in global business. Compensation 3 Committee Masumi Mr. Niimi is tasked with production management, corporate planning and overseas subsidiary management at the Product Quality Assurance (PQA) ● Kazuyoshi Aoki ☆ ● Takaya Seki Niimi Business. He currently leads the PQA Business as a group executive and as ● Hirokazu Hamada ● Norio Igarashi the President of the subsidiary Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Mr. Niimi was deemed ● Akifumi Kubota ● Keiko Shimizu qualified as a board of director for demonstrating his strong leadership in Norio Mr. Igarashi was deemed qualified as an outside director for his specialized managing the PQA Business. knowledge and abundant experience in finance and accounting as a certified Igarashi public accountant and university professor as well as for his wide-ranging Composed of four independent outside directors; holds twice-yearly expertise in management from his experience as an outside auditor of a listed regular meetings as well as Takeshi Mr. Shima has wide-ranging knowledge and experience concerning global company. conferences before and after business, and currently exerts leadership in the Test and Measurement Business meetings of the Board of Directors as Shima as the President of the Test & Measurement Company. Mr. Shima was deemed needed, with the aim of ensuring the Independent supervisory functions of the Company qualified as a board of director for demonstrating his strong leadership in from an independent standpoint. 2 Anritsu Group’s core Test and Measurement Business. Committee ● Takaya Seki ☆ ● Norio Igarashi ● Kazuyoshi Aoki ● Keiko Shimizu Keiko Ms.Shimizu was deemed qualified as an outside director for her specialized knowledge and abundant experience in finance and accounting as a certified Shimizu Toshisumi Mr. Taniai was deemed qualified as a director for his broad knowledge and public accountant and university professor as well as for her wide-ranging experience in the areas of corporate planning, corporate governance, and expertise in the areas such as information security and so forth. Taniai compliance, having overseen the Group business administration as Chief Corporate Officer. He also has a wealth of experience obtained as Director of the Company. Director Outside Director ☆ Chairperson Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 068 ■ Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Basic Concept on Corporate Governance Board of Directors Results of Evaluating the Efficacy of the Board of Directors Every year, the Board of Directors carries out an analysis and By flexibly and speedily responding to changes in the business As a management decision-making body, the Board of Directors evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, based on environment and enhancing Anritsu’s competitiveness as a global makes determinations on important matters including management factors including self-assessments by directors. The main results of company, the Company aims to achieve continuous growth with policy and management strategy for the Group as a whole, while evaluation of fiscal 2019 are as follows. sustainable superior profits, as well as increases in corporate value also monitoring and supervising the execution of operations by The Board of Directors of the Company affirmed that its over the mediumto long-term. organizations that execute business. composition is appropriate in terms of the presence and number Throughout the process, the Company will maintain an The Company has strengthened the monitoring and supervision of internal and outside management personnel. This is to enhance awareness of the duties it bears toward shareholders, employees, functions of the Board of Directors through the inclusion of multiple the Company’s global management structure with the aim of clients, business partners, creditors, local communities, and other outside directors into the board. In Board of Directors’ meetings, business expansion and taking into account the source of the diverse stakeholders. Furthermore, with the goals of transparent, fair, directors who possess wide-ranging knowledge and experience Group’s corporate value. It also affirmed that structures are in place speedy, and resolute decision-making and appropriate and timely express opinions regarding agenda items proposed by company for conducting constructive discussions and decision-making information disclosure, the Company will maintain a structure and management from their respective viewpoints and engage in active concerning key matters involving the management of the Group frameworks for corporate governance and will work continually discussion. The current Board of Directors consists of five internal and for supervising business execution by directors. The board toward the advancement and enhancement of them. directors and four outside directors (with both groups including further confirmed that directors who are constituent members of directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee members), for a the Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Committee, Independent Corporate Governance Structure total of nine Board of Directors members. Committee, Nominating Committee, and Compensation Committee As its structure for corporate governance, the Company has adopted fully understand the roles that they should carry out to achieve the structure of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Committee Methods for Evaluating the Efficacy of the Board of Directors improvement of corporate value and continuous growth with and has set up a Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Committee, Every year, the Company conducts a review of the effectiveness sustainable superior profits for the Group, and that, in respective and Accounting Auditor, with the aim of further strengthening audit of the Board of Directors with respect to items specified in the committee meetings, the directors display insight and expert and supervisory functions. Basic Policy on Corporate Governance, and undertakes measures knowledge based on diverse experience and that all, internal and As part of a highly specialized manufacturing industry that calls to improve effectiveness. This evaluation of the effectiveness of outside directors alike, engage in active discussions. for on-site-oriented sensibilities and swiftness in business execution, the Board of Directors takes place over the span of four to five Conversely, issues identified for further enhancement of the Company has introduced an executive officer system and has months every year, progressing from reaffirmation of issues from effectiveness include increasing the number of opportunities to hear separated the decision-making and oversight functions of the Board the previous fiscal year to evaluation of the status of actions and the from business executives in subsidiaries regarding strategies, progress, of Directors from the business execution functions of executive degree of improvement. This is followed by discussions of whether and other management issues concerning the subsidiaries, to officers. any points in the previous year’s evaluation methods or evaluation deepen appropriate involvement of the Board of Directors in business The Board of Directors is composed of nine directors, five of items should be changed for the current fiscal year. execution of the Group as a whole. Initiatives aimed at addressing whom are not involved in business execution (with four of the five The discussion is deepened through exchanges of opinions and mitigating these issues were shared among all directors. being independent outside directors). Of note, the attendance rate within the Board of Directors, where issues are shared, and the In response, the Board of Directors of the Company will enact of outside directors at Board of Directors meetings in fiscal 2019 was outcomes are connected to initiatives for the following year. necessary measures to further improve the effectiveness of the 100%. board with respect to issues based on the evaluation and review of effectiveness, and will work toward improvements without being Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 069 ■ Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management bound by precedent. System of Officer Compensation compensation as mediumto long-term performancelinked The Company intends to continue conducting regular compensation. evaluations of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, and will Under the policy stated below, the composition and level of The Company conducts evaluations in light of factors including continue to pursue the ideal for the Company by aiming to achieve officer compensation, etc. are determined with reference to data the level of distribution of surpluses for the fiscal year under better corporate governance. on officer compensation from external research organizations, evaluation, degree of achievement of numerical targets involving while also taking into account a balance between basic management metrics, and degree of achievement of management ▪FY2019/Main Themes for Deliberation at the Board of Directors/ Number of compensation according to responsibilities and performanceobjectives that include non-financial perspectives set in advance. Reports Submitted (case) linked compensation, with the primary aim of compensation to Category FY2019 function effectively as an incentive for the improvement of business Compensation, etc. of Directors Management Strategy/Sustainability/Governance/General performance and the increase of mediumto long-term corporate 20 Meeting of Shareholders value every fiscal year. Amount of compensation, etc. by type Business Related 26 Amount of (millions of yen) ▪The scheme and its content should lead to the enhancement compensation, IR, SR 6 Officer classification etc. (millions of Basic Performance-linked compensation Number of Stock Budget/Settlement of Accounts/Dividends/Finance Related 26 of motivation to achieve management objectives and yen) compensation Bonus compensation Subtotal officers Internal Control/Risk Management/Compliance Related 5 sustainably improve corporate value Directors (excluding Audit & SupervisoHuman resources/Nomination/Compensation 14 222 116 80 26 106 6 Audit & Supervisory Committee/Accounting Auditor 3 ▪ The scheme and its content should attract and retain talented, ry Committee Members and Outside Directors) Individual Projects (Investment and Loan Projects etc.) diverse personnel who are sought after as officers of global Directors on the Audit & － － － 1 Total Supervisory Committee 23 23 2 101 corporations. (excluding Outside Directors) － － － ▪ The Company will ensure the validity and objectivity of the Outside Directors 30 30 6 Meetings Held for the Board of Directors and its decision-making process and the balanced allocation of Notes: 1. In addition to the above payments, there is an amount equivalent to the employee salary (including bonuses) of \9 million for directors who concurrently Advisory Committees (FY2019) compensation, etc. serve as employee. The current scheme for officer compensation, etc. sets business 2. Anritsu does not pay bonuses or stock-based compensation to directors and outside directors who are members of the Audit & Supervisory Committee. B oard of Directors A udit & Supervisory Committee performance-linked compensation to the equivalent of 50% of 3. The above number includes four directors (excluding those who are Audit & C ompensation Committee N ominating Committee the basic compensation, as a structural feature to motivate officers Supervisory Committee members and of which two are outside directors) who retired at the conclusion of the 93rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders I ndependent Committee F ree Discussion in sharing a profit orientation with shareholders and in engaging held on June 26, 2019, and two Audit & Supervisory Committee members (of in management from an awareness of performance and stock which one is an outside director). ▪Meetings in FY2019 4. None of the officers of the Company has a total of 100 million or more in price from a mediumto long-term perspective. However, it limits consolidated compensation, etc. (including compensation as officers of major April B A F October B A F directors who do not engage in execution of business (including consolidated subsidiaries). May B A November B N I outside directors) to fixed compensation only. The performance-linked compensation is composed of June B A December B B A monetary compensation (bonus equivalent to 30% of basic July B A F January B A F compensation) and non-monetary compensation (stock August B A C February B C N compensation equivalent to 20% of basic compensation) through an incentive plan employing trusts – i.e., it consists of a bonus September B A March B A C N I as short-term performance-linked compensation and stock Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 070 Corporate Governance ■ Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Governance Internal Control sustained by an effective internal control system and strive to each committee and the internal control system and to offer enhance corporate value. recommendations to related organizations. Stance on Social issues WEB Basic Policy for Establishing Internal Control System WEB Arrangement of internal control system and risk management system There appears no end of late to corporate scandals involving improper accounting and compliance Structure Activities / Achievements violations. Once such a scandal occurs, there is a very real risk of a company losing the trust of its stakeholders, In the Domestic Anritsu Group, the Internal Control Committee In the area of financial reporting, the Internal Audit Department making the continued conduct of its business very deals with the validity of financial reporting, and the Corporate of Anritsu Corporation and other Group companies evaluated the difficult. In the midst of this environment, companies are Ethics Promotion Committee and related committees for effectiveness of internal controls. Appropriate improvements were being called on to conduct transparent and fair decisioninformation management, promoting fair trade, export/ implemented against potential risks identified during the evaluation making in activities such as ensuring financial solidity import control, and environmental management with a focus process. With regard to compliance, Anritsu Corporation’s Internal and legal compliance, aimed at preventing these kinds on compliance. All the committees undertake the necessary Audit Department verified the effectiveness of internal controls, of incidents. deliberations, establish and operate internal control systems by placing emphasis on verifying processes that had been revised The Anritsu Group believes it is important to implementing cross-Group information sharing and educational in their control environment due to organizational reform and IT establish rules and clear business processes, to abide by programs, and conduct activities to ensure effectiveness. On system upgrades. With regard to Group companies outside Japan, them faithfully, and to build and strengthen its operating a global basis, the Anritsu Group has established a Global in addition to audits conducted by audit officers in each region, our systems on a global basis so as to prevent any such Internal Control Committee consisting of members of the directors in their capacity as auditors elected as Audit & Supervisory improper conduct. internal control and promotion departments in Europe, Asia, Committee members, along with staff from the Management Audit the Americas, and Japan. This committee shares the current Department and Internal Audit Department, visited each company status of the response to risks inherent in the business activities to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls. In fiscal 2019, Policy and management issues in each region. They also support the Anritsu conducted audits on some of the areas in Asia and the The Anritsu Group’s internal control system is intended to raise the incorporation of internal control procedures for all business Americas in relation to their status on business execution, financial effectiveness and efficiency of Group management, ensure the processes and are conducting activities to develop an effective reporting, and compliance, and verified effectiveness. validity of financial reporting and establish legal compliance. We and efficient internal control system. Furthermore, the Internal are continuously improving and reinforcing the system to respond Audit Department of Anritsu Corporation and the other Group to the changing business content of the Anritsu Group and companies, directors elected as Audit & Supervisory Committee growing complexity and diversity of the business environment. Members, and the Management Audit Department conduct This has enabled us to practice sound management activities audits as part of their responsibility to evaluate the activities of Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 071 Corporate Governance Internal Control ■ Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Governance Establishment of Compliance Policy Structure Stance on Social issues Everyone working in the Anritsu Group is required be deeply Promotion of compliance at the Domestic Anritsu Group is led aware of corporate social responsibility, comply with relevant laws by the Group CEO, who takes the role as the chairman of the Corporate social responsibility is being called into and regulations in all their corporate activities, and behave in a Management Strategy Conference. Under this conference, we question, and efforts toward compliance are becoming manner that conforms to the demands of society. With the goal of have set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, chaired by increasingly important. Compliance violations can maintaining Anritsu as an ethical corporate group, the Company the executive officer in charge of compliance and participated damage the company’s credibility, reduce corporate established the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct as a guideline for all by employees of the Domestic Anritsu Group companies, which value, and cause significant losses to stakeholders. We employees in the conduct of their day-to-day business activities. oversees activities related to compliance promotion. The Corporate believe it important to state that companies are obliged Ethics Promotion Committee discusses and conducts establishment to not commit compliance violations, and should WEB Anritsu Group Code of Conduct of the basic policy on corporate ethics of the Group, revisions conform to social demands by always reconfirming the true meaning of sound and sincere corporate behavior. Anritsu believes the continued conduct of our business with high ethical standards requires us to continually strive to establish and improve compliance throughout ▪Compliance Promotion System Management Strategy Conference the Group. Vice President in charge of compliance Various Committees related to Legal Compliance Anritsu Group companies Cooperation Support Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Various committees � Security trade control � Information security outside Japan � Fair trade promotion � Environmental Support Executive Office management, Others Legal Department Global Audit Reporting/ Guidance/ Hotline Department consultation supervision Reporting/ Guidance/Support consultation Monitoring Hotline Anritsu Group companies in Japan Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 072 Corporate Governance Internal Control ■ Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management of the Code of Conduct, planning for intracompany monitoring Activities / Achievements ▪Compliance Promotion Activity Cycle with a corporate ethics survey and its analysis and improvement, and planning other promotional activities related to ethics and Establishment and Improvement of Compliance April: Corporate Ethics Reinforcement Week • Submission of confirmation letter on compliance. It also reports annually on the status of ethics and The Domestic Anritsu Group shares the Anritsu Group Charter Anritsu Group Code of Conduct • Familiarization with the helpline for compliance across the Anritsu Group to the Board of the Directors. of Corporate Behavior (revised in April 2018) as the common reporting/consultation Other The Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee and the Legal principles of corporate behavior, and the Anritsu Group Code of • Compliance education for new employees • Compliance education for new managers Department, which serves as secretariat to the former, work with Conduct, which guides all employees in the implementation of committees dealing with legal matters to provide guidance and the Charter of Corporate Behavior in their daily activities. Moreover, Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reporting on annual plan, development of Corporate Ethics Reinforcement Week plan) Implementation of the Compliance necessary support to Anritsu Group companies outside Japan the Guidelines and Insights for All Members of the Anritsu Group, Promotion Activity Program Development of Compliance in complying with the ethics and laws of the country or region which excerpts key parts of the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Promotion Activity Program Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reviewing progress of annual plan, monthly plan in which they operate, giving due respect to the legal systems, Behavior and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct, has been distributed Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reporting questionnaire compilation/analysis of results) Corporate Ethics promotion) cultures, and customs of those areas. The Legal Department also to all employees to guide them in their actions at all times. Overseas October: Corporate Ethics Promotion Month works with compliance officers at each overseas company in line Group companies have created their own codes of conduct based • Corporate ethic questionnaire • Lecture by external experts with the goal of establishing a global compliance system. on the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct and customize them to • Group education, WBT (Web-Based Training) The Internal Audit Department conducts an audit of the reflect the respective legal systems, cultures, and customs of each • Divisional educational activities system to ensure that it is functioning appropriately and offers country and region. recommendations and requests for improvement as needed. Compliance promotion events and various types of educational activities are conducted throughout the Domestic Anritsu Group. Anti-bribery and Corruption Goals With a high ratio of overseas sales, the Anritsu Group recognizes bribery prevention as the most important issue. We therefore The Anritsu Group maintains its target of zero serious compliance began enforcing the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption violations. In an examination of the analytical results from the Rules, which were updated in line with global standards on April corporate ethics questionnaire and a comparison of our risk 1, 2016, from the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery Policy established in awareness with that of other companies, including in regard to April 2012, and we outlined the company’s specific policies and revised laws, we identified issues to focus on in fiscal 2019. procedures. These rules specifically focus on the high risk issues of seeking prior approval for entertaining and presenting gifts, as well ● Anti-bribery and corruption outside Japan as due diligence* prior to signing new contracts with a third party, ● Creating harassment and constraints free workplace including sales agents. Our educational efforts include Web-Based environment Training for 1,450 domestic and overseas employees and in-person ● Making sure to manage over time work training for domestic and overseas Group companies. P.053 Work-Style Reform for Employee Wellbeing Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 073 Corporate Governance Internal Control ■ Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Initiatives in fiscal 2018 included country manager-led selfWEB Anritsu Web Privacy Statement Tax Compliance assessments at overseas locations, which were later analyzed and The Anritsu Group stipulates the following provisions in the Code WEB GDPR Statement evaluated at the head office. Furthermore, in fiscal 2019, training of Conduct of the Anritsu Group, which also applies to overseas through lectures in local languages, whether directly in English or subsidiaries, and has adopted the same stance in regard to taxthrough interpreters, was conducted for executives and employees related operations. in sales departments, especially at locations with high risk or local Promotion of Fair Trade in Relation to Sales Activities sales bases responsible for high-risk locations (China, South Korea, The Domestic Anritsu Group established the Committee for ● Perform proper accounting abiding by relevant laws and Thailand, and Singapore). These activities are reported to the Board Promoting Fair Trade for Sales Activities. The committee’s activities company regulations in the course of operation of Directors and during the Management Strategy Conference. include conducting an internal audit annually and in compliance ● Accurately prepare and properly save all the various records of * Due diligence here refers to investigating and analyzing the management environment, with the Anti-Monopoly Act and related laws and regulations finance and accounting, and not perform improper accounting or legal problems, risks, etc., of counterparty companies. for all sales departments of Anritsu Corporation. Internal audits any other means which would cause damage to the company are conducted through hearings based on the self-check , and WEB Anritsu Group Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy verification of evidence and suggestions for improvement. Specifically, Anritsu complies with all tax-related laws and Conducted in tandem with internal audits, the Anritsu Group also regulations in the countries and regions in which it does business Bribery-related Violations provides group training in areas such as the Anti-Monopoly Act and and does not intentionally avoid taxes through the use of tax havens Based on the results of the fiscal 2019 self-assessments, the Anritsu related regulations, striving to raise compliance awareness and an or seek to reduce taxes through the use of tax law interpretations Group moved to deepen understanding of the Company’s policies appreciation of risk among its employees. In addition, with the aim that differ from the spirit of the law or regulations. and rules in regard to bribery, and in the same year saw no instances of auditing risks such as bid rigging, the Legal Department conducts In the course of overseas trade, arm’s length prices are of bribery-related violations. secondary audits of internal audits for the sales departments calculated based on the OECD Transfer Price Guidelines, and participating in bids for public projects. In fiscal 2019, the audits did documents for the transfer prices are prepared in accordance with Initiatives to Protect Personal Information not uncover any incidents or problems that would conflict with the the respective laws and regulations of each country. The Anritsu Over recent years, there have been moves to legislate the Anti-Monopoly Act or related regulations. Group will make use of tax incentives available in the normal course strengthening of personal information protection and appropriate of its business to ensure that it is carrying an appropriate tax burden. handling of information in countries around the world. The Anritsu Formulation of Social Media Policy It is also working to reduce uncertainty in taxes by consulting with Group has established a range of information protection measures, The recent widespread use of social media has enabled individuals tax officials in advance and making relevant information disclosures. including personal information protection policy and personal to easily transmit information via websites. Anritsu formulated information protection rules, and we strictly manage personal the Anritsu Group Social Media Policy in April 2020, and strives to information of stakeholders including employees. In addition, the disseminate that fully in order to ensure appropriate use of social Anritsu Group acquired TRUSTe certification issued by TrustArc, a media while also ensuring legal compliance and the accuracy third-party certification organization in the United States. of transmitted information, as well as other considerations, and It has also prepared education and regulations associated with respecting the freedom of individual expression. the certification and publicized those in order to ensure compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR), which came into effect on May 25, 2018. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 074 Corporate Governance Internal Control ■ Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Transparency in Political Donations ▪Number of Cases at the Reporting/Consultation Service Education by Case Study Sheets Total Number of Cases (April 2019–March 2020) The Anritsu Group does not make political contributions, including The Domestic Anritsu Group references cases that have occurred to political parties, organizations, or candidates for public office. Number of or could occur in daily life and business, examples of scandals Reporting/Consultation Service Consultations involving other companies reported in the mass media, and issues External reporting/ Phone 18 Violation of Law and Regulations in the Socio-economic Field 1 consultation service in the Case Study Sheets, which include concise notes of caution The Anritsu Group incurred no serious compliance violations, Workplace Hotline E-mail 3 and brief explanations. A total of 200 cases have been introduced accompanying fines, or sanctions in fiscal 2019. Internal reporting/ Direct contact or phone 3 as of March 2020. In addition, the Case Study Sheets are posted on 2 consultation service Inour intranet and used as tools for promoting a better understanding house Hotline E-mail 4 Hotline (Reporting/Consultation Service) of compliance. During Corporate Ethics Promotion Month (October 3 Interview conducted based on response in the The Anritsu Group has set up two hotline systems inside the 13 of every year), workplace discussions on the case studies, which Corporate Ethics Survey Company and outside the Company for the purpose of reporting are led by executives of each department, are set as part of inand preventing violations of internal ethics laws. Reporting or house educational activities, and outcomes of the discussions are consultations on the subject can be made anonymously, either via In-house Educational Efforts to Prevent Harassment (Domestic Anritsu Group) submitted to the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee. phone, dedicated e-mail, or letter. For overseas employees working Anritsu’s efforts in regard to sexual harassment and power in Japan, we have established a Workplace Hotline that accepts harassment are not limited merely to defining the issue and submissions in either Japanese or English. educating employees about prohibited behavior. Rather, the The hotline appears to be functioning effectively, with the company is focused on providing an education centered on results of a recent survey showing that 97% of employees in fiscal determining what kind of behavior should be taken to improve the 2019 knew about it. When a report or request for consultation is workplace culture, and how to effectively promote communication received, fact-checking is conducted through interviews with the within the workplace and the organization as a whole. In addition individual who contacted the hotline. If any problems are found, to educational efforts targeting executives, we also hold lectures the appropriate procedures and measures are implemented. Also, for all employees to learn how to prevent harassment of this type. as the details and facts of any consultation or report are handled In fiscal 2019, 260 employees attended the lectures (attendance confidentially, the individual will not suffer any disadvantage as a was not limited). result of using the hotline. The external reporting and consultation service for overseas ▪Number of Participants in Educational Efforts to Prevent Harassment for Executives and Business Division Leaders Group companies has been operating in the Americas since August 2016. With the establishment of a global operations system, it was Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 also set up for other Anritsu Group companies in Europe and Asia in 72 88 73 April 2020. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 075 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance ■ Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management Governance Promotion of Risk Management Policy Structure Stance on Social issues The Anritsu Group recognizes proper risk management as a vital The Anritsu Group’s CEOs supervise risk management. In regard management issue in terms of continuously enhancing its corporate to the identified main risks, an executive officer serves as manager The globalization of the economy has contributed to an value and fulfilling corporate social responsibilities. With this point for these on a Group-wide basis, striving to raise the level of ongoing increase in business opportunities, requiring of view, we formulated the Risk Management Policy. risk management to ensure ongoing business development in companies to perform multifaceted management of cooperation with the risk management promotion divisions. increasingly diverse and complex risks to fulfill their social Within the risk management promotion system are risks Risk Management Policy responsibilities. associated with legal violations, and we mainly focus on identifying In order for the Anritsu Group, which is expanding The Anritsu Group will maintain and increase its corporate such risks associated with the following laws and regulations. its global business, to achieve sustainable profit growth, value, fulfill its corporate social responsibility and seek Moreover, personnel working in the field conduct annual inhouse it needs to identify those risks having the potential to sustainable development for the Group by appropriately reviews of activities and results to make improvements. managing risks that affect management. impact business and establish a system for appropriately responding to and managing the risks on a global basis. (1) We will seek to enhance the risk sensitivity of not only general Key Laws and Regulations Include:  managers but of all employees in an all-inclusive effort to Labor laws, subcontracting laws, anti-trust laws, truth-in-advertising promote risk management. (2) General managers and all employees will promote risk laws, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, laws and management by complying with the Anritsu Group Charter of regulations pertaining to intellectual property, the Companies Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Act, laws and regulations pertaining to the prevention of bribery, as well as laws and regulations as the basis of the Company’s and the Modern Slavery Act (as well as other laws and regulations internal controls. pertaining to human rights). (3) We will generate profit and limit losses by controlling management risks related to strategic decision making such as entry into new business areas and product development strategy, as well as operational procedures. (4) We will anticipate potential emergency situations insofar as possible to prevent their occurrence. In the event that an emergency does occur, we will seek to minimize and limit losses and promptly extricate ourselves from the critical situation into a state where autonomous recovery is possible, and subsequently prevent a recurrence. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 076 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance ■ Promotion of Risk Management Information Security Business Continuity Management ▪Risk Management Promotion System Activities / Achievements Risk Management Training Audit & Supervisory Board of Directors We conducted risk management training for newly appointed Committee managers of the Domestic Anritsu Group in fiscal 2019. Participants Management Audit Overall Head of Risk Management formulated a risk response plan by converting methods learned Crisis Response Emergency Response Department from the training into practical business practices. They also learned Project Group CEO Headquarters from instructors about specific methods used in risk management Risk Management Management Strategy Management during six months of follow-up activities related to their plan. Promotion Divisions Conference Strategy Center Activities to Lower Global Risks Anritsu formulated and disseminated the management guidelines Information Risks associated Risks associated Environmental Risks associated Risks associated Risks associated with business with legal risks with quality with export/import security risks with disasters in fiscal 2019 to lower risks in overseas companies. violations control The guidelines outline the minimum compliance requirements Anritsu Group Charter of Basic Rules on for all overseas companies of the Anritsu Group. Moreover, we ― Risk category Basic Rules of Rules on Quality Basic Rules on and Corporate Rules of Security Disasters and related Behavior Anritsu Environmental Management Trade Control Information Emergency distributed a questionnaire in line with the requirements of the Group Code of Systems Systems Management Response regulation(s) Conduct guidelines and analyzed the results to identify items to be addressed on a priority basis. The results will be applied as we establish a Vice president in structure with associated monitoring activities to be implemented charge of each Information business division, Vice president in Environmental Quality Chief officer in security Chief officer in starting in fiscal 2020. Responsibility presidents of charge of management management charge of trade charge of disaster for Risk management subsidiaries and Vice compliance executive officer executive officer control prevention Management executive officer Presidents in charge of operations Risk Management at Overseas Group Companies Each risk management officer supports the activities of overseas Environmental Quality Information Executive Corporate Management Management Export/Import Management Disaster Prevention Group companies in managing relevant risks. The regional organ of each Ethics Headquarters (Main division of business Promotion Committee System Control Committee headquarters in the Americas set up a task force for each business Committee Committee Human Resource Committee Environment Management responsibility) division and and Quality Environment and Trade Control Information and Administration risk to conduct management activities. In addition, with respect to the corporate Legal Department and division Promotion Quality Promotion Department System compliance risk, compliance officers at each regional headquarters Department others Department Department Department formulate annual plans and conduct risk assessments. Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Group Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 077 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management ■ Information Security Business Continuity Management Governance Information Security Policy each member of these subcommittees strives to maintain and enhance information security. Stance on Social Issues In conducting its business activities, the Anritsu Group considers it a social obligation to protect the information of all stakeholders, Information Management Corporate Information Security Headquarters Committee Ethics Cyber-attacks that threaten corporate management including customers, shareholders and investors, suppliers, (Management Information System Dept.) Promotion (Formulate policy for the entire Group) Committee evolve day by day, and the method of attack has become employees, and it also recognizes these information assets increasingly diversified and malicious. The targets of as important property. Having established the basic rules of Information Security Global Security Subcommittee these attacks are broadening in reach, and, irrespective of information management from this perspective, we are making a Subcommittee (Formulate and promote measures and (Formulate and promote measures and size or industry, we have entered an era where everyone continuous effort to maintain and enhance information security. plans for the entire Group in Japan) plans for the Group outside Japan) is a target. For companies and organizations, information security is regarded as an important management task, WEB Basic Rules of Information Management Business Divisions in Japan/Divisions Overseas Business Divisions/ Divisions at Group companies at Group companies in Japan outside Japan and we continue to seek further advanced measures (Manage and implement measures, etc.) (Manage and implement measures, etc.) to deal with the issue. The Anritsu Group believes that properly handling and protecting information depends Structure on sharing information and setting an equal level of Internal Audit (Internal Audit Committee, security across both domestic and overseas areas to The information security management system consists of the Global Audit Dept., and third-party audits) establish a robust management system. Information Management Committee made up of key executive officers from each business division and Group companies, and the Information Security Subcommittee operating under the Information Management Committee. The Information Management Committee formulates policies on investment and strategies related to information management for the entire Group. The Information Security Subcommittee conducts policy enactment and implementation measures and activities such as employee training, countermeasures to deal with an incident when it occurs, and information sharing. The Information Security Subcommittee composed of representatives of Japanese Group companies and the Global Security Subcommittee consisting of Chief Regional Officers. As the security officer of their respective affiliated organizations, Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 078 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management ■ Information Security Business Continuity Management Goals role in development and production in Japan. When abnormal overseas Group companies. communications are detected, the devices enable automatically Moreover, we are working to establish an IT system that The Anritsu Group operates businesses globally and is linked by a shutting down the affected network to minimize damage. supports remote business and working from home to respond to a network of offices all around the world that engage in information new lifestyle as a measures for preventing COVID-19 infections. sharing. In information security, if there is a vulnerability in even Enhancing Security in the Asian Region * Enterprise resource planning: Integration of core business processes in areas such as one place in the system, it will impact on the overall security level. Using the results of an evaluation of global security at the website, accounting, sales, production, and procurement We are therefore working internationally on establishing a robust, we worked to raise the level of security in the Asian region and uniform security system. implemented such measures as restructuring the management system (e.g., clarification of roles and responsibilities), preparing Activities / Achievements related rules, reeducating employees, and an awareness survey. In fiscal 2020, we intend to focus on technical issues. Global Security Level Visualization In order to achieve its goals, the Anritsu Group two years ago Conducting Educational Programs on Global Information Security created its own website, which allows for evaluation of global Anritsu conducted information security educational programs for security by quantifying and visualizing the level of security that employees around the world in fiscal 2019, focusing on phishing may be less visible. This website is used to raise the overall level e-mail fraud. About 90% of Anritsu Group employees participated in of security and eliminate regional disparities by correcting the the programs. variation in the level of security that exists between regions. With the idea that management based on the PDCA cycle is Focus on IT Investment important to the maintenance and improvement of information The Anritsu Group considers supporting business growth, security, we continuously strive to improve the management promoting overall optimization of Group management, and systems in each region. providing safe and secure IT services to be priority items for IT investment. Security Measures for Networks in Factories in Japan Supporting business growth is achieved through investing in The network connecting various devices at our development and the construction of our website, marketing automation (MA), and production sites can create an environment vulnerable to security the customer relationship management (CRM) system, which acts gaps. This results are an increase in the number of attacks aimed as the point of contact with customers. at the networks, and major manufacturers have experienced Promoting overall optimization of Group management is incidents that have forced them to shut down operations for achieved by completing ERP* standardization at Japanese Group several days. The Anritsu Group adopted devices to enhance companies, and the automation of Group transactions, internal security monitoring for the networks operated in the the Atsugi control, business continuity planning (BCP), and visualization have headquarters and Tohoku Anritsu Co.,Ltd., which play a central been achieved. We are now promoting the introduction of ERP in Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 079 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security ■ Business Continuity Management Governance Business Continuity Management Policy Structure (Response to Disasters and Infectious Diseases) Stance on Social issues Disaster Prevention The Anritsu Group has laid out its BCM* policy in the Basic Policy In the event of large-scale disasters or infectious diseases, including Natural disasters such as torrential rains due to climate on Disaster Response, stipulated in the Basic Rules on Disasters and COVID-19, the Anritsu Group establishes an Emergency Response change, typhoons, and earthquakes may cause economic Emergency Response. Headquarters to determine corporate actions. stagnation in the affected areas and significantly impact companies. ▪Members of the Emergency Response Headquarters Basic Policy on Disaster Response Furthermore, COVID-19 has been severely affecting Title Member business operations and material procurement General manager President The Anritsu Group establishes a prevention system against worldwide by weakening economic activity, not just in Deputy general disasters that may significantly affect its management, Chief officer in charge of disaster prevention (vice presidents) specific limited areas such as those affected by natural places top priority on ensuring the safety of its stakeholders manager disasters, but across the globe. including employees and local communities in the event of Staff Persons appointed by the general manager (vice presidents overseas, presidents of the Group companies, etc.) Under these circumstances, the Anritsu Group a disaster or accident, and strives to minimize damage and recognizes business continuity as a mission and a promptly resume business activities in order to fulfill its social responsibility and continue to seek enduring success for the vital issue for the Group, which is involved in social Anritsu Group. infrastructure such as telecommunications and food distribution and operates globally. * Business continuity management: Management activities conducted during normal operations, such as formulating, maintaining, and updating business continuity plans, securing budgets and resources for continuing business, taking preparatory measures, implementing education and training before launching initiatives, conducting inspections, and making continuous improvements Response to Infectious Diseases We are taking preventive measures and implementing actions to ensure business continuity under the Basic Policy on Disaster Response to cope with COVID-19. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 080 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security ■ Business Continuity Management Activities / Achievements Business Continuity Planning Introduction of a Building Safety Assessment System, Each Group company formulates a business continuity plan (BCP) to Equipment, and Facility Disaster Prevention Protocols Disaster Prevention Initiatives maintain smooth operations in the event of a disaster or emergency Anritsu has been steadily expanding the building safety assessment Impact of a Disaster, Typhoon Hagibis in 2019 by minimizing damage and resuming full business activities as system for the Atsugi Headquarters region that was introduced in The ground floor of the 1st factory at Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. in quickly as possible. We will conduct a survey with Group companies fiscal 2017. The goal of this initiative is for the Company to quickly Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture was damaged by flooding and continue to consider our response to future disasters. ascertain conditions at the buildings during an earthquake or caused by Typhoon Hagibis in October 2019. Since the production Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd., which serves as the manufacturing series of earthquakes and move rapidly to either enact or end entry line had originally been set up on the second floor and higher, bases of the Anritsu Group, identifies natural disasters such as restrictions. We are also implementing disaster prevention measures and a second factory was in the same city and not affected by the earthquakes and flooding of rivers due to torrential rains material including ceilings and electrical equipment. flooding, our production system was able to quickly recover, and risks, and these clearly set out concrete steps for each process in shipments restarted about two weeks after the suspension. the event of a disaster. Applying the lessons learned from an actual Securing the Information Systems We are well prepared for an initial response and can quickly large-scale disaster, we revised the criteria for invoking BCPs in an Anritsu Group saves key information systems in backup, procure production materials in the event of a disaster. emergency to prepare against a broader range of risks and refined including the core systems and the CAD system used for product our procedures for responding to each risk. development. In the event that the main systems are stricken by P.058 Supply Chain BCP disaster, it is possible to continue to operate the information system Developing Infrastructure for Stable Supply—Global Head through either of the sites used as the destination for backing up Office Building Installed with Seismic Isolation Equipment data. Also, in tandem with designating emergency procedures with Seeking to disperse exposure to risks, Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. a targeted recovery time, we are preparing our response to disasters opened a second factory in July 2013. by conducting regular disaster response and recovery training and Production lines have been distributed between the two plants evaluating the effectiveness of this training to correct any issues. to ensure stable supply. In March 2015, we constructed a global headquarters office building in Atsugi City, Kanagawa Prefecture, Shipment resumed Employee operating a forklift to collect waste generated by the typhoon as a BCP countermeasure to maintain the continuity of Group Offices Affiliates in Japan outside core functions. This building has a seismic base isolation system to Japan enhance earthquake safety and provides an emergency backup power supply of six days. Private Network Differential Differential Copy Copy Tohoku Anritsu Atsugi HQ CAD System Tokyo Metropolitan Nagoya Region Main System/Backup System Area Data Center Backup System Data Centre Main System Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 081 Corporate Governance Internal Control Establishment of Compliance Promotion of Risk Management Information Security ■ Business Continuity Management Response to Infectious Diseases Response to Stakeholders (As of July 31, 2020) We established the Emergency Response Headquarters at the end Stakeholders Initiatives of January 2020 to work on preventive measures against COVID-19. ● R estriction of business trips, travel bans, temporary return of expatriate employees, restriction of meetings and interviews, thorough reporting of any In addition to encouraging telecommuting and distributing masks, poor health conditions, telecommuting, staggered commuting, temporary permission to commute by car, COVID-19 paid leaves, support for parents dealing with temporary school closures we conducted initiatives for succeeding in a “new normal,” such as Employees (domestic and overseas ● M aintenance of social distancing; distribution of masks; consistent wearing of masks at workplaces; hand sanitization and thorough sanitization of interAnritsu Group companies) nal offices, cafeterias, and restrooms; temperature measurement before going to work; temperature measurement on arrival by thermography camera, thorough sanitization, and social distancing when using meeting etc. ● R elocation of a part of the development environment to Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. (Koriyama City) and telecommuting for the continuity of development rooms, elevators, and cafeterias. activities ● Q uestionnaire about recent overseas travel records and health conditions ● L aunching the Anritsu exhibition website ▪Office Partitions and Elevators ● Webinar about 5G, operating guide for test and measurement instruments, webinar about the usage of PQA products Customers ● L aunch of web content to support customer telecommuting ● Customer relations on a telecommuting basis ● Continuation of repairs and calibration work (a part of the business was downscaled) Shareholders and investors ● O nline financial briefings and IR meetings ● I nformation collection and support from suppliers Supply chain ● Consideration of substitute suppliers depending on the status of infection and operation ● D onation of stockpiled DS2 dust masks from company storage to Atsugi City Hospital Regional societies ● I ntra-company sale of masks produced by a Continued Employment Support Type B Office* in Atsugi City *Set up under the Services and Supports for Persons with Disabilities Act Social distancing in offices Time Sequence of Measures Taken (As of July 31, 2020) ▪Thermography Camera ▪Investor Relations Briefing Major Trends Efforts Set up the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Response Headquarters (January 31) ・ Banned business trips to China and unnecessary business trips to other foreign countries; visitors were given a questionnaire, and 2020 Declaration of a state of January emergency by the WHO their temperature was measured February ・ Remote working, staggered commuting, commuting by car (temporary parking lots), staggered lunch breaks April 9: Telecommuting and prohibition of commuting by public transportation Reduced the number of employees coming to work by 60% Declaration of a state of ・ Distributed masks to all employees; employees work masks during work hours Temperature measurement on arrival by Held a remote investor relations briefing April emergency by the Japanese April 20: Enhanced telecommuting and prohibited coming to work in all divisions except production thermography camera government Reduced the number of employees coming to work by 80% ・ Enhanced VPN, shutdown for two weeks during GW, substitute holiday Telecommuting enhancement and prohibited coming to work in all divisions except production” was lifted. Termination of a state of Reduced the number of employees coming to work by 60% May emergency by the Japanese Established the New Normal Team government ・ Social distancing, meeting rooms, office desks, sanitization, non-contact ・ Distribution of a health seminar video (for telecommuting) Remote working (rotation) and prohibition of commuting by public transportation passing through Tokyo June Issuance of a Tokyo Alert Reduced the number of employees coming to work by 30% Enhanced telecommuting (rotation) and prohibition of commuting by public transportation July Issuance of a Kanagawa Alert Reduced the number of employees coming to work by 60%, or 70% excluding the production departments ・ Started corporate bus services for commuting Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 082 About this Report Corporate Profile Communication Tools GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Other Information 083 About this Report 084 Corporate Profile 085 Communication Tools 086 GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 083 ■ About this Report Corporate Profile Communication Tools GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index About this Report Editorial Policy Reporting Period Date of Issue We have published the 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report in a PDF This report covers the period from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 October 30, 2020 to report our corporate activities for fiscal 2019. and also includes some activities before and after that period. (date of publication in the previous fiscal year: September 30, 2019) By presenting a concrete report of our activities from the standpoint of sustainability, we aim to effectively communicate our Guidelines Used as Reference Contact corporate activities to our stakeholders. Anritsu Corporation Sustainability Promotion Center ▪ GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) 2016/2018 Boundary Definitions Core options WEB Contact for corporate and other information ▪ The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact This coverage of the report varies to either standalone Anritsu ▪ ISO 26000:2010 Corporation or inclusive of the Anritsu Group companies depending on the subject. Definitions are described as follows. Supporter of the UN Global Compact ▪“Anritsu” and “Anritsu Group” refer to both Anritsu Corporation and the entire Anritsu Group. In March 2006, Anritsu declared its support for and ▪“Anritsu Corporation” refers to Anritsu Corporation in Japan only. participation in the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ▪“Domestic Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation (UNGC), which are grouped into four categories: human rights, and Group companies in Japan. labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The Anritsu Group as ▪“Overseas Anritsu Group” refers to Group companies outside Japan. a whole promotes these principles alongside its sustainabilityrelated activities. For additional information on Anritsu’s efforts in the four key categories, please see the “Supporter of the UN Global Compact” page on our website. WEB Supporter of the UN Global Compact Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 084 About this Report ■ Corporate Profile Communication Tools GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2020) Anritsu Corporation 5-1-1 Onna, Breakdown of Shareholders 売上高 (Anritsu Group on a consolidated basis) Sales Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa 243-8555, (Million yen) Individuals and others Financial institutions 120,000 Head Office: Japan 32.2% 40.4% 107,023 99,659 Tel: +81-46-223-1111 95,532 87,638 85,967 URL: https://www.anritsu.com 90,000 Securities companies Company Founded: 1895 2.4% 60,000 Other corporations Foreign investors Established March 17, 1931 22.8% 2.2% 30,000 Paid-in Capital: 19.151 billions of yen 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 3,881 (consolidated) Number of Employees: Major Subsidiaries (as of August 31, 2020) 855 (non-consolidated) Japan Americas TSE 1st Section Company Name Principal Businesses Company Name Principal Businesses Stock Listing: Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. R&D, manufacture, sales, repair, and maintenance of PQA Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc. (U.S.A.) Holding company for American subsidiaries (Ticker Symbol No.: 6754) equipment Anritsu Americas Sales Company (U.S.A.) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Manufacture of T&M instruments and information and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. R&D, manufacture, sales, and maintenance of measuring Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited communications equipment Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) and other instruments Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Calibration, repair, and maintenance of T&M instruments Transfer Agent: 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Manufacture of optical devices Azimuth Systems, Inc. (U.S.A.) R&D, manufacture, and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Management of facilities, welfare services, and production of Anritsu Electronics, Ltd. (Canada) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments catalogs and other materials Anritsu Eletrônica Ltda. (Brazil) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Number of Anritsu Real Estate Co., Ltd. Real estate leasing Anritsu Company S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments 72,772 AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Manufacture and sales of processed products Anritsu Infivis Inc. (U.S.A.) Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment Shareholders: Rating and Investment Information, EMEA Asia and Others Company Name Principal Businesses Company Name Principal Businesses Inc. Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Company Ltd. (Hong Kong) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Rating: Long-Term: AAnritsu Ltd. (U.K.) R&D and manufacture of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu GmbH (Germany) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. (China) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Short-Term: a-1 Anritsu S.A. (France) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Company, Inc. (Taiwan) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu S.r.l. (Italy) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Corporation, Ltd. (South Korea) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Authorized Shares: 400,000,000 Anritsu AB (Sweden) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu A/S (Denmark) R&D, manufacture, sales, and maintenance of T&M Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments instruments Anritsu Pty. Ltd. (Australia) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Solutions S.r.l. (Italy) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Company Limited (Vietnam) Sales and maintenance of measuring and other instruments Issued Shares: 138,257,294 Anritsu Solutions S.R.L. (Romania) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Philippines, Inc. (Philippines) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Solutions SK, s.r.o. (Slovakia) R&D of measuring and other instruments Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Anritsu Infivis Ltd. (U.K.) Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment Ltd. (China) Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment Anritsu Infivis B.V. (Netherlands) Sales and maintenance of PQA equipment Anritsu Industrial Systems (Shanghai) Co., Manufacture of PQA equipment Ltd. (China) Anritsu Infivis (THAILAND) Co., Ltd. Manufacture and maintenance of PQA equipment (Thailand) Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 085 About this Report Corporate Profile ■ Communication Tools GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Communication Tools Sustainability Report Integrated Report WEB Investor Relations Environmental, economic, and social efforts included in the CSR This annual publication contains performance highlights, a message Communication tools are provided on Anritsu’s report since 2005 have been incorporated into the Sustainability from the Group CEO, business summaries, strategies and future website at Home > About Anritsu > Investor Relations Report since 2018 and published annually. trajectories, past performance trends, as well as financial and non> IR Library. financial data and other information. URL: https://www.anritsu.com/ir Securities Report/Quarterly Financial Report Business Report These reports provide information on financial performance The Business Report provides a basic summary of business activities, WEB Sustainability and ESG Policy for the fiscal year at Anritsu on a quarterly and annual basis. highlights, and other information for the fiscal year on an interim and full-year basis. WEB Status on Inclusion in ESG Indexes, External Evaluations Financial Information Information for the General Meeting of Shareholders Financial information includes financial results, presentation This information includes notices of the general meeting of materials, and presentation of Q&A summaries. shareholders, reports of resolutions adopted, and presentation materials for shareholders. Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 086 About this Report Corporate Profile Communication Tools ■ GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016/2018: Core option. GRI102: General Disclosures 2016 Content Page Number ●: Disclosure required for Core option 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 66-69 Content Page Number Fundamental policy of corporate governance 4. 1. Organizational Profile 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 2. 5. Chair of the Board of ● Directors 102-1 Name of the organization 84 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 66-69 ● Anritsu Integrated Report 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2020-9 Fundamental policy of ● corporate governance -2. 102-3 Location of headquarters 84 102-25 Conflicts of interest Relationship with ● 102-4 Location of operations 84 stakeholders ● 102-5 Ownership and legal form 84 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 68 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body － ● Anritsu Integrated Report 102-6 Markets served 2020-9 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 68 ● 102-7 Scale of the organization 84 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 7,16 ● 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 63 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 7,16,75-76 ● － 102-9 Supply chain 55-58 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics ● － 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Not applicable 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting ● 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 7,16,75-76 74, Fundamental policy of ● 102-12 External initiatives 83 102-33 Communicating critical concerns corporate governance -2. 2 .5. Internal notification ● 102-13 Membership of associations 83 system 2. Strategy 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 74 ● 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5-6 Website: Corporate 102-35 Remuneration policies Governance (Executive 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7,75-76 Compensation) 3. Ethics and Integrity Website: Corporate 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Governance (Executive ● 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 1 Compensation) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 74 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration － 4. Governance 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio － ● 102-18 Governance structure 16,66 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio － 102-19 Delegating authority 16 5. Stakeholder Engagement 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 16,75-76 ● 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16-17 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 17 ● 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 46 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 087 About this Report Corporate Profile Communication Tools ■ GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Content Page Number Content Page Number ● 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16-17 GRI-203: Indirect Economic Impacts ● 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 16-17 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 7-14 ● 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 16-17 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 7-14 6. Reporting Practice GRI-204: Procurement Practices ● 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 83-84 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers － ● 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 7,83 GRI-205: Anti-corruption ● 102-47 List of material topics 7 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 72-73 ● 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 72-73 ● 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 72-73 ● 102-50 Reporting period 83 GRI-206: Anti-competitive Behavior ● 102-51 Date of most recent report 83 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 73 ● 102-52 Reporting cycle 83 ● 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 83 GRI300: Environmental ● 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 83 ◯： The material issues identified by the company ● 102-55 GRI content index 86-88 Content Page Number ● 102-56 External assurance 30 GRI-301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 25 GRI200: Economic 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 23-24 ◯：The material issues identified by the company 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 38 Content Page Number ● GRI-302: Energy 2016 GRI-201: Economic Performance 103 Management approach 7,16-17,20-22,26-27 1-2, Anritsu Integrated 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 25,29-30 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Report 2020Anritsu Value Creating Story-12-13 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization － 26, Anritsu Integrated 302-3 Energy intensity 30 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Report 2020-19 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 28-30 Securities Report 5. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Accounting 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 23-24,29 notes 21. Employee benefits ● GRI-303: Water and Effluents 2018 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable 103 Management approach 7,16-17,20-22,31 GRI-202: Market Presence 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 31-32 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage － 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 35 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community － Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 088 About this Report Corporate Profile Communication Tools ■ GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Content Page Number GRI400: Social 303-3 Water withdrawal 31-32 ◯：The material issues identified by the company 303-4 Water discharge 31-32,35 Content Page Number 303-5 Water consumption － GRI-401: Employment 2016 GRI-304: Biodiversity 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 47-48 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and － 304-1 Not applicable Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 401-2 part-time employees 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 33-34 401-3 Parental leave 44 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Not applicable GRI-402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 － IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 304-4 Not applicable 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes affected by operations ● ● GRI-403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 GRI-305: Emissions 2016 103 Management approach 7,16-17,51-52 103 Management approach 7,16-17,20-22 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 51-52 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 28 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 51-52 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 28 403-3 Occupational health services 51 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 28 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 30 403-4 51-52 and safety 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 28-29,35 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 53-54 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not applicable 403-6 Promotion of worker health 53-54 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 25 － Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked 403-7 GRI-306: Effluents and Waste 2016 by business relationships 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 25,32,35 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system － 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 25,37-38 403-9 Work-related injuries 52 306-3 Significant spills 24,35-36 403-10 Work-related ill health 52 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Not applicable ● GRI-404: Training and Education 2016 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Not applicable 103 Management approach 7,16-17,47 GRI-307: Environmental Compliance 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 48 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 24 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 48-50 ● GRI-308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews － 103 Management approach 7,16-17,20-22,55-56 ● GRI-405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 56-58 103 Management approach 7,16-17,41-42 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 56-58 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 63-64 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Solving Social Issues Sustainability Cover Story Group CEO Message Environment Social Governance Other Information Through Business Management 089 About this Report Corporate Profile Communication Tools ■ GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard Content Index Content Page Number Content Page Number 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men － GRI-416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI-406: Non-discrimination 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 59-60 － － 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products 416-2 and services GRI-407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI-417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 － Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and － 407-1 collective bargaining may be at risk 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling － GRI-408: Child Labor 2016 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 417-2 labeling 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 55-56 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications － GRI-409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 GRI-418: Customer Privacy 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 55-56 418-1 － Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of GRI-410: Security Practices 2016 customer data 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures － GRI-419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI-411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 74 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples － ● GRI-412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 103 Management approach 7,16-17,41-42 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 41-42 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 41-42 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 412-3 Not applicable or that underwent human rights screening GRI-413: Local Communities 2016 － Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 413-1 development programs － Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 413-2 communities ● GRI-414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 103 Management approach 7,16-17,55-56 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 56-58 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 56-58 GRI-415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions 74 Anritsu Sustainability Report 2020 Anritsu Head Office (Atsugi City, Kanagawa Prefecture) Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. (Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture) Anritsu Company (Morgan Hill, California, U.S.A.) Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30* The Anritsu Climate Change Action PGRE 30 is a voluntary action plan to mitigate climate change. Under the plan, we have been promoting the introduction of solar power generation facilities as a renewable energy source toward increasing the ratio of the Anritsu Group’s share of private power generation of total energy consumption to about 30% by around the year 2030 from 0.8% for fiscal 2018, the base year. As part of PGRE 30 we are also installing and expanding solar power generation facilities at our major locations in Atsugi City in Kanagawa Prefecture, Koriyama City in Fukushima Prefecture, and Morgan Hill in California, U.S.A. 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa 243-8555, Japan Phone: +81-46-223-1111 * Private Generation of Renewable Energy, with the number 30 representing both 30 in the year 2030, the target year, and 30%, the target ratio for https://www.anritsu.com in-house power generation.
