COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 23/01/2020 To: 23/01/2021 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 23/01/2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Kristie’s SARL reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Christina Khater CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights.  Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats We support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour Comply with minimum wage standards Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Kristie’s is against all forms of exploitation of children and we support the effective elimination of child labor The company does not provide employment to children before they have reached the legal age to have completed their compulsory education, as defined by the relevant authorities Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. We seek to reduce our consumption of non-renewable resources and whenever practicable will select materials which have the least negative impact on the environment throughout their life cycle Whenever viably possible materials will be purchased from the suppliers who obtain products from renewable resources Kristie’s will introduce and monitor efficient and economic use of energy in the form of heating and lighting with the objective of reducing the use of energy Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Assess the risk of corruption when doing business Give or offer any payment, gift, hospitality or other benefit in the expectation that a business advantage will be received in return, or to reward any business received Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment Accept any offer from a third party that you know or suspect is made with the expectation that we will provide a business advantage for them or anyone else 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Kristie’s is committed to providing a quality service in a manner that ensures a safe and healthy workplace for our employees equally and minimizes our potential impact on the environment Kristie’s will measure the outcomes equally between all the employees disregarding the gender, color, race, …
