PARIS POZNAN BUCAREST HONG KONG DHAKA 2020 Sustainable purchasing & CSR Progress report Date : September 2020 Summary Page 3 11 at PRINT Presentation Page 12 21 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men Page 22 32 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming Page 33 36 AMBITION 3 : Protect our natural resources and forest while performing our business 2 PRESENTATION 3 atPRINT ACTIVITIES at PRINT is an international print management packaging company which has its headquarter based in France. Since more than fifteen years, the company provides paper packaging to its customers with a renowned sense of customer service and CSR strong policy related to the FAIR at PRINT program . at PRINT is specialized in conception, development production monitoring, quality and logistic. All our productions are entrusted to selected and reliable subcontractors. We also provide additional services to our customers such as logistic and co-packing with success. Our teams based in Europe and in Asia work together in the same direction to achieve our customers’ packaging projects. 4 atPRINT LOCATION HEADOFFICE : atPRINT France S.A.R.L. PRODUCTION : atPRINT Hong Kong Ltd. atPRINT Bangladesh Ltd. Poland Romania Copyright© freevectormaps.com Ground transport Sea transport Air transport • France to France • Hong Kong or China to France • Bangladesh to France • Poland To France • Hong Kong or China to Europe • Romania to France 5 • Bangladesh to Bangladesh OUR PROCESS From the concept development to the packaging production and the copacking, we bring a full-service solution Packaging & trays Quantitative & qualitative Build-up Batch number Quality control process components reception & Copacking management & Delivery 6 atPRINT HISTORY 2019 2020 We launch an eco-packaging solution : for each project, we offer an alternative solution to our 2014 2015 customers using recycle or/and 2007 We launch a new activity : biodegradable materials. Co-packing . We start producing packaging & gift 2005 2011 These products are now our main core We created a new position in Atprint France & Hong Kong We expend our hangtags activity company: QSE manager who is in business business start. by opening Atprint Bangladesh charge of all social and environment office. topics for the group Our first activity is paper hangtags We provide complementary New logo : products as woven labels, We achieved our first EcoVadis adhesive… certification in 2019 New website : 2005 2015 logo : Full supplier' survey: all audits have been updated 7 FAIR Program at P R I N T G r o u p initiated its CSR policy since 2015 through its own internal program FAIR F lexibility Our process : A wareness ✓ Offer Eco friendly materials or recycled material Sourcing I ntegrity ✓ Stay aware and share all new technologies and materials ecofriendly ✓ Sourcing Policy oriented to closer production units R ecycling ✓ Improving our solutions to reduce carbon footprint ✓ Train all teams for specific topics such as integrity and respect ✓ Promoting diversity in recruitment ✓ Encourage printing of recycling pictograms to help end user for wastage trial The whole group and its staff are trained and engaged on these topics. We encourage all suppliers to apply same principles and use our knowledge to also train our customers for same topics . 8 We are so proud to be part of the UN Global Compact program since October 2019. EDITO at PRINT is pursuing its policy of maintaining as a top priority the fulfilling of our CSR ambitions. Our sustainable development goals achievement are the result of daily efforts and engagements of our teams and partners . In actual world situation of pandemic crises and great awake of responsibility for the future of our planet, our mission is even more challenging, and I know that our energy and convictions will make our ambitions successful more and more . By this document, I renew our adhesion to the UN Compact and we reiterate our engagements to continue our involvement on the below points: • 5. Gender Equity • 8. Decent work & Economic growth • 12. Responsible Consumption and Production • 13. Climatic Action Sofica TROCHARD • 15. Life on Land at PRINT Group CEO We are proud of our achievements of 2019 especially obtaining our EcoVadis Silver medal . 2020 EcoVadis certification is under process. A challenging CSR program for the next three years is waiting us and we are excited to fulfil these new objectives for the coming years. I am sure that the nomination of a QSE Group manager, since last year, will contribute to coordinate our targets and sharing all know-how that can help us all to reach the expected results . at PRINT is a human size Company having each colleague being aware , informed , involved and responsible in these engagements and I am so grateful to all our teams and trust their capacity to reach our targets by personal conviction and not only through Company policy ! That’s at PRINT: a responsible family , having initiative and ambition of keeping the commitments taken ! Make our Planet Better with our Daily actions ! 9 TEAM TESTIMONY After 5 years of Project Management in ATPRINT France I was delighted when I was offered in 2019 a new position fully dedicated to CSR & Quality Management . I am very motivated to manage this new essential task which shows the importance given by the Company to the CSR missions . ATPRINT is moving forward to share and to convince each one about this policy and I am extremely proud to drive and promote these actions . Stéphane MORGANTI at PRINT France QSE manager I am part of Atprint for 5 years now. And today, more than ever, I am very happy to be part of this company who has heart to put humans at the center of its priorities. Just one example: through all the COVID19 crisis and lockdown , ATPRINT gave all supports to its staff to protect them from the Covid19 by providing trainings , protection materials , flexible working hour, home office to all teams, as well the maintain of full salary to all our teams. Mahsud KHAN at PRINT Bangladesh CSR manager After 8 years with ATPRINT as DGM and CSR responsible on the Asia Area, I have a global vision of ATPRINT’s achievements in CSR field and I see all progress we made in this past years. This is extremely stimulating for all teams. So Happy to see exchanges between all our nationalities , offices sharing common values. Diversity in ages , genders and nationalities is our strongest asset and glad to see involvement of each one for a better Green Planet . 10 Polly CHEUNG at PRINT Hong Kong DGM and CSR OUR SUSTANAIBLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 11 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men Priority 1: Fight against corruption and unethical business practices Priority 2 : Offer locally, equal chances for sustainable jobs in healthy working environment Priority 3 : Develop and grow our talent Priority 4 : Make our offices places of exemplarity and education about good environmental practices 12 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 1 : Fight against corruption and unethical business practices OUR ACTIONS 2020 The ethics committee has been renewed in 2020 for 2 years. A dedicated Email address has been created to let stakeholders alert if any bribery All suppliers signed engagement to not offer any gift to our staff All staff informed they are not allowed to accept any gift from supplier In order to fight against corruption and un-ethical business practices, we set up new procedures. This will increase our ability to fight bribery and ensure perfect transparency in taking decisions. This includes: 1. Internal audit procedure on purchasing, each three years 2. Purchasing decision procedure which describes clearly which hierarchical level can approve which purchase level. This procedure also enforces to get a double signature for each purchase. For environmental reason, confidential documents are not printed / all stocked-on server with password Renew Ethics committee Internal Train all employees on Ethical business behavior Internal Train all our employees on information security CSR manager initiated to ODD 16: PEACE & JUSTICE by Webinar on the 5th November 2020 by UN France. RESULTS No complain on the Ethic email address or any topics raised by another way. 13 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 1 : Fight against corruption and unethical business practices RESULTS CODE OHSAS SMETA ACTIVITY Country ICS SA 8000 ECOVADIS SUPPLIER 18001 AUDIT PRINTER BG UN_1 OK All our main suppliers are Coming audited and certified for their COPACKER PL RA_1 OK Ethics and Social policy. (nov -20) PLASTIC THERMOFORMER FR CS_1 OK Coming PRINTER FR SK_1 (oct – 20) LOG FR Ce_1 OK COPACKER FR SO_1 PRINTER RO BE_1 OK PRINTER CN CT_1 OK OK PRINTER CN ZZ_1 OK OK NOTA BENE Audit details in Glossary PRINTER PL TF_1 OK 14 Make our offices places of exemplarity and education AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 2 : Offer locally, equal chances for sustainable jobs in healthy working environment ACTIONS 2020 All job offer are open to everyone, no matter sex, age, nationality or handicap. Monitor ratios about office, age, sex… Renew Social committee in each office (this year was specific with as main topic: Covid19specific procedure) Develop employees’ welfare and work-life balance Renew Chart for noise & stress control including Respect all staff disconnection during off time Monitor Workplace accidents static Annual check of fire-fighting equipment Continue recruitment without any on offer statements Encourage respect, equality and diversity All recruitments position contain group engagement of nondiscrimination: “ ATPRINT is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, colour, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability status, age, or any other characteristic protected by law. If you need assistance or an accommodation during the application process because of a disability, it is available upon request. The company is pleased to provide such assistance, and no applicant will be penalized as a result of such a request ” 15 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 2 : Offer locally, equal chances for sustainable jobs in healthy working environment RESULTS Team composition per Age (Year) Years of gender Av. Age OFFICE experience with (Year) APPRINT Standard Men Women MIN MAX deviation Bangladesh 6 18 0 8 26 61 38 HongKong 6 8 4 15 38 60 43 France 5 6 7 13 25 57 34 Nota Bene • In Bangladesh, since the early stage, ATPRINT’s jobs are equally open to both man and woman. However, due to the local culture, and unsafe public transportation, very few woman applications are received. With the growing education level from woman in the country and improvement of public service, we hope to receive equal number of suitable women applications and contribute to their emancipation at work. • In France, the General Direction is insured by 2 Ladies who are also shareholder • In Hong Kong the GM and DGM are also 2 ladies 16 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 2 : Offer locally, equal chances for sustainable jobs in healthy working environment The best proof of our diversity 17 Specific Case of COVID19 crisis OUR ACTIONS 2020 (included in the Social Committee’s field) 1. All teammates has been trained to: Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) for Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) (Provided by WHO) 2. Home Office is allowed following local government rules for 7 months and still going 3. All needed device to insure employee’s security are provided by the company 1. Disinfectant wipes 2. Masks 3. Gloves for some tasks 4. Hydroalcoholic solution 4. All procedures have been adapted and revised to protect employees from infection 5. All commitments to integrate and train newcomers ( internships , apprentices ) were kept even during Covid19 period ( no contract was cancelled ) 6. Keeping regular contact with all staff to insure no psychological impact of isolation during lockdowns 7. Full Salary maintained during lockdown for all offices RESULTS No COVID19 case in our offices around the world. 18 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 3 : Develop and grow our talents OUR ACTIONS 2020 During pandemic Covid19 year, a weekly coaching internal program was insured by management to all newcomers and interns. RESULTS • France : • QSE new created position is occupied by an employee after 5 year as project manager in French office • QSE manager trained to Carbon Footprint computation by the Institut de Formation Carbone (IFC) • Intern designer coached • New apprentice in digital communication integrated in Sept-2020 • Packaging engineer internship trained to purchases methods • Logistic teams coached for stocked management • Hong Kong : • One of the Merchandiser in ATPRINT Honk Kong office has been raised to Senior Packaging Manager • Bangladesh : • 2 additional employees trained to art& design making • Purchase of suitable hardware and software for artwork tasks 18 AMBITION 1 : Provide a fair working environment to enable employee’s fulfillment and reduction of inequality between women and men PRIORITY 4 : Make our offices places of exemplarity and education about good environmental practices OUR ACTIONS 2020 We do continue to promote printing technology with lower water consumption and to keep on sensitizing for water saving. Nevertheless, Electricity consumption is an excellent KPI to follow. For Electricity saving purposes, each offices updated its internal rule in order to include: • Computer shut down each night ATPRINT GROUP ELECTRICITY KPI • No lights on in empty rooms 7000 KWH • Air conditioning only during working hours 6000 KWH 5000 KWH RESULTS 4000 KWH 3000 KWH Electricity consumption in 2020 are 34% less than 2019 2000 KWH 2019 1000 KWH 2020 on the seven first months of the year. 0 KWH 20 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming Priority 1 : Fight against Climate warming Priority 2 : Advise our customers with new sustainable solutions Priority 3 : Promote social and environmental best practices with our manufacturers 21 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 1 : Fight against Climate warming OUR ACTIONS 2020 1. For its first time ATPRINT Group computed in 2020 its 2019 Carbon Footprint following Bilan Carbone® methodology for the Group and all its offices. 2. From this carbon footprint and its analysis, ATPRINT learned lessons and build up an action plan for the coming 3 years. 3. Pursuing the actions from 2018-2020 CSR Action plan, ATPRINT took the additional below actions in order to speed up its progress to an eco-friendlier model: • Half of our French office cars park has been replaced by hybrid cars • ATPRINT Hong Kong is now using local inspectors on site to avoid CO2 consuming trips by plane, train or car. • ATPRINT Bangladesh is using Rickshaw bicycles for local transport 22 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 1 : Fight against Climate warming OUR ACTIONS 2020 4. A new initiative for optimizing the data volume used by the company: o Deleting all useless emails o Deleting all useless data or duplicates on our servers o An internal note has been sent to all 3 offices and a communication campaign in the office with posters o Using a server to upload our image in email signature instead of sending it each time Each bytes on servers needs energy for data saving. Optimizing data volume helps to reduce energy consumption. 23 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 1 : Fight against Climate warming OUR ACTIONS 2020 5. Provide suitable alternative to virgin material, especially, for plastic trays by: 1. Using recycled material 2. Offering more ecofriendly material options. 6. Encourage and promote Eco-inks rather than oil-based inks 7. Encouraging to all suppliers in environment initiatives 24 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 1 : Fight against Climate warming RESULTS 1. Our 2019 Carbon footprint summary is available on demand. 2. KPI follow up has been set up for : ATPRINT Global Recorded data into datacenters per office • Recorded data space on server • Exchanged data by email 1400 Starting 2021, Atprint will be able to better monitor 1200 1000 this hidden electricity consumption 800 Bytes HK SRV (and so GHG emissions) through this new KPI. 600 400 BG SRV 200 FR SRV 0 oct.-20 FR SRV BG SRV HK SRV 25 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 1 : Fight against Climate warming RESULTS 3. Previously electronic signature was 3Mb and now their size is 166Kb. So for each mail sent , we save 2 Mb. With 40 peoples sending 30 emails per day we save 300,000 Mo (300 Gb) per year which represents 13 tons of CO2e Based on ADEME study : https://ademe.typepad.fr/files/acv_ntic_synthese_courrier_electronique.pdf With new email signature, On our previous Email, the images are hosted on our cloud each images of our signature were sent with the email 26 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 2 : Advise our customers with new sustainable solutions OUR ACTIONS 2020 In addition to the 2018 & 2019 taken actions, Atprint set up the following measures: 1. Web Trainings about eco-conception, recycling and carbon footprint for all the development teams 2. Training to our main customers about eco-conception, recycling and carbon footprint 3. A carbon footprint calculator has been built to let the teams indicate to our customers the GHG (greenhouse gas) emission per project. This will complete our « Eco-Reco » set up last year (for each project we provide more eco-friendly alternative or improvements to customer) 4. Promoting Recycled material for plastic items such as trays and windows or cancelling the Plastic items when it is possible. 27 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 2 : Advise our customers with new sustainable solutions RESULTS 1. Training on Carbon footprint completed by our graduated QSE engineer manager – this allows ATPRINT to get the knowhow to compute officially carbon footprint . 2. ATPRINT has set up a Carbon calculator able to compute the impact on environment for each customer’s project. ATPRINT is now able to inform the customers about their orders impact on environment. In addition to our 2019 actions (offering an Ecofriendly alternative to customer) this information helps customers about the best ecofriendly products. This calculator is internally tailormade for ATPRINT’s activity to obtain the most accurate calculation of GHG 28 emissions. AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 2 : Advise our customers with new sustainable solutions RESULTS 3. All staff was trained on environment related topics by QSE manager such as below. Training our staff is a very efficient way to spread information, new material opportunities to customers. Eco-printing Eco-conception Recycling material Carbon Footprint 29 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 2 : Advise our customers with new sustainable solutions RESULTS 4. Our main customers followed our training about Eco-Conception (*) (*) Due to Covid19 crisis, trainings have been replaced by webinars 30 AMBITION 2 : Act for product eco-design and a responsible consumption to fight against global warming PRIORITY 2 : Advise our customers with new sustainable solutions RESULTS CODE ATPRINT GROUP PLASTIC MATERIAL ACTIVITY Country ISO 14001 ECOVADIS Lucie SUPPLIER CONSUMPTION (in tons) PRINTER BG UN_1 FR Plastic RPET Coming COPACKER PL RA_1 OK 140 (nov -20) PLASTIC HK Plastic RPET 120 THERMOFORMER FR CS_1 OK OK -53% 100 HK Plastic PVC Coming PRINTER FR SK_1 80 (oct – 20) FR Plastic PP 60 SUPPLY CHAIN FR Ce_1 OK OK 40 HK Plastic PP COPACKER FR SO_1 OK 20 PRINTER RO BE_1 OK OK FR Plastic PET 0 BIOSOURCE 2019 2020 PRINTER CN CT_1 OK PRINTER CN ZZ_1 6. More than half plastic Consumption PRINTER PL TF_1 OK switched to paper which is a much 5. All our main suppliers are involved in an sustainable material 31 environmental approach. AMBITION 3 : Protect our natural resources and forest while performing our business Priority 1 : Become an example in the fight against illegal logging Priority 2 : Promote certified paper from well managed forests 32 AMBITION 3 : Protect our natural resources and forest while performing our business PRIORITY 1 : Become an example in the fight against illegal logging PRIORITY 2 : Promote certified paper from well managed forests OUR ACTIONS Handles made with paper ribbons 1. Keep on promoting FSC certified paper and material in order to for shopping bags fight against reckless deforestation and illegal logging as an option by emailing and communication to customer 2. Renewing ATPRINT group’s FSC certifications 3. Monitoring and Checking all our supplier FSC certification Made with 81% recycled paper 4. Proposing alternative to reduce the weight per items by optimizing the thickness material regarding the item's functionality. 5. Using recycled paper when it is possible, using paper ribbon instead of satin ribbon, paper tray instead of plastic tray… Paper tray for tea pockets to replace PET tray 33 AMBITION 3 : Protect our natural resources and forest while performing our business PRIORITY 1 : Become an example in the fight against illegal logging PRIORITY 2 : Promote certified paper from well managed forests RESULTS ATPRINT GROUP FSC ATPRINT GROUP NON FSC PAPER CONSUMPTION PAPER CONSUMPTION 2019 2020 VAR(%) 6.00 6.00 +36% +7% 5.00 5.00 Total Paper 848.5 1018.3 20% 4.00 4.00 3.00 2.00 3.00 2019 2020 2.00 1.00 1.00 FSC PAPER % 55% 50% 2019 2020 2019 2020 HK Paper Paper BG Paper Paper FR Paper Paper HK Paper BG Paper FR Paper Nota Bene Non FSC paper consumption increased because ATPRINT promoted paper use rather than plastic material. FSC paper consumption increased thanks to ATPRINT’s efforts to promote certified paper 34 AMBITION 3 : Protect our natural resources and forest while performing our business PRIORITY 1 : Become an example in the fight against illegal logging PRIORITY 2 : Promote certified paper from well managed forests RESULTS ACTIVITY Country CODE SUPPLIER FSC PRINTER Bangladesh UN_1 OK PRINTER France SK_1 OK PRINTER Romania BE_1 OK PRINTER China CT_1 OK PRINTER China ZZ_1 OK PRINTER Poland TF_1 OK All our main printers are FSC certified. 35 Glossary of Audits ICS ICS actions are based on shared tools and a common methodology applied by all ICS members and securing a complete control of the audit process by brands. CS Social and Environmental Code of Conduct defines the core requirements that suppliers must commit to. After the completion of the audit, the factories and the ICS members work on the Corrective Action Plan (CAP) recommended by the auditor (https://ics-asso.org/) SA 8000 SA 8000 is an international certification standard that encourages organizations to develop, maintain and apply socially acceptable practices in the workplace. SA 8000 certification addresses issues including forced and child labor, occupational health and safety, freedom of association and collective bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours, compensation, and management systems. As well as setting workplace standards worldwide, SA 8000 also embraces existing international agreements, including conventions from the International Labor Organization, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. (https://sa-intl.org/) 36 Glossary of Audits OHSAS18001 The OHSAS 18001 Certification Scheme is an occupational health and safety standard designed to enable organizations to control risks and improve performance in the area of OH&S (occupational health and safety). OHSAS 18001 places a proactive and preventative emphasis on risk-control factors by identifying and assessing the likelihood and severity of hazards in the workplace. EcoVadis EcoVadis is a sharing platform in order to manage network both upstream and downstream, either by sharing performance with stakeholders or monitoring the performance of its own upstream value chain. (https://ecovadis.com/?no_lredirect=true) SMETA SEDEX SMETA is an audit methodology, providing a compilation of best practice ethical audit techniques. It is designed to help auditors conduct high quality audits that encompass all aspects of responsible business practice, covering SEDEX's four pillars of Labour, Health and Safety, Environment and Business Ethics. SMETA is designed for suppliers to share one audit with multiple customers, meeting multiple customer requirements and reducing duplication in ethical auditing (www.sedex.com) 37 Contact us HEAD OFFICE CEO 2 bis avenue Desfeux QSE MANAGER Sofica TROCHARD 92100 Boulogne Billancourt – France Stéphane MORGANTI sofica.trochard@atprint.fr +33 1 86 64 01 60 www.atprint.fr stephane.morganti@atprint.fr
