Sustainability report 2019/20 About the report The Sustainability Report constitutes Danish Crown’s annual Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact and covers the financial year 2019/20 from 1 October 2019 to 30 September 2020. The report describes our sustainability strategy and activities for the past year in the areas that are most material to Danish Crown and our stakeholders. The report is an integral part of the management’s review of the Danish Crown Annual Report 2019/20, and this report constitutes our report on corporate responsibility and Management’s gender composition in accordance with sections 99a and b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. As part of our reporting obligations, we also issue a Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2019/20, which is available at danishcrown.com/sustainability-report. We welcome any comments, suggestions or questions you may have with respect to our report, strategy and results. Please send your feedback to: sustainability@danishcrown.com. Stay updated on danishcrown.com/sustainability, and follow Danish Crown on Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram (Klimamåltid). N SWA ECO C NOR LA DI BEL Printed matter 5041 0751 Contents Chairman’s report  4 Responsible business conduct 38-47 Group CEO’s report 5 Women in management 39 COVID-19: When crisis management becomes the new normal 6 Animal welfare 40 Our business 8 Less waste water and waste 41 Respecting human and labour rights 43 Supply Chain management  44 Sustainability strategy and governance 10-15 Fighting corruption 45 Our sustainability strategy 11 Responsible partnerships and public affairs 46 Strategic milestones 12 Responsible tax 47 Our contribution to the SDGs 13 Sustainability governance 14 Material sustainability issues 15 Data and reporting principles 48-51 Activity overview 49 Indicator overview 50 Sustainable transition 16-37 Data definitions 51 Healthy and safe food 17 Combating climate change 18 Farmers follow the Climate Track 20 Sustainable management of agricultural land 24 Nothing should go to waste 26 Efficient energy utilisation 28 Sustainable packaging 30 Efficient water utilisation 31 The market for sustainable meat 32 Job creation and inclusion 34 A safe and healthy workplace 36 4 Report Chairman’s report Group CEO’s report COVID-19 crisis management Our business There are still a lot of challenges ahead. One of them is Agriculture taking imported soy, which is an important source of protein in feed. Danish Crown has launched an ambitious target stating that the feed used by our cooperative members should be produced responsibly by 2025. This is an responsibility for important step, and we farmers are looking forward to getting responsibly produced soy onto our farms. Moreover, it is important that Denmark contributes with sustainable protein to feed, which is why we are followsustainable development ing research into alternative protein sources with great interest – and in fact the first production facilities for extracting grass protein show promising results. The Danish government’s Climate Partnership for the Food and Agriculture Sector has in the past year highDanish Crown is a cooperative owned by Danish Farmers market changes. When the crisis erupted, Danish lighted important areas of focus that can help us achieve that takes the lead in showing the way to sustainable Crown’s proactivity and agility were crucial to us being the national climate goals. One of them is to fallow meat production. Last year, our Danish pig producers able to maintain stable agricultural production. carbon-rich, lowland areas. While it may go against a were the first to sign up to our sustainability programme, farmer’s common sense to let land remain uncultivated, the Climate Track, while cooperative members who fallowing can, for environmental reasons, make sense I am very proud of our produce ‘Dansk Kalv’ joined the programme this year. We with a view to reducing CO2 emissions from land use. are focused on reducing the climate and environmental impact of our farms, and progress is monitored by an independent agency. This is how we have created a strong members’ great support From farm to fork The agricultural sector wishes to actively participate in foundation for agriculture’s sustainability journey. Based on our experience to date, we are now in the process of for the Climate Track. developing sustainable food and to get close to the customer. Danish Crown’s campaign for the Climate expanding the programme to all Danish Crown’s suppliControlled Pig concept makes the farmers’ climate efforts ers of slaughter animals in Denmark, Sweden and Poland. visible all the way to supermarket coolers, which gives us Professional agriculture is the most sustainable pride in our profession. We are now showing customers I am very proud of our members’ great support for the Making global agriculture both sustainable and efficient that they can choose meat from farmers who participate Climate Track. It demonstrates that we as a cooperative is an urgent task in order to feed the world’s growing in the Climate Track and work resolutely with sustain­ are united in continuing to push our agricultural propopulation. With the values and methods Danish agriculability. Similarly, our relaunch of the ‘Dansk Kalv’ concept duction forward into the future – driven by enthusiastic ture is built on, we are equipped to take on the task. We addresses consumer interest in locally produced prodindividual farmers and supported by the community and know that Denmark has one of the most climate-efficient ucts with high standards of animal welfare. It underlines foundations we provide at Danish Crown. Together, we agricultural sectors in the world. We are now adding how the choices consumers make are ultimately the key face a future with high demand for sustainable food, and sustainable knowhow and new solutions to our daily to how quickly the sustainable transition will progress. we want to be at the forefront with the best solutions. operations as a supplement to the resource-efficiency, food quality and high-tech approach that are already Naturally, the COVID-19 crisis has also been a major part of daily operations at our farms. Running a modern issue for agriculture this year. As farmers, we are deagriculture is a substantial management task, and here pendent on Danish Crown being able to continually again our members are world class. We will use this expemaintain production and distribution, even when the rience to promote sustainability internationally as well. Erik Bredholt, Chairman 5 Report Chairman’s report Group CEO’s report COVID-19 crisis management Our business Good jobs are the key to the future Sustainable I am concerned that we as a large company with personnel in many countries also support labour market reforms that ensure decent conditions for employees. We are very much focused on creating safe and healthy progress at a time workplaces and preventing attrition of our employees. We have also supported political discussions in Denmark for a more flexible pension system where early retirement does not require physical or mental deterioof uncertainty ration. In my opinion, we all have the right to a life where you can both lift your grandchildren and play with them. Likewise, we have engaged in the debate in Germany on employment conditions for staff contracted via a third party, and we have considered our own use of contract I realised this was serious when country after country We take responsibility and lead the way staff in production. These are efforts we will carry foraround the world had to go into lockdown because of The UN Sustainable Development Goals and the principles ward into 2020/21, and which are also a central aspect COVID-19. At Danish Crown, we were prepared for various of the Global Compact are fundamental to the way we run of running a sustainable food production business. scenarios, but no-one could predict what the crisis would and develop our business. We also firmly believe that many mean in practice. From day one, we had an uncomproof the solutions can be achieved through partnerships, and We have successfully mising approach to maintaining a secure supply of food we wish to lead a sustainable transition throughout our to the market and ensuring there was enough food for value chain and in meat production generally. This year, I everyone. It was therefore crucial that we protected production and essential internal functions, such as had the pleasure of chairing the Danish government’s Climate Partnership for the Food and Agriculture Sector, transformed sustainalogistics and procurement, and naturally also our employees, against infection. We shifted into crisis managewhere 27 companies and organisations have together developed recommendations for specific climate solutions bility from a vision into ment mode immediately, and I am convinced this is the reason we managed to successfully keep COVID-19 at bay, for the sector. Partnerships are also the route through which we have taken important steps towards resolving concrete actions. although we of course have not totally avoided infection. the complex challenges associated with the import of I am proud of our employees’ COVID-19 efforts – we have responsible soy for feed. And not least, it is in partnership proven you can count on Danish Crown when it matters. with our owners that we run the Climate Track, which is I firmly believe we will emerge from the COVID-19 crisis our sustainability programme for agriculture. stronger and having acquired a great deal of learning 2019/20 has in every way been an unusual year, as the and experience that we can use to accelerate the sustainCOVID-19 crisis has impacted the entire market and deConsumer requirements and wishes regarding sustain­ able transition of our company. Even COVID-19 has not manded a great deal of management’s attention. Looking at ability are advancing rapidly around much of the world. dented the interest in sustainability, either among ourwhere we are now, however, I am quite satisfied with the Meat will remain under pressure, and we must continue to selves, our customers, suppliers or other stakeholders. pro­gress we have made in our sustainability work. We have develop products that align with the new dietary habits successfully transformed sustainability from a vision into and expectations of a good meal. Meat has to win on its concrete actions, so our journey now includes the entire orga­ own terms and not attempt to resemble something it is nisation. We now think sustainability into decisions, marnot. Meat is an important food that contributes nutrient keting initiatives, product development and investments value and enjoyment, and we want to guard that while at in our value chain, and we work to realise this every day. the same time strengthening sustainable meat production. Jais Valeur, Group CEO 6 Report Chairman’s report Group CEO’s report COVID-19 crisis management Our business When crisis management Danish abattoir in Ringsted, which we were forced Crisis management to close for nine days. We have also experienced We had already established an internal COVID-19 brief outbreaks and increased sick leave in a numtask force by February 2020, with representatives ber of departments across a few other production becomes the new normal from HR, health and safety, production, food safefacilities without having to shut down the entire ty, sustainability and communication. production process. Since then, the task force has held daily meetings and together with senior management ensured that we have kept one step ahead and reacted Protecting employees The COVID-19 pandemic was this year’s dominating and most quickly and effectively, so we could maintain a We have constantly followed the latest guidelines unpredictable issue, and it turned our daily workday upside stable supply to our markets and protect our emfrom national authorities on how best to protect ployees and production. down and demanded our full attention. Overall, we are proud of our employees. We have very high standards of hygiene throughout the food production process and how we managed the COVID-19 crisis, though we are learning a employees are well-used to using hand sanitiser great deal along the way. All our employees deserve much praise Food supply as part of their daily routine. for their sense of responsibility and flexibility. They have enFood shortages at times of crisis can lead to hordThat is a major reason why the coronavirus did sured an ongoing food production while much of the rest of the ing and ultimately pose a safety risk. From day not spread earlier or more widely at Danish Crown. one, we focused 100 per cent on ensuring that our We have also introduced temperature checks population has been sent home. well-developed distribution systems could keep when meeting for work and mask use along with supplying the global market unhindered despite systematic COVID-19 testing of production perthe difficulties COVID-19 caused for our largesonnel. Our administrative staff have worked from scale production. home and come to the office in teams as the infection rate allowed. Shifts in consumption Protecting the public The food service market collapsed from one day Crisis management Food supply Shifts in consumption to the next, as hotels, restaurants and canteens We closely monitor localised outbreaks and when fully or partially shut down in many countries. At necessary initiate local measures to prevent the the same time, our planning and logistics were infection spreading. We also have strict rules for Stakeholder dialogue and communication challenged by a sharp increase in demand from when infected employees should self-isolate. This retailers, where consumers were mass-buying baapplies, not least, to our many employees who sic foods liked minced beef, cold cuts and canned commute to work in Danish Crown in another food as well as classic meat cuts for their freezers. country than their homeland, and who live toSwitching production gether close to their workplace when they work for Danish Crown. COVID-19 Task Force Switching production We successfully switched production at record speed. The large volumes we normally sell to the Stakeholder dialogue and communication food service sector were packaged and adjusted to the needs of retailers. We isolated factories from Knowledge of the pandemic is crucial if we are to visitors and protected our logistics function to avoid spreading the virus, and we have engaged in avoid infection spreading through the lifeblood of frequent and detailed dialogues with the authoriour business. We kept up production all the way to ties so we can take the most effective precautions. May before we too were hit by infections in two of We have also been in close contact with suppliers our production facilities in Germany. of personal protective equipment (PPE) and have frequently and openly communicated about the Protecting the public Protecting the employees We were therefore well prepared to tackle the sitmeasures we take to employees, local communiuation when we were subsequently hit hard in our ties and customers. 7 Report Chairman’s report Group CEO’s report COVID-19 crisis management Our business →D  anish Crown COVID-19 Test Strategy We aim to protect our employees by implementing our Help to local communities in Poland Best Practice Testing Strategy. This provides security and the power to take action. Lockdowns due to COVID-19 have particularly affected vulnerable groups like the elderly. In Poland, we have a long tradition of engaging with local communities where we have production facilities. Through our Sokołów’s Comes to Help action, we have provided food relief to elderly citizens in Initial safety barriers cooperation with Caritas Polska and the Foundation for the Screening is one of the measures we have Memory of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. We have also introduced that aims to minimise the donated food to charities and sourced Personal Protective number of COVID­-19-infected persons who Equipment (PPE) for local hospitals. In total, Sokołów has enter Danish Crown premises. Screening donated more than 20 tonnes of food and more than DKK 500,000 to PPE purchases. Identification of virus Detection involves the fixed testing programmes we use to identify and confirm cases of COVID-19 on our premises. This can be done through random sampling or Photo: Jakob Schjødt-Pedersen, TV Syd Detection by testing entire factories or departments. Coronavirus outbreak at Reduce the spread of infection Through dialogue with confirmed patients, Ringsted abattoir we identify those employees who have come into contact with and are potentially In late July 2020, our Danish abattoir in Ringsted experienced infected with the virus. We always use what turned out to be a serious outbreak of COVID-19 among Encapsulation interviews for determining individual conits employees. It was the Danish authorities who informed us tacts and a data sheet to quickly contain that an employee was infected. We were informed on a Sunthe virus. day, and through efficient contact-tracing managed to ensure that none of the employee’s close contacts met up for work on Monday, but instead were urged to self-isolate and get tested. Unfortunately, the infection turned out to have already Rapid response spread to not only close contacts but also the close contacts’ Management involves the actual steps we immediate colleagues and their circle of friends and family. take to prevent the spread of COVID-­19 on our premises and to get our employees We worked closely with the Danish authorities from day one, Management tested. We have pre-set procedures that and together firmly believed we could isolate the infection ensure we can act quickly and effectively through an intensive testing programme. Unfortunately, the when we identify a COVID­-19 case. virus continued to spread quickly, mainly due to many employees having close contact after work through their choice of housing, shared transport and social life. After fighting the Return to work virus for two weeks, the abattoir in Ringsted was shut down. Recovery refers to the criteria for deterAll employees were instructed to self-isolate and were tested mining whether an infected employee can three times over a period of ten days. By doing this we sucreturn to work at Danish Crown. We always cessfully broke the chain of infection and could reopen the Recovery comply with the recommendations of abattoir after nine days. health authorities. 8 Report Chairman’s report Group CEO’s report COVID-19 crisis management Our business Our Danish Crown is a global food company headquartered in Denmark. We are one of the world’s largest exporters of pork and organic meat and among the top five producers of beef in Europe. We are owned We also slaughter livestock from farmers in Sweden, Poland and Germany. We sell fresh and processed meat via our various brands along with a series of by-products to customers in more than 130 business by 5,900 Danish farmers, and as a cooperative we have an obligation to receive the pigs and cattle that our cooperative members supply. countries. Strong customer relationships ensure that products deriving from our farmers’ livestock are sold at the highest prices on the global markets. R S A N D CO N S U TOM E MER CUS S The good meal Foundation Value creation Natural resources Fair payment for meat Our food production is dependent on having large areas Most of Danish Crown’s earnings are paid back to our Food industry Foodservice Retail business for agriculture, which makes use of the earth’s natural cooperative members and owners during the year through resources, especially for the production of feed. regular settlements and annual supplementary payments. Technology and knowhow Meals for consumers Our production must be driven by ever cleaner techBy maintaining high levels of supply security and food nology and the latest knowledge to ensure sustainability, safety we ensure millions of high-quality meals for resource efficiency and high levels of food safety. consumers in most parts of the world. Casings Qualified workforce Sustainability from farm to fork We are dependent on having a qualified workforce to run Foods We lead the way towards making food production our business and develop innovative and sustainable foods. Fresh sustainable and involve our entire value chain in the Meat process. Stakeholder dialogue Ongoing dialogue with authorities and opinion shapers Local workplaces is crucial if we are to secure good operating conditions We create jobs both directly and indirectly around for our business and make a positive contribution to the world and contribute locally to upgrading the society. qualifications of our workforce. A G R I C U LT U R E Agriculture leads the way and ensures Fresh Meat slaughters pigs and cattle Foods processes fresh meat into Casings produces natural and artificial Customers and consumers in the food good animal welfare, healthy liveand prepares meat sold as fresh meat high-quality foods, such as cold cuts casings for food production and supindustry, foodservice and retail business stock and works towards sustainable around the world. and ready meals, for customers and plies products to the pharmaceutical use our meat and food products to create agriculture. consumers around the world. industry. the good meal. 9 Report Chairman’s report Group CEO’s report COVID-19 crisis management Our business Global organisation Slaughter animals Europe 18 million Production sites 81 Offices 50 pigs and sows North America Production sites 5 Offices 3 0.8 million cattle Asia Production sites 2 846,000 Offices 12 organic and free-range pigs and cattle and pigs reared without antibiotics Africa and South America Middle East Global revenue Production sites 5 Production sites 0 Offices 5 Offices 2 Casings 7% We have a total of 93 production sites, including separate warecomprises KLS Ugglarps, which has abattoirs and processing 68% houses, in 17 countries and 72 offices all over the world. Most factories in Sweden, and the Polish activities in Sokolów, of our 23,000 employees work at production sites in Europe. which slaughters pigs and cattle, processes fresh meat and 61 produces a large number of processed meat products. It also Foods 36% The largest business unit in Fresh Meat is Danish Crown Pork, comprises Friland, which produces and sells organic beef and which has pig abattoirs and factories in Denmark, Germany, pork. of our revenue was the UK, France and China, while the business unit Danish mia dkk generated in Europe, 22% in Asia and 10% in Crown Beef has cattle abattoirs and factories in Denmark and Casings consists of DAT-Schaub, which has activities at pig Germany. Fresh Meat also comprises ESS-FOOD, which trades abattoirs in Denmark, Germany, Sweden, Poland, the UK, the rest of the world. and distributes fresh and frozen foods all over the world. France, Spain, the USA, China and Brazil. DAT-Schaub also Fresh Meat 57% has sorting facilities in Portugal and China and heparin factoFoods covers Danish Crown Foods, which has factories in ries in Germany and the USA. Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden. Foods also Sustainability strategy and governance Strategy | Strategic milestones | UN Sustainable Development Goals | Governance | Materiality 11 Sustainability strategy and governance Strategy Strategic milestones UN Sustainable Development Goals Governance Materiality Our sustainability  eeding F Sustainable the world farming Every day, we deliver vital proteins and nutritionally balanced For generations, our cooperative members have taken good strategy and tasty foods to millions of people worldwide. The need for care of their livestock and surrounding ecosystems, thus profood will continue to increase. In 2050, the world population tecting their livelihood. They are currently the front runners is expected to approach 10 billion. This is nearly 2 billion in resource-efficient and sustainable livestock production. more people than today, and the UN foresees a 100 per cent However, agriculture still accounts for the vast majority of the increase in demand for protein. environmental and climate impact from meat production. We take the lead in the efforts to ensure a sustainable Our ambition: We will find new ways to feed the world with Our ambition: We aim to secure a strong future for farmers sustainable meat and protein through collaboration and and promote sustainable livestock production within planetransition of food production and are prepared to partnerships in our value chain. tary boundaries. challenge ourselves, the industry and customers.   ustainable S food production Our food production is based on a high level of food safety and efficient resource utilisation supportive of the circular bio-economy. We process most of the slaughter animals into food and ensure that the rest is used for the production of medicines, feed and biogas, among other things. This is decisive in terms of reducing the carbon footprint of food production. Our ambition: We will operate a sustainable, efficient and high-performing food production, setting high standards for ourselves and for our suppliers. Meat is a natural component of many people’s diet s sumer worldwide and an important source of protein. However, con G  ood jobs and Su  meat production also has a major impact on Earth’s s for everyone er sta m in resources and contributes to climate change, which is an to We are a diverse and socially inclusive workplace. Our employissue we need to address. This is a fundamental chalToge ing ees represent no less than 80 different nationalities, more the rm rw fa than 80 per cent of our staff work in production, and more lenge for all meat producers, including Danish Crown. le ith ab than 60 per cent are unskilled workers. As the work they percu form can be physically demanding and risky, we do everything Our overall ambition is to become the world’s most s we can to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses. sustainable and successful meat producer. We still have Feeding Our ambition: We will attract and retain people with good a long way to go, and our sustainability strategy addresses the main challenges we need to overcome to ensure the world jobs and equal opportunities for everyone, creating safe and healthy workplaces. the long-term, sustainable development of our business. T  ogether with customers The strategy builds on five main target areas that set the G oo n and consumers dj tio direction for our contribution to the UN 2030 Agenda ob uc Together with customers from the retail business, foodservice sf od and the food industry and with consumers, we are constantly for Sustainable Development. The strategy involves our or ev pr er od developing new food concepts, and we offer a wide product entire value chain from farm to fork. To succeed with yo fo range and a number of specialty products. In this way, we conne le ab our strategy, all links of the chain must contribute to a in tribute to more sustainable consumption, to consumers eatS u st changing our ways; farmers, food producers, customers ing a responsible amount of meat and to reducing food waste. and consumers. Our ambition: We will earn customers’ and consumers’ confidence and meet their needs for healthy, safe and responsible food. 12 Sustainability strategy and governance Strategy Strategic milestones UN Sustainable Development Goals Governance Materiality Strategic milestones We will regularly set strategic milestones and define targets which we consider particularly important with a view to fulfilling our sustainability strategy. We have described our progress towards achieving these targets under the individual topics in the report. 100 50 40 100 per cent of our suppliers of per cent reduction of greenhouse per cent reduction of water per cent responsibly produced slaughter animals in Denmark, gas emissions per kg meat by consumption per kg meat by 2030 soy used for feed at our Danish Sweden and Poland.have joined 2030 relative to 2005 relative to 2020 suppliers of slaughter animals our sustainability programme, by 2025 the Climate Track in 2023 90 20 20 100 per cent of our packaging materials is the maximum annual frequency per cent higher annual intake per cent of our European consist of recyclable materials, and of lost time accidents at our sites of apprentices in 2025 relative production facilities have 50 per cent will consist of recycled in 2025. Sites, which have reached to 2018 implemented One Management materials in 2023 the goal must achieve another System by 2024 20 per cent reduction by 2025. 13 Sustainability strategy and governance Strategy Strategic milestones UN Sustainable Development Goals Governance Materiality Our contribution Positive impact to the SDGs In spring 2020, we conducted a further review of our contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the underlying targets in order to reassess our options for strengthening our positive contribution and minimising the risk of negative impacts within our sphere of influence. We considered both our own activities upon which we have a direct influence, and our activities indirectly impact the SDGs throughout our value chain. We used SDG Lens, a self-assessment tool developed by DNV GL Negative impact (leading, ­independent certification body). As well as confirming our previous mapping of our contribution to the SDGs, the review also uncovered two new SDGs that our activities impact, namely Goal 5: Gender equality, and Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions. Examples of targets we support are highlighted under the individual themes in this report. Goal 2: Zero hunger Goal 5: Gender equality + We supply safe and nourishing food to + We ensure equal leadership opportunities much of the world and promote sustainable for women at all levels in our organisation. agricultural practices in our supply chain. Our abattoirs and food production facilities Goal 12: Responsible consumption and Goal 15: Life on land -C  limate change due to our food production are dominated by men, as is agriculture. production + We work to reduce deforestation, restore may affect agriculture and food supplies. + We strive to make efficient use of natural depleted soil and integrate ecosystem and Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation re­sources, reduce our environmental biodiversity values into agriculture. Goal 3: Good health and well-being + We increase water efficiency in our food impact, limit food waste and promote Our food production is dependent on + We help strengthen the capacity of counproduction processes, develop solutions for sustainable consumption. ­having large areas for agriculture, which tries with respect to early warnings and the the safe recycling of water and limit polluOur food production process and society’s makes use of the earth’s natural resources management of health risks in connection tion of water resources. consumption patterns strain natural and harms biodiversity. with pandemics. -Our agricultural and food production resources and the environment. -O  ur production methods are labour-intenprocesses consume large volumes of water, Goal 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions sive, which increases the risk of infections which strains water resources. Goal 13: Climate action + We use our influence to promote human spreading. + We work to improve the ability of our food rights and do not tolerate any form of corGoal 8: Decent work and economic growth production process to adapt to climate ruption or bribery in our value chain. Goal 4: Quality education + We create economic growth and decent change and to reduce the climate impact + We offer both young people and adults jobs, protect workers’ rights, and create a of our entire value chain. Goal 17: Partnerships Note: Goal 3 the chance to acquire work skills and so safe and stable working environment. Our food production process contributes + We run and participate in partnership We recognise our positive and negative contribute to increasing the qualifications Working at our factories entails an increased considerably to greenhouse gas emissions, projects that develop new solutions to influence on the handling of pandemics of our workforce. risk of accidents, occupational injury and particularly from agriculture. ensure the sustainable transition of food (such as COVID-19), although this is not work-related illnesses. production. shown in the SDG Lens assessment. 14 Sustainability strategy and governance Strategy Strategic milestones UN Sustainable Development Goals Governance Materiality Sustainability our business and supply chains, and we regularly assess the sustainability risks and opportunities facing our Our sustainability expertise is grouped in our sustain­ ability team, which in 2020 was extended with additional governance business and activities. employees and skills within EHS compliance and sustainable farming. The team is in charge of our sustain­ Strengthened governance structure ability projects together with the business units, commuStrategic decisions impacting the entire group are disnicates internally and externally about our initiatives cussed by our Senior Management Group (SMG), which and performance and also reports regularly to SMG on We regularly strengthen our foundation and governdefines our strategic direction, prioritises our initiatives opportunities and challenges impacting our progress. ance structure in our sustainability efforts to ensure and reports to our Board of Directors on progress towards our 2030 climate goal and 2050 climate vision. SustainabilIn 2019/20, we continued our efforts to increase the that we run our business responsibly and can realise ity thus ranks high on the management agenda, and enviquality of our sustainability data, and we plan to launch our strategic ambitions. ronmental and health and safety considerations are includa number of new indicators in the coming years. Reliable ed in all major investment decisions made by the group. data are paramount to measure progress in our sustain­ ability efforts and support our decision-making processes. To further strengthen our governance structure in the field of sustainability, in 2020 we have integrated susNew whistleblower scheme tainability initiatives in our existing Supply Chain Board We established a new whistleblower scheme in April and Commercial Board with high-level representatives 2020. The scheme represents a safe channel for all from the individual specialist areas in our business group employees, board members, customers, suppliers units. Furthermore, we have set up a new Sustainable and other collaboration partners to report suspicion of To Danish Crown, complying with internationally recogFarming Board, which is to ensure the implementation criminal or unethical issues such as law violations or nised principles for corporate responsibility is a prereqof our sustainability strategy among farmers. This helps incidents conflicting with our Code of Conduct. Availauisite for operating a healthy and profitable business ensure a quick and smooth decision-making process, ble in more than 25 languages, the scheme is an interand also a foundation for realising our ambition of and together with our Group COO the three boards are net-based portal hosted by an independent third party. becoming the world’s most sustainable and successful responsible for implementing our sustainability strategy This offers the whistleblower the possibility of anonymimeat producer. Through our policies and management and ensure progress towards our 2030 climate goal. The ty, ensuring compliance with applicable rules on protecprocesses, we aim to implement these principles within first meeting is scheduled for October 2020. tion of personal data. Our sustainability platform Commitments → Vision & strategy → Policies → Management processes → Reporting • The UN Sustainable • 2050 vision: • Code of Conduct • Sustainability programme for sus­ • Annual Report Development Goals (SDGs) Climate-neutral (net zero) meat • CSR policy tainable pig and cattle production: • Sustainability Report (Global Compact and 2030-agenda for Sustainable ­production • Anti-corruption policy The Climate Track Communication on Progress) Development. • Sustainability strategy • Diversity and inclusion policy • Environmental and occupational • Statement on Modern Slavery Act • UN Global Compact • Animal welfare policy health and safety management • Whistleblower scheme • UN Guiding Principles on Business • Code of Practice for suppliers system in the group • Report on responsible soy consumption and Human Rights of sows and pigs (under development) • Supplier Code of Conduct • Stakeholder forum: MEAT2030 See our policies and reports on danishcrown.com/foundation 15 Sustainability strategy and governance Strategy Strategic milestones UN Sustainable Development Goals Governance Materiality Material sustainability Every year, we assess the material sustainability issues in our value chain and use the results to prioritise our hearing process, in 2020 we also consulted with external stakeholders in our materiality assessment. issues future efforts and the topics in our sustainability report. We consider which social, environmental, ethical and On our journey to become the world’s most sustainable governance risks and opportunities arise from our and successful meat producer, we report on our signifibusiness model and determine their significance for our cant sustainability issues on two levels: Those issues stakeholders and for our business. We base our assesswhere we drive the sustainable transition and contribute We take responsibility for addressing issues that ment on insight from our stakeholders, scientific reports to systemic change in the food industry, and those constitute significant risks for people, the environment and sustainability trends, our obligations and the results issues that we address through principles for responsiof our risk assessments. In addition to an internal ble business conduct and good practice. or society throughout our value chain. Material sustainability issues Materiality Sustainable transition Environment and climate Social issues Business ethics and governance • Climate change and • Feed protein • Meat consumption • Job creation and skills • Food safety and • Research and Very high greenhouse gas emissions • Consumption of natural and plant-based diets development reliability of supply partnerships • Biodiversity resources • Healthy and • Social inclusion • Labelling and • Financial standing • Land use • Food loss and food waste nourishing food • Health and safety marketing of farmers • Phosphorous and nitrogen • Packaging materials and cycles plastic Responsible business conduct Environment and climate Social issues Business ethics and governance • Waste water • Human and labour • Animal welfare and • Anti-corruption • Transparency and • Non-organic waste rights veterinary health • Responsible public affairs High • Diversity • Use of antibiotics purchasing • Responsible tax Sustainable transition Food safety | Climate | The Climate Track | Land use | Food loss Energy | Packaging | Water | Meat consumption | Job creation | Health & safety 17 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Healthy and safe food 400+ employees work with food quality and safety, control inspections and trace­ ability in Denmark alone. 1,100,000+ As a food company, we undertake a critical societal laboratory analyses and tests of products and production equipment function. COVID-19 has put renewed focus on the ­annually as a part of our self-checks importance of being able to maintain supplies of in Denmark alone. healthy and safe food around the world. 6,000+ food inspections from authorities at all our abattoirs and facilities annually in Denmark alone. and Food Administration there have been no reported resistance. We engage in ongoing dialogue with our cases of infected pigs nor cattle as per September 2020. farmers about limiting the use of antibiotics to a minimum, and the use of antibiotics in Danish and Swedish High standards of safety and control livestock is currently among the lowest in the world. If Our position in the global market depends on high slaughter animals are treated with antibiotics, the farmer COVID-19 has clearly demonstrated how interconnected standards of food safety and quality in our production must record the treatment, label the animal and observe and mutually dependent we are in a globalised world. and products. The quality of our products starts at the the retention period before sending the animal to be While access to high-quality food, food safety and farms and the abattoirs, where diligence and respect for slaughtered. For some types of antibiotics, the retention information on origin and nutritional value is somethe animals are decisive for us to be able to produce period is up to 30 days. At the abattoir, we frequently thing we take for granted in many countries, supplies high-quality meat and live up to the requirements for test the pigs randomly for any antibiotic residues to and interaction between authorities, producers and the animal welfare, veterinary health and food safety. In this ensure that our pork is free of antibiotic residues. Furretail business were put into a new perspective in context, traceability is a key factor, and we have robust thermore, in Denmark and Poland we produce special 2020. systems with 100 per cent traceability to the farmer for pigs reared without the use of antibiotics, see page 33. the animals we slaughter, and we also have strict selfOur ambition The COVID-19 crisis has highlighted our critical societal check programmes based on HACCP (Hazard Analysis Lastly, the ability to keep highly contagious diseases We want to maintain high standards function and the importance of an effective supply chain and Critical Control Points) to identify potential food from entering Denmark is one of the basic conditions of of food safety in our production and and flexible production. Throughout the crisis, we have hazards. The food control undertaken by the authorities our export agreements worldwide. Consequently, we pay products, ensure clear labelling and maintained full reliability of supply in all our markets, in Denmark ranks among the strictest in the world, both great attention to the development of African swine minimise product recalls. dedicating all resources to preventing COVID-19 from at the farms and the abattoirs, see page 40. In addition, fever (ASF), which has never been found in Denmark. In spreading among our employees. At the same time, we we have defined clear procedures for potential product Poland, unfortunately, ASF is widely spread. Our Polish have successfully adapted our production almost overrecalls and for information to the public. business unit Sokolów, which slaughters pigs for the Our contribution to the SDGs night to very comprehensive and quick changes in sales domestic market in Poland, complies with the strict EU We support target 2.4. by supplying patterns from foodservice to retail business and secured Pork without drug residue directives in the area, which are monitored and enforced safe and nourishing food all over the deliveries from farm to fork. Years of dedicated breeding have resulted in healthy and by the Polish veterinary inspection. Recently, the first world and promoting sustainable agristrong pigs which are resistant to disease. However, case of ASF was registered in south-eastern Germany, cultural practices in our supply chain, and target 3.3 by contributing to fightGenerally, pigs nor cattle are susceptible to the COVID-19 antibiotics are often required to combat disease, and and we are monitoring the situation closely. ing infectious diseases. virus. According to the WHO and the Danish Veterinary excessive use may cause animals and humans to develop 18 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Combating The climate challenges and mounting pressure on natural resources as well as a growing need for food are some of the greatest global challenges of our time. Net 1990 emissions by 2030. Transitioning to a climate-­ neutral society will be a huge task involving all sectors. In November 2019, the Danish government therefore set climate change zero emissions of greenhouse gases by 2050 is imperative to be able to limit the global warming to 1.5 degrees (Celcius) in accordance with the recommendations of the up 13 climate partnerships with representatives from the Danish business community in order for them to propose how the individual sectors may contribute to resolving UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). the climate challenges. Our Group CEO Jais Valeur was By 2050, all meat from Danish Crown must be climate-­ appointed to chair the Climate Partnership for the Food neutral (net zero). With this ambition, we support the Climate-neutrality by 2050 is therefore also a key part and Agriculture Sector and has brought our experience of realising the European Green Deal, which is to make to the partnership. European Green Deal and contribute to a sustainable the EU economy more sustainable. A broad majority of transition of food production. the Danish parliament has already decided that DenTogether with our cooperative members, we acknowlmark must be climate-neutral by 2050 and has defined edge that meat production is a substantial contributor an ambitious goal of reducing Denmark’s combined to greenhouse gas emissions. Already in March 2019, we greenhouse gas emissions by 70 per cent relative to therefore launched a climate vision of climate-neutral meat production by 2050. Our first milestone is to reduce the carbon footprint from meat production by 50 per cent by 2030 relative to 2005, which is the benchmark year for the emission reduction obligations Denmark has Farming towards the EU. We are working to calculate our reduc91% tions relative to 1990 on the parameters for which we have data, and we expect our calculations will show that our reduction goal is on a level with the national climate goal. Moreover, we are currently developing our methods for Abattoir life-cycle assessments (LCA) so that by the end of the 8% next financial year we will have new calculations of the environmental footprint of our pork, veal and beef Pig transportation production both in Denmark, Sweden, Poland and GerOur ambition By 2030, we will reduce the carbon footprint of our meat production by 3% many. Against this background, we will define science-based targets so that from 2021 we can document 50 per cent. Our vision is to achieve By-products our progress against the climate goal. climate-­neutral meat production by 2050 (net zero). -2% With our climate ambition, we emphasise our commitCO2 emissions from feed to abattoir ment to ensure sustainable meat production. We know it will require radical changes to agriculture and to human Since 2005, the carbon footprint of Danish farmers and our It also shows that more than 90 per cent of the climate imOur contribution to the SDGs abattoirs has been reduced by around 25 per cent per kg pork. pact from the production of Danish pork originates from the diets, and it is still uncertain which solutions will be the We support targets 13.1 and 13.2 by This has been verified by a life-cycle assessment (LCA) of how pig’s time on the farm. The collaboration with our cooperative most suitable and efficient for our industry. Only by strengthening the resilience of our food the carbon footprint of pork production has developed in members and other suppliers of slaughter animals is one of joining forces across sectors and industries can we production and its ability to adapt to Denmark in the period from 2005 to 2016. The assessment the key initiatives on our shared journey towards climate neudevelop new, innovative and sustainable solutions that climate change and by integrating initiwas performed by Aarhus University for Danish Crown and trality. Source: *Grisekød – produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning atives against climate change throughincludes the entire value chain from feed production until the år 2005 vs 2016 – table 6’, Department of Agroecology, will enable us to feed more people while consuming out our value chain. pig is slaughtered and the meat is ready for further processing. Aarhus Universitet, 2019. fewer of the world’s resources. 19 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Strategic milestones met in 2019 and 2020 August September Decision that all slaughter animals 90 per cent of the pigs from our supplied to Danish Crown from all cooperative members are on countries must be phased in on the March the Climate Track. Climate Track. Launch of our 2050 climate vision, 2030 goal and sustainability April programme, the Climate Track, for cooperative members in pig proLaunch of soy action plan for procurement of responsible soy for 50% reduction of greenduction. feed. house gases by 2019 2020 2030 December September Launch of the Climate Track 95 per cent of the calves from for producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ ‘Dansk Kalv’ farmers are on (Danish Veal). the Climate Track. June May Launch of meat trays made Launch of Climate Controlled from recycled plastic. Pig concept in the Danish retail business. → The journey towards the 2030 goal We have started the journey which involves our entire and will be flexible and responsive so that we learn from value chain from farm to fork and have already achieved each other’s experience. important milestones. To succeed, all links of the chain Some farms and business units will achieve results must contribute to changing the ways things are done; faster than others and will generate new knowledge and farmers, food producers, retail chains, suppliers and innovative solutions that may help us achieve progress. consumers. We will regularly enter into new partnerships and launch new projects in the period until 2050 20 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Farmers follow the Examples of sustainability parameters on Climate Track the Climate Track In addition to contributing to climate change, significant environmental impacts from livestock production include the emission of nitrogen and phosphorous, which puts pressure on the limits for eutrophication and acidification of the ecosystems. The Climate Track’s focus on feed efficiency, ammonia evaporation, manure handling and tillage is therefore also Our cooperative members are working with dedication about reducing the farmers’ negative impact on the nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. to achieve sustainable meat production. Producers of pigs and of ‘Dansk Kalv’ have both already made great Climate and environment Energy progress on the Climate Track and set new goals. • CO₂ reduction • Energy technologies, renewable energy and • Feed efficiency heating supply • Ammonia evaporation and odour • Resource optimisation Animal welfare and antibiotics • Feed content: crude protein, phosphorous • Diseases and mortality and zinc • Use of medication, including antibiotics • Local sources of protein • Reduced tillage Social responsibility • Manure handling • Workplace assessments • Biogas • Employment contract • VAT and tax • The Climate Track The Climate Track is Danish Crown’s sustainability certification is carried out by Baltic Control, an indeThe producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ are the first cooperative programme for the journey towards sustainable meat pendent body. Baltic Control also audits the certified members in cattle production who have joined the production at our farms. The first step along the way is farmers at least every three years, assessing progress Climate Track. ‘Dansk Kalv’ is our quality programme for a certification according to Danish Crown’s own sustain­ towards meeting the 2030 goal. This audit comprises veal production that has a strong focus on animal welOur ambition ability standard, where the farmer commits to making a specific climate parameters which form the basis of the fare – and which we further improved in 2019 so that We want to certify 100 per cent of our dedicated effort to meet Danish Crown’s climate vision marketing of the Climate Controlled Pig concept. the farms can now also obtain a sustainability certifisuppliers of slaughter animals in Denand climate goal of reducing its carbon footprint by 50 cate. Once we have reached the goal of certifying our 137 mark, Sweden and Poland according per cent by 2030. The sustainability programme was initially developed for producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ at the beginning of 2021, we to our sustainability programme, the Climate Track, by 2023 pig production, and in September 2019 we had certified will start including our approximately 100 suppliers of Although we call the programme the Climate Track, it is the 950 Danish cooperative members who deliver 90 per young bulls in the programme, and we expect to certify about more than reducing our climate impact. As part of cent of the pigs for our Danish abattoirs, corresponding the first suppliers in 2021. In 2019/20, calves accounted the certification, the farmer defines three-year targets for to approximately 10.5 million pigs a year. The Danish coopfor 38 per cent of the slaughter cattle at our Danish Our contribution to the SDGs the farm’s improvements in a number of areas relating to erative members who deliver the remaining 10 per cent of cattle abattoirs, while dairy cattle and beef cattle acWe support targets 2.4 and 12.2 by the environment, animal welfare and social responsibilithe pigs will be certified by the end of 2020. Our approxcounted for 32 and 21 per cent, respectively. The remainpromoting sustainable food production ty. As part of this process, each farmer defines a baseline imately 4,000 other suppliers of slaughter pigs in Poing 8 per cent was cattle from organic production and systems and resilient agricultural practices as well as sustainable managefor CO2 emissions per pig reared, which allows the farmland, Germany and Sweden will join the Climate Track in Friland. ment of natural resources. ers to assess performance against their own targets. The 2023. Combined, they deliver about 7.5 million pigs a year. 21 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety → Pig farmers are well underway climate impact because the pigs eat less feed to gain a Our cooperative members have also become better at kilogramme. handling slurry. By ensuring that slurry is discharged For decades, our cooperative members have been makmore quickly from stables to the slurry tanks and that ing a dedicated effort to reduce the climate and environCooperative members have also worked to increase the the tanks are covered, thereby minimising open-air mental impact from their pig production. Focus has proportion of locally produced feed. Up to 80 per cent exposure, greenhouse gas emissions are reduced signifibeen and remains on feed consumption and slurry of the feed is now produced locally, and that goes for cantly. When the slurry is spread on the fields, it is also handling, which are large items in the farms’ climate more or less all grain. The rest of the feed consists of infiltrated into the soil as quickly as possible both to accounting. about 2 per cent minerals and about 18 per cent prolimit greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce the loss of teins, such as extracted rape seed, ground sunflower nitrogen. Last, but not least, many farmers send the In particular, optimising the feeding of the pigs has seed and ground soy. Imported ground soy is still an slurry for degasification at biogas plants. This further contributed to reducing the carbon footprint per kg important protein source, but soy also accounts for a reduces the climate impact from the farms while also pork quite considerably since 2005. The better the pigs significant share of the carbon footprint of meat. Read providing green energy to many Danish homes. Furthercan utilise the nutrients in their feed, the lower the more about soy on page 25. more, the farmers in return receive degassed slurry, which reduces odour nuisance in connection with slurry spreading, and which plants can more easily absorb 2,59 nitrogen from. This means they need less commercial fertiliser, which is good both for the climate and the farmer’s finances. New app functionality to monitor initiatives feed units per kg gain We are in the process of developing an application to collect and calculate sustainability data from pig profor pigs on the Climate duction. The tool will improve farmers’ possibilities of monitoring and adjusting their sustainability initiatives. Track in 2019/20 Initially, the farmers can report their feed consumption Read more on page 50 once a week and see a calculation of feed efficiency, allowing them to regularly adjust their feeding and CO2 emissions from certified farms on the Climate Track optimising weight gain. Higher feed efficiency is one of the most important initiatives with respect to reducing Total emission and reduction in kg CO2 eq per pig Since 2005, certified pig farmers have reduced their CO2 the carbon footprint and is also of great importance to (2016 baseline, average for farms certified as of September 2020) emissions by around 23.2 per cent on average. The target for the farmer’s finances. From 2021, the tool will comprise 2022 is a 30 per cent reduction. 2016 2019 2020 2022 target all the parameters of the Climate Track and be available In 2019, the emission had decreased to 223 kg CO2 eq, while to all our cooperative members and farmers in DenFeed consumption / 6.8 6.4 14.9 in September 2020 it had increased slightly to 223.8 kg CO2. mark, Sweden, Poland and Germany. Slurry for biogas / 2.1 1.9 3.0 The reason is that the smallest herds (50 per cent owners, Slurry acidification / 0.7 1.0 0.9 10 per cent pigs) are now on the Climate Track. These have a much lower feed efficiency per pig and do not use the latest The tool will also strengthen the dialogue between Slurry discharge / 6.5 6.0 6.8 technology. Danish Crown and the farmers with respect to possibiliTotal CO2 reduction / 16.0 15.2 25.6 ties of improving the sustainability initiatives. The tool is Total CO2 emission 239 223 223.8 213.4 Assuming the supply of pigs from the Climate Track remains a part of the increased digitalisation and precision at 10.5 million per year in 2022, the farmers will, when they Sources: 1) Grisekød – produktivitet og miljøpåvirkning år 2005 vs 2016 – table 1 & 3. have achieved their 2022 targets, contribute with total savmanagement in the agricultural sector, which is crucial Departement of Agroecology, Aarhus Universitet 2019. 2) Climate Track Sustainability ings of 100 tonnes of CO2 eq per day. By comparison, a Danfor ensuring sustainable agricultural production. Programme, ongoing audits by Baltic Control from September 2019 – September 2020. ish household emits approximately 14.5 tonnes annually. 22 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Jens Gudike has achieved the 2022 target Jens Gudike Fly Christensen produces around 20,000 slaughter pigs every year. The farm’s climate accounting shows that the total CO2 emissions in 2019 was 209.7 kg CO2 eq per pig. That is substantially below the average of the certified farms on the Climate Track and also already lower than the average 2022 target. As a result, Jens has defined an even more ambitious target for 2022 – reducing emissions to 199.9 kg eq CO2 per pig. Jens has achieved most of the CO₂ reduction by discharging slurry once a week directly from the stables into tankers, which transport the slurry to a biogas production facility. The rest of the CO₂ reduction is due to feed optimisation. The pigs are fed every six hours and thus get hungry before they are fed. This has resulted in an increase in daily weight gain for the pigs with the same volume of feed. See the full story on danishcrown.com/gudike. Anders Peter makes his own feed Anders Peter Jensen produces around 1,250 slaughter calves the growth of the calves. Anders Peter makes all his own feed every year. The farm’s climate accounting for 2019 shows mixtures with up to 70 per cent grain from his own fields. that the carbon footprint is already noticeably lower than Imported ground soy account for approximately 17 per cent the average for ‘Dansk Kalv’: the farm’s total CO2 emissions of the feed, and he hopes that it will one day be possible to were about 8 kg of CO2 eq per kg meat. Among other things, replace the soy protein with horse beans from his own fields. Anders Peter has achieved the relatively low CO2 emission The farm’s climate impact has also been reduced by collectby feeding his animals in four phases carefully adjusted to ing and transporting deep litter from the farm for biogas the calves’ development and need for nutrients. This means production. See the full story on danishcrown.com/farmers. both that valuable nutrients in the feed are not lost and that a smaller field area is required to produce the feed relative to 23 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety → Producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ taking With an average of 10.4 kg CO2 per kg meat, ‘Dansk Kalv’ improving their handling of farmyard manure and utilisthe lead is the cattle production in the Danish market with the ing both slurry and deep litter for biogas production. lowest carbon footprint. This has been documented in a We are very aware that the production of veal and beef life-cycle assessment (LCA) that Danish Crown carried The main reason why cattle have a larger carbon foothas a climate impact. However, the climate impact varies out in collaboration with Aarhus University and DTU in print is the natural gas methane which is produced in greatly, depending on which production system the meat Denmark in 2015. The carbon footprint from beef cattle their rumen when they digest the feed and released comes from – including whether the meat originates is in fact up to four times higher. Conversely, grazing beef when they burp. The greenhouse effect of methane is from beef cattle or dairy cattle. The reason is that dairy cattle contributes more positively to the biodiversity. about 25 times stronger than CO2. Consequently, farmers cattle are also a source of dairy products, which means However, the carbon footprint from ‘Dansk Kalv’ is still are working to change the feed composition to reduce the meat has a much lower carbon footprint compared larger than for a large number of other food products. the amount of rumen gas so that the animals release to when cattle are raised solely for meat production. If less methane. consumers want milk, yoghurt and cheese, this producFor many years, producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ have been tion will also supply dairy cattle and bull calves for frontrunners in the effort to reduce the environmental Since breed is important with respect to the climate slaughtering so that the meat is utilised rather than and climate impact from cattle production. Like the pig impact of calves, several slaughter calf producers coopgoing to waste. farmers, they have focused on optimising feeding and on erate with Danish Crown and Danish scientists in the Future Beef project to reduce the climate impact from calf breeding. The project is currently developing a method to identify beef cattle bulls that produce crossbreed calves, which are also named gastro calves from ‘Dansk Kalv’ that utilise the feed more efficiently, yield more meat and emit less methane. The project will be completed in 2023 and is expected to lead to a substantial reduction in CO2 emissions from the production of ‘Dansk Kalv’. CO₂ emission from ‘Dansk Kalv’ on the Climate Track Danish Crown is also participating in another research project that has developed a new feed ingredient which can enhance digestion and neutralise the production of methane in cattle rumens and thereby reduce methane Digestion We are well underway to certify the emissions by up to 40 per cent. This could also be a 35% producers of ‘Dansk Kalv’ and to calculate a baseline for CO2 emissions. giant step on the way to (net) climate-neutral meat Our calculations for the first 117 calf production by 2050. The project is subsidised by Innofarmers show an average of 9.8 kg eq Feed production vation Fund Denmark and is expected to be completed CO2 per kg meat. This is a reduction of in 2024. 25% about 6 per cent relative to the calculated average for ‘Dansk Kalv’ in 2015 of 10.4 kg eq CO2 per kg meat. Manure handling The calculations confirm that the 25% calves’ digestion results in the largest contribution to CO2 emissions and that feed consumption and manure Feed utilisation handling are also key focus areas in the 15% work to reduce the carbon footprint. 24 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Sustainable constitutes the bulk of the feed. To achieve the right nutritional value the feed also has to contain protein in the form of rape seed, sunflower seed or ground soy. Soy segment of our value chain. The next, larger plant is also under development. management of is currently one of the most protein-rich crops per hectare, but also makes a substantial contribution to meat’s carbon footprint. Fallowing of carbon-rich, low-lying land Sustainable land use also involves considering the robustness of the soil type. This applies both to the soil’s agricultural land Crops tailored to climate zones Sustainable land use in agriculture is very much about ability to utilise and retain nutrients and also to bind carbon. Some agricultural areas could potentially sustain more intensive cultivation, while others should be which crops are best suited to which climate zones. left fallow. Meat production makes use of large areas of land for Denmark is better suited to the production of starchthe production of feed. Together with our cooperative rich crops like wheat, barley and potatoes rather than to Ploughing peat soils, in particular, is a significant source the production of protein crops like soy and sunflowers. of greenhouse gas emissions, as the soil type has a high members we are working to increase meat production Hence, it makes sense for Denmark to cultivate starchcarbon content. Researchers estimate that greenhouse while at the same time disturbing arable land and naturich crops and export any surplus while importing gas emissions from carbon-rich, low-lying land account ral values as little as possible. protein crops from areas with a continental climate. for around 39 per cent of total emissions from Danish field cultivation and that potentially up to half of this Danish farmers could consider growing other protein land could be expediently excluded from normal use. As crops, like horse beans or peas, but the yield per hectare well as limiting CO2 emissions, this would also benefit is lower, which results in greater land use compared to biodiversity and reduce the loss of nitrogen to aquatic Forests cover around 30 per cent of the earth’s land area importing, plus growing these legumes risks increased environments. and are important habitats for millions of species of leaching of nitrogen. Hence, a kilogram of pork proanimals and plants, a key source of clean air and water duced using only Danish feed would currently require a Fallowing carbon-rich, low-lying land is one of the and crucial to combating climate change. Yet, more and greater area of land than a kilogram of pork produced recommendations of the Climate Partnership for the more forest is being cleared around the world to make with crops from different geographical areas and cliFood and Agriculture Sector, which our Group CEO, Jais room for agriculture. The sustainable transition of food mate zones. Valeur, chairs. The climate partnership’s recommendaproduction therefore involves both halting deforestation tion is conditional on farmers being compensated fiand increasing production on existing agricultural areas Grass as a protein source for single-stomach animals is nancially for fallowing low-lying areas. without harming arable land, biodiversity, the climate technically challenging but also interesting in Denmark, Our ambition and the environment. as this would enable farmers to produce large volumes No-till cultivation We aim to promote the sustainable of protein per hectare and so increase self-sufficiency in For many of our cooperative members, efforts to immanagement of agricultural land in Denmark is an agricultural country where almost two protein without increasing the land use for producing a prove agricultural soils and increase biodiversity also Denmark and ensure that imported thirds of the land is cultivated, making it one of the kilogram of pork. Moreover, grass production can potenencompass reduced soil tillage. This method of cultivafeed, including soy, is responsibly produced. most intensely farmed countries in the world. With its tially reduce the use of pesticides and nitrogen leaching. tion involves dispensing with ploughing and disturbing very high yields per hectare, Danish agriculture points However, the cost per kilogram of grass protein is curthe soil as little as possible, so that the soil is covered by the way to sustainable food production that can feed the rently very high, so a great deal of research lies ahead of crops or plant material for most of the year. This method world’s growing population while making room for us. Danish Crown is part of the Dansk Protein Innovaof cultivation also requires varied crop rotation. Around Our contribution to the SDGs nature and forests. Grain production accounts for tion partnership and participates in the Bio Value reone third of the field area used by farmers on the CliWe support targets 15.2, 15.3 and 15.9 around 54 per cent of land use in Denmark followed by search project, which is seeking to find a profitable mate Track is cultivated using reduced tillage, and in by resisting deforestation, restoring grass and green feed with around 28 per cent. Approximethod of extracting grass protein. The project’s first 2020/21 we plan to develop and test various biodiversity depleted soils and integrating ecosystems and biodiversity values into farm mately 80 per cent of the Danish grain harvest is used as test plant commenced operations in September 2020, concepts for our members and suppliers in Denmark operations. feed in pig and cattle production, where the grain and will initially be able to produce for the organic and Sweden. 25 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety → Imports of responsibly produced soy the criteria maintained by FEFAC. We expect FEFAC to implement an unambiguous and broadly-recognised By 2025, all slaughter animals from Danish Crown’s deforestation policy by 2025 that sets out clear guideDanish suppliers will be fed on ground soy from produclines for the prevention of both legal and illegal deers who are able to document that their production is forestation which are third party-verified and ensure full sustainable and that rainforest or other vulnerable natutraceability throughout the chain. Soy production must ral ecosystems have not been deforested to create space simply not result in the clearing of forests or conversion for the areas on which the soy is grown. That is the obof other natural ecosystems with a high preservation jective of the soy action plan we launched in April 2020. value. Until the supply lines for responsible soy have This sends a clear signal to producers, customers and been established, from 2020 Danish Crown will buy consumers that we will only buy responsibly produced credits to compensate for the soy consumption of our soy and want greater transparency in the supply chain. food processing companies and our suppliers of slaughter animals. Such credits are purchased from RoundtaMost of the soy used in Denmark is imported from ble on Responsible Soy (RTRS), a certification proSouth America. About two thirds of the soy is grown in gramme supporting the production of responsible soy areas that have been cultivated agricultural land for and certifying that no illegal or legal deforestation has many years, but over the past 20-30 years, soy productaken place in vulnerable forest areas. tion has led to deforestation of rainforest and other vulnerable natural ecosystems. As only a small share of soy supplies is produced on deforested land, there is plenty of responsible soy. Unfortunately, it is not possible to import soy that comes with a guarantee that it has not Credit purchases been produced on deforested land, and we want to help Until the supply lines for responsible soy have change that. It will take some time, but we are confident been established, Danish Crown will buy credits to that a market for segregated soy can be established by compensate for the soy consumption of our food 2025, so that the soy our suppliers feed their animals is processing companies and our Danish suppliers of produced responsibly on original agricultural land. slaughter animals. The market as a lever Even though Danish imports of soy for feeding purposes We also work to establish a Danish industry solution in only account for 0.25 per cent of global soy production, which the entire food industry commits to only importing Danish Crown is committed to playing an active role in FEFAC-certified soy by 2025. Lastly, we are a member of the driving developments. We do this by supporting proDanish Alliance for Responsible Soy, working with retailgrammes with a potential to drive the overall market ers, other food producers, NGOs and authorities to entowards responsible soy. sure that all Danish soy imports are produced responsibly. To that end, we work with FEFAC (European Feed Manufacturers’ Federation) and according to their guidelines for responsible soy. Starting in October 2020, we require ↑ Denmark imports about 1.7 million tonnes of ground soy a year. This corresponds to approximately 0.5 per cent of global soy production. 50 per cent of soy imports our cooperative members to start feeding their pigs with are used for pig feed, while the other half is used in other food production. This FEFAC-certified soy and gradually increase the share to means that some 0.9 million tonnes of soy are used for pig feed in Denmark, and 100 per cent by 2025. We also demand improvements of that the consumption only accounts for 0.25 per cent of global soy production. 26 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Nothing should And last, but not least, we support the value chain in fighting food waste. goods are often based on cuts that are difficult to sell as fresh food because not many people know how to cook them. As such, canned goods contribute to reducing go to waste In each of our focus areas, we are working full speed to define targets and draw up action plans for our business units. Through the initiative Denmark against Food food waste. And then there is bacon, which has a long storage life and is almost never left over. Waste, we have signed up for the target to reduce food Optimising waste streams Our ability to use the whole slaughter animal and miniwaste by 50 per cent by 2030 in Denmark. We are also studying organic waste in a waste optimisamise waste is of great importance to the environmental tion project in which our sustainability team is working Bacon is never left over with our procurement function in developing new, and climate impact of our production. It is also crucial In 2020, we identified the primary sources of and reainnovative processes for more environmentally friendly to running a sound business. sons for food waste. This analysis showed that meat and cheaper handling of our waste streams. Circular does not generally involve much waste. Since meat is solutions and the potential for using better materials are relatively expensive, most people typically do not buy also examined as part of the project. For instance, we and cook more than they eat. However, the risk of food currently use many tonnes of sawdust as bedding in our waste is greater in some product categories than in animal transport vehicles and expect to replace it with others. Refrigerated products such as cold cuts are the straw bedding that can be used for biogas production food items that are most often thrown out. This may and afterwards as fertiliser for new straw. have to do with packaging sizes and short storage lives. Fresh meat and frozen food, on the other hand, are Lastly, our projects to improve the utilisation of waste Circular and bio-based solutions are the cornerstone of rarely tossed into the bin. Other products with limited streams at abattoirs and factories are also part of these our sustainability efforts. This approach is crucial to our food waste are canned goods. They have long storage efforts. Read more on page 41. ability to tackle climate change, restore ecological ballives and are very rarely thrown out. Moreover, canned ance and provide sufficient food for the world’s growing population. 84% Our business builds on the production of food products from healthy animals and on not letting any animal life go to waste. Our strategy to minimise food waste builds on three focus areas: First, we take great care to use as much as possible of the slaughter animal for nourishing food. Our pig abattoirs process some 84 per cent of the of the pig is used Our ambition We want to reduce waste to as close to pig for food, and our cattle abattoirs utilise more on for food zero as possible by utilising all re­sources average 95 per cent of the animal for food and other and developing circular processes that purposes. ensure recycling. Secondly, we make sure that the inedible parts of the animal form part of a circular biosystem in which they are processed into feed or used for a number of other purOur contribution to the SDGs poses, such as production of medicines, fertiliser or We support target 12.3 by minimising food waste in our production and supply biogas. Biogas produced from residual products prochains. vides enough green energy to heat many homes. 27 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Feed Cooking oil Medical purposes Organic fertiliser Leather Paint Meat extract and stock Oil Bio fuel 95% utilised on average Most of the slaughter cattle is used for food, and the inedible parts are used for a number of other purposes across the world. Glue Protein 28 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Efficient energy In 2019/20, we scaled up our efforts to translate our ambitious climate goal of reducing our climate footprint from meat by 50 per cent by 2030 into specific projects Heat recovery and electrification Abattoirs and meat processing are energy-intensive – the most energy-consuming processes being cooling, utilisation to improve energy efficiency in our production and transport activities. Our new life cycle calculations, which will be available by the end of the next financial ventilation, heating and compressed air. In recent decades, our abattoirs and factories have focused continually on optimising their energy consumption by streamlining year, will provide us with a baseline for CO2 emissions processes and procuring new energy-efficient producInvestment in energy-saving technologies, increased that we can use to measure the impact of our projects, tion equipment. All our production sites have managers electrification and environmentally correct driving are see page 18. in charge of energy consumption who meet regularly to follow up on ongoing projects and exchange experience some of the measures we have taken to reduce the and ideas so that best practice is gathered and shared climate footprint from our production and transport. across the group. Energy CO₂ emissions Recovery of surplus heat from cooling systems and air compressors was a key focus area in 2019/20, and at consumption in kWh per tonne produced in tonnes (scopes 1 and 2) several of our abattoirs and factories in Denmark, Poland 41% of our energy consumption is covered by natural gas 61% of our CO2 emissions derives from our abattoirs, and Sweden, up to 30 per cent of the heat supply is and 40% by electricity from the grid. Renewable energy while 23% derives from our processing factories. accounts for about 5%, and other energy sources include Emissions from refrigerants and diesel in total recovered heat, which is used, among other things, to oils, district heating and transport fuel. account for about 5%. heat cleaning water. Our German abattoir in Essen has received a grant from the German government for a large-scale heat recovery project in which 1.5 MWh waste 600 588 599 500,000 heat from singeing furnaces is used for central heating 509 410,869 and service water heating. About 50 per cent of the waste 500 400,000 363,335 371,678 heat can be recycled, which contributes to relieving the 400 pressure on the existing gas boilers and to reducing CO2 300,000 emissions. The project will be kicked off in mid-2021. 300 200,000 However, to be able to reduce CO2 emissions from abat200 toirs and factories by 50 per cent, it is crucial that we 100,000 transition to renewable energy in the form of wind pow100 er, solar power and biogas. Here, electrification is a key 0 0 focus area with measures including, for instance, replac2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 ing gas boilers for heat generation by electric boilers or Our ambition heat pumps. We have already installed a few low-temEnergy consumption for production and transport per proTotal CO2 emissions from our production and transport deWe want to reduce energy consumption duced volume fell by just under 2 per cent in 2019/20 relative creased by a little over 10 per cent in 2019/20 compared with perature heat pumps for heating of cleaning water, but in our production and logistics. to realise our climate goal, we also need to install to 2018/19 due to a decrease in our total energy consumption 2018/19. In addition to the lower consumption of natural gas by just under 5 per cent. The decrease was primarily attribut(LPG) at the factory in Teterow, the decrease was primarily high-temperature heat pumps for heat generation. To able to a decline of about 75 per cent in our consumption of due to the transition to renewable energy at our production that end, Danish Crown is a partner in a Danish project natural gas (LPG) at our factory in Teterow, Germany, because sites in Sweden, Germany and Denmark, where a larger share the factory has stopped slaughtering pigs and therefore does of the electricity procured is now green power. working to develop high-temperature heat pumps with Our contribution to the SDGs not use gas for, among other things, singeing furnaces. natural refrigerants for sustainable process heating. The We support target 12.2 by ensuring sustainable management and efficient Note: Please note that these figures are revised compared to figures included in our Sustainability Report 2018/19 and CSR project will be carried out between 2020 and 2024, and use of natural resources. report 2017/18. More details can be found on page 50. we will be able to test equipment on an ongoing basis. 29 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety In Sweden, KLS Ugglarps is making a dedicated effort to transition to 100 per cent renewable energy and has committed to the Fossil-free Sweden project, an initiative launched by the Swedish government. As a result, since 2019, all production facilities in Sweden have only purchased green power, and by end-2020, we will have installed solar panels in at least one factory. Moreover, we are working to become co-owners of existing solar parks in Sweden. → Sustainable logistics Danish Crown handles more than 50 per cent of all live pig transports for our abattoirs in Denmark. Over the past several years, we have trained our own drivers in environmentally correct driving and gathered data for driving patterns and fuel consumption, which has enabled us to gradually improve transport efficiency. We are currently in the process of developing an action plan for how to reduce the carbon footprint from transport throughout our supply chain. As part of these efforts, we will in 2020/21 establish a system for collecting CO2 data from our logistics suppliers and establish a baseline and define targets for reducing CO2 emissions from the transportation of our products. Working together with our suppliers, we are already in the process of identifying transport solutions with a lower climate impact. KLS Ugglarps aims to transition to 100 per cent fossil-free transport in Sweden by end-2021. In 2020, one of KLS Ugglarps’ major haulage contractors purchased natural gas (LNG)-powered cars, and another of our carriers has transitioned 100 per cent to biodiesel. In addition, our German factory in Essen has purchased two LNG cars and two refrigerated semi-trailers that are 40% ↑ In December 2019, we replaced 20 black driven by the truck while driving and only use diesel refrigerated semi-trailers with white semi-­ when being parked. In order to further reduce diesel trailers. Measurements show that colour has consumption, we are planning, in collaboration with a a significant effect on how hot the trailer gets during the summer and thus on the amount supplier, to test a new type of refrigerated semi-trailer of energy used for cooling. It is estimated that with a dynamo on one of its shafts that generates of our combined transports the change of colour has reduced energy conenough power for the refrigerator so that the cooling can in Sweden are fossil-free sumption by up to 30 per cent. continue for 6-8 hours after the trailer has been parked. 30 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Sustainable Our meat trays are produced from 80 per cent recycled plastic and are packaging recyclable. We use large amounts of packaging for our products and have for several years worked to develop innovative and sustainable packaging solutions. In 2019/20, we have worked on a Group strategy for Denmark with less environmentally harmful meat trays around 85 per cent less plastic than a traditional meat sustainable packaging, and we have defined principles in made from at least 85 per cent recycled plastic. This tray; and paper-skin packaging, which requires around this area that can support our business units in working initiative reduces the consumption of new plastic by 70 per cent less plastic than normal skin-packs. More­over, locally to develop better solutions. Our aim is to develop nearly 1,000 tonnes every year and could halve CO2 the new packaging materials extend the shelf-life of the packaging solutions that are innovative, provide value for emissions per tray if the tray is recycled to new trays. meat considerably and so also contribute to limiting customers and strengthen our brand without comproHowever, recycling is conditional on the trays being food waste. mising food safety or product quality. As we are prioritiscollected, and sorting plastic is currently not possible ing this work, we are focused on changing the packaging for households in many Danish municipalities. Danish Danish Crown Foods has in 2019/20 tested a new packwhere the environmental impact is greatest based on Crown has therefore joined the Partnership for Circular aging material for bacon that consists of 70-75 per cent amounts and material types, and we will require life-­ Food Trays together with several large Danish retail recycled mono-material plastic, which makes the packcycle-assessments for all packaging from our suppliers. chains, a large packaging manufacturer and the City of aging 100 per cent recyclable. We expect to use the Copenhagen. In 2019/20, the Partnership ran a pilot packaging material for both bacon cubes and sliced Where possible, we base our packaging solutions on project collecting and recycling around 5 million trays in bacon from October 2020. We have also developed a recycled materials. We also endeavour to use mono-­ Copenhagen. That equates to around 43 tonnes of plastic solution that minimises the air-space in bacon cube materials that ensure the packaging can be recycled. In and more than 100 tonnes of CO2 eliminated – or the packets, meaning we can further reduce the consumpOur ambition contrast, we do not focus on biodegradable materials, as daily CO2 emissions from around 3,250 Danes. tion of plastic and at the same time pack and transport We will ensure that 90 per cent of our in our view the degradation of existing materials does more units at a time. packaging materials consist of recy­ clable materials, and 50 per cent will not happen quickly enough to really be sustainable. Many The Partnership’s ambition is to establish a closed circonsist of recycled materials in 2023. of our materials are made of plastic, which is necessary cuit for all Danish food trays. Going forward to 2025, the Furthermore, we are in the process of changing the if we are to supply fresh and safe food and minimise goal is to ensure at least 10,000 tonnes of trays are packaging material throughout the Mou soup and soup food waste. As far as possible, we use plastic packaging recirculated every year, thus saving the climate 25,000 meatballs range to a recyclable foil, so the packaging that can be recycled, or where the plastic material can tonnes of CO2 emissions. can be sorted and recycled. This encompasses foil for be reprocessed and recycled into new products. more than 10,000 tonnes of ready meals. We have alOur contribution to the SDGs Danish Crown Beef developed two new climate-friendly ready reduced the amount of packaging so that we only We support target 12.2 by ensuring sustainable management and efficient Focus on plastic packaging packaging solutions for veal and beef in 2019/20 that use around 8 g of foil per kg soup. use of natural resources. In 2018/19, we replaced 55 million meat trays in cut plastic consumption markedly: The Tube, which uses 31 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Efficient water Water consumption Water consumption in m3 utilisation per produced tonne 5 4.36 4.17 4 3.77 The food industry is one of the most water-consuming industries in Denmark and globally. We are participating Our water consumption per produced volume in 2019/20 was 3 largely at the same level as in 2018/19. The figure for 2019/20 in the development and testing of technologies that could represents the baseline for our goal of reducing water conhelp food companies produce more with less water. sumption per produced volume by 40 per cent by 2030. In 2 spite of a decrease in production volume in 2019/20, our total water consumption only decreased by 2 per cent. The reason is that about 25 per cent of the water consumption is 1 for cleaning, which is independent of the production volume. Of the total water consumption, abattoirs account for 70 per cent, processing factories for 18 per cent, DAT-Schaub for 11 0 per cent, while our office facilities account for the rest. 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 Danish Crown has since 2015 participated in the Danish situations has documented that process water can be operations at our Danish food factory in Vejle, which is partnership for Resource and water-efficient Industrial bacterially purified to drinking water quality so it can be one of the world’s largest producers of canned meat. food Production (DRIP). This is a public-private partnerused in other parts of the production process, and in Water is used when the filled cans are boiled in the ship comprising food companies, technology providers, November 2020 we plan to begin establishing a fullautoclave and for the cooling towers when the cans have universities and research institutes, and aims to develop scale plant. to be cooled again. We have considered various scenaritechnologies that can help reduce the consumption of os where the boiling water is treated and reused to wash freshwater and increase the use of treated process water Saving one litre of water per pig at the Horsens abattoir the closed cans externally prior to entering the autoclave without compromising food quality and food safety. The adds up to around five million litres of water a year that and also for the soaking of used equipment. Moreover, goal is to reduce the amount of water used in Danish does not have to be discharged as wastewater. All Danthere is considerable potential in reusing some of the food production by 15-30 per cent. ish Crown’s pig abattoirs in Denmark have the same energy from the cooling process to heat the next boil up design and layout, so there is a significant potential for of water. We have also conducted a risk assessment that First full-scale plant on the way savings if the solution is implemented at all our abatdemonstrated the solution could be implemented withOur ambition Danish Crown’s most important DRIP project is undertoirs. We will move ahead with this when the plant in out the risk of compromising food safety. We aim to reduce our consumption of freshwater and increase our use of way at our Danish pig abattoir in Horsens. Here we have Horsens has been running at full-scale for some time treated recycled water without combeen testing a pilot plant for the past two years which, and any operating adjustments have been made. We will The pilot project allowed us to improve water efficiency promising food safety or quality. with the help of filtration techniques, ozone flotation also examine the possibilities of using the same techin autoclave operations by the equivalent of around 10 and UV technology, can treat process water from abattoir nology with other water-consuming processes. per cent of the factory’s total water consumption. This robots. To ensure that bacteria are not transferred from was in part due to a 50 per cent reduction in water one pig to the next, all abattoir robots are rinsed and New pilot project launched consumption to operate the cooling tower. Furthermore, Our contribution to the SDGs sterilised after each pig – a process that accounts for Also under the auspices of DRIP, we initiated a pilot the establishment of a heat-recovery system could cut We support targets 6.3 and 6.4 by increasing water-use efficiency and inroughly 10 per cent of the abattoir’s total water conproject in 2019/20 investigating the options for optimisenergy consumption for hot water by around 40 per creasing recycling and safe re-use. sumption. Extensive testing in all possible operational ing the water and energy efficiency of autoclave cent. We expect to establish a full-scale plant in 2021. 32 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety The market for More and more customers and consumers are asking for sustainable food, and the climate and environmental impact of meat production is attracting increasing attendifferent customer segments. Hence, we have to focus on different aspects of sustainability when we endeavour to stimulate demand for sustainable food. It is therefore sustainable meat tion. We expect that these trends will be reflected in the official dietary recommendations of ever more countries. We support climate-friendly dietary habits and view important that our sales force is equipped to engage in dialogue with different customer segments about sustainability and our product range, and in 2019/20 we sustainably produced meat of high quality as an imporhave run a series of sales seminars focusing on this. Market support for sustainably produced meat is tant source of protein and a natural supplement to crucial to the pace of the sustainable transition. We see plant-based foods in a balanced and healthy diet. We are also constantly developing new food concepts together with our customers across retail, food service high quality meat as a natural part of a balanced and In 2019/20, the market has welcomed our food concepts and the food industry, and we do our utmost to accomhealthy diet. and new launches that promote consideration for the modate the market’s expectations for the food we supply. climate, animal welfare, organics and locally produced ingredients. We have also experienced an increased COVID-19 affecting meat consumption willingness to pay for these sustainability parameters Lockdowns across our markets have led to changes in across several markets – which is a positive developconsumption patterns in 2019/20. For example, the food ment for our business and also crucial to upping the service market, which includes the restaurant business, pace of transition to sustainable food production. has been particularly challenged in several countries, which has squeezed our customers and demanded a great Whereas price and quality are important purchasing deal of flexibility in our production. At the same time, parameters around the world, we have noted that susconsumers have demonstrated a clear preference for tainability is understood differently from country to well-known products and dishes, which in the retail sector country, and that interest in sustainability varies between has been manifest as increasing sales of minced beef, etc. From a Danish perspective, we have also seen that COVID-19 has prompted an increased focus on healthy, safe and Danish food, which has been positive for sales of our Climate Controlled Pig and ‘Dansk Kalv’ concepts. Dialogue and partnerships create progress Finally, the latest forecast from the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation (FOA) points to a decline in meat The seed for our forum for stakeholder dialogue on the road to sustainable meat was planted at our MEAT2030 conference in 2018. Since then, we have continued production and consumption worldwide in 2020. In the dialogue and explored new ideas and partnerships connected with sustainable addition to a fall in global private consumption during Our ambition agriculture, transparent value chains and promoting consumer demand for more susthe COVID-19-pandemic, this is attributable to outbreaks We will work together with our custainable meat. This has inspired us to develop new concepts and brands, which are to tomers and other stakeholders to move contribute to promoting the sustainable development of our meat production. of African swine fever in China and the Western world’s consumption in a sustainable direction. increased consumption of plant-based food, driven In 2020, we have in Denmark launched the Climate Controlled Pig concept and remainly by climate considerations. launched ‘Dansk Kalv’ in collaboration with our customers. Also in 2020, we engaged with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the initiative ‘Food Reform for Sustainability and Health’, which aim to find business-driven But while the consumption of meat is declining in certain Our contribution to the SDGs solutions for the food industry’s transformation in collaboration with other global countries and consumer segments, an increasing populaWe support targets 12.1 and 17.17 by actors. Our follow-up MEAT2030 conference should have been held in September tion means there will continue to be a large market for encouraging sustainable consumption 2020, but due to COVID-19 we have decided to postpone the conference to 2021. and production patterns and by particimeat, and our ambition is to be the preferred supplier of pating in effective partnerships. sustainable meat products to the global market. 33 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety → A sustainable product range Based on our passion for producing the best food from products, which Danish Crown Foods, Sokołów and KLS the farmers’ good raw materials, we continually develop Ugglarps regularly launch in their markets to accommonew food concepts with a sustainability profile. In addidate flexitarian, vegetarian or vegan consumers. tion to animal products, this also includes plant-based Climate Controlled Pig Plant-based products Good lives for calves In May 2020, we launched the Climate Controlled Pig conSokołów’s ’Z Gruntu Dobre’ range of plant-based products now The ‘Dansk Kalv’ concept is a quality programme requiring for cept, which is now sold in about 90 per cent of the Danish comprises pastes, pies, spreads, cold cuts and ready meals. This is a high level of animal welfare throughout the life of the calf. retail business. Climate Controlled Pig means the pork degood news for Polish consumers, who want to reduce their meat We relaunched the concept in the spring of 2020 in Denmark rives from a farm which is on the Climate Track and therefore consumption. In August 2020, Danish Crown Foods, Europe’s to meet consumer interest in locally produced products with is subject to an independent control, which ensures that largest bacon producer, launched a plant-based bacon alternative good animal welfare, and since then sales have increased by the farmer is working actively to reduce the farm’s carbon in Denmark under the Tulip brand in order to expand the range 65 per cent. The programme ensures that the calves have footprint. By 2023, all our suppliers of slaughter animals in of meat product alternatives. The product will also be launched healthy and natural feed with no anti­biotic growth stimulaDenmark, Sweden and Poland will be on the Climate Track so in Norway and Sweden, and later in other European countries. tors, that they are reared in loose housing systems are reguthat we can also offer the concept in other markets. larly inspected by a veterinarian and are loaded quickly and gently and have a short transport time to the abattoir. Pigs reared without Organic beef Animal welfare antibiotics and pork labelled meat Since 2015, we have marketed meat from Danish antibiotFriland was established in Denmark in 1992 and has, since We are one of the largest suppliers of products with an anic-free (ABF) pigs. The main difference from conventional 1999, been part of the Danish Crown Group. Today, Friland imal welfare label and have contributed to developing the production methods is prevention rather than cure. However, is the world’s largest organic meat company with exports to Danish consumer label Better Animal Welfare governed by a conventional pig treated with antibiotics when reared has countries all over the world, supplying meat to both the retail the state. The label was introduced in 2017 for pork, and we no residuals left in its body when it is slaughtered. Although business, foodservice market and food industry. In 2019/20, are pleased that in 2020 it was developed to also include sales have been affected by COVID-19, we take a positive view sales in the Danish retail business were stable with increasing beef and veal. The label is available in three variants with one, of the future as several markets are showing an interest in the interest in the export markets. two or three hearts. The more hearts, the better animal welABF concept. These markets include Poland, where Sokołów fare – and the higher the price point. And Danish Crown only in May 2020 in cooperation with a retail customer introduced has products with two or three hearts in our product range. meat from pigs reared without the use of antibiotics. 34 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Job creation and Motivated and satisfied employees Our employees are key to the results we generate, and their motivation and commitment are crucial to our centres and recruitment in general. We also use contract staff, often from Eastern European countries. In Denmark, the employment relationship is a matter directly social inclusion ability to realise our goals. Every other year, we measure employee satisfaction by means of our CHECK survey. The survey also provides insights into how to best probetween the employee and Danish Crown, and employees are covered by a Danish collective agreement, whereas in countries such as Poland, Sweden and Germany we mote commitment, motivation and job satisfaction. have for several years hired contract staff through third We are a diverse workplace and contribute to the comparties. We plan to limit the use of the latter form of munities in which we are present by creating jobs and 2020 was the first year in which we conducted the suremployment, see page 43. vey across the group, and 88 per cent of the respondent employing unskilled workers and people on the edge employees participated. Motivation and satisfaction are of the labour market. at an average 70.4 per cent, four percentage points above the average for companies with a comparable employee composition. While the level is slightly down from 2018, the figures are not directly comparable as the 2018 survey did not comprise the whole group. We systematically follow up on survey results and aim to improve our score by at least two percentage points by 2023. For more information see our Annual Report 2019/20. Despite the COVID-19 outbreak and the resulting economic slowdown, we have been able to navigate the Good jobs for everyone crisis and retain our employees. Most of our employees We believe that our diverse work force makes us more work in the production units in Denmark, Poland, China, creative, productive and attractive as an employer, and Germany, Sweden, France and Portugal with more than we use this position actively to attract new employees. Gitte Ferslev Pedersen, social worker, Danish Crown 60 per cent of our hourly-paid employees being unHowever, prejudices about career opportunities in our skilled workers. While most of our employees are men, line of business are deep-rooted, and like many other New start with a subsidised job 80 nationalities are represented on our work force, and businesses, we are facing challenges in terms of recruitthe abattoir in Horsens alone employs more than 45 ing staff and tough competition for talent. Against this In Denmark, we employ a social worker who assists employees and managers in case of illness or seridifferent nationalities. Moreover, most of our production background, stepping up our efforts to communicate to ous occupational injuries. We work together to find sites are located in rural districts where we contribute to prospective employees what Danish Crown stands for, a good solution that will retain the employee or society by creating jobs. we launched our ‘Better Food. Brighter Future’ campaign otherwise assist him or her. One example is Mogens, Our ambition in 2019/20. The campaign communicates our ambitions who has been employed with Danish Crown since We want to attract and retain employ1982. He first joined the production unit and then We also offer jobs to people on the edge of the labour in relation to both sustainable food production and moved on to the department for work studies in ees through attractive jobs, equal opportunities for all and continuous skills market, and in 2019/20 we continued our specific efforts talent development for the benefit of individual employHorsens, Denmark. Mogens became critically ill in upgrading. to integrate refugees, war veterans and long-term unemees and the sustainable transition. January 2017 but was able to return to work in June 2019 to work ten hours a week. Unfortunately, he ployed people into our work force. That way, we help fell ill again shortly after and was unable to perform people gain a foothold in the labour market and contribWorking at our abattoirs and factories is physically his duties. Mogens had the option of retiring on ute to solving a societal challenge. For Danish Crown, demanding, and this presents a special challenge in account of his reduced working capacity but wanted Our contribution to the SDGs this creates commitment within the organisation and terms of attracting and retaining employees. In an effort to maintain his connection with Danish Crown. He We support targets 4.4, 8.5 and 8.6 by therefore now works two hours a week in a new helps us recruit the manpower we need. to ensure good job fits and retain new employees, we subsidised job in Horsens. offering youth and adults the chance to acquire work skills and by creating jobs drew up competence profiles in Denmark in 2019/20 for and decent work. use in connection with our dialogue with local job 35 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety → Skills upgrading for everyone Our efforts to motivate and involve managers and employees alike include offers of ongoing learning and ↑20% skills upgrading. In 2020, we launched a programme involving more than 2,500 managers, setting out to take the group’s management quality to a higher level and promote employee satisfaction. A little more than 700 managers have higher annual intake of completed the programme, which will be rolled out in the period until 2022. butcher apprentices in With a view to offering customised training programmes 2025 relative to 2018 for hourly-paid workers, we conducted a skills and motivation evaluation at our Danish production sites in 2019/20. It showed that 75 per cent of our hourly-paid as part of the curriculum. We also participate in the allocate part of the grant from Arbejdsgivernes Uddanworkers want to undergo supplementary training, but Danish Skills Championship, profiling our butcher and nelsesbidrag (AUB) to increase awareness of our apprenalso that a good deal of them lack basic Danish-­language, automatic control technician apprentices as role models. ticeships and career opportunities in the industry. arithmetic and IT skills. From January 2021 to June 2021, we will therefore be offering a number of practice-­oriented We employ a total of 250 apprentices at Danish Crown, The leaders of the future courses in these subjects and special classes for dyslectic about half of them in Denmark. This means that in Through our international Graduate Programme, we employees. We intend to use the experience gained to 2019/20, we outperformed our target of increasing our enrol new high-level education graduates in a two-year adjust the programme and subsequently roll it out annual intake of apprentices by 15 per cent in 2020 relaprogramme, in which we build on their academic comacross the group. tive to 2018. A contributing factor to this was the triparpetence and develop the skills required to become a tite agreement concluded by the Danish government in future people manager or project manager or even to May 2020, which made it possible to receive grants from fulfil a role that may not exist at Danish Crown today. Arbejdsgivernes Uddannelsesbidrag (AUB). Against this As part of the programme, the candidates work in one Practice-oriented background, we have set up an additional 15 butcher apprenticeships and five auto mechanic apprenticeships. of our business units outside their home country for a period of eight months and are guaranteed a job in the courses We are especially focusing on butcher apprentices and group after completing the programme. We offer courses in basic Danish-language, on increasing the number of adult apprentices. The goal While the programme is a success, we have unfortunatearithmetic and IT skills and special classes for is to take on 25 per cent adult apprentices, which we ly not succeeded in reaching our 2020 target of a 50/50 dyslectic employees. succeeded in doing in 2019/20. Another centre of attensplit in terms of gender and Danish/international protion is the gender composition of our apprentices, which files among the seven candidates enrolling on the proInvesting in apprentices is currently 28 per cent female apprentices in Pork, Beef, gramme in September 2020. We are therefore extending We assume a special responsibility for making young DAT-Schaub and Danish Crown Foods. Especially the gut the target to include 2021 and also aim to increase the people aware of the career opportunities offered by the cleaner programme in DAT-Schaub is attracting women. proportion of international students in the years ahead food industry. Among other things, we are behind the as part of our long-term efforts to increase diversity in new Danish butcher training programme with training in Unfortunately, attracting qualified apprentices has ­proven the management team of Danish Crown, see page 39. health and safety, sustainability and prevention of injuries a challenge in recent years. In 2020, we will therefore 36 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety A safe and healthy We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees. Our health and safety organi­ sation systematically addresses occupational health and health and safety issues and set ambitious targets to minimise the number of work accidents. workplace safety issues, and it is an integral part of our ´One Management System´, which will be implemented globally towards 2023, see pages 12 and 41. Our occupational health and safety efforts took a twist in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Right from the start, we launched a number of measures to protect our employees from becoming infected at work Knives, robots, vehicles and heavy lifting are a fixed The management system integrates existing environand to maintain our ability to produce food in a responpart of our hourly-paid workers’ day-to-day work and mental and occupational health and safety management sible manner. We have furloughed vulnerable employees systems and formalises the work across geographies to with sick pay and focused on containing the spread of ­involve a special risk of work accidents and work-­related ensure uniform registration of preventive measures, fire the virus among our employees, and we invariably comillnesses that we go to great lengths to minimise. and security controls, work accidents, etc. We continualply with the most recent regulatory instructions, see ly strive to become better at predicting and preventing page 6. Lost-time accidents Absence due to Frequency of lost-time accidents (number of accidents per 1.000 FTE) lost-time accidents Average days of absence per accident 50 25 22.4 22.2 41 40 20 17.2 30 27 28 15 Our ambition 20 10 We want to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all our employees, and we proactively take responsibility for 10 5 our own and others’ safety, health and well-being. 0 0 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 Our contribution to the SDGs Despite COVID-19, the frequency of lost-time accidents fell Because COVID-19 infection related to work at Danish Crown We support target 8.8. by protecting lafrom 28 to 27. This is not least due to the efforts in Danish must be reported as accidents at work, the number of days of bour rights and providing a safe and seCrown Beef, where the frequency of lost time accidents was absence per accident in 2019/20 was unfortunately on a level cure working environment for everyone. reduced significantly in 2019/20. with 2018/19. 37 Sustainable transition Food safety Climate The Climate Track Land use Food loss Energy Packaging Water Meat consumption Job creation Health & safety Occupational safety campaign Danish business units in 2019/20, and we intend to use The workplace culture is crucial to the safety of our the findings to plan a special MSD initiative in 2020/21. employees, and our management team is leading the Testing Exosceletons way towards maintaining a strong health and safety In addition, in an effort to retain them in the labour Physically demanding work is one of the main culture. This includes ensuring that safety instructions market, we have successfully completed retraining drivers of MSD (musculoskeletal disorders) and are available and easy to understand for all employees. programmes for employees who are or are at risk of early retirement from the labour market. Working at an abattoir is shoulder-intensive due to repetibecoming worn out. In Denmark, we use the retraining tive movements and heavy work involving raising Before the COVID-19 pandemic really began to affect the scheme supported by the Danish Agency for Labour the arms. Although we have launched a large numgroup, we updated our occupational health and safety Market and Recruitment. Retraining programmes are ber of ergonomic measures to reduce shoulder policy and launched Safety First, a Danish occupational individual and may include guidance, vocational supplestraining at our Danish abattoirs, some work functions remain where straining could be reduced by safety campaign encouraging our employees to proacmentary training and trainee periods. Unfortunately, the means of mechanical exoskeletons. An exoskeleton tively take responsibility for the working environment. COVID-19 situation and the lockdown of educational is a mobile mechanical metal skeleton supporting We managed to roll out the first stage and have already institutions in 2020 have obstructed the commencethe body and giving the person carrying it increased strength by means of a spring system. delivered positive results in, for instance, Danish Crown ment and completion of programmes. Beef, where the incidence rate has dropped from 39 to Studies of mechanical exoskeletons have shown 16 after the campaign. We will continue the campaign in In Denmark, we also assist worn-out employees in their a straining reduction of up to 40 per cent in con2020/21, and the group will continue on the road to an dialogue with the authorities on being awarded senior nection with lifting and working above shoulder level. However, effects have primarily been evalincidence rate of 20 and aim for further reductions if it pension. Under the new rules on senior pension, which uated over a short period of time in lab studies reaches its goal of 20. took effect in 2020, individuals with up to six years to with a limited number of participants. Against this state retirement pension age can apply for senior penbackground, we have launched a pilot project in 2020 to study the use of mechanical exoskeletons Special focus on attrition sion if they can demonstrate reduced working capacity at our Ringsted abattoir over a two-year period. Work-related illnesses typically arise after years of expoand long-term labour market inclusion. The project has received financial support from sure, and work instructions, workplace layouts, producthe Danish Working Environment Research Fund tion patterns, robot technologies and other high-tech At Danish Crown, flexible retirement from the labour and will be carried out by Dansk Ramazzini Center in collaboration with work medical clinics in Denancillary equipment are important tools to reduce the market is not just about being allowed to stop working mark and Canada. strain on and attrition of our employees. if you are worn out. Therefore, we also support the Danish government’s ambition to create a more flexible In 2019/20, we stepped up our efforts to test and implepension system. Lastly, we are very pleased to note that ment new automation solutions designed to reduce health and safety is part of the new Danish 2020-2023 heavy lifting and monotonously repeated work and thus collective agreement for abattoirs, see page 46. make the working day easier for our employees. We are also planning to further digitalise data collection with a view to gathering more production data and making better use of it. However, COVID-19 has put the roll-out of the data system in Germany on hold until 2020/21. Safety In Denmark, we now have two psychomotor therapists campaign treating employees with muscular and skeletal disorders In Denmark, we have run a major campaign (MSD) and assisting with expert evaluations of worksetting out to bring everyday occupational place layouts and preventive measures. To learn more safety into focus. about the incidence of MSD among our employees, we launched a screening programme covering all our Responsible business conduct Women in management | Animal welfare | Waste water and waste | Human rights Supply Chain management | Anti-corruption | Partnerships | Tax 39 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Women in developments at our various management levels and across the group and our business units. managers has fallen slightly from 8 per cent to 7 per cent. We hope to reverse the trend and maintain our requirement that at least one of the three last candimanagement Our progress The proportion of women in executive positions is stable at 38.1 per cent, which does not reflect our actividates for executive positions must be a woman. In an effort to put a stop to some of the prejudices about ties to increase that number. It is a challenge to attract “women in male professions”, we brought the subject The agricultural, abattoir and food production industries are external women managers to our locations, but through into focus in our Danish staff magazine in 2020. Among traditionally dominated by men, and Danish Crown is no excepinitiatives like our graduate programme we hope to other things, we profiled female abattoir, gut cleaning create a pipeline of women candidates. and automatic control technician apprentices to emphation. However, we believe that a more even distribution between sise that the way to an executive position at Danish men and women in management and the organisation as a We are also pleased to note that we reached our goal of Crown begins early and that we must actively address whole will lead to better decisions and results and make us 20 per cent women on the Board of Directors of Danish gender equality in and across the entire organisation. All more robust. Increasing the number of women in the organisaCrown A/S already last year. Two out of the ten members experience shows that such role models are needed to tion is therefore a main priority for us. elected by the general meeting are women, and we plan attract more women. Therefore, we are pleased to note a to set new goals in 2021. On the other hand, we have yet positive development among our future leaders in the to attract women to the Board of Directors of Danish Graduate Programme, with 43 per cent of the graduates Crown AmbA. Our goal is 10 per cent women by 2025. enrolling in the programme being women in both 2019 The Board of Directors of our cooperative consists of ten and 2020, compared with 20 per cent in 2018. We are members elected from among our owners, most of confident that our measures will eventually enhance Our approach whom are men. As a result of more men joining the gender diversity across the organisation. We believe that diversity in our management supports group, the proportion of women among our Top 50 sustainable solutions. In accordance with the Recommendations on Corporate Governance, our Board of Directors has approved our diversity and inclusion policy, which also sets out goals for diversity at our various management levels and among candidates and apprentices, see page 35. Our goals cover both gender and nationality as we wish to enhance diversity on both parameters. Our approach to diversity comprises – but is Gender diversity on boards and in management not limited to – age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, Management level Gender diversity target 2019/20 status nationality, culture, religion, physical ability, education Our ambition and skills. We will build a stronger platform for Board of Directors of Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA 10% in 2025 0% women in management, and we have defined goals for diversity at our variOur efforts to increase the proportion of women in manous management levels. agement are focused on attracting and retaining women Board of Directors of Danish Crown A/S 20% in 2021 20% and ensuring that we do not pass over half the labour market talent pool. We try to avoid unconscious bias in Executive Board 33% in 2025 0% our recruitment processes, for instance by wording our Our contribution to the SDGs job adds very carefully and requiring at least one of the We support target 5.5 by providing equal opportunities for leadership at all last three candidates for executive positions to be a Top 50 leaders 30% in 2030 7% decision-making levels. woman. Furthermore, we continuously monitor 40 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Animal welfare beyond EU requirements. We market a range of special products produced according to high animal welfare standards, such as ‘Dansk Kalv’, organic beef and pork Our progress In 2019/20, we worked at developing a certification programme for animal welfare at our abattoirs and and pork from pigs reared without the use of antibiotics preparing the abattoirs for the programme. The proHealthy, thriving animals are a cornerstone of our busi(ABF). We also contribute to the development of labelgramme covers all the animal types we slaughter, thus ness, and we work according to the steadfast principle ling schemes, such as Better Animal Welfare, the Danish covering both pigs and cattle. We have developed a state-driven animal welfare label, see page 33. baseline based on self-auditing against EU legislation that any animal used in our production must be treated and a benchmarking programme measuring our perforwell throughout its life. Besides, animals welfare generIn addition to complying with EU animal welfare legislamance against customers with special animal welfare really yields better and more meat. tion, Denmark and Sweden operate a three-step control quirements. We expect to finish the certification proprocess: Self-checks, which are carried out by specially gramme in the course of 2020/21 and to start impletrained farm and abattoir staff; veterinary controls with menting it shortly after. state-employed veterinarians monitoring the entire process from rearing of the animals at the farms to In 2020/21, we will also update our animal welfare stratinspections of individual animals at the abattoir; and egy and policy based on our most recent knowledge and unannounced external controls performed by relevant experience with respect to solving animal welfare chalauthorities and customers. lenges, drawing, in particular, on experience from Sweden, a leader in that field with the most stringent animal The controls include the use of medicines, which is welfare requirements in the market. monitored closely at the farms and is always subject to Our approach approval by the affiliated veterinarians. Even though the Our animal welfare policy is based on the globally recoguse of antibiotics in livestock farming in Denmark and nised five freedoms defined by the Animal Welfare ComSweden is among the lowest in the world, we work International mittee (AWC). The policy applies to all markets, the procontinuously to reduce it even further. recognition duction of both pork and beef and all Danish Crown brands. It defines our position on important animal Our internal network of animal welfare managers and We have won international recognition for our welfare issues such as tying up and the use of boxes and veterinarians works across the group to ensure a comapproach to animal welfare. In April 2020, we farrowing pens, routine tail docking, teeth clipping or mon approach to these issues. Moreover, all employees were ranked Tier 2, the second highest level, in grinding, castration, transport, cloning and the use of handling livestock at our Danish and Swedish abattoirs the Business Benchmark for Farm Animal Welfare (BBFAW) Report 2019, the leading global genetically modified animals, growth promoters and complete an animal welfare training programme every measure of farm animal welfare disclosure in antibiotics, rooting material and pre-slaughter anaesthethree years. food companies. The report ranks 150 global Our ambition tisation. Animal welfare requirements are also set out in food companies across 37 animal welfare criteria We will promote the well-being of the covering all animal types. our Code of Practice for cooperative members, which lays As regards animal transport, we comply with European animals and their natural behaviour during all phases of production from down minimum requirements to be met by suppliers of standards and also have separate Codes of Practice for The Benchmark ranks Danish Crown among the farm to transport and slaughtering. pigs and sows to Danish Crown, in separate Codes of transporters of pigs, sows and cows in Denmark and companies that have made farm animal welPractice for haulage contractors in Denmark and Sweden Sweden. In addition to complying with national legislafare an integral part of their business strategy. The main reasons given for this ranking were and in our general Code of Conduct for suppliers. tion, the requirements of which are stricter than those increased transparency in relation to our manlaid down by the EU, we also require our transporters to agement approach and practices on promoting Our contribution to the SDGs EU animal welfare legislation sets out common miniensure quick, gentle and short transportation times animal welfare and veterinary health. We support target 2.4 by promoting mum requirements covering all markets. We also comply from farm to abattoir. sustainable food production systems and implementing resilient agricultural with national legislation, industry standards and cuspractices. tomer-specific welfare programmes that sometimes go 41 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Less waste water COD in waste water kg of COD per tonne produced and waste 10 9 8.7 9.9 8.1 8 Our production activities generate waste water with a 7 high content of organic material, and reducing the or6 ganic load in waste water is therefore a key element of 5 our efforts to optimise resource consumption and limit 4 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) expresses the volume of orour environmental impact. The same applies to our ini3 ganic material in waste water from our abattoirs and processing factories. In 2019/20, COD per produced volume fell by tiatives to minimise non-organic waste. 2 7 per cent compared with 2018/19, and it is our assessment that this is due to a combination of our initiatives to reduce 1 food waste, implement cleaner technologies and improve 0 wastewater treatment. 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 Our approach factories and Sokołów’s factories in Poland have been autumn 2020 and will be able to collect some 700 kg of Our efforts to reduce the environmental impact of waste certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental grease a day. This method presents a huge potential water and non-organic waste are an integral part of our standard for a number of years. In 2020, we started insofar as it can be used for our many other grease-conenvironmental management systems that ensure continimplementing an integrated environmental and health taining waste streams. uous improvements at our production sites. Targets and and safety management system, ‘One Management action plans for the environmental efforts of the individSystem’, at all our production facilities in Denmark and Our production sites collect as much as possible of the ual abattoirs and factories are defined on the basis of Sweden, and by end-2023, the system will be rolled out non-organic waste for recycling or reuse. About two the rules and regulations governing environmental to all our production sites across the world. The system thirds of the combustible waste from our Danish abatOur ambition issues in the countries in question and the environmenmay be certified according to both ISO 14001 and ISO toirs and factories is plastic waste, but 90 per cent of Our approach to environmental challenges builds on the precautionary tal performance already achieved. 45001. the plastic waste is either mixed types of plastic or principle, and we are continually contaminated with meat juice and therefore unsuitable working to reduce our environmental We are also in an ongoing dialogue with customers and We are continuously working to identify new ways to for reuse in the current Danish systems. However, we are footprint. suppliers on how to reduce the use of unnecessary packreduce the organic content of waste water (COD) from working to find buyers that are able to reuse the plastic aging and excipients and use the least environmentally our production and cleaning processes. In 2019/20, we currently sent to the incinerator plant. In spring 2020, harmful excipients in our production. Our efforts to tested a new method to remove grease from the waste we sent 6,000 outworn plastic transport boxes from our optimise the use of energy and water are described on water stemming from meat ball production at our factofactory in Herning, Denmark, to a company that recycles Our contribution to the SDGs We support targets 12.4 and 12.5 by page 28 and page 31, respectively, and our initiatives to ry in Esbjerg, Denmark. Meat balls are cooked in boilers the plastic into, among other things, refuse bags, pallets handling chemicals in an environmenminimise food loss and organic waste are described on that are continuously fed with water, and today, the overand dustbins. We are currently examining whether other tally responsible manner, reducing the page 26. flow is mixed with the rest of the waste water. The new parts of our plastic waste, in particular worn-out conrelease of harmful substances to air, method allows the grease to be separated and collected veyor belts, cutting mats and plastic cores from foil, can water and soil and reducing waste generation through prevention, recycling Our progress so that it can be used for production of biogas or biobe put to similar use. In Denmark alone, we collect more and reuse. Our Danish abattoirs in Danish Crown Pork and diesel. The grease removal tank will be installed in than 65,000 PE plastic cores a year. 42 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Reusing pallets New ways of recycling and reusing waste are also an area of interest in our cross-organisational waste optimisation project, see page 26. As part of this project, our abattoir at Blans, Denmark, is working with a local supplier on recycling broken wood pallets. Instead of turning the pallets into wood chips, they are repaired and recycled. Today, ten out of 11 pallets are repaired, and the few pallets that are non-recyclable are used to repair other pallets. In 2019/20, more than 10,000 pallets were sent for recycling, and in 2020/21, we will look into the possibility of implementing similar programmes at our other production sites. Responsible demolition of old factories Over the past 20 years, we have concentrated production at fewer but larger factories in Denmark and demolished more Based on this analysis, we conduct a so-called environmental than 20 shut-down factories. In 2019/20, we demolished a rehabilitation of the buildings, removing all unwanted subfactory at Skive and part of a factory at Esbjerg, Denmark. We stances and leaving only the clean concrete, steel and brick also commenced demolition of a factory at Sdr. Borup near buildings. These buildings are then demolished and crushed Randers, Denmark, as part of the construction of the group’s to allow the materials to be reused for other building and new headquarters. construction projects. Typically, 90­-95 per cent of the building materials are reused. In addition, we check the sites for Before we demolish a factory, we carefully analyse the consoil contamination, typically from old oil tanks and cinders tent of unwanted substances in the building materials, such from when coal was used as fuel. The land is cleaned up so as PCB, asbestos and heavy metals, that may pose a health as to make it safe to use again, and the contaminated soil is and safety risk and impede environmentally responsible retaken for soil decontamination or to special disposal sites. use of the building materials. 43 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Respecting human engage in ongoing dialogue with our cooperative members on the rights of their employees, and our sustainability programme, the Climate Track, also includes workwhere our contract staff typically comes from Eastern Europe. We are very aware of the risk of modern slavery in our supplier chain and continuously monitor third-party and labour rights place assessments and conditions of employment at farms. employment of contract staff. In 2019/20, we did not observe any issues of concern in the course of our supervision, which comprises both accommodation and emIf our employees or external parties suspect non-comployment conditions, including pay, while we naturally Millions of people around the world are affected by our pliance with our code of conduct and obligations, they also keep a watchful eye on the risk of COVID-19 infecbusiness activities. It is our responsibility to continuously can report it via our whistleblower scheme, see page 14. tion among employees and contract staff, see page 6. Lastly, as part of our reporting obligations in the UK, we improve the way in which we deliver healthy and safe publish an annual Statement on Modern Slavery Act, in food products and promote human rights and labour which we account for our efforts to limit the risk of rights in-house and in our global supply chain. modern slavery in our value chain. Our progress Following up on our work with Sedex in 2018, we evaluated our performance in 2020, extending the evaluation to cover 58 of our 93 production sites across our business units. Sedex changed its risk assessment approach in 2020, but the launch of their new risk tool has been Our approach delayed and we await the final assessment results. HowOur Code of Conduct for managers and employees, our ever, a preliminary analysis shows that new measures CSR policy and our Supplier Code of Conduct all build such as our anti-corruption policy have already had a on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human positive impact. Moreover, the analysis confirms that our Rights and the principles of the UN Global Compact. production sites abide by fundamental labour rights as Together with our production sites, our HR organisation set out in International Labour Organization (ILO) conFrom contract employee to perdevelops and handles processes and approaches that ventions insofar as 75 per cent have a union representamanent employee in Germany support our endeavours to ensure decent work for all, tive on their staff and 90 per cent have an occupational Wanting to reduce the number of third-party confreedom of association, equal opportunities, protection health and safety manager with specialist knowledge of tract staff, we launched a pilot project in Germany in Our ambition against discrimination and healthy and safe workplaces, occupational health and safety. When the final results late 2019 involving the permanent employment of We respect international conventions see page 36 are available, they will form part of an in-depth analysis 150 people at our abattoir in Essen, which has a total on human rights and labour rights, and production staff of more than 1,100. Subsequently, in of potential risks of negative impacts on human rights we strive to mitigate any negative efAugust 2020, the German parliament adopted a bill In the ongoing evaluation of our compliance with interand labour rights to be conducted in 2020/21. We intend to prohibit the use of third-party contract staff. The fects on human rights and labour rights in our organisation and our value chain. national sustainability principles, we use Sedex’s data to repeat the Sedex risk assessment in 2021/22. reasons given for the prohibition, which takes effect in platform and performance and risk assessment tools. January 2021, relate, among other things, to contract staff accommodation. We have supported the bill all These tools help us ensure acceptable working condiAs for many other food producers, access to labour is a along, although it will pose a challenge to our productions and comply with specific human rights. challenge for us. This is the case in all our production tion, especially during peak seasons, and we will use Our contribution to the SDGs countries, but we are particularly challenged in Poland, the lessons learned from the pilot project to comply We support targets 8.5, 8.7, 8.8 and As regards our suppliers, we require them to sign our Sweden and Germany, where through several years, up to with the prohibition. In 2020/21, we will also examine 16.2 by offering decent work, combatthe possibilities of utilising our experience in other Supplier Code of Conduct. We also require them to 80 per cent of our staff has from time to time been countries where we hire contract staff via third parties. ing modern slavery, protecting labour rights and providing a safe and stable respect human rights and labour rights further on in contract staff hired via a third party. The largest proporworking environment. their chain and encourage them to join Sedex. We also tion of third-party contract staff is found in Germany, 44 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Responsible supply requirements to be met by suppliers of pigs and sows to Danish Crown, and our haulage contractors are subject to special requirements. Requiring higher chain management Our progress Among the suppliers handled by our group procurement standards for drivers In 2018, we were involved in a case concerning potential violation of human and labour rights function, we are in the process of implementing our among our haulage contractors. In response to As a global food company, Danish Crown works closely Supplier Code of Conduct, which we launched in 2019. In this, Danish Crown and three Danish haulage contractors adopted a declaration on health, safety with suppliers and business partners all over the world. It accordance with our commitment to comply with the and rights for transport sector employees, which strictest food safety and quality standards for our prodis our responsibility to ensure that consideration is shown currently applies to about 80 per cent of Danish ucts, we focus especially on suppliers of food ingredients Crown’s external road transports in Europe. Drivers for animal welfare, food safety as well as environmental and other products which are either used directly in or are are guaranteed better accommodation, as also and social conditions across our supplier chain. in contact with our food products, as well as on logistics. stated in the report entitled Menneskerettighederne – sådan går det med de største danske virksomheders due diligence­indsats og rapportering At the end of 2019/20, more than 750 suppliers, coverpublished by Danish NGO Danwatch in August 2020. Moreover, the mobility package adopted by ing about 30 per cent of the purchases made at group the EU in July 2020 includes additional measures level, had endorsed our Supplier Code of Conduct. The to improve working conditions for EU drivers and goal is for 85 per cent to have endorsed our requireprotect them against social dumping. ments in 2020/21 and 90 per cent in 2021/22. We are Our approach currently in dialogue with a few of our suppliers regardOur Supplier Code of Conduct defines the minimum ing our endorsement of their own codes. All suppliers of requirements to be met by our suppliers of goods and meat to Danish Crown Foods have accepted the code. services. It is based on compliance with applicable national and international legislation and recognised Going forward, based on our digital platform, suppliers Stepping up due diligence international standards on animal welfare, food safety, can only make an agreement with our group procureenvironmental, human rights and labour rights and ment function if they have accepted our Supplier Code efforts for Brazil anti-corruption. Reflecting our commitment to comply of Conduct. Lastly, in 2019/20, we defined requirements ESS­FOOD, our trading company, sells and distribwith the UN Global Compact principles and the UN regarding imports of responsibly produced soy for our utes fresh and frozen food products all over the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the food production, see page 25. world. In February 2020, ESS­FOOD drew criticism for distributing meat from a Brazilian abattoir code sends a clear message that we want to work with without being provided with a guarantee for its orsuppliers who maintain responsible business conduct With a view to further developing our strategy work igin. The abattoir had been accused of having sold Our ambition and can help us meet our sustainability targets. concerning responsible supply chain management, our meat from cattle farmers who had been fined for We will integrate environmental, social illegal deforestation. procurement function is working closely with our susand ethical considerations into our business operations and through our We expect our suppliers to adopt policies and implement tainability team. Efforts included test audits with We have acted on criticism and are in the process value chain by making demands on our management systems aligned with their size and business cross-referencing of sustainability and quality audits. We of strengthening our due diligence processes suppliers. type and to make demands further on in their supply will use the lessons learned to develop our audit proin connection with reselling. The first step is to ensure that ESS­FOOD’s suppliers in Brazil accept chain. At the same time, we reserve the right to audit our gramme for the coming years and as input in defining our Supplier Code of Conduct. Secondly, we will suppliers, and we encourage them to join Sedex, a data risk categories and strengthening risk assessments of audit selected suppliers as soon as the COVID-19 platform for responsible sourcing in global supply chains. our suppliers. In 2020/21, we plan to strengthen the outbreak allows. We have ended our collaboration Our contribution to the SDGs with the abattoir in question, which was a minor implementation through staff training in our sourcing We support target 12.6 by encouraging supplier to ESS­FOOD. suppliers and business partners to We have also drawn up a separate Code of Practice for function and to define baselines for the various areas adopt sustainable practices. our cooperative members that lays down minimum and product categories. 45 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Fighting customise our education and training programmes to fit the duties discharged by our employees. We also encourage our employees and external partners to notify us if training into our onboarding process for new employees in the course of 2020/21. corruption they suspect non-compliance with the rules. One way to do this is via our whistleblower scheme, see page 14. Our Sedex analysis conducted in early summer 2020 showed that 68 per cent of the participating production sites were aware of our anti-corruption policy, which we Our progress consider satisfactory given that the policy is still being As we sell our products in more than 130 countries, In 2019/20, we rolled out our anti-corruption policy and rolled out. maintaining integrity and transparency in all our activiintroduced in-house guidelines for gifts, travels and hospitality and for how to avoid bribery. These measures In 2020/21, we will also draw up in-house guidelines for ties across geographies and cultures is critical to our have been followed up by clear communication from other areas covered by our policy and for possible grey credibility. Therefore, combating corruption in all its management regarding our expectations, and a new areas, including donations, sponsorships and contact forms is the responsibility of all the group’s managers anti-corruption e-learning module has been added to with public authorities. At the same time, we will keep a and employees. our compliance programmes. In addition to regular watchful eye on our activities in China and carefully training of relevant employees, we plan to integrate the assess the risk of corruption there. Our approach We work according to international principles for combating corruption and bribery, and our anti-corruption policy and relating guidelines apply to all employees in the countries in which we do business. Our expectations with regard to ethical business conduct are laid down in our Code of Conduct for managers and employees and reiterated in our Code of Conduct for suppliers. We also expect our suppliers to require their suppliers to contribute actively to combating corruption and bribery. Anti-corruption Our ambition Our anti-corruption policy is based on a preliminary in-house analysis of the main risks affecting Danish campaign We do not tolerate corruption or bribery, and we work actively to comply Crown, and we continuously expand our risk analyses Danish Crown In January, we ran an internal campaign throughout the group to increase emwith and support anti-corruption and anti-bribery legislation. regarding corruption and bribery in our organisation to is committed to ployee awareness of risks of corruption prevent violations. In addition, at our production sites, we use Sedex tools, see page 43, for evaluating in-house fighting corruption of our activities. awareness of our rules. Our contribution to the SDGs With a view to promoting a corporate culture that comWe support target 16.5 by working to eliminate corruption and bribery in all plies with anti-corruption rules, we provide guidelines their forms. in Danish, English, Chinese, Polish and German and 46 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Responsible partnerwork to create industry solutions for the import of responsible soy, see page 25, and in March 2020 we became a member of the World Business Council for ships and public affairs Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Together with other global actors in the food industry, we participate in WBCSD’s initiative ‘Food Reform for Sustainability and Health’, which aims to find business-driven solutions for We have many stakeholders around the world, and we seek the industry’s transformation, and we are working closedialogue and influence in areas that impact our business, just ly together on our upcoming MEAT2030 conference in 2021, see page 32. as we take responsibility for the areas affected by our activities. Openness and trust are the key to creating results that We are also satisfied with the outcome of the Danish benefit both our company and society. government’s tripartite agreement on extraordinary help for trainees, apprentices and companies, see page 35, and with the collective agreement negotiations for 20202023 (OK20). OK20 was agreed between the food sector trade union NNF and the employer organisation Dansk Industri for the slaughtering area in spring 2020. For the first time ever, employee health and welfare has been incorporated into the agreement itself, with a section on Our approach communications policy, which was approved in Septemhealth and safety. Also worth noting is that a protocol on The food industry often attracts attention, and we are ber 2020. The policy includes guidelines for public affairs the green transition has been included. This places focus occasionally met with strong opinions about our compato clarify our expectations for our lobbying work and enon further developing the company’s ability to adapt and ny. Constructive and respectful dialogue based on facts sure that we avoid conflicts of interest. The policy, for innovate, including competences and regularly increasis therefore crucial to our “license to operate” and our role example, makes clear that we wish to put our versatile ing qualifications, so employees and managers are as a socially conscious actor. Creating and maintaining skills and broad experience positively into play in initiaequipped to collaborate on sustainability. Here, and as trusting relations requires that we keep our promises, tives and partnerships that can contribute to the sustaincan often be the case, we use our experience from Denthat we listen and learn from our cooperation with others, able transition of both our company and society generally. mark and pass it on to the other countries we operate in. and that we involve and respect our stakeholders’ input when we formulate our opinions and make decisions. As part of our development and transition, we often Finally, the climate agenda attracted much attention enter partnerships with research institutes, and thereinternationally in 2019/20, and in Denmark our Group To formalise our approach to collaboration and dialogue fore in March 2020 we launched a standard for the CEO Jais Valeur took on the chairmanship of the Climate Our ambition with the society around us and our stakeholders, we group’s research projects. This standard is to ensure that Partnership for the Food and Agriculture sector, see We will act with integrity and reliability in all activities where we seek to influhave developed a number of policies and a code of our engagement complies with the principles for indepages 4, 5 and 18. He is also continuing in the governence and practise public affairs. conduct. These, together with communication and trainpendent research. The standard is thus a natural rement’s Green Business Forum with leading representaing, help ensure that we act as one across our group and sponse to the criticism in the Danish media in summer tives from the Danish business community. cultures and protect our reputation and brand. 2019 of our collaboration with Aarhus University and the Danish Agriculture and Food Council on the climate More recently, in August 2020, Jais Valeur also took on a Our contribution to the SDGs Our progress impact of beef and veal. role as chair of the Danish government’s restart team for We support target 17.17 by encouraging Our Code of Conduct, which was introduced in April 2019, the food industry, which aims to guide the industry as and participating in effective partnerships between companies, authorities, has served as the foundation for the development of our Of particular relevance for our work with sustainable carefully as possible through the export challenges and researchers and civil society. new whistle-blower scheme, see page 14, and our food production, we have in 2019/20 intensified our opportunities that COVID-19 offers. 47 Responsible business conduct Women in management Animal welfare Waste water and waste Human rights Supplier Chain management Anti-corruption Partnerships Tax Responsible tax Tax payment contributions Denmark We run a global business and make a considerable Danish Crown’s → Income tax contribution to society in the form of tax payments in cooperative members → VAT and duties → Personal taxes many countries. We recognise that tax payments are important for welfare and social development. We are Leverandørselskabet → Wealth tax Danish Crown AmbA responsible and open on tax matters. Danish Crown Danish activities → Taxes 11,540 employees → Personal taxes → VAT and duties 35 locations Rest of the World 11,456 employees → Corporation tax → Personal taxes 130 locations → VAT and duties Our approach dialogue and we work to build and maintain good relaThe key task of the cooperative is to ensure the highest We view openness and responsibility in relation to tax tions with the tax authorities in the countries where we value for the livestock our farmers supply, while creating matters as crucial to our credibility, and our tax policy have activities. opportunities for growth. We make regular payments to lays down the guidelines that apply to tax matters at the farmers for the livestock they supply, while the Danish Crown. The guidelines are founded on Danish Our progress majority of Danish Crown’s annual earnings are paid out Crown’s activities being driven by commercial decisions. To be transparent on tax matters we published our tax to cooperative members as a supplementary payment policy in March 2019. Our tax policy has applied since that is thus taxed at the level of the individual cooperaPaying the correct amount of tax on time and where the 2016, and we regularly prepare internal operational tive member. Hence, only a small share of annual earnvalue is created is fundamental for us. We place our guidelines covering the contents of the policy, and we ings are consolidated in Danish Crown for future operaOur ambition activities and investments where they make commercial are in continual dialogue with our internal partners to tions and business. We aim to ensure we comply with our sense, and where there is an opportunity to compete on ensure the policy is adhered to. tax obligations in the countries where equal terms in the industry. Danish Crown’s owners, the Danish farmers, pay income we have activities, while balancing our Our contribution through taxes tax in Denmark. Taxation of Leverandørselskabet Danish tax expenses in a responsible way based on commercial considerations. We recognise tax as an expense on an equal footing with As a cooperative, Danish Crown’s activities give rise to Crown AmbA reflects that tax liability is mainly with the other business expenses, which is why tax payments are various types of tax payments in the countries where we owners, which is why cooperative company tax in Denconsidered in all important business decisions. To enhave activities. mark is a capital gains tax based on equity. sure a reasonable level of tax payments for Danish Our contribution to the SDGs Crown, we focus on identifying, addressing and mitigatAs a Danish-based Group whose parent company is a In addition, our activities incur personal taxes on the We support the SDGs through our tax ing potential tax risks. We regularly assess our processes cooperative owned by Danish farmers, we are subject to salaries paid to the roughly 23.000 employees we have payments and accept the international and controls to ensure we comply with national and the rules on taxation of cooperatives. around the world. Likewise, corporate tax, VAT and dutax reforms that emerge from international organisations like the OECD international tax standards that are relevant for our ties are paid in connection with our regular operations. and EU. business. Moreover, we emphasise having an open Data and reporting principles Activity overview | Indicator overview | Data definitions 49 Data and reporting principles Activity overview Indicator overview Data definitions Activity overview Strategic Feeding the world Sustainable farming Sustainable food production Good jobs for everyone Together with customers Compliance and focus areas and consumers sustainability governance Key activities • Maintain reliability of supply • Include all pig cooperative mem• Train our own drivers in environ• Protect employees against out• Develop strategy for sustainable • Strengthen our governance 2019/20 to the global market during bers in our sustainability promentally friendly driving. breaks of COVID-19 at work. packaging. structure within sustainability. ­COVID-19 pandemic. gramme the Climate Track. • Utilise recovered surplus heat • Update health and safety policy. • Launch our Climate Controlled • Establish a whistleblower • Strengthen data quality and • Expand the Climate Track to from cooling systems and air • Launch Danish health and safety Pig concept, reinforce the ‘Dansk scheme. calculation methods for lifecyencompass cattle production compressors in Denmark, Swecampaign. Kalv’ concept and introduce • Update research on our contricle assessments of pork, veal and include the producers of den and Poland. • Screen for musculoskeletal displant-based products to provide bution to the UN Sustainable and beef. the ‘Dansk Kalv’ concept in the • Continue transition to 100 per orders (MSD) among employees consumers with a greater choice Development Goals and their • Develop action plan for importprogramme. cent renewable energy for proin Denmark and launch pilot of sustainably based purchasing underlying targets. ing responsibly produced soy. • Develop a function in the existduction and transport in Sweden. project on using mechanical exoptions. • Conduct a Sedex risk assessment • Chair the Danish government’s ing app to collect and calculate • Develop new water-saving techoskeletons. • Determine sources of food of our production sites. Climate Partnership for the sustainability data from pig pronology as a pilot project. • Conduct skills assessment in waste and develop a food-waste • Prepare a strategy for responsible Food and Agricultural sector. duction. • Develop programme for animal Denmark and develop customstrategy. supply chain management, in• Participate in the World Busi• Participate in research projects welfare certification of abattoirs. ised training programme for the cluding testing the integration of ness Council for Sustainable to reduce methane emissions group’s production employees. sustainability and quality audits. Development’s initiative ‘Food from cattle production through • Implement pilot project in Ger• Roll out anti-corruption policy, Reform for Sustainability and breeding and feed composition. many focused on reducing the guidelines and training. Health’. number of third-party contract • Launch communication policy staff. and standards for the group’s research projects and public affairs. Planned activities • Hold MEAT2030 conference. • Include suppliers of slaughter • Develop plan for sustainable • Develop MSD (musculoskeletal • Launch initiatives to fight food • Update CSR policy. 2020/21 • Implement soy action plan, pigs across more countries in our transport in our value chain and disorder) initiative based on waste at the retail and consumer • Implement integrated environincluding purchasing RTRS sustainability programme: The establish baseline for CO2 rescreening of employees in Denlevels. mental and occupational health (Roundtable on Responsible Climate Track duction. mark. • Implement our packaging strateand safety management system Soy)-certified soy and working • Strengthen governance of Dan• Investigate opportunities for • Roll out training programme for gy and develop new, sustainable at all production sites in Denwith FEFAC on improving the ish Crown’s sustainability proincreased electrification and parproduction staff in Denmark and packaging solutions. mark and Sweden. guidelines for responsible soy. gramme, The Climate Track. ticipate in development project tailor the programme to the en• Develop an ethics policy for data, • Complete lifecycle assessments • Continue to include cooperative to test high temperature heat tire group. including use of customer and of the environmental footprint members who produce ‘Dansk pumps for sustainable process • Continue to ramp up our efforts behavioural data. of pork, veal and beef from Kalv’ and begin to include supheat. to attract more apprentices, and • Further analyse specific potential farm to fork. pliers of young bulls and dairy • Identify new uses for the female and international job risks of negative impact human • Sign up to ‘Science Based Tarcattle in the sustainability pronon-edible parts of slaughter candidates and managers for the and labour rights in our value get initiative’. gramme. animals. group. chain. • Increase the use of responsibly • Establish full-scale plant for • Increase our efforts to reduce the • Continue to implement our produced soy in the feed mixes recycling process water and innumber of third-party contract Supplier Code of Conduct among of our cooperative members. itiate new pilot project to test staff and ensure decent condidirect suppliers and develop our • Update our animal welfare stratwater-saving technology. tions of employment. audit framework. egy and policy. • Improve the implementation of • Strengthen internal knowledge-­ • Develop and test biodiversity certification programme for anisharing on sustainability at our concepts for cooperative memmal welfare at abattoirs. production sites. bers and suppliers of slaughter animals in Denmark and Sweden. 50 Data and reporting principles Activity overview Indicator overview Data definitions Indicator overview KPI Unit ESG 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Animals: Organic, free-range and raised without antibiotics Number of animals 846.000 785,000 765,000 380,000 310,000 Feed efficiency1 Feed units per kg gain, all Danish pigs 2.63 2.66 2.70 2.70 Feed units per kg gain for pigs on the Climate Track 2.59 CO2 emissions Tonnes CO₂ * 363,335 410,869 3 371,678 2 & 3 380,673 2 416,417 2 Energy consumption MWh * 1,380,923 1,452,121 3 1,240,331 3 1,290,117 1,412,413 kWh per produced tonne * 588 599 509 512 630 Water consumption 1,000 m3 * 10,238 10,437 10,379 10,028 10,800 m3 per produced tonne * 4.36 4.17 3.77 3.98 4.82 COD in waste water kg per produced tonne 8.1 8.7 9.9 12.2 13.4 Lost time accidents Number of accidents per 1,000 FTEs * 27 28 41 35 38 Absence due to lost-time accidents Average days of absence per accident * 22.4 22.2 17.2 18.7 17.5 Women in management positions % * 38.1 37.8 28.0 27.9 25.8 Note: 1 F  or the CSR Report 2015/16 and the Sustainability Report 2018/19 we have used the average for all Danish Pigs. For 2019/20 figures derive from the Climate Track. 2 For these years, some parts of Scope 1 and Scope 2 are not included. 3 Due to inaccuracies in previous years' data calculations there figures are revised compared to figures in previous years Sustainability Reports: Energy consumption and carbon emissions included in Sustainability Report 2018/19 were reported app 121,394 MwH and respectively 2,004 tonnes too low. Energy consumption and carbon emissions included in CSR Report 2017/18 were reported app 269,351 MwH respectively 69,379 tonnes too high. * KPIs marked * are recognised and reported more or less in accordance with the recommendations of FSR – Danish Auditors, Nasdaq and the Danish Finance Society in the publication “ESG key figures in the annual report”, released in June 2019. Small differences in accounting principles may occur. Reporting scope and reporting principles Data in the sustainability report cover the accounting period from 1 October 2019 to 30 September 2020 to the The basic principles for data management and reporting are unchanged relative to last year, when the work probest possible extent. The legal entities included correspond to the entities included in the annual report (see the cedures and data definitions were updated. This sustainability report is largely inspired by the Global Reporting annual report for a description of inclusion principles and a complete list of companies). Enterprises acquired or Initiative (GRI) Standards, however without meeting the in-accordance criteria. Some of the data included in the established during the reporting period are included in the data from the date of acquisition or establishment. report are approximate figures based on calculations for slightly different periods. Material changes relative to Enterprises divested or closed down are included in the data until the date of divestment or closure. The date of prior years’ reported data or to calculation principles or methods are described in the data definition. divestment is the date when control of the enterprise passes to a third party. 51 Data and reporting principles Activity overview Indicator overview Data definitions Data definitions Sustainability figure Unit Definition Animals: Organic, free-range and Number of animals Total number of animals slaughtered which were raised organically, as free-range and/or without antibiotics. raised without antibiotics Feed efficiency Feed units per kg gain all Danish Figures derive from SEGES: ‘Country average for productivity, Pig production Denmark 2018. (based on reference feed efficiency for Pigs comparable pig growth intervals) Feed units per kg gain pigs on Figures derive from the Climate Track. the Climate Track CO₂ emissions Tonnes CO₂ Total CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) from natural gas, gas oil, fuel oil, gasoline, other fossil fuels, diesel, petrol, electricity, district heating and steam, liquified and compressed gas, dry ice, vacuum-packaging, anaesthesia and refrigerant losses. Calculations are primarily based on specific CO2 factors for each location. Where these are not available, the latest official CO2 factors from IEA (the International Energy Agency) are used. Energy consumption MWh Total consumption of fossil and renewable energy sources: natural gas, gas oil, fuel oil, gasoline, other fossil fuels, diesel, petrol, electricity, district heating and steam, liquefied and compressed gas, biomass energy, other alternative energy and own production of renewable energy. kWh per produced tonne Content in numerator: Total energy consumption. Content in denominator: Volume of produced products in tonnes. Water consumption 1,000 m3 Total consumption of water from all sources: Groundwater, surface water, (including collected rain water), sea water, water from municipality facilities and other external vendors, own wells or water collections. Bottled water purchased for drinking is not included. m3 per produced Content in numerator: Total water consumption tonne Content in denominator: Volume of produced products in tonnes. COD in waste water per produced kg per produced tonne Content in numerator: Total tonnes of COD in waste water. volume Content in denominator: Volume of produced products in tonnes. Lost time accidents Number of accidents per 1,000 Content in numerator: Number of work-related accidents An accident is recorded when it occurs during working hours and causes at least one day of absence FTEs after the day of the accident. Accidents during travel to/from work are generally not included. Both permanent and temporary employees at Danish Crown are included. Employees working for and managed by Danish Crown’s contractors and subcontractors are not included. Content in denominator: Number of 1,000 FTEs. Absence due to lost-time accidents Average days of absence per Content in numerator: Total workdays of absence due to lost-time accidents excluding the day of the accident. If an accident causes more periods of abaccident sence, all days of absence are included. Absence within the reporting period due to accidents in previous periods are not included. Content in denominator: Number of lost-time accidents. Women in management positions % of all management positions A manager is defined as an employee with managerial responsibility for other employees. Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) No. One FTE is equivalent to one employee working full-time (according to the employment hours in the countries where we operate). Data and figures are derived directly from the Annual Report 2019/20. Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA | Marsvej 43, DK-8960 Randers | +45 89 19 19 19 sustainability@danishcrown.com | danishcrown.com | CVR no. 21643939
