The Novozymes Report 2019 nce k e a differe ion we ma 9 bill Where i m a ted 5. s t ade n 2 0 1 9, an e products m I e used utions on a peopl ur sol with o y basi s weekl Rethink tomorrow Novozymes A/S 1 Our purpose Contents Together we find biological answers for better lives in a growing world – Let's rethink tomorrow The big picture Accounts and performance 48% 4 2019 in brief 52 Performance and consolidated 2019 in brief 14 Five-year summary financial statements 2019 was a challenging year for 15 Letter from the Board of 60 Performance and Novozymes. Several industries Directors environmental data experienced strong headwinds Novozymes holds an 17 Letter from the CEO 62 Performance and social but there were signs of recovery in estimated 48% share of Household Care. 19 This is Novozymes & governance data the global enzyme market. 21 Novozymes and the Sustainable 64 Notes Development Goals 136 Statements 142 Financial statements for Strategy Our business Novozymes A/S Novozymes’ updated strategy Better 24 Strategy 157 Glossary business with biology was launched in 29 Risk management 158 About the report June 2019. It will help us capture the right opportunities at the right time 33 Targets together with our customers. 34 Outlook for 2020 Sustainability 161 CEO statement Governance 162 Progress on the UNGC 37 Corporate governance Ten Principles Explore 40 Board of Directors 163 Materiality the highlights of the 42 Executive Leadership Team Novozymes Report 2019 164 Sustainability governance at report2019.novozymes.com 44 Remuneration report 165 Measuring our performance 49 The Novozymes stock 168 Driving action with our stakeholders 4 2019 in brief 14 Five-year summary 15 Letter from the Board of Directors 17 Letter from the CEO 19 This is Novozymes 21 Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals Wher Novo e we mak zyme ead to an s’ iffere estim solutions nc ated contr e tons savin ibute CO2 f g of 8 d or ou r cus 7 million in 20 tomer 19 s The big ­picture Financial highlights 2019 2019 Key figures ­realized outlook1 DKK Sales growth, organic (1)% (2)-0% EBIT margin 28.1% 27-28% 28.1% -1% -2% Net profit growth Net investments excl. acquisitions, DKKbn (2)% 1.0 (5)-0% 0.8–1.0 EBIT margin Organic sales growth Net profit growth (2018: 28.3%) (2018: 4%) (2018: 3%) Free cash flow before acquisitions, DKKbn 2.2 1.9–2.3 The EBIT margin ended at 28.1%, down Total sales in 2019 were DKK 14,374 Net profit declined by 2% to ROIC (including from 28.3% in 2018. Excluding the million, a decline of 1% organically DKK 3,155 million in 2019, down goodwill) 21.1% ~21% ­one-time costs incurred in 2019 relating and flat in DKK. from DKK 3,227 million in 2018. Avg. USD/DKK 667 667 to organizational changes, and the net gain from the termination of The BioAg Overall unsatisfactory sales growth 1. Outlook guided as of October 23, 2019. Alliance and from the divestment of in 2019 mainly due to challenging the pharma-related royalty, the EBIT agricultural markets. margin in 2019 was around 26%. 21.1% ROIC (2018: 24.2%) Return on invested capital (ROIC), including goodwill, was 21.1%, down 3.1 percentage points from 24.2% in 2018. The decrease was mainly a result of higher net invested capital. ROIC was impacted negatively by 0.8 percentage point by the  Outlook 2020 implementation of IFRS 16.   See more details on performance  in Accounts and performance Sustainability highlights 2019 2019 Key figures realized target Estimated reduction in CO2 emissions through our customers’ application of our 0.9 31% 30% products, in million tons 87 ≥ 94 < organic Lost time injuries/million working hours Women in senior management Renewable energy Growth in absolute sales (2018: 2.4%) (2018: 30%) (2018: 23%) water consumption (4)% growth < organic Novozymes achieved its 2020 safety In 2019, we exceeded our target Energy from renewable sources Growth in absolute sales target one year ahead of time with of 29% for women in senior accounted for 30% of our total energy consumption (5)% growth just 0.9 lost time injuries per million management (directors or higher). energy consumption in 2019. ≤ organic working hours in 2019. This is the best This is a result of our continued focus In Denmark, Brazil and Tianjin, Growth in absolute sales result ever to be achieved across the on improving diversity. we purchase our electricity from CO2 emissions (24)% growth organization. renewable resources. Renewable energy 30% 28% Occupational accidents1 0.9 ≤ 1.5 Employee absence 1.9% ≤ 2.0% Better business 1.5°C 87,000,000 with biology Women in senior management 31% ≥ 29% 2020-2022 Enabling employee development 77 ≥ 75 We are committed to providing the world with Tons of CO2 emissions saved biological solutions that can help limit global Customer satisfaction2 54 ≥ 50 warming increase to 1.5°C. This commitment In 2019, our customers saved an estimated 87 million tons of CO2 has been validated by the Science Based emissions by applying Novozymes’ products. The savings achieved are 1. Per million working hours. Targets Initiative. equivalent to taking approximately 36 million off the road. 2. Defined as Net Promoter Score. See more details in Accounts and performance Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 5 Sales by geography North America Europe, the Middle East Latin America Asia Pacific & Africa 33% 37% 10% 20% of sales of sales of sales of sales -6% Organic sales growth 3% Organic sales growth 5% Organic sales growth -3% Organic sales growth Organic sales declined 6% in 2019 compared Organic sales grew 3% in 2019 compared Organic sales in Latin America grew Organic sales in Asia Pacific declined 3% in with 2018. Difficult market conditions for with 2018. Moderate growth in Household 5% in 2019 compared with 2018. While 2019 compared with 2018, as performance in Bioenergy and Agriculture & Feed had Care and Food & Beverages, paired with Agriculture & Feed was negative, the very Food & Beverages was curbed by weakness a negative impact on the overall sales strong growth in Agriculture & Feed, shaped good performance was primarily driven in starch processing and the negative effects performance. Sales in Household Care, Food the good performance in 2019 overall. by Bioenergy as more corn-based ethanol from the Middle East. & Beverages and Technical & Pharma grew Bioenergy and Technical & Pharma were capacity came online during the year. in 2019. slightly down. Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 6 Sales by industry Industries 5% of sales (2018: 6%) Household Care 33% of sales 13% Food & Beverages (2018: 32%) of sales Bioenergy (2018: 14%) Sales by Agriculture & Feed industry 20% Technical & Pharma of sales (2018: 19%) 29% of sales Novozymes holds an estimated 48% (2018: 29%) share of the global enzyme market. One out of five of Novozymes’ industries grew in 2019. Household Care delivered according to expectations set out at the beginning of the year. Bioenergy, BioAg, and Food & Beverages were negatively impacted by weak agricultural Organic sales growth markets. 1% -1% -3% -5% -3% Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 7 Household Care Product launches Medley® 3.0 – Next generation of Key industry trends Consumers are willing to pay more for liquid blends upgraded with the latest natural products technology to meet consumer needs and the latest product formats Compaction of laundry detergents remains a strong trend, driven by Achieve Advance – New enzyme for low increased sales through online retailers temperature automatic dishwashing and the desire to reduce the use of plastics 33%of total sales Strong interest in freshness solutions for the removal of malodor and grime, including in synthetics Growing interest in microbial cleaning and bio-based solutions for softeners and dishwashing by hand 1% Organic sales growth 2020 outlook 2019 results Growth with local customers primarily came from increased enzyme penetration and sales Organic sales growth is expected to be Sales in Household Care grew 1% for the in developed markets grew moderately in supported by the continued rollout of year. Sales reported in DKK grew 3% for the 2019. Sales in emerging markets declined, as the Freshness platform and increased SDG impact full-year. strong growth in India throughout the year penetration in emerging markets. was offset by the weaker Chinese market The sales performance in 2019 benefitted early in the year and the annualization of Some of our larger customers are expected from solid growth with local customers and negative impact from the Middle East. to further stabilize their performance, the negative trend in business with large whereas medium and small laundry global customers subsiding. The commercial The negative impact from the Middle East detergent producers are expected to Our solutions contribute to rollout of the Freshness platform progressed was another reason for the shifting sales continue improving their formulations with reducing aquatic pollution, as planned and key innovation milestones performance from a slight decline in the first further inclusion of enzymatic solutions. among other things. were achieved. Freshness was predominately six months to solid growth in the back half of a second half sales growth contributor. the year. Read more about our contributions to the SDGs Read more about our Household Care solutions at Novozymes.com Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 8 Food & Beverages Product launches Frontia® Jade – New addition to our Key industry trends Growing consumer demand for highGrain milling platform for the Chinese quality, healthy and sustainable foods market, extracting extra value from corn by releasing more starch, fibers and Consumers focus on brands using local protein and clean label ingredients catering to local tastes, traditions and cultures Continued focus on yield enhancement 29%of total sales solutions in agro-processing industries Strong interest from emerging markets in production optimization solutions 2020 outlook Organic sales growth is expected to be -1% broad-based with all regions contributing to growth. Emerging markets are expected to Organic sales outgrow developed markets. growth The ramp-up of Frontia® for grain milling will continue across regions and hence will be an important growth contributor, while growth in the starch business is expected to be more muted. SDG impact 2019 results However, there was strong demand for Frontia®, the recently launched grain milling Beverages are projected to grow in line with Organic sales in Food & Beverages declined solution, in 2019. the industry average. Food & nutrition is 1% for the year. Sales reported in DKK grew expected to continue its good momentum, 1% for the full-year. Food & nutrition contributed positively supported by accelerating health awareness to growth with strong demand for protein trends. Our solutions contribute to making Growth in the second half of the year was ingredients and plant extraction solutions as food production systems more not enough to offset the weak start to well as for Saphera® in dairy. Baking ended sustainable. the year. 2019 was a difficult year in the the year flat, while sales in beverages grew starch processing business due to adverse moderately. Read more about our Food & Beverages Read more about our commodity prices in China and severe solutions at Novozymes.com contributions to the SDGs weather conditions in the US Midwest. Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 9 Bioenergy Product launches Innova® Force – New yeast for the Key industry trends Growing demand for clean energy as ethanol industry that, in combination climate change and sustainability are with our enzymes, delivers the most high on public agendas reliable and flexible solution available on the market Increase in global biofuel mandates continues, driven by key emerging Innova® Fit – Dry version of our yeast markets for the ethanol industry that enables 20%of total sales penetration of markets in Latin America and Europe, as well as markets in the US Fortiva® – Unique new offering in Strong pressure on US ethanol industry due to low producer margins and high inventories ethanol liquefaction to meet demand for increased yield even in high-temperature conditions -3% Organic sales 2020 outlook growth Organic sales developments are expected to be driven by continued penetration of the Innova® yeast technology for first-generation biofuels, starch-based production capacity expansion in Latin America, and innovation SDG impact targeting the North American business. 2019 results Further, the North American market was impacted by low ethanol production margins, Uncertainty remains about the volume of US In 2019, sales in Bioenergy declined 3% elevated inventories and fewer export ethanol production in 2020 given continued organically and was flat in reported DKK. opportunities. low ethanol producer margins and elevated inventories. Currently, we estimate a flat We promote the development The business was negatively impacted by The continued capacity expansion of starchyear-on-year development in US ethanol and deployment of low-carbon severe weather conditions in the US Midwest, based ethanol production in Latin America production. transportation fuels. with Novozymes’ ethanol customers pulling and the penetration of Novozymes' new back more than the industry average as yeast platform contributed positively to the Read more about our Bioenergy Read more about our solutions at Novozymes.com contributions to the SDGs reported by the EIA (US Energy Information performance. Administration). Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 10 Agriculture & Feed Product launches CTS500 – A new industrial biological Key industry trends Agriculture affected by more frequent soybean inoculant developed in extreme weather conditions collaboration with Bayer for the Brazilian market, bringing together biological Sustainable yield enhancement still inoculants of selected bacteria with high in high demand as world population efficiency and nitrogen fixation grows, putting pressure on agricultural sector to produce more and better Optimize 500 – Robust inoculant with products while minimizing negative 13%of total sales improved performance and on-seed stability for soy environmental impact Increasing focus on feed efficiency and animal health with less use of antibiotics Farmer sensitivity to fluctuations in commodity prices -5% 2020 outlook Organic sales growth Organic sales developments are subject to uncertainty, primarily due to global farm economics and trade-related concerns. 2019 results Our solutions for other crops, mainly soy, Further, 2020 will be the first full year with were more challenged. Feed sales were the agricultural business operating under the In 2019, sales in Agricultural & Feed declined flat and was supported by Balancius™ new partnership structure. SDG impact 5% organically and by 8% in reported DKK. for improved gut health in poultry, while performance in animal nutrition was soft. Performance in Feed is predominately Weak US farm economics impacted the expected to be driven by the continued business negatively in 2019, and the effect Novozymes recognized DKK 24 million commercialization of Balancius™ for poultry. was further amplified by severe weather of deferred income as revenue in 2019, Sales to the agricultural industry is expected conditions in the US Midwest. In April, the compared with DKK 169 million in 2018. to benefit from continued penetration of Our solutions support sustainable negotiations with Bayer were concluded The remaining balance of DKK 287 million corn inoculants for the North American food production and resilient and the new BioAg setup was announced. was recognized as Other operating income market. agricultural practices. BioRise, the new inoculant for upstream corn in the second quarter, and there is no longer launched in partnership with Bayer, has been any deferred income related to The BioAg Read more about our Agriculture & Feed Read more about our well received by the market and contributed Alliance on the balance sheet. solutions at Novozymes.com contributions to the SDGs positively to growth. Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 11 Technical & Pharma Key industry trends Water scarcity and water pollution driving legislation and demand Where for solutions that reduce water we ma consumption and improve water quality Our so ke a d lutions ifferen im prove ce across proces indust ses Major apparel companies are rethinking textile r ies suc s, leat h as her, wa their supply chains to accommodate forest stewat and ph er, increased public interest for 5% arma. sustainability in fashion. Regulatory changes might follow, leading to renewed interest for biological of total sales alternatives to the harsh chemicals currently used Focus on cost reduction and process 2019 results optimization continues Sales in Technical & Pharma declined 3% for -3% the year. Sales reported in DKK declined 6% for the full-year. Organic sales growth Sales in the textile business declined as production in the industry shifted from China, where enzyme utilization is higher, to areas with lower enzyme usage. SDG impact 2020 outlook The industry was impacted by shifting textile markets in China, especially during the second half of 2019, which is expected to Our solutions contribute to reducing continue in 2020. aquatic pollution and improving wastewater treatment. Read more about our Technical & Pharma Read more about our solutions at Novozymes.com contributions to the SDGs Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 12 In 2019, Novozymes generated value of Economic contribution DKK 15,006 million. 89% of this amount was returned to society. The remaining 11% was reinvested in Novozymes to develop the company and ensure competitiveness and future value generation for distribution among key stakeholders. Sales DKK 15,006 million Financial & other income In addition to the 12% returned to capital 96% 4% providers, Novozymes bought back shares worth DKK 2 billion in 2019. Generated value A positive tax contribution Novozymes’ overall tax strategy and transfer-pricing policy support a positive tax Capital Reinvested in contribution to society and governments, and Suppliers providers Community Novozymes Employees the company continuously works to fulfill its Distributed tax obligations in the countries in which it value operates. We seek to obtain a competitive tax level in a fair and responsible way, and with full regard to national and international laws and regulations. Besides taxes, our economic contributions include duties, VAT, employee taxes, employee pension and benefit programs, procurement from local vendors and job creation. In 2019, Novozymes incurred corporate income taxes and other taxes and duties that amounted to approximately DKK 1,675 million. In addition, Novozymes collected and withheld tax contributions on dividends and wages 41% 11% 25% totaling approximately DKK 1,325 million. Novozymes’ total tax contribution therefore DKK amounted to approximately DKK 3,000 million, DKK DKK used to purchase goods and returned to the community by used for employee wages, compared with approximately DKK 2,500 services from our suppliers paying corporation tax, other pensions, etc. 12% 11% million in 2018. taxes and duties in dividends and ﬁnancial costs reinvested in Novozymes for for our capital providers future value generation Novozymes A/S The big picture 2019 in brief 13 Five-year summary DKK million 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Income statement Key ratios Revenue 14,002 14,142 14,531 14,390 14,374 Revenue growth, DKK % 12 1 3 (1) Gross profit 8,129 8,126 8,413 8,255 7,954 Revenue growth, organic % 4 2 4 4 (1) EBITDA 5,011 4,960 5,114 5,158 5,292 R&D costs (% of revenue) % 13.5 13.2 13.2 13.0 13.7 Operating profit / EBIT 3,884 3,946 4,047 4,070 4,039 Gross margin % 58.1 57.5 57.9 57.4 55.3 Financial items, net (257) (34) (157) (117) (235) EBITDA margin % 35.8 35.1 35.2 35.8 36.8 Net profit 2,825 3,050 3,120 3,227 3,155 EBIT margin % 27.7 27.9 27.9 28.3 28.1 Effective tax rate % 22.0 21.4 19.5 18.0 17.0 Balance sheet Equity ratio % 65.2 62.9 61.3 58.1 56.2 Total assets 17,791 18,659 18,373 19,697 20,437 NIBD/EBITDA x 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.8 Shareholders’ equity 11,593 11,745 11,267 11,438 11,480 Return on equity % 24.7 26.1 27.1 28.4 27.5 Invested capital 11,891 12,584 12,880 13,953 15,507 ROIC including goodwill % 25.9 25.1 25.6 24.2 21.1 Net interest-bearing debt 437 990 1,642 2,535 4,049 WACC after tax % 5.3 6.5 6.5 6.6 6.6 Earnings per share (EPS), diluted DKK 9.12 10.06 10.49 11.03 11.01 Investments and cash flows Dividend per share (2019 proposed) DKK 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 5.25 Cash flow from operating activities 3,339 3,840 4,063 3,679 3,196 Key ratios have been prepared in accordance with The Danish Finance Society’s “Recommendations & Financial Ratios 2015 Nordic Edition” while certain key figures for the Novozymes Group were prepared Purchases of property, plant and equipment 968 1,076 1,593 1,332 862 as described in the Glossary. Net investments excluding acquisitions 1,015 1,188 1,665 1,388 991 IFRS 16 was implemented using the modified retrospective approach, and comparative figures for 20152018 have not been restated. Free cash flow before net acquisitions and securities 2,324 2,652 2,398 2,291 2,205 Business acquisitions, divestments and purchase of financial assets (242) (161) (3) (4) 430 Environmental and social data Free cash flow 2,082 2,491 2,395 2,287 2,635 Total number of employees No. 6,485 6,441 6,245 6,427 6,125 Rate of employee turnover % 9.1 10.4 11.9 8.8 12.7 F ​ requency of accidents with absence per million working hours 2.5 2.2 1.6 2.4 0.9 Women in senior management % 24 25 26 30 31 Estimated CO2 reductions from customers’ Mill. application of Novozymes’ products tons 60 69 76 88 87 Novozymes A/S The big picture Five-year summary 14 Letter from the Board of Directors Better business with biology “Novozymes is uniquely positioned to make a lasting and positive impact on the world. In terms of performance, 2019 was a difficult year, but it was also a year in which we made significant changes to prepare for the future and ensure we have long-lasting impact.” Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Chairman Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the Board of Directors 15 Letter from the Board of Directors Sustainability and climate change were once potential impact of climate change. Our new committee worked diligently on the changes to Thank you more on the political agenda in 2019. We nonfinancial targets are a testament to this the Executive Leadership Team and the Board The Board would like to thank all of must find sustainable solutions now to some commitment. We have ensured that we have of Directors, to ensure the right leadership for Novozymes’ employees for their achievements of the greatest challenges humanity has ever targets for the impact of our solutions when Novozymes. and dedication in what was a challenging year. faced. Every product Novozymes sells makes applied by our customers and for our own A special heartfelt thank you goes to Peder the world more sustainable. However, the operations. For the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting on Holk Nielsen for his 35 years of dedicated potential of our products did not reflect in our February 26, 2020, the Board of Directors service. performance in 2019. We can do so much more One of our operational targets is to help limit proposes the re-election of four current and, with the changes we made in 2019, we are global warming to 1.5°C, and we were among members and the election of three new It has been a great journey. In his six years as headed in the right direction. the first companies in the world to have this members, all for a one-year term. The three Chief Executive Officer, Peder has positioned commitment verified by the Science Based new members are: Novozymes to capture stronger growth and we A new step in our strategic journey Targets Initiative. It makes me proud that have expanded our global footprint, especially Together with the Executive Leadership Team, we once again have taken the lead in driving • Cees de Jong as new Vice Chairman of the in emerging markets. Under his leadership we the Board of Directors spent significant sustainable business development. Board have delivered a number of transformational time in the first part of 2019 on developing • Sharon James as new member of the Board innovations that will impact the business of an updated strategy and a set of ambitious Changes to our leadership and the Board • Heine Dalsgaard as new member of the our customers and the world for years to come. financial and nonfinancial targets for In 2019, the Board appointed Lars Green as Board Here I would like to mention BalanciusTM, our Novozymes. The strategy, Better business new Chief Financial Officer. He joined us from a first gut-health enzyme for chickens, as well with biology, reflects our need to rebalance position on the Executive Management at Novo Cees de Jong is a highly regarded business as our game-changing freshness solution for the organization to ensure we can invest in Nordisk and had been serving on Novozymes’ leader and we expect him to make a significant laundry to name but a few. In addition, Peder growth and our desire to better meet the needs Board since 2014 and as Chairman of our contribution to the further development of has pushed Novozymes towards operational of customers, consumers and the world by Audit Committee. His ability to set the Chief Novozymes’ performance and strategy. Sharon excellence. providing sustainable biological solutions. Financial Officer agenda and engage with James has more than 25 years’ experience as the organization will help us deliver on our a strong R&D leader and the Board believes Soon we will welcome Ester as the new Chief I am inspired and excited about how we are strategy. Following his appointment, the Board she will be able to contribute significantly Executive Officer and the Board and I look able to tap into global trends to support not of Directors elected Ms. Agnete Raaschouto Novozymes’ focus on prioritization and forward to working together with her and only growth in our innovative core businesses, Nielsen as new chair of the Audit Committee. strategic opportunities. Heine Dalsgaard has the rest of the Executive Leadership Team to but also the new Strategic Opportunity Areas many years’ experience across a range of unfold the updated strategy. The world needs we have identified. To align our innovation In October 2019, we appointed Ester Baiget industries, and we believe Novozymes will Better business with biology. efforts with the need to get more out of our as new Chief Executive Officer of Novozymes benefit from his leadership skills and business core business, we have also focused our effective from February 1, 2020. Ester is an acumen. On behalf of the Board of Directors, innovation pipeline. We are now spending experienced international leader with a very more resources on fewer projects. The Board strong track record of driving profitable growth. Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen (currently Vice believes this will help us to restore growth both Her passion for the sustainability agenda also Chairman) will resign as part of the succession short and long term. makes her a great fit for Novozymes. plan for the Board of Directors. The Board wishes to express its appreciation for Agnete’s Making commitments to sustainability During 2019, the Nomination and dedication and long-standing contribution. Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen As front runners within sustainable business Remuneration Committee worked on a Chairman development, it is important that we commit proposal for a new remuneration policy and a to doing whatever we can to reduce the new remuneration structure. Furthermore, the Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the Board of Directors 16 Letter from the CEO A year of change “2019 was a challenging year for Novozymes. Some of our businesses were impacted more severely than we had anticipated, leading us to adjust our guidance. But we also brought significant innovation to the market and re-focused our efforts and investments where they matter most. We believe Novozymes is well-positioned to deliver stronger performance in the years to come.” Peder Holk Nielsen President & CEO Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the CEO 17 Letter from the CEO Novozymes did not deliver a satisfactory Better business with biology complements the current range of yeasts from 2019 marks my last year with Novozymes, as performance in 2019. While we launched In the first half of 2019, the Board of Directors our Innova platform and enables ethanol I will be stepping down as Chief Executive significant innovations across industries and and the Executive Leadership Team coproducers to choose a yeast that is an exact Officer and handing over the reins to Ester began to see improved sales performance in developed an updated strategy to help us fulfill fit for their operating conditions. Since we Baiget as of February 1, 2020. I know that our the second half of 2019, our sales growth came our potential and at the same time reflect our launched our Innova platform in early 2018, purpose resonates with Ester and I am sure she in below the expectations we had at the outset obligation to our customers and to the world. more than 25% of North American ethanol will quickly feel like a true Zymer. of the year. In June 2019, we presented the strategy, Better plants have begun to use our yeasts. business with biology. Looking ahead Bioenergy and Agriculture experienced strong In 2019, we opened our first Customer In 2020, we may see a continuation of the headwinds due to flooding and wet weather With this strategy, we will differentiate Experience Center for Household Care unstable agricultural markets which could in the US Midwest. At the same time, unstable our approach to customers based on in Beijing where we showcase what our continue to impact the ag-exposed parts of our markets in the Middle East compounded their needs and we will invest in emerging technology can do for our customers and business. Therefore, we have set a rather wide the negative impact. We were hit by several markets and strategic opportunity areas to for end-consumers. The detergent market in sales growth expectation of 1-5%. Growth will external factors, but we also looked inwards ensure we grow our business and enhance emerging markets is expected to grow, and we be supported by the continued development and had to acknowledge that external our impact. While we see strength in our want to ensure we are meeting local customers’ and commercialization of the Freshness factors were not solely to blame. This insight diversified business, it also obligates us to needs even better and faster. 2019 was also platform, BalanciusTM, Palmora and Frontia® influenced our strategy, Better business with gain a deeper understanding of the diverse the year when many Zymers in Denmark could and different yeast solutions for biofuels. biology. industries we operate in, so we can capitalize move in to our new Innovation Campus in on opportunities when they arise. The work Lyngby. Years ago, we had a vision to create Thank you We had organic sales of -1%, EBIT came in at related to the strategy is already progressing a workplace where a variety of functions in Finally, I would like to thank all our 28.1% and we experienced a net profit decline well. Novozymes, from back office to laboratories, stakeholders, especially my fellow Zymers, of -2%. Throughout the year, we adjusted our would work side by side in the same building. for 35 great years with the company. The outlook to reflect the challenges we faced. In August 2019, we said goodbye to many good That vision has now come to life, and I can tell enthusiasm and drive of Zymers has made it While several industries did poorly, we did see colleagues to free up the resources to reinvest you that it is very exciting to walk through the a pleasure to go to work every day. I feel very signs of recovery in Household Care. It is in in high growth areas. This was a tough time campus and see our innovation in Denmark at privileged to have been a part of Novozymes’ times like these that we become even more at Novozymes, and we have worked hard to work. journey. A new chapter is starting now, both appreciative of the benefits of a diversified ensure that both the employees who left us for Novozymes and for me. I know there is a lot business like Novozymes, and the fact that and those who stayed have the right support. Changes to our leadership of excitement in the company around Better we do not rely on only one industry for our In September, we welcomed Lars Green as our business with biology and I wish the company success. Innovation at the core of what we do new Chief Financial Officer. He brings extensive a bright, green and growing future. Biology remains at the core of what we do, experience and a good cultural match to In 2019, we remained focused on delivering and we remain the world leader in biological Novozymes from his previous position with on our sustainability targets. We managed to solutions. In 2019, we delivered several strong Novo Nordisk. As a member of our Board of reach our 2020 safety target one year ahead new innovations, and I would like to mention a Directors, he was already a strong contributor of time and achieved the best safety result to few of them here. to our strategy work and since starting as Chief Peder Holk Nielsen date with just 0.9 lost time injuries per million Financial Officer he has been instrumental in President & CEO working hours. Every Zymer should feel safe In Food & Beverages, we expanded our ensuring that the strategy takes root in the going to work every day, and we will continue Grain milling platform with Frontia® Jade, a organization. to prioritize safety. solution tailor-made for the Chinese market. In Bioenergy, we launched Innova® Force, which Novozymes A/S The big picture Letter from the CEO 18 This is Novozymes As a global market leader in biological solutions, Novozymes is everywhere, delivering natural, sustainable solutions that make a positive contribution to our environment – be it the air we breathe, the water we use or in reducing the waste we produce. In fact, an estimated 5.9 billion people around the globe use products made with our solutions on a weekly basis. From the clothes you wear to the food you eat and the ethanol that powers your car, Novozymes is there. Where is Novozymes? We are everywhere – with natural, Here are some examples of how Novozymes’ solutions make an impact. sustainable solutions to make lives better. Our enzymes remove tough stains and enable low-temperature washing while also protecting the ﬁbers in clothing Our solutions save time, water and energy and reduce the use of Our enzymes improve chemicals in textile the softness and production freshness in bread, reducing bread waste Our wastewater portfolio makes wastewater treatment more eﬃcient and reduces In agriculture, our microbes the use of chemicals and enzymes increase crop yields, reduce the use of chemicals and improve animal health, growth and feed utilization Laundromat Clothing 4 u Bakery Novozymes A/S The big picture This is Novozymes 19 Novozymes produces industrial enzymes and microorganisms for a broad range of Our enzymes help create industries. We are more than 6,100 employees on six continents. This is our purpose lactose-free and other “free-from” foods that are that guides us in everything we do: Together we find biological answers for better becoming increasingly lives in a growing world – let’s rethink tomorrow. popular around the world To know more about our business model, please visit www.novozymes.com/en/businessmodel Our solutions improve the ﬁltration and ﬂavor of beer while also optimizing the brewing process Our enzymes make the process of preparing, degreasing and tanning leather more eﬃcient and sustainable Our enzymes improve eﬃciency in paper mills and help reduce the use of chemicals Our bioenergy solutions are used to make biofuels from renewable sources helping to reduce your car’s carbon emissions relative to ordinary gasoline The Brewing Bar Newsstand e Groc ries Shoes Novozymes A/S The big picture This is Novozymes 20 Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals Novozymes is the global market leader in biological solutions, producing a wide range of industrial enzymes and microorganisms. The intrinsically sustainable nature of Novozymes’ products enables us to contribute to many of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN General Assembly. Novozymes’ purpose, business strategy and targets are inspired by the SDGs because our solutions enable us to contribute to one or more of the SDGs every single day. All projects in our innovation pipeline are assessed in relation to their potential impact on the SDGs. This enables us to advance solutions that could have a highly positive impact on the SDGs. In 2019, as part of our strategy review process, we identified new business areas that directly address the societal needs outlined in the SDGs. We believe in the power of partnerships and most of our contributions are driven through collaboration. SDG 17 (Partnership for the goals) is therefore a guiding principle for our company and the way we do business. In addition, we believe Novozymes’ technologies and actions can contribute significantly to six See also Novozymes and the global goals for more of the seventeen SDGs: details about how we contribute to the SDGs Novozymes A/S The big picture Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals 21 GLOBAL GOAL 2: ZERO HUNGER GLOBAL GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY The world needs to provide enough healthy, affordable and sustainably produced food Novozymes actively promotes the development and increased use of renewable energy. for a growing population. Many of our products help farmers around the world increase Our solutions enable the development of low-carbon fuels in transportation, which their crop productivity using products containing naturally occurring microbes. Many represents a significant share of the global energy mix and related GHG emissions. of our Food & Beverages solutions contribute to reducing food waste and making food Novozymes is an active member of the UN Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) initiative. production systems more sustainable. Novozymes is an active partner of the Sustainable In collaboration with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and Food Platform, an initiative under the P4G partnership that aims to rethink market-based other partners, we helped launch below50 – a partnership to promote the use of more solutions for food and nutrition security in Africa. sustainable low-carbon transportation fuels. In 2019, the partnership developed its first product idea for a healthy, nutritious and In 2019, Novozymes launched Fortiva®, an alpha-amylase product that converts more affordable biscuit, in which Novozymes’ enzymes enable the addition of protein-rich flours. starch to useable sugars, resulting in 1% higher ethanol yields for sustainable biofuels. GLOBAL GOAL 4: QUALITY EDUCATION GLOBAL GOAL 12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Education is a high priority for Novozymes. We believe that raising awareness about Unsustainable consumption and production behaviors are pushing the planet’s ecological biology, biotechnology and the environment will lead to more people adopting and systems beyond its limits. Food systems, in particular, are linked to global environmental, developing sustainable solutions in the future. Since 2015, Novozymes has helped more social and economic challenges. Many of Novozymes’ solutions, for example in BioAg, than 941,000 people learn about biology and how it enables a sustainable future, by baking, and animal health and nutrition, enable more efficient production, reduce the use engaging with local schools, universities and communities. of resources, and minimize losses across food systems. In 2019, we conducted several educational activities aimed at external audiences. In 2019, Novozymes launched Frontia® Jade, a new enzymatic solution for the corn milling One example is “The Little Biologists” program in China, which is run by Novozymes in industry that enables an increase in starch output by 2% and corn gluten meal by 3%, partnership with DoItTogether. The program engages with communities and schools to resulting in increased food production while also enabling energy savings. teach people about biobased solutions in everyday life. GLOBAL GOAL 6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION GLOBAL GOAL 13: CLIMATE ACTION Over two billion people live in countries experiencing high water stress caused by water Climate change has always been an important topic for Novozymes. We are committed to scarcity or pollution. There is a growing need for solutions to ensure clean and efficient helping the world limit global warming increase to 1.5°C by 2030 and achieve the goal of water use. the Paris Agreement. For many years, we have enabled our customers to reduce their CO2 emissions by applying our solutions. In 2019, Novozymes supported the implementation Novozymes’ water platform provides solutions that can prevent pollution by replacing of the Renewable Energy Directive (RED II) in Europe. In partnership with industry chemicals and make wastewater treatment more efficient. We are also exploring ways to organizations, Novozymes focused on maintaining direct dialogue with influencers and remove nitrogen from both drinking water and wastewater. Many of Novozymes’ solutions policy makers to advocate for the use of renewable fuels. help our customers reduce their consumption of water and reduce wastewater. In addition, we enable more innovation in water through our open innovation platform HelloScience. We focus on helping reduce emissions in the transport sector by enabling the production of low-carbon fuels. We also work towards reducing the impact of our own operations. In 2019, we supported the campaign Business Ambition for 1.5°C – Our Only Future as one of its first signatories. Novozymes A/S The big picture Novozymes and the Sustainable Development Goals 22 24 Strategy 29 Risk management 33 Targets 34 Outlook for 2020 Wher e we We e make nable a diff bio-b the p erenc ased, roduc e the tr l o w-car t ion o ansp b o n f ortat accou nts fo ion se fuels for r abo ctor, energ ut 25 which y-rela % of ted g total CO e lobal 2 mis sions Our business Better business Strategy with biology Our strategy Better business with biology was launched in 2019. Shaped by the promise of biology, we step into a future of better business – for our customers, for Novozymes and for the world. Strategy I t is impossible to ignore. Across the world, world leader in biological solutions, it is up to people are demanding solutions to the us to understand biology and our customers most important challenge facing mankind: well enough to find the biological answers that How to ensure good standards of living for customers and consumers are looking for. At a growing population without depleting the the same time, we need to shape a business world’s resources and accelerating climate that can capture the opportunities in our change. industries as markets change. A dual transformation At Novozymes, we know that as part of solving this challenge, we must be accountable too. While we have delivered great innovations for many years, we can do even more – for our customers and for the world. Our business is about turning science into Enabling sustainable biological answers. And our success purpose – Together we find biological answers for better lives in a growing world – Let’s rethink tomorrow – is engrained in the way we work and innovate, serving as the foundation for our collaboration with customers, governments, academia and other institutions. Better business with biology Measuring our In 2019, we updated our strategy and impact introduced targets for the period 2020-2022. We call the strategy Better business with biology and it is our response to the changes taking place in the world around us. As the Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 24 Better business A dual transformation with biology Our strategy consists of three focus areas and four enablers that, together, allow us to create a dual transformation that will yield more growth and value from our existing business while at the same time enabling us to invest more in new opportunities that support sustainable development. Strategy Differentiate to succeed Invest in impact Spearhead new business A dual transformation Adapt our approach to fit industry potential Show up for our customers with strong Unfold high-potential impact areas in a and concentrate on significant opportunities commercial teams, capable of guiding dynamic, efficient process, building tomorrow’s across markets and segments. innovation and services to deliver on business and responding to global needs. customer goals. At Novozymes, all industries play an important We will spearhead new business and role in ensuring future success and value We will enable investment in impact in two work with strategic opportunity areas that creation. To unlock the potential across ways. Firstly, we will focus our R&D resources are closely linked to the UN Sustainable Enabling industries, we need to constantly better our on fewer innovation projects, concentrating on Development Goals. The longer-term nature success understanding of our customers’ expectations the most impactful innovations. of these opportunity areas requires us to be and adapt our approach in each industry explorative and pursue partnerships which can accordingly. In addition to creating a more focused pipeline, complement our existing knowledge and skills. we have implemented ongoing efficiency We aim to explore these areas in a dynamic This means, investing the right resources, be and resource reallocation programs. These process where we remain ready to re-assess that innovation, commercial support or product changes allow us to invest in commercial and pivot towards the opportunity areas optimization, to deliver value to our customers, teams and capabilities closer to our customers, showing the most promise. while at the same time reinvesting a significant particularly in emerging markets. Measuring our share of our profit to develop new impactful Currently, we are exploring how to better feed impact biological solutions. the world with the help of alternative speciality proteins and how to increase health and wellbeing by finding solutions for human oral and gut health. Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 25 Better business Enabling success with biology Our strategy’s three focus areas are supported by four enablers that represent behaviors and ways of working that will help us succeed. Strategy Reallocate resources Simplify, towards Expand optimize and emerging Thrive in high-impact digitize market and a dynamic innovation organization commercial A dual activity transformation Enabling success We innovate with a more focused We continue to invest in commercial We move to simpler mandates and We enhance the potential of each R&D pipeline, targeting highcapabilities across our business, with structures, sharper resource allocation employee to learn and contribute in Measuring our impact projects in growth areas. By a strong commitment to winning in and more transparent processes. an agile workplace. We work together impact focusing the pipeline and adding emerging markets. We also support our commercial in a diverse organization that creates more resources to fewer projects, we push through the enhanced use of and sustains energy and wellbeing increase the impact of innovation and digital tools to improve the customer and keeps safety front and center. get it to market faster. experience. Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 26 Better business Measuring our impact with biology We will measure the impact of our updated strategy by setting Whe re w Nov em ambitious targets for a mid-term period, while also aiming for ozym es’ 2 ake a di ffere and 030 nc long-term commitments. guid ed b our 202 2 ta com mitm e e y th nts Dev e UN rgets a ’s Su re elop sta men t Go inable Strategy als We have set three-year targets to measure our progress. Our 2022 targets focus on the world, our business and employees and our own Climate operations. We can have the most significant impact on mitigating climate change by enabling low-carbon fuels These targets reflect our focus on a healthy for the transport sector, as this sector accounts for about 25% of global energy-related CO2 emissions. business, engaged employees and the reduction A dual of our own environmental footprint while Climate change is also considered in our own operations, as industrial production processes are transformation enabling our customers to be more sustainable. energy-intensive. Therefore, we have set a verified science-based target for reducing our absolute CO2 emissions in line with the most ambitious decarbonization pathway. Achieving our 2022 targets would bring us on track to accomplishing our 2030 commitments. Water We have made commitments to help limit global warming increase to 1.5°C (Climate), We will work to ensure clean and efficient water use by providing solutions that replace chemicals, ensure clean and efficient use of water (Water) particularly in laundry. Enabling and produce more and better products with success less impact (Production & Consumption). Water is also a fundamental resource for our production processes. We are committed to pioneering a We are guided by the UN’s Sustainable context-based approach to water management across all sites and have therefore set a target to have Development Goals and we have carefully all our sites manage water in balance with local conditions. considered how we can make a positive and tangible impact. Production & Consumption Here, we explain how we see our contribution to the challenges of Climate, Water and While most of our solutions enable improved production efficiency, we are highlighting solutions that Measuring our Production & Consumption. let us enable sustainable food production as part of our Production & Consumption target. impact See the overview of our 2022 targets and 2030 We also aim to drive our business towards more circularity. Therefore, all our key materials and waste commitments on the following page, and get full will be managed in circular systems by 2030. details of our nonfinancial targets in Sustainability Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 27 Better business Climate Water Production & Consumption with biology World Save 60 million tons of CO2 Reach >4 billion people Gain 500,000 tons of food by enabling low-carbon fuels in the by providing laundry solutions in 2022 by improving efficiency from farm transport sector in 2022 that replace chemicals to table in 2022 Operations By 2022: reduce absolute CO2 emissions By 2022: develop context-based water By 2022: achieve 100% circular management from operations by 40%* management programs at 100% of of our biomass, develop plans for circular our sites management of 100% of key packaging By 2030: achieve a 50%* reduction in materials and develop programs to reach zero Strategy absolute CO2 emissions from operations By 2030: manage water in balance waste by 2030 at 100% of our sites on our way to becoming carbon neutral with local conditions at 100% of in 2050 our sites By 2030: manage 100% of key materials and waste in circular systems *Compared to a 2018 baseline. To achieve our ambitions, we need to have a healthy, growing business. A dual We have set targets for organic sales growth, EBIT margin and ROIC (incl. goodwill). transformation Business Organic sales growth EBIT margin ROIC (incl. goodwill) 5+% per year* 28% or above by 2022 23% or above by 2022 *2020 is the first year of a three-year strategy period and is expected to be impacted to some extent by portfolio changes. Enabling success To continue to grow and contribute to a better world, we must enable our employees to thrive, grow and perform. This will ensure that we have the skills needed to deliver on our purpose. Employees Enable learning Nurture diversity Ensure safety and Inspire the world Excite employees Measuring our Achieve a score of 80 on Achieve a score of 86 on wellbeing Pledge 1% of our time to Achieve a score of 81 on impact learning in our annual our diversity index by 2022 Occupational local outreach activities our Zymer Spirit index employee survey by 2022 injuries* ≤ 1.5 by 2022 by 2022 *Defined as a three-year rolling average of occupational injuries with absence per million working hours. Novozymes A/S Our business Strategy 28 Risk management Key risks 2020 There are four key risks that may impact Novozymes in 2020. The risks are: Competition and market consolidation; Volatility of agriculture-related business; Cyberattacks and Global political and economic instability. Being a diverse business, Novozymes faces a diverse set of risks and uncertainties. Some may materialize within a short space of time, whereas others could emerge more gradually. We continuously strengthen our work on risk management to Risk assessment heat map secure Novozymes’ operations and plans for profitable growth. Novozymes’ risk management process reduces and reputation, and the likelihood of that Global political uncertainty as much as possible and aims to risk materializing. The most significant risks keep us on track to achieve our commitments are reviewed and assessed by the Executive and economic instability Volatility of and deliver value to our stakeholders. We Leadership Team and the Board of Directors, agricultureidentify and mitigate risks as early as possible who are also responsible for reviewing the related business to reduce their likelihood and impact. effectiveness of the risk management and internal control processes throughout the The Board of Directors has the overall year. In 2019, the Audit Committee, on Probability responsibility for overseeing risk and for behalf of the Board of Directors, made deep Competition maintaining a robust risk management and dives into selected risks and risk processes. Cyberattacks and market internal control system. The Board recognizes Novozymes’ Risk Management & Controls consolidation the importance of identifying and actively department is responsible for identifying monitoring all of the most pressing risks as risks. The department also ensures that well as any longer-term threats, trends or the senior management promotes risk challenges facing our business. awareness, engagement and ownership across the organization. Our vice presidents are Risk management framework responsible for mitigating all risks relevant to Novozymes operates an Enterprise Risk their respective areas of responsibility. Management (ERM) process whereby the key risks facing the company are identified, Risk assessment assessed and mitigated at different levels of The four key enterprise risks that have been the organization. We monitor most risks by identified for 2020 are the same as for 2019, means of half-yearly reviews. However, some except for Disruption of The BioAg Alliance, a Potential impact risks may at times require more frequent 2019 risk, which no longer applies as the BioAg updates. Alliance was replaced by a multi-partner set-up in BioAg in April 2019. Risks are assessed based on a two-dimensional heat map rating system that estimates the potential impact of a given risk on financials See Note 5.1 for information on financial risk factors and risk management Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 29 Risk management Key enterprise risks for 2020 Competition and market consolidation Volatility of agriculture-related business Cyberattacks Global political and economic instability Novozymes’ market-leading position could be Agriculture-related markets are inherently Intelligence services report the general There continues to be significant instability challenged by competition from both existing volatile due to weather conditions, harvest threat of cyberattacks on large companies in the global economy and in the political and potential new competitors. There is also quality, commodity prices, political mandates as high. This is partly due to rapid advances landscape. Trade conditions are changing a risk of competitors operating under lessfor ethanol blends etc. In addition, the ongoing in digitalization, an unstable geo-political frequently, making it more difficult to mitigate regulated market conditions. Consolidation geopolitical uncertainty adds to the volatility of situation and a lack of regulations and laws. risk. can create large-scale players or new types the industry. It is extremely important to Novozymes to of competitors, like the merger of IFF and preserve business continuity and safeguard Potential impact Dupont’s Nutrition & Bioscience division. Potential impact sensitive business information and critical Political instability may lead to difficulty in Global agricultural markets remained weak in assets against the global threat of theft. optimizing decision-making beyond the short Potential impact 2019 and bioenergy markets in the US were term for Novozymes and our customers. Increased competition could come from challenged. If the volatility of the agricultural Potential impact Polarization and trade protectionism can make enzyme manufacturers offering new solutions markets and poor global farm economics Business opportunities with new or existing it more difficult for leaders to agree and work or from new players with broader technology persist, it could challenge our value proposition customers could suffer greatly if information to strengthen global and regional institutions. platforms. With increased digitalization, and profitability in the industry. about Novozymes’ unique technologies or Adverse economic conditions, such as those competition could also relate to how solutions production strains is stolen. Cybercrime and the Middle East still faced in 2019, may result are implemented in customer production. Mitigation hacker attacks could also negatively impact in lower consumer demand and higher price Although consolidation can make the We are mindful of the ongoing geopolitical Novozymes if systems are inaccessible for an sensitivity among customers and consumers, market more stable, it could also increase a uncertainty and, as we move through 2020, extended period of time. while political changes may disrupt our competitor’s financial strength and bargaining we will keep a close watch on US ethanol operations and, ultimately, our sales. There is power. inventories and prices as well as on certain Mitigation also a risk of exchange rate fluctuations and crop prices. We will further strengthen the Novozymes will continue efforts to mitigate of customers, partners and suppliers risking or Mitigation partnerships in the new set-up for BioAg. cyber risks through our global security facing insolvency. We continuously revisit and improve our goroadmap. It particularly focuses on to-market strategies to retain a competitive strengthening IT Enterprise Architecture, Mitigation advantage. Across industries, Novozymes IT Governance and compliance. Our Cyber Novozymes closely follows political and strengthens partnerships with key accounts Defense Center (CDC) continuously enhanced economic developments, keeping in mind that for a strong innovation pipeline. We are our ability to rapidly detect and respond to changes must be expected to occur rapidly. accelerating regional innovations to ensure we cyber security incidents. We will continue to Our focus is on ensuring our ability to respond deliver the solutions our customers are looking expand the capabilities of the CDC with new to such changes just as quickly as they arise. for and we have local commercial teams to data sources and intelligence. We actively seek We actively engage in global forums on support acceleration. By driving digitalization to learn from other companies’ experiences. sustainability, staying focused on the benefits from our Digital Transformation unit, linking Also, our more than 6,500 granted or of globalization and shared commitments, areas such as R&D, production, sales and pending patents are a strong defense against and we continuously remind the world of the finance, we aim to further strengthen our infringement by competitors. importance of working for a sustainable future. competitive profile. Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 30 Risk management Mitigating actions taken related to the key risks identified for 2019 Competition and market consolidation Volatility of agriculture-related business Cyberattacks Global political and economic instability As in previous years, we defended our marketWe continued the R&D investments that enable In 2019, safeguarding knowledge and In 2019, we closely monitored the changing leading position by launching new innovations, us to develop new and even better solutions the ability to operate, especially against political environment, including – but not strengthening our value propositions and for improving yield and profitability, aimed at cyberattacks, remained critical across the limited to – the threat of a hard Brexit and jointly developing tailor-made products with the agriculture-related businesses. Novozymes organization. tariff negotiations between the US and China. customers. In addition, we continued to focus our efforts on optimizing our legal track for In April 2019, we announced a new partnership We continued our efforts to mitigate cyber We continued our involvement in global potential infringements of our intellectual set-up to replace The BioAg Alliance. While we risks through our updated security roadmap, a forums, such as the UN General Assembly and property rights, particularly in emerging continue our core partnership with Bayer, the strengthened IT enterprise architecture, cyberthe UN Global Summit in September. Here, markets. new, more flexible, multi-partner set-up allows threat quick fixes and stronger IT governance. our CEO, Peder Holk Nielsen, spoke of our Novozymes to bring biological solutions to Planned initiatives for IT emergency responses commitment to help limit global warming to In Household Care, our Freshness platform even more partners and additional crops. were implemented and tested in 2019. an increase of 1.5°C. Our commitment has continued to gain traction with customers. been validated by the Science Based Targets We also increased our focus on differentiated In Bioenergy, we launched three new products In addition, we focused on optimizing our Initiative, comprised of the CDP, UN Global service and value offerings. to the bioethanol industry in 2019: Fortiva®, IP strategy to prevent infringements by the Compact, World Resources Institute and WWF. Innova® Fit and Innova® Force. These products competition. In June 2019, we launched our updated are a direct response to customers’ needs strategy, Better business with biology. The to maximize profits under changing market strategy has been shaped by the challenges we conditions. Innova® Force is the third product see in competitive markets and it will form the launch from our yeast platform. roadmap for how we differentiate ourselves going forward. In animal health, we launched our Balancius™ solution together with DSM in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. After introducing the product in the North and South American markets in 2018, we are now ready to help customers in other regions with the challenges of improving animal performance and meeting regulations on the use of antibiotics. Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 31 Risk management Emerging risks Novozymes identifies emerging risks that have Concerns about new technology Water-constrained future the potential to impact our business in the There is growing consumer demand for health, Global demand for water is expected to longer term (three years and beyond). Such wellness and natural products and, conversely, outstrip supply by 2030. Rising demand, risks are determined and evaluated through tighter regulatory controls in the biotechnology combined with the decline in the availability our enterprise risk management process and and chemical sectors. Over the coming years, of clean water, is exacerbating the water integrated trendspotting exercise. we expect to see an acceleration of technology situation. Many parts of the world are and further significant innovation in these experiencing, or expecting, extreme water We evaluate and monitor long-term risks and areas. crises in the form of severe droughts, floods assess their potential to impact our business and declining water quality caused by and growth. We engage with relevant key Consumers are more health conscious and pollution. Governments are responding with stakeholders to develop strategies and ensure are expressing growing concerns about the stricter regulations, and companies are driving that we are prepared to address such risks for consequences to society of biotechnology action through various corporate-led initiatives the long term. and genetic engineering. Governments are (e.g. the CEO Water Mandate and AgWater increasingly scrutinizing issues related to Challenge). We closely monitor a number of emerging risks, environmental and human health risks, among which the following two have been bioethics, gene technology and intellectual Novozymes is committed to sustainable water identified to be of the greatest relevance to property rights. management across our value chain, including Novozymes. They are the same as reported in in our own operations. In 2019, we conducted the Novozymes Report 2018. Novozymes recognizes the need to improve site-specific water-risk assessments to identify the general level of knowledge about water-stressed sites and regions and included biotechnology and genetic engineering. analysis of upcoming regulation related to Through these technologies, we find safe and water. sustainable answers to some of the planet’s most pressing challenges – and as we explore In our recent strategy update, water is a key the increased use of biotechnology, we will pillar under which we have designed our new continue to engage in and push for open targets. Our mission is to ensure clean and dialogue about the benefits of and develop efficient water use. We are investing to improve best practices together with stakeholders to our water efficiency and will look to pioneer a mitigate the potential risks from biotechnology. context-based approach to water management at all our sites. Besides the risk that this issue poses to our operations, increasing demand for clean water solutions also serves as an opportunity for our business as some of our solutions can contribute to solving several water-related issues. Novozymes A/S Our business Risk management 32 Targets Read more about our 2022 targets and 2030 commitments in Strategy In 2019, we measured our progress on nine long-term financial and nonfinancial targets. We report our progress on our six long-term nonfinancial targets below. From 2020, these targets will be replaced by our new targets, introduced with our updated strategy Better business with biology. REACH 6 billion people with our CATALYZE 5 global partnerships DELIVER 10 transformative solutions by 2020 for change from 2015 to 2020 innovations from 2015 to 2020 In 2019, an estimated 5.9 billion consumers used at least In 2019, Novozymes signed a partnership agreement In 2019, we launched Innova® Force, a transformative one of our solutions on a weekly basis – up from 5.6 with Carbios and Carbiolice to improve the innovation for the ethanol industry. billion in 2018. biodegradability and performance of bioplastics. Since 2015, Novozymes has launched six transformative Gains were primarily made by laundry in Africa and India We also signed partnerships with Climate-KIC, innovations, including Balancius™ in 2018, Frontia® and and by brewery in Africa and China. Kromann Reumert, Jaaga, UNLEASH, DTU Skylab and our freshness solution in 2017, Acceleron® B-300 SAT in HHL Foundation within our HelloScience partnership 2016 and Alterion® in 2015. ecosystem. The partnerships will be instrumental to our efforts in solving water-related sustainability challenges. EDUCATE 1 million people about Since 2015, Novozymes has catalyzed four global the potential of biology from partnerships for change. ENABLE Novozymes’ employees 2015 to 2020 to develop by 2020 In 2019, the enrollment of leaders in our Lead the Way In 2019, Novozymes helped around 330,000 people leadership program increased to ~57%, up from ~30% learn about biology. One initiative involved creating and distributing experiment sets to 3,500 Danish SAVE 100 million tons of in 2018. Participants rated the program 4.6 out of a possible 5. schoolchildren to enable them to test how stains CO2 in 2020 can be cleaned with biological solutions. Novozymes helped customers to reduce their CO2 TunedIn, our employee survey and dialogue tool, showed emissions by a total of 87 million tons in 2019. This an employee development score of 77, meeting our This brings our total to more than 941,000 people is below our target of ≥ 94 million tons CO2 for 2019, target of 75 or above. since 2015. mainly due to declining sales in several industries. Novozymes A/S Our business Targets 33 Outlook for 2020 Sales outlook Using the current spot rate as full-year The ramp-up of Frontia® for grain milling will under the new partnership structure. Novozymes expects to grow sales by 1-5% estimates for the major currencies, Novozymes continue across regions and hence will be an Performance in Feed is predominately organically in 2020. This includes the impact expects to see ~0% impact for growth in important growth contributor, while growth expected to be driven by the continued from previously announced portfolio changes reported Danish kroner. No sales from deferred in the starch business is expected to be more commercialization of Balancius™ for poultry. to align with the updated strategy. income will be recognized in 2020 compared muted. Beverages are projected to grow in line Sales to the agricultural industry is expected with DKK 24 million in 2019. Further, no with the industry average. Food & nutrition to benefit from continued penetration of corn The guidance range indicates uncertainty sales related to the pharma-related royalty is expected to continue its good momentum, inoculants for the North American market. especially for the agriculturally-exposed divested in the second quarter of 2019 will be supported by accelerating health awareness businesses. The growth ranges of Household recognized in 2020. In 2019, this figure was trends. Care and Food & Beverages are expected to DKK 15 million (Q2). be narrower, around the mid-point of the 1-5% overall corporate range, while wider ranges than the 1-5% are applied for both Bioenergy Technical & Pharma was impacted by shifting and Agriculture & Feed. Organic sales growth textile markets in China, especially during in Technical & Pharma is expected to be Bioenergy organic sales developments the second half of 2019, which is expected to slightly below the mid-point of the corporate Household Care organic sales growth is are expected to be driven by continued continue in 2020. range. Overall, both developed and emerging expected to be supported by the continued penetration of the Innova® yeast technology markets are expected to grow, with the latter rollout of the Freshness platform and increased for first-generation biofuels, starch-based outgrowing the former. penetration in emerging markets. production-capacity expansion in Latin Profit outlook America, and innovation targeting the North For 2020, we expect an EBIT margin of ~27%, Anchored in our strategy – Better business Some of our larger customers are expected American business. including a ~0% impact from currencies. This with biology – innovation, broader commercial to further stabilize their performance, will be an improvement compared to the 2019 presence and a stronger focus on execution whereas medium and small laundry detergent Uncertainty remains about the volume of US underlying EBIT margin of ~26%. and follow-up will drive performance. This producers are expected to continue improving ethanol production in 2020 given continued will be supported primarily by the continued their formulations with further inclusion of low ethanol producer margins and elevated The reported 2019 EBIT margin of 28.1% was development and commercialization of enzymatic solutions. inventories. Currently, we estimate a flat yearsupported by a total of ~2 percentage points freshness in Household Care, Balancius™ in on-year development in US ethanol production from the termination of The BioAg Alliance, the animal health, Palmora® and Frontia® for divestment of the pharma-related royalty, but Food & Beverages and yeast solutions for offset by the net restructuring costs related to first-generation biofuels. Inoculant sales to the updated strategy. the North American market are expected to grow relative to the weak 2019 performance. Food & Beverages organic sales growth is The savings from the Q3 2019 restructuring US ethanol production volumes are likely to expected to be broad-based with all regions Agriculture & Feed organic sales developments will be reinvested in 2020 and onwards. Sales remain volatile and are assumed to be in line contributing to growth. Emerging markets are are subject to uncertainty, due primarily to growth and productivity improvements are with 2019. expected to outgrow developed markets. global farming economics and trade-related expected to be supportive of margins along concerns. Further, 2020 will be the first full with tailwinds from lower input costs. year with the agricultural business operating Novozymes A/S Our business Outlook for 2020 34 Return on invested capital (ROIC) including Sustainability outlook In 2020, Novozymes will continue to focus on 2020 outlook goodwill is expected at 20-21% (2019: 21.1%). Sustainability is at the core of the Novozymes climate change in its operations and intends 2020 outlook* The calculation of average invested capital business and as a part of the updated strategy, to invest further in energy-efficiency projects, January 23 includes a higher opening and end-of-year the company has strengthened its commitment increase its share of renewable electricity Sales growth, organic 1-5% balance compared with 2019. Free cash flow further via the launch of a set of ambitious new and explore opportunities to generate energy EBIT margin ~27% (FCF) before acquisitions is expected to be sustainability targets. from waste streams. Novozymes will also start ROIC (including goodwill) 20-21% in the DKK 2.5-2.9 billion range (2019: DKK developing programs to achieve zero waste and Free cash flow before 2.2 billion), supported by higher sales and an The new targets reflect the opportunity of manage water in balance with local conditions acquisitions, DKKbn 2.5-2.9 improved operating cashflow. having a positive impact through commercial in the long term at its production sites. solutions as well as our responsibility For modelling purposes, the following is to minimize the negative impact of our Novozymes will continue to have a strong For modelling purposes: provided: Novozymes expects an effective tax operations. Novozymes will focus on people focus on safety and wellbeing in the workplace Effective tax rate 19-21% rate of 19-21% for 2020. Net finance costs as well as on three global environmental and will strive to maintain a low number of Net financials, DKKm ~ -200 are expected to be DKK ~200 million, with challenges: Climate, Water and Production & occupational injuries. On the people side, Net investments, DKKbn 0.8-1.0 roughly 50% relating to interest expenses Consumption. For each global environmental Novozymes will enable learning and growth Stock buyback program up to DKK 1.5 bn and bank fees and the remainder relating to challenge, Novozymes has defined long-term for employees and nurture diversity within currency hedging (two thirds of the currency 2030 commitments to set the direction and the organization. Novozymes will also focus *Assumes that the exchange rates for the company’s key currencies remain at the rates prevailing on hedge amount relate to the USD/DKK). Net mid-term 2022 targets to drive performance. on employee engagement and motivation to January 22 for the rest of 2020. investments in 2020 are expected to be DKK Based on this, Novozymes will define a set of ensure the employee spirit remains high. 0.8-1.0 billion (2019: DKK 1.0 billion). This annual internal targets to prioritize and guide reflects both maintenance as well as expansion implementation in a given year. and optimization investments. Key sustainability targets A stock buyback program worth up to DKK 1.5 billion has been decided on for 2020. 2022 targets World Save CO2 emissions by enabling low-carbon fuels in the transport sector 60 million tons of CO2 Currency exposure Reach people by providing laundry solutions that replace chemicals >4 billion people Other things being equal, a 5% movement Gain food by improving efficiency from farm to table 500,000 tons of food in USD/DKK is expected to have an annual Operations Reduce absolute CO2 emissions from operations1 40% positive/negative impact on EBIT of DKK 130-160 million, and a 5% movement in EUR/ Develop context-based water management programs 100% of sites DKK is expected to have an annual positive/ Develop zero waste programs 100% of sites negative impact on EBIT of DKK ~200 million. Manage biomass in circular systems 100% Develop circular management plans for key packaging materials 100% The currency exposure was hedged at an Employees Enable learning 2 80 average of USD/DKK 6.21 in 2019. For 2020, Nurture diversity3 86 the exposure is 75% hedged at an average of Occupational injuries4 ≤ 1.5 USD/DKK 6.53. The 2020 outlook is based Pledge employee time to local outreach5 ~ 1% of time on exchange rates for the company’s key currencies remaining at the closing rates on Excite employees2 81 January 22 for the full year. 1. Compared to 2018 baseline. 2. Measured by score to relevant questions in annual survey. 3. Index calculated based on gender and national representation at various professional levels. 4. Defined as the three-year rolling average of occupational injuries with absence per million working hours. 5. Qualitive reporting only. Novozymes A/S Our business Outlook for 2020 35 37 Corporate governance 40 Board of Directors 42 Executive Leadership Team 44 Remuneration report 49 The Novozymes stock Where we ma Our en ke a diff zymes erence softne improv ss and e the breads freshn , reduc ess of ing foo from s d wast tale br e ead Governance Corporate governance A proactive and transparent corporate The Board’s main responsibilities are to: Audit Committee meetings governance structure promotes responsible Committee member Meetings attended sustainable business behavior and long-term • Ensure the right management and Lars Green value creation. organizational structure Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen • Supervise financial, social and environmental Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Board composition and responsibilities performance, and the Executive Leadership In accordance with Danish legislation, Team’s operational management of the Novozymes has a two-tier management company Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings system comprising the Board of Directors • Supervise the overall management and Committee member Meetings attended and the Executive Leadership Team, with strategic development of the company Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen no individual being a member of both. The Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen division of responsibilities between the Board Novozymes’ Articles of Association require the Kim Stratton of Directors and the Executive Leadership Board of Directors to have from four to eight Team is clearly outlined and described in the members elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors Meeting. The Board currently has five Nominations are based on an evaluation 1. At least half of the shareholder-elected and the Rules of Procedure for the Executive shareholder-elected members. Individuals are of factors such as competencies, diversity, board members shall be independent as Leadership Team, both available at Novozymes. elected for terms of one year and cannot be independence and performance. defined in the Danish Recommendations on com. elected or re-elected after reaching the age of Corporate Governance 70. In accordance with Danish law, the Board of 2. At least 40% of the shareholder-elected Directors also has three employee-elected board members shall have substantial members, who serve four-year terms. The international experience from the 2019 with the Board of Directors Board of Directors is accountable to the management of large corporations or company’s shareholders for the management institutions headquartered outside Denmark December January of the company. The composition of the Board 3. One-third or more of the shareholder-elected Extraordinary board meetings of Directors must therefore be such that the board members shall be female, and oneNovember February Board meetings combined competencies of the Board enable third or more of the shareholder-elected it to inspire, guide and oversee the company’s board members shall be male Monthly reports development, and diligently address and Annual Shareholders' Meeting resolve the issues and challenges facing the All three targets were met in 2019. The October March Strategy work company at any time. competencies are defined in a competency profile that specifies the requirements for Review of ﬁnancial performance To ensure the right competencies and promote personal characteristics, skills and experience. Evaluation of collaboration diversity, the following targets have been set The individual competencies of the members September April between the Board of Directors for the composition of the Board of Directors: of the Board of Directors are shown in the and the Executive Leadership Team presentation of the Board of Directors. Organizational performance review and succession planning May August Next year's budget July June Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 37 Nationality – board members elected Gender – board members elected Governance structure Charters and recommendations by the shareholders by the shareholders In accordance with the Articles of Association In laying down the management principles and the Rules of Procedure for the Board for Novozymes, the Board of Directors has Danish 40% Men 60% of Directors, the Board has a Chairmanship followed the Recommendations on Corporate Swedish 20% Women 40% consisting of two members – the Chairman Governance that form part of the disclosure British 20% and the Vice Chairman – who are responsible requirements applicable to companies listed on Australian 20% for assisting the Board of Directors in matters Nasdaq Copenhagen. concerning the Executive Leadership Team’s operational management of the company and These recommendations are available at for reporting back to the Board of Directors. corporategovernance.dk. A detailed review The Chairmanship is also responsible for of Novozymes’ position on each of the Tenure – board members elected Board governance structure planning and preparing the meetings of the recommendations and a description of the by the shareholders (elected by shareholders) Board of Directors. internal control and risk management system relating to financial reporting can be found in 3-4 years 40% Independent The Board of Directors has two committees: the statutory report on corporate governance +4 years 60% board members 60% the Nomination and Remuneration Committee prepared pursuant to section 107b of the Nonindependent and the Audit Committee. The Nomination and Danish Financial Statements Act at https:// board members 40% Remuneration Committee assists the Board of investors.novozymes.com/investors/corporateDirectors with the nomination of candidates governance/articles-of-association-and-reportsfor the Board of Directors, board committees on-corporate-governance/default.aspx. These and the Executive Leadership Team as well recommendations require companies to explain as with the remuneration of board members, any exceptions. Novozymes follows 45 of the board committee members and members of 47 recommendations, the two exceptions Primary experience – board members elected by shareholders (number of board members) the Executive Leadership Team. The Audit being: Committee assists the Board of Directors with 5 5 5 monitoring aspects relating to accounting, • The remuneration policy for the Executive 4 4 4 4 auditing, risks, internal controls and financial, Leadership Team does not contain a specific environmental and social reporting. Further clause pertaining to the repayment of 3 3 information about both committees can be variable remuneration components paid 2 found at Novozymes.com. on the basis of misstated information, 1 as Novozymes considers the rules under As part of the internal control system, all cases Danish law to be sufficient in such cases of identified fraud and all concerns raised (Recommendation 4.1.2) are investigated and reported to the Audit • Due to the limitations imposed by the Novo General board and/or executive Financial management and investor relations Committee and the Board of Directors. A total Nordisk Foundation’s Articles of Association management Alliance strategy and acquisitions of 42 cases were investigated and reported and Novozymes’ ownership structure, the R&D executive management Total value and supply chain management in 2019. None of the investigated fraud cases Board of Directors reserves the right in B2B and industry marketing and sales Innovation and pipeline management had a material financial impact on Novozymes. certain circumstances to reject takeover Governance and risk management Emerging market strategy Further information on fraud can be found in bids without consulting shareholders Stakeholder relations management Digitalization strategy and/or management (beyond customers and investors) Note 8.3 to consolidated social and governance (Recommendation 1.3.1) data. 1. From industrial biotechnology or related industries (but not pharma) 2. From industrial biotechnology, pharma or related industries 3. Within or outside industrial biotechnology Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 38 Furthermore, under the Danish Financial Other Board-related information The purchase price must not deviate by more contracts that can be terminated by the other Statements Act (sections 99a and 99b), The Board of Directors held 12 meetings in than 10% from the price quoted on Nasdaq party in the event of significant changes to the it is mandatory for large companies to 2019, with an overall attendance rate of 97%. Copenhagen A/S at the date of acquisition. ownership or control of Novozymes. A few of report on corporate responsibility and This authorization applies until April 1, these contracts contain provisions that restrict equal opportunities. As a member of the Any amendments to the Articles of Association 2020. In addition, the Board of Directors is Novozymes’ licenses to use specific forms of UN Global Compact, Novozymes prepares require that shareholders representing at least authorized to reduce the share capital. technology in such situations. a Communication on Progress, which is two-thirds of the total number of votes in the available at https://www.novozymes.com/ company are represented at a shareholders’ Each year, one of the responsibilities of the en/about-us/sustainability/transparencymeeting, and that at least two-thirds of the Board of Directors is to assess whether the accountability. Together with our integrated votes cast, as well as two-thirds of the voting capital and share structure of Novozymes is Evaluation of the Board of Directors financial, environmental and social and capital represented at the meeting, are in optimal. The Board of Directors maintains that In 2019, the annual evaluation of the Board governance reporting, the Communication favor of the proposal to amend the Articles of the share structure with A and B common stock of Directors was carried out as interviews on Progress meets both the requirements for Association. is the best way to safeguard Novozymes’ longbetween the Chairman and each Board reporting on corporate responsibility and equal term strategy and development to the benefit member and member of the Executive opportunities, and the UN Global Compact’s The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting has of the company’s shareholders and other Leadership Team. The evaluation revealed a advanced reporting criteria. authorized the Board of Directors to allow stakeholders. Regarding capital structure, good performance by the Board of Directors the company to acquire treasury stock on an Novozymes will continue to favor a rather and good collaboration between the Board Novozymes also works within the parameters ongoing basis, provided the nominal value of conservative balance sheet, as reflected by a of Directors and the Executive Leadership of Touch the World, the company’s values the company’s total holding of treasury stock target for net interest-bearing debt of around Team. The subsequent recommendations and commitments, and has committed to the does not exceed 10% of its share capital at any 1x EBITDA. This target was met in 2019. were to have a high focus on strategy principles of the UN Global Compact and the time, cf. section 198 of the Danish Companies implementation and on forecasting. UN Convention on Biological Diversity. Act. Novozymes is party to a number of partnership Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration Board member member Committee member Nationality Board meetings attended Board tenure Election period Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen (Chairman)1,2 Danish 2011 1 year Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen (Vice Chairman) 1,2 Danish 2011 1 year Lars Green1,4 Danish 2014 1 year Kasim Kutay 1 British 2017 1 year Patricia Malarkey5 British 2018 1 year Kim Stratton1,2 Australian 2017 1 year Mathias Uhlén1 Swedish 2007 1 year Lena Bech Holskov 3 Danish 2013 4 years Anders Hentze Knudsen3 Danish 2013 4 years Lars Bo Køppler3 Danish 2010 4 years 1. Elected at the Shareholders’ Meeting. 3. Employee representative. 4. Resigned from the Board on August 9, 5. Resigned from the Board on January 31, 2. Independent. 2019 2019 Novozymes A/S Governance Corporate governance 39 Board of Directors Novozymes’ Board of Directors currently has five members who are elected at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting and three employee-elected members. The Board represents many years of global management experience, and the members’ competencies combine to ensure expert management of the company. Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen Kasim Kutay* Kim Stratton Born 1955. Chairman of the Board since 2017. Born 1957. Vice Chairman of the Board since Born 1965. CEO, Novo Holdings A/S. Member Born 1962. CEO, Orphazyme A/S. Member of Adjunct Professor at Copenhagen Business 2017. Chairman of the Audit Committee and of the Board since 2017. Elected for a term of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. School, Denmark. Member of the Audit member of the Nomination and Remuneration one year. Member of the Board since 2017. Elected for a Committee and chairman of the Nomination Committee. Member of the Board since 2011. term of one year. and Remuneration Committee. Member of the Elected for a term of one year. Board positions Board since 2011. Elected for a term of one Member: Novo Nordisk A/S Board positions year. Board positions Member: Vifor Pharma Ltd. Chairman: Arkil Holding A/S Special competencies Board positions Brdr. Hartmann A/S Broad international experience within Special competencies Chairman: F. Uhrenholt Holding A/S Danske Invest, three other UCITS funds and biotechnology, mergers and acquisitions, Broad international commercial experience Advisory Board of Blazar Capital two AIF funds strategy, and financial and accounting within sales and marketing, emerging markets, expertise. innovation pipeline management and Member: Smurfit Kappa Group Member: Aktieselskabet Schouw & Co. sustainability. *This board member is not regarded as independent in the Danske Invest Management A/S sense of the definition in the Danish Recommendations Special competencies on Corporate Governance that apply to Danish listed companies. International business and management Member of the audit committee: expertise, specifically within sales, marketing, Aktieselskabet Schouw & Co. branding and acquisitions, and financial and accounting expertise. Special competencies Expertise within business development and acquisitions, macroeconomics and intellectual property rights, and financial and accounting expertise. Novozymes A/S Governance Board of Directors 40 Board of Directors Mathias Uhlén* Lena Bech Holskov* Anders Hentze Knudsen* Lars Bo Køppler* Born 1954. Professor at the Royal Institute Born 1967. Employee representative. Born 1959. Employee representative. Born 1962. Employee representative. of Technology (Sweden) and at the Technical Safety Adviser. Member of the Board since Senior Operator. Member of the Board since Technician. Member of the Board since 2010. University of Denmark (DTU). Member of the 2013. Elected for a term of four years. 2013. Elected for a term of four years. Elected for a term of four years. Board since 2007. Elected for a term of one *In accordance with Danish law, the Board of Directors *In accordance with Danish law, the Board of Directors year. includes three employee-elected members, who serve includes three employee-elected members, who serve Employee-elected member of the Board of the four-year terms. four-year terms. Novo Nordisk Foundation. Board positions *In accordance with Danish law, the Board of Directors Chairman: Antibodypedia AB includes three employee-elected members, who serve ScandiBio Therapeutics AB four-year terms. Member: Atlas Antibodies Affibody Medical AB Swedish Research Council g on eetin Special competencies h o ld ers’ M e ctors are of D ir n n u al Sh B o a rd r Broad experience within research and For th eA , the of fou y 2020 ction br u a r the r e -e le e ew n biotechnology. 26 Fe f thre p ro posed e le c t ion o om th e has n d the e t ter fr s a in L *This board member is not regarded as independent in the ber more mem Read rs sense of the definition in the Danish Recommendations m bers. o f D irecto e on Corporate Governance that apply to Danish listed m Board companies. Novozymes A/S Governance Board of Directors 41 Executive Leadership Team Our six-member Executive Leadership Team comprises broad and global management experience, comprehensive biotechnology expertise and in-depth knowledge of Novozymes’ business. Peder Holk Nielsen* Tina Sejersgård Fanø Andrew Fordyce Born 1956. President & CEO. Born 1969. Executive Vice President, Born 1963. Executive Vice President, Food & Agriculture & Bioenergy. Beverages. Education Holds a PhD and an MSc in Chemical Board positions Board positions Engineering from the Technical University of Chairman: Innovation Fund Denmark Member: CP Kelco Denmark (DTU) and a B.Com in International Business Management from Copenhagen Member: DLF A/S Education Business School, Denmark. Holds a PhD in Chemical Engineering from the Education University of Texas at Austin, US. Special competencies Holds an MSc in Chemical Engineering from Novozymes CEO since 2013. Peder Holk the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) and Special competencies Nielsen is responsible for developing our a diploma degree in Innovation, Strategy and Andrew Fordyce is responsible for application organization and processes to effectively Marketing in Food & Beverage industry from research, technical service, sales and marketing turn market insights into product ideas and SIMI (CBS executive, Copenhagen). in the Food & Beverages division. His career solutions that excite Novozymes’ customers. has moved from engineering to a strong focus With a background in engineering and Special competencies on value generation for customers. Previous business management, he drives an agenda Tina Sejersgård Fanø is responsible for responsibilities include global sales and that combines market insights with research application research, technical service, sales marketing, strategic account management and capabilities to deliver innovation and growth. and marketing in the Agriculture & Bioenergy technical service strategy. division. She has extensive experience in *Peder Holk Nielsen will leave Novozymes on January 31, 2020 and will be succeeded by Ester Baiget, as announced developing and managing global partnerships on October 15, 2019. and has been instrumental in negotiating several major business deals for Novozymes over the years. Novozymes A/S Governance Executive Leadership Team 42 Executive Leadership Team Lars Green* Anders Lund Thomas Videbæk Born 1967. CFO & Executive Vice President, Born 1973. Executive Vice President, Born 1960. COO & Executive Vice President, Finance, IT & Legal. Household Care & Technical Industries. Research, Innovation & Supply. Education Education Board positions Holds an M.Sc. in Business Administration from Holds an MSc in Economics from Aarhus Member: Evolva SA Aarhus University, Denmark University, Denmark. Education Special competencies Special competencies Holds a PhD and an MSc in Chemical Engineering Lars Green is responsible for the Finance, IT & Anders Lund is responsible for application from the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) Legal functions. He has extensive experience research, technical services, sales and and a B.Com in International Business from from international and global leadership roles marketing in the Household Care & Technical Copenhagen Business School, Denmark. in the biotechnology and pharma industry division. He has a strong commercial and and leverages his financial expertise to drive strategic background as well as extensive Special competencies business value across the company. experience in building and maintaining global Thomas Videbæk is responsible for Novozymes’ customer relationships. Research, Innovation & Operations unit which *Lars Green joined the Executive Leadership Team on September 1, 2019, replacing Prisca Havranek-Kosicek. embraces the entire chain from scouting and exploration to big scale manufacturing. Thomas has extensive experience within research and technology and substantial knowledge about production and supply. He ensures that quality, safety and sustainability are cornerstones of how Novozymes does business. The unit also covers communications and digital transformation at Novozymes. Novozymes A/S Governance Executive Leadership Team 43 Remuneration report Our results for 2019 were disappointing, which is reflected in the remuneration to the Executive Leadership Team. The short-term cash-based incentive decreased 70% compared to 2018, as members of the Executive Leadership Team received on average 22% of their maximum payout. The allocation of awards related to the long-term incentive program covering the period 2017-2019 ended at 61% of the maximum, which reflects a disappointing 2019 and 2017-2018 results closer to target level. General remuneration policy Remuneration paid to individual members of the Board of Directors Novozymes’ remuneration policy for managers and other employees is designed to both 2019 2018 2017 encourage strong individual performance and Board of ComBoard of ComBoard of Comsupport Novozymes’ overall value creation. DKK '000 Directors mittees Total Directors mittees Total Directors mittees Total Remuneration consists of a base salary, Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen 1,500 250 1,750 1,500 250 1,750 1,417 250 1,667 pension contributions, a cash bonus and stockAgnete Raaschou-Nielsen 1,000 349 1,349 1,000 250 1,250 917 250 1,167 based incentive programs. These components Mathias Uhlén 500 500 500 500 500 500 are linked to the employee’s individual Anders Hentze Knudsen 500 500 500 500 500 500 performance and to the level of achievement of Patricia Malarkey1 42 42 401 401 Novozymes’ financial, social and environmental Lars Bo Køppler 500 500 500 500 500 500 targets. Lena Bech Holskov 500 500 500 500 500 500 Lars Green2 301 301 602 500 500 1,000 500 500 1,000 The remuneration policy aims to provide managers and other employees with a Kasim Kutay3 500 500 500 500 417 417 competitive financial package, which we review Kim Stratton3 500 250 750 500 250 750 417 208 625 regularly against external benchmarks. Henrik Gürtler4 250 250 Heinz-Jürgen Bertram5 219 219 Remuneration of the Board of Directors Remuneration 5,843 1,150 6,993 6,401 1,250 7,651 6,137 1,208 7,345 The remuneration of the Board of Directors comprises a fixed fee and is not based on 1. Joined on March 12, 2018 / Resigned on January 31, 2019. 2. Resigned on September 1, 2019 to join the Executive Leadership Team. 3. Joined on February 22, 2017. 4. Resigned on February 22, 2017. 5. Resigned on June 8, 2017. incentives. The disclosed remuneration for board members excludes minor mandatory social security contributions paid by Novozymes. The Board of Directors assesses annually It also excludes reimbursed expenses that board members have incurred in connection with board meetings, such as travel and accommodation. the fees paid to the Board, based on the Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 44 recommendations of the Nomination and and half a base fee respectively. However, the Remuneration of the Executive In August 2019, Novozymes appointed a new Remuneration Committee. In making its Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board Leadership Team Chief Financial Officer, Lars Green, who joined recommendations, the Committee is guided by do not receive such additional fee if appointed The Board of Directors seeks to incentivize the Executive Leadership Team on September relevant benchmarks, including Novozymes’ to the Nomination and Remuneration the Executive Leadership Team to consistently 1, 2019. Lars Green replaced the former CFO, peers in Denmark and the rest of Europe. Committee. work for the positive development of Prisca Havranek-Kosicek, who left Novozymes Novozymes and, as a result, solid value in August 2019. Prisca Havranek-Kosicek’s The Board of Directors’ remuneration for the In January 2019, Patricia Malarkey resigned creation for Novozymes’ shareholders. The severance package, totaling DKK 16 million, year is approved at the Annual Shareholders’ from the Board to avoid a conflict of interest. Board believes that the best results are was fully expensed in 2019. The severance Meeting. Lars Green resigned from the Board in achieved when a relatively high proportion of package consists of salary and bonuses during September 2019 following his appointment an executive’s total remuneration is subject to the notice period (12 months) as well as Board members receive a fixed base fee. This as Chief Financial Officer of Novozymes. The the achievement of individual targets and to termination compensation (12 months) and was DKK 500,000 in 2019, the same as it has number of board members thereby decreased, Novozymes’ financial, social and environmental compensation for not being part of a stockbeen since 2015. The Chairman and the Vice which resulted in a reduction of the total fee targets being met. based incentive program in 2020. Furthermore, Chairman receive a fee that is three times and paid to the Board of Directors from DKK 7.7 the remaining value of awarded stock and two times the base fee respectively. million in 2018 to DKK 7.0 million in 2019. The Executive Leadership Team’s remuneration stock options has been expensed, DKK 4 comprises a base salary, pension contribution, million. For committee work on the Audit Committee The Board of Directors has the option to grant a cash bonus (short-term incentive program), and the Nomination and Remuneration an additional fee to individual board members stock-based incentive programs (long-term Committee, the committee chairman and other for extraordinary board work. No board incentive) and benefits (car, phone, etc.). committee members receive a further base fee members were granted such fees in 2019. In 2019, the ratio of the Chief Executive Officer’s total remuneration to the average remuneration for employees was 28, down Composition of Executive Leadership from 55 in 2018. Team remuneration 2019 The following members of the current Board of Directors hold shares of stock in Novozymes A/S In October 2019, Novozymes announced the appointment of a new Chief Executive Shares of Purchased Sold Shares of Market Officer, Ester Baiget, who will join Novozymes stock at during during stock at Dec. value on February 1, 2020. Ester Baiget replaces Shares of stock Jan. 1, 2019 the year the year 31, 2019 DKK million CEO Peder Holk Nielsen, who will leave Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen 2,000 2,000 0.7 Novozymes at the end of January 2020. Peder Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen 430 430 0.1 Holk Nielsen’s severance package, totaling Mathias Uhlén 650 650 0.2 DKK 32 million, was fully expensed in 2019. Anders Hentze Knudsen 356 356 0.1 The severance package consists of salary and bonuses during the notice period (12 months) Lena Bech Holskov 1,100 1,100 0.4 as well as termination compensation (11 Lars Bo Køppler 360 360 0.1 months) and compensation for not being part Board of Directors 4,896 4,896 1.6 of a stock-based incentive program in 2020. Salary 60% Members of the Board of Directors are not granted stock options or stock awards. Furthermore, the remaining value of awarded Cash bonus 5% However, employee-elected members hold a limited number of stock options in stock and stock options has been expensed, Deﬁned contribution plans 15% Novozymes A/S due to Group-wide employee stock option programs. DKK 6 million. Expensed incentive programs 20% Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 45 Remuneration paid to individual members In 2019, the members of the Executive The program was an equal stock and stock of the current Executive Leadership Team Leadership Team received a 2.5% increase in option program. Awards were subject to their base salary. The Executive Leadership accumulated economic profit generated and Contribution Expensed Team has a defined contribution pension the average organic sales growth achieved based incentive Total remuscheme, with the pension contribution during the period: DKK million Salary Cash bonus pension programs neration representing between 25% and 30% of the Peder Holk Nielsen 1 8.8 0.7 2.4 2.8 14.7 base salary and the cash bonus. • A total of up to 75% of the program will be allocated if economic profit accumulated Anders Lund 4.8 0.4 1.1 1.4 7.7 The maximum annual cash bonus is equivalent over the three years reaches DKK 7.5 Andrew Fordyce 4.6 0.2 1.1 1.6 7.5 to five months’ fixed base salary plus pension billion. If economic profit of DKK 5.5 billion Tina Sejersgård Fanø 4.8 0.3 1.1 1.4 7.6 contributions. The amount of the cash bonus is is generated over the period, 50% of the Lars Green 1, 2 1.8 0.4 0.5 0.9 3.6 subject to the degree of fulfillment of: stock and stock options allocated to the Prisca Havranek-Kosicek 3 3.0 0.7 1.0 4.7 economic profit pool will be awarded. For Thomas Videbæk 1 6.4 0.6 1.6 1.9 10.5 • Individual targets agreed with the amounts generated between these two Total remuneration 2019 34.2 2.6 8.5 11.0 56.3 Nomination and Remuneration Committee, points, a proportional number of stock not exceeding three months’ salary. and stock options will be awarded. If the Peder Holk Nielsen 8.5 2.3 2.8 12.5 26.1 • The company’s annual EBIT target. If this accumulated economic profit is below DKK Anders Lund 4.6 0.9 1.2 5.7 12.4 fundamental condition is met, the bonus, 5.5 billion, no stock or stock options will be Andrew Fordyce 4.5 1.2 1.3 6.8 13.8 which cannot exceed two months’ salary, is awarded under the economic profit pool. Tina Sejersgård Fanø 4.6 1.2 1.3 5.7 12.8 adjusted for the achievement of targets set Prisca Havranek-Kosicek 3 4.7 1.1 1.2 3.9 10.9 for social and environmental performance. Thomas Videbæk 6.3 1.8 1.9 8.4 18.4 The Executive Leadership Team received on Total remuneration 2018 33.2 8.5 9.7 43.0 94.4 average 22% of their maximum bonus for Peder Holk Nielsen 8.3 2.3 2.8 12.0 25.4 2019. The bonus paid out was related to their individual targets. No cash bonus was Anders Lund 4.3 1.0 1.2 4.9 11.4 Economic profit definition paid out in relation to Novozymes’ social and Andrew Fordyce 4.4 1.2 1.3 6.7 13.6 Economic profit is defined as: environmental performance as the 2019 EBIT Benny D. Loft 4 2.4 0.5 3.2 6.1 adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) less target was not met. Tina Sejersgård Fanø 4.4 1.0 1.2 4.9 11.5 (average invested capital * WACC). Thomas Videbæk 6.0 1.7 1.8 8.0 17.5 An incentive program covering the period Total remuneration 2017 29.8 7.2 8.8 39.7 85.5 To calculate economic profit in 2017-2019 was established for the Executive the long-term incentive program, Leadership Team in 2017. The program 1. Registered Executive Management. operating profit is adjusted for complies with the general guidelines for 2. Joined on September 1, 2019. Over the period 2020 2023 Lars Green will in addition to his hedging results to eliminate the ordinary salary receive in total DKK 14.5 million as compensation for lost incentives from previous remuneration of the Board of Directors and the impact of currency fluctuations as employer. The compensation is subject to certain conditions. Executive Leadership Team of Novozymes A/S 3. Joined February 1, 2018 / Resigned on August 8, 2019. well as for any impacts from major approved at Novozymes’ Annual Shareholders’ Severance pay not included in the remuneration figures. acquisitions and divestments. A fixed Meeting. See the full guidelines at Novozymes. 4. Resigned on June 15, 2017. Severance pay not included in the remuneration figures. WACC of 6% is used throughout the com. The new members of the Executive program period. Leadership Team became eligible for the program as of the date of their appointment. Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 46 For 2019, the economic profit generated The stock options awarded have a vesting recognized expense of DKK 11 million includes stock options allocated. The intrinsic value, was DKK 1.7 billion. The accumulated period of three years, after which follows a an adjustment to 2017 and 2018, so the total DKK 101 million, does not trigger the maximum economic profit generated under the five-year exercise period. The fair value of the expense of the program reflects the 61% target value clause. program is DKK 6.8 billion resulting in 61% stock options will be expensed over a four-year achievement and an average of DKK 31 million of the total program being awarded. period for each of the three years (2017-2019). for the three years. The members of the Executive Leadership The recognition of the program expense is Team have contracts of employment containing • A total of up to 25% of the program will be based on expected target achievement, so The incentive program includes a maximum standard conditions for executive officers allocated if Novozymes delivers 6% organic DKK 40 million and DKK 43 million were value clause that gives the Board of Directors of Danish listed companies, including the sales growth on average over the three-year expensed in 2017 and 2018. In 2019, the the option of reducing the number of stock and periods of notice that both parties are required period. If average organic sales growth of 3% is delivered, 50% of the stock and stock options allocated to the sales growth pool will be awarded. For percentages generated The Executive Leadership Team's share ownership in Novozymes A/S between these two points, a proportional number of stock and stock options will be awarded. If the average sales growth is Shares of stock at Change in Purchased Sold during Shares of stock at Market value Shares of stock Jan. 1, 2019 management during the year the year Dec. 31, 2019 DKK million below 3%, no stock or stock options will be awarded under the sales growth pool. Peder Holk Nielsen 209,269 209,269 68.2 Anders Lund 146 146 0.1 In 2019, organic sales growth reached -1%. Andrew Fordyce 3,500 3,500 1.1 The average organic sales growth in the Lars Green 1,000 1,000 0.3 period 2017-2019 is below 3%, resulting in Tina Sejersgård Fanø 10,178 10,178 3.3 0% of the total program being awarded. Thomas Videbæk Consequently, a total of 61% of the maximum Executive Leadership Team 223,093 1,000 224,093 73.0 under the program has been awarded, and a total of 174,260 shares will be released in January 2020. The number of shares set out The Executive Leadership Team's holding of stock options in Novozymes A/S above does not include shares that will be released to Prisca Havranek-Kosicek. Options at Change in Additions during Allocation Options at Market value Stock options Jan. 1, 2019 management the year adjustment Dec. 31, 2019 DKK million Furthermore, the net number of stock options allocated in 2019 was 11,284. In total 924,799 Peder Holk Nielsen 660,648 177,632 (180,904) 657,376 43.1 stock options has been awarded to the current Anders Lund 241,049 90,281 (91,949) 239,381 16.7 Executive Leadership Team for the three-year Andrew Fordyce 400,595 90,281 (91,949) 398,927 26.6 period. The granted stock options in 2019, Lars Green 35,638 (13,898) 21,740 1.3 2018 and 2017 has been reduced by 591,251 Prisca Havranek-Kosicek 62,626 (62,626) stock options in 2019 to reflect the realized Tina Sejersgård Fanø 227,597 90,281 (91,949) 225,929 14.9 target achievement of 61% for the period. Thomas Videbæk 341,734 118,422 (120,602) 339,554 20.1 Executive Leadership Team 1,934,249 (62,626) 602,535 (591,251) 1,882,907 122.7 Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 47 to give and noncompetition clauses. If an New remuneration policy for the Executive executive officer’s contract of employment Leadership Team is terminated by the company without any A new remuneration policy will be presented misconduct on the part of the executive officer, for approval at Novozymes’ Annual the executive officer has a notice period of 12 Shareholders’ Meeting in 2020. In designing months. In addition to the notice period, the the new remuneration policy, the Remuneration executive officer has a right to termination and Nomination Committee reviewed the compensation of 12 months’ base salary and magnitude and structure of the remuneration pension contributions. However, executive package of the Executive Leadership Team and officers appointed before 2016 have a right to compared it to external benchmarks. compensation of up to two year’s base salary and pension contributions. The Board of Directors also continued to seek to incentivize the Executive Leadership Team to Remuneration of senior leadership consistently work for the positive development The remuneration of Novozymes’ senior of Novozymes and, as a result, solid value leadership (183 vice presidents and directors) creation for Novozymes’ shareholders, both is consistent with the general remuneration in the short and the long term. Thus, the policy. Board believes that the best results and value generation are achieved when a relatively Incentive programs for vice presidents and high proportion of the total remuneration is directors have been established for the 2017subject to the achievement of both individual 2019 period. targets and to Novozymes’ financial, social, environmental and governance targets being The program for vice presidents largely follows met. As such the variable components of the same mechanisms as the program for the the total remuneration (short and long term Executive Leadership Team. incentive programs) are relatively high. The program for the directors was a stock The proposed new remuneration policy will option program that included the same targets be included in the invitation to attend the for organic sales growth and economic profit Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 2020. Subject as the other programs. Furthermore, awards to the approval of the new remuneration were linked to the achievement of annual EBIT policy details of the future long-term incentive and sustainability targets set for social and program for the Executive Leadership Team environmental performance. will be released, including a description of such programs for the vice presidents and directors. Further information on the incentive programs for these employee groups can be found in Note 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements, which also includes an overview of outstanding stock options. Novozymes A/S Governance Remuneration report 48 The Novozymes stock A stock B stock Total The Novozymes stock gained 12% in 2019. The overall Share capital (DKK) 107,487,200 474,512,800 582,000,000 shareholder payout of DKK 3.4 billion consisted of DKK 2.0 billion in stock buybacks and DKK 1.4 billion in dividends. A Number of shares 53,743,600 237,256,400 291,000,000 new stock buyback program of up to DKK 1.5 billion has been decided for 2020. Held by Novo Holdings A/S (%) 100.0% 8.6% 25.5% Number of votes 1,074,872,000 474,512,800 1,549,384,800 Share and ownership structure Stock performance Novozymes’ common stock consists of A shares Novozymes’ share price rose 12% during and B shares, both with a nominal value of 2019, resulting in a total market cap of DKK Voting rights (%) 69.4% 30.6% 100.0% DKK 2 per share. A shares carry 20 votes each 94.9 billion at year-end. The increase was whilst B shares carry 2 vote each. 14 percentage points less than the 26% Held by Novo Holdings A/S (%) 69.4% 2.6% 72.0% increase of the OMXC25CAP index of Nasdaq At the end of 2019, Novozymes had more Copenhagen, where Novozymes is listed. than 52,000 shareholders, of whom 95% were private shareholders in Denmark. The average daily trading volume of the stock was 509,597 shares or DKK 154 million, making Share price development Novozymes held 4.1% of the B shares, it the 12th most actively traded company on equivalent to 3.3% of the total common stock. Nasdaq Copenhagen, down from 11th place Novozymes B OMXC25CAP Roughly 70% of the B shares were held outside in 2018. Total shareholder return in 2019 was 130 Denmark. Fifty institutional investors, including 14%, adjusted for dividends. Over the past 125 Novo Holdings A/S, owned approximately five years, the stock has generated an average 50% of the B shares. Novo Holdings A/S held annual return (compounded) to shareholders 120 25.5% of the total common stock in Novozymes of 10%. 115 and controlled 72.0% of the votes. Novo Holdings A/S is wholly owned by the Novo 110 Nordisk Foundation, an independent Danish 105 foundation whose objective is to provide a stable base for the companies within the 100 Novo Group and to support scientific and humanitarian purposes. 95 90 85 Jan/19 Feb/19 Mar/19 Apr/19 May/19 Jun/19 Jul/19 Aug/19 Sep/19 Oct/19 Nov/19 Dec/19 Novozymes A/S Governance The Novozymes stock 49 Ownership structure Dividends Stock buyback programs The Board of Directors proposes that the 6,591,413 shares were repurchased and added The Novo Nordisk Foundation is an independent Danish foundation with corporate Annual Shareholders’ Meeting approve a to treasury stock from April 25 to November interests. The objective of the Novo Nordisk Foundation is twofold: to provide a stable dividend of DKK 5.25 per share for a total 15, 2019, as part of the DKK 2 billion stock base for the commercial and research activities conducted by the companies within the payout of DKK 1,478 million for the 2019 buyback program. A new stock buyback Novo Group and to support scientific and humanitarian purposes. financial year and a payout ratio of 46.8% program worth up to a total of DKK 1.5 billion which would be an increase from 44.6% in or a maximum of 15 million shares will be 2018. initiated in 2020. The proposal is in line with the plan to increase Novo Nordisk Institutional and the payout ratio to ~50% over the coming Foundation private investors years. The 2019 dividend will be disbursed on March 2, 2020, with February 26, 2020, as the last trading day with right to dividend for 2019. Novo Holdings A/S 25.5% of total shares 74.5% of total shares 72.0% of votes 28.0% of votes Total shareholder return adjusted for dividends, % Ownership by geography (B shares) Investor Relations Novozymes’ Investor Relations maintains an ongoing dialogue with sell-side equity analysts as well as major institutional and retail shareholders. A list of the current analysts covering Novozymes can be found at Investors.novozymes.com. Visit our website for financial reports, current presentations, factsheets, tools • Denmark 30% • UK 27% • Rest of Europe 18% • North America 22% and other downloads, and information for private and institutional shareholders • Rest of world 3% Novozymes A/S Governance The Novozymes stock 50 52 Performance and consolidated financial statements 60 Performance and environmental data 62 Performance and social & governance data 64 Notes 136 Statements 142 Financial statements for Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Sales and earnings Sales Operating costs EBIT and EBIT margin Tax Total sales in 2019 were DKK 14,374 million, a Operating costs increased by 5% to DKK 4,435 EBIT decreased by 1% to DKK 4,039 million, The effective tax rate was 17%, down from 18% decline of 1% organically and flat in DKK. million. Operating costs as a percentage of down from DKK 4,070 million in 2018. The EBIT in 2018, due to a positive impact from reduced sales were 31%. margin ended at 28.1%, down from 28.3% in uncertain tax positions related to bilateral “Overall unsatisfactory sales 2018. Excluding the one-off restructuring costs advance pricing agreements (APAs). growth in 2019 mainly due to • Sales and distribution costs increased by 4%, related to the updated strategy, the net gain accounting for 11.3% of sales from the termination of The BioAg Alliance Net profit challenging agricultural markets.” • Research and development costs increased and from the divestment of the pharma-related Net profit declined by 2% to DKK 3,155 million by 5%, accounting for 13.7% of sales royalty, the underlying EBIT margin in 2019 in 2019, down from DKK 3,227 million in 2018. Sales and sales growth • Administrative costs increased by 6%, was ~26%. DKK million % accounting for 5.8% of sales Earnings per share (diluted) EBIT and EBIT margin Earnings per share (diluted) were DKK 11.01, Restructuring costs were the main reason for DKK million % compared with DKK 11.03 in 2018. the increase in operating costs in 2019. Other operating income Other operating income was a net income of DKK 520 million, compared with DKK 43 million in 2018. The increase in 2019 was caused by a net gain of DKK 300 million relating to the termination of The BioAg • Sales Alliance in April 2019, and a net gain of DKK • Sales growth, organic (%) 194 million relating to the divestment of the pharma-related royalty. • EBIT • EBIT margin (%) Gross profit and margin Gross profit decreased by 4% to DKK 7,954 EBITDA million from DKK 8,255 million in 2018. The EBITDA increased by 3% to DKK 5,292 Net finance gross margin was 55.3%, down from 57.4% in million, up from DKK 5,158 million in 2018. Net financial costs were DKK 235 million 2018. The decrease was mainly due to lower Depreciation, amortization and impairment in 2019, compared with DKK 117 million in organic sales growth, lower deferred income losses were DKK 1,182 million in 2019, up 2018. In 2019, Novozymes realized a DKK 205 as well as one-off restructuring costs related to 9% from DKK 1,088 million in 2018. The million currency hedging/revaluation net loss, the updated strategy. implementation of IFRS 16 has resulted in compared with a net loss of DKK 89 million in recognition of depreciation charges related to 2018. lease assets of DKK 124 million. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Sales and earnings 52 Consolidated statements of income Income statement Statement of comprehensive income DKK million Note 2019 2018 DKK million Note 2019 2018 Revenue 2.1, 2.2 14,374 14,390 Net profit 3,155 3,227 Cost of goods sold 2.3, 3.1, 3.2, 4.1 (6,420) (6,135) Gross profit 7,954 8,255 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to the income statement: Sales and distribution costs 2.3, 3.1, 3.2 (1,631) (1,571) Research and development costs 2.3, 2.4, 3.1, 3.2 (1,966) (1,865) Currency translation adjustments Administrative costs 2.3, 3.1, 3.2 (838) (792) Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests 143 181 Other operating income, net 2.5 520 43 Tax on currency translation adjustments (1) (5) Operating profit / EBIT 4,039 4,070 Currency translation adjustments 142 176 Share of result in associates (5) (17) Cash flow hedges Financial income 5.2 112 47 Fair value adjustments (107) (133) Financial costs 5.2 (347) (164) Tax on fair value adjustments 24 29 Profit before tax 3,799 3,936 Cash flow hedges reclassified to financial costs 5.2 164 42 Tax on reclassified fair value adjustments (36) (9) Tax 2.6 (644) (709) Cash flow hedges 45 (71) Net profit 3,155 3,227 Other comprehensive income 187 105 Attributable to Shareholders in Novozymes A/S 3,154 3,226 Comprehensive income 3,342 3,332 Non-controlling interests 1 1 3,155 3,227 Attributable to Shareholders in Novozymes A/S 3,342 3,331 Proposed dividend per share DKK 5.25 DKK 5.00 Non-controlling interests 1 3,342 3,332 Earnings per share 2.7 DKK 11.06 DKK 11.11 Earnings per share, diluted 2.7 DKK 11.01 DKK 11.03 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Sales and earnings 53 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities Net investments Free cash flow before acquisitions and Financing activities The cash flow from operating activities was Net investments excluding acquisitions were divestments The cash flow from financing activities was DKK 3,196 million, down from DKK 3,679 DKK 991 million, down from DKK 1,388 million The free cash flow before acquisitions and negative at DKK 2,644 million, compared with million in 2018, a decrease of DKK 483 million. in 2018. Net investments in property, plant divestments amounted to DKK 2,205 million, a negative cash flow of DKK 2,167 million in The negative development was mainly driven and equipment amounted to DKK 856 million, compared with DKK 2,291 million in 2018. The 2018. The negative cash flow from financing by an increase in corporate taxes paid and compared with DKK 1,328 million in 2018. decrease of 4% was mainly due to the lower activities was mainly due to the 2019 stock lower operating profits when excluding nonThe level was lower compared with 2018 as cash flow from operations partly offset by buyback program (DKK 2,000 million) and cash elements in other operating income, the investments in the Innovation Campus in lower net investments. dividend payments (DKK 1,439 million). partly offset by repayment of lease liabilities Lyngby as well as in the production facilities now recognized under financing activities due in India and the US were to a large extent Free cash flow Cash position to the implementation of IFRS 16. finalized in 2018. The free cash flow was DKK 2,635 million in Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2019, compared with DKK 2,287 million in 2019, amounted to DKK 711 million, down 2018. Free cash flow was positively impacted from DKK 723 million at December 31, 2018. by the divestment of the pharma-related Undrawn committed credit facilities were DKK royalty. 3,758 million at December 31, 2019. Cash flow from operating activities * The comparatives for 2015-2018 Net investments Free cash flow before acquisitions DKK million have not been restated for IFRS 16 DKK million % DKK million • Net investments • Net investments (% of sales) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Cash flow 54 Consolidated statement of cash flows DKK million Note 2019 2018 DKK million Note 2019 2018 Net profit 3,155 3,227 Financing Borrowings 2,003 2,093 Reversal of non-cash items 6.6 1,321 2,062 Repayment of borrowings (1,175) (1,115) Income tax paid 2.6 (1,116) (761) Repayment of lease liabilities (108) Interest received 64 9 Interest paid (88) (11) Shareholders: Cash flow before change in working capital 3,336 4,526 Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 75 172 Change in working capital Dividend paid (1,439) (1,317) (Increase)/decrease in receivables (238) (361) Cash flow from financing activities (2,644) (2,167) (Increase)/decrease in inventories 218 (234) Increase/(decrease) in payables, deferred income and contract liabilities (124) (265) Net cash flow (9) 120 Currency translation adjustments 4 13 Cash flow from operating activities 3,196 3,679 Unrealized gain/(loss) on currencies and financial assets included in cash and cash equivalents (3) (29) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (12) 91 Investments Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 723 632 Purchase of intangible assets 6.6 (135) (60) Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 711 723 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 6.6 (862) (1,332) Sale of property, plant and equipment 6 4 Business acquisitions, divestments and purchase of financial assets 6.6 430 (4) Cash flow from investing activities (561) (1,392) Free cash flow 2,635 2,287 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Cash flow 55 Balance sheet and financial position Total assets Invested capital Net interest-bearing debt Net interest-bearing debt-to-EBITDA Total assets increased from DKK 19,697 million Invested capital increased from DKK 13,953 Novozymes had net interest-bearing debt Net interest-bearing debt-to-EBITDA was at December 31, 2018, to DKK 20,437 million million in 2018 to DKK 15,507 million in 2019. of DKK 4,049 million at December 31, 0.8x at December 31, 2019, compared with at December 31, 2019. The increase were This was a result of higher net working capital 2019, compared with DKK 2,535 million at 0.5x at December 31, 2018. The increase was mainly driven by the implementation of IFRS and the implementation of IFRS 16. December 31, 2018. Net interest-bearing impacted by 0.1 percentage points from the 16, and an increase in net working capital. debt was impacted by cash outflows from implementation of IFRS 16. Net working capital dividend payments of DKK 1,439 million and ROIC Novozymes’ net working capital increased to stock buybacks of DKK 2,000 million, which Return on invested capital (ROIC), including DKK 3,478 million, up from DKK 2,768 million exceeded cash inflows from operating activities goodwill, was 21.1%, down 3.1 percentage in 2018, due to higher trade receivables, lower and net borrowings. Furthermore, net interestpoints from 24.2% in 2018. The decrease was trade payables and a reduction of contract bearing debt was impacted by DKK 616 million mainly a result of higher net invested capital. liabilities related to The BioAg Alliance from the implementation of IFRS 16. ROIC was impacted negatively by 0.8 termination, partly offset by lower inventories. percentage point from the implementation of IFRS 16. Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) and net interest­ Net working capital ROIC and average invested capital bearing debt-­to-­EBITDA DKK million % % of sales DKK million NIBD/EBITDA • Average invested capital • Inventories • Receivables • NIBD • ROIC (%) • Payables and deferred income • Net working capital • NIBD/EBITDA Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Balance sheet and financial position 56 Consolidated balance sheet Assets Liabilities and shareholders’ equity DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Intangible assets 3.1 1,926 2,130 Common stock 5.5 582 594 Land and buildings 3.2 4,056 2,779 Currency translation adjustments 57 (86) Plant and machinery 3.2 4,501 4,452 Cash flow hedges 19 (26) Other equipment 3.2 993 619 Retained earnings 10,810 10,943 Assets under construction and prepayments 3.2 662 1,848 Equity attributable to shareholders in Novozymes A/S 11,468 11,425 Deferred tax assets 2.6 1,161 938 Non-controlling interests 12 13 Other financial assets 22 20 Shareholders’ equity 11,480 11,438 Investments in associates 37 42 Other receivables 4.3 29 34 Deferred tax liabilities 2.6 879 892 Non-current assets 13,387 12,862 Provisions 3.4 115 132 Contract liabilities 4.4 199 Inventories 4.1 2,613 2,820 Lease liabilities 453 Trade receivables 4.2 2,864 2,606 Other financial liabilities 5.3 2,775 1,474 Contract assets 4.2 243 279 Other liabilities 4.5 37 Tax receivables 2.6 273 174 Non-current liabilities 4,222 2,734 Other receivables 4.3 269 219 Other financial assets 15 14 Lease liabilities 163 Cash and cash equivalents 711 723 Provisions 3.4 128 97 6,988 6,835 Other financial liabilities 5.3 1,411 1,899 Trade payables 1,117 1,418 Assets held for sale 4.6 62 Contract liabilities 4.4 74 175 Current assets 7,050 6,835 Tax payables 2.6 431 575 Other liabilities 4.5 1,411 1,361 Assets 20,437 19,697 Current liabilities 4,735 5,525 Liabilities 8,957 8,259 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 20,437 19,697 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Balance sheet and financial position 57 Equity and shareholder return Shareholders’ equity Return on equity Dividend Stock buyback program At December 31, 2019, shareholders’ equity Return on equity was 27.5%, down 0.9 The Board of Directors proposes that the In 2019, Novozymes bought back 6.6 million was DKK 11,480 million, up from DKK 11,438 percentage points from 28.4% in 2018. The Annual Shareholders’ Meeting approve B shares at an aggregate transaction value of million at December 31, 2018, as dividend decrease was a result of lower net profit. a dividend of DKK 5.25 per share for the DKK 2,000 million under the stock buyback payments and net stock buybacks almost 2019 financial year, corresponding to an program initiated on April 25, 2019, and equaled comprehensive income in 2019. Treasury stock increase of 5% compared with 2018. This completed on November 18, 2019. The shares At December 31, 2019, the holding of treasury will result in an expected total dividend acquired under the program will be used Equity ratio stock was 9.7 million B shares, equivalent to payment of approximately DKK 1,478 million, to reduce the common stock and to meet Shareholders’ equity represented 56% of the 3.3% of the common stock. corresponding to a payout ratio of 46.8%. obligations arising from employee stock-based balance sheet total at December 31, 2019, incentive programs. down from 58% at December 31, 2018, driven by the increase in total assets related to the implementation of IFRS 16. Shareholder return Movements in equity 2019 Payout ratio and dividend growth * Dividend for 2019 is proposed DKK million % DKK million dividend. • Payout ratio • Dividend • Dividend growth • Stock buyback program Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Equity and shareholder return 58 Consolidated statement of shareholders’ equity Attributable to shareholders in Novozymes A/S Currency translation Cash flow Retained Non-controlling DKK million Common stock adjustments hedges earnings Total interests Total equity Shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2019 594 (86) (26) 10,943 11,425 13 11,438 Net profit for the year 3,154 3,154 1 3,155 Other comprehensive income for the year 143 45 188 (1) 187 Total comprehensive income for the year 143 45 3,154 3,342 3,342 Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 75 75 75 Write-down of common stock (12) 12 Dividend (1,438) (1,438) (1) (1,439) Stock-based payment 45 45 45 Tax related to equity items 19 19 19 Changes in shareholders’ equity (12) 143 45 (133) 43 (1) 42 Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2019 B/S 582 57 19 10,810 11,468 12 11,480 Shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2018 610 (262) 45 10,861 11,254 13 11,267 Net profit for the year 3,226 3,226 1 3,227 Other comprehensive income for the year 176 (71) 105 105 Total comprehensive income for the year 176 (71) 3,226 3,331 1 3,332 Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 172 172 172 Write-down of common stock (16) 16 Dividend (1,316) (1,316) (1) (1,317) Stock-based payment 97 97 97 Tax related to equity items (113) (113) (113) Changes in shareholders’ equity (16) 176 (71) 82 171 171 Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2018 B/S 594 (86) (26) 10,943 11,425 13 11,438 The proposed dividend of approximately DKK 1,478 million for 2019 is included in Retained earnings. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Equity and shareholder return 59 Environmental performance Operational ecoefficiency Energy Water Novozymes strives to decouple environmental In 2019, Novozymes’ energy consumption was In 2019, Novozymes’ water consumption impact from business growth, and aims to 4,574,000 GJ, a decrease of 5% compared with decreased by 4% from 8,205,000 m3 in 2018 to define targets and metrics that measure and 2018. 7,845,000 m3. drive our sustainability performance. Renewable sources accounted for 30% of the The total volume of wastewater generated in In 2018 we introduced new annual targets energy consumption in 2019, up from 23% in 2019 decreased by 3%. for energy and water consumption and CO2 2018. In 2019, Novozymes started procuring emissions, aiming to keep growth in resource renewable electricity for our production site In 2019, Novozymes implemented a reverse consumption and CO2 emissions lower than in Tianjin, China. In addition all our electricity osmosis system at one of our plants in China, our organic sales growth. In 2019, we managed in Denmark and Brazil comes from offshore which purifies our process water and enables to reduce water consumption by 4%, energy windfarms and hydropower. reuse in our cooling towers. consumption by 5% and CO2 emissions by 24% compared with 2018. Energy by source 2019 (2018) Waste Novozymes recovered 97% of biomass Climate change generated in 2019 from landfill, on par with Novozymes’ total CO2 emissions were 365,000 2018. tons in 2019, a decrease from 472,000 tons in 2018. Our target measures the increase in part For solid waste, the rate of recycling across of the total CO2 emissions (scope 1+2 only), our global production sites increased to 52%, which decreased by 24% from 437,000 tons in compared with 44% in 2018. 2018 to 330,000 tons in 2019. Environmental compliance The number of breaches of regulatory limits • Electricity – conventional 29% (38%) recorded worldwide decreased to 17 in 2019 • Electricity – renewable 29% (22%) from 27 in 2018. Most of these breaches • Steam 21% (21%) • Fuels – conventional 15% (14%) related to wastewater treatment. Novozymes • Heat – conventional 4% (4%) • Fuel and heat – renewable 2% (1%) is addressing these incidents. In addition, we received seven neighbor complaints in 2019, compared with 11 in 2018, mostly related to air pollution and waste management. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Environmental performance 60 Consolidated environmental data Note 2019 2018 Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions 7.1 1,000 tons CO2-eqv. 365 472 Energy Energy consumption 7.2 1,000 GJ 4,574 4,831 Renewable energy 7.2 % 30 23 Water Water consumption 7.3 1,000 m3 7,845 8,205 Volume of wastewater 7.3 1,000 m3 6,147 6,306 Waste Solid waste 7.4 1,000 tons 13 14 Recycling rate for solid and hazardous waste 7.4 % 52 44 Biomass volume 7.4 1,000 tons 513 509 Recycling rate for biomass 7.4 % 97 97 Environmental compliance, etc. Breaches of regulatory limits 7.5 No. 17 27 Neighbor complaints 7.5 No. 7 11 References to notes without data Bioethics & biodiversity 7.6 n.a. n.a. Product stewardship 7.7 n.a. n.a. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Environmental performance 61 Social and governance performance Labor practices & human rights Occupational health & safety Innovation Community engagement At December 31, 2019, the total number of As a consequence of our continuous focus on Novozymes is committed to delivering In 2019, Novozymes engaged approximately employees was 6,125, compared with 6,427 building awareness and keeping employees bioinnovation and launched nine new products 329,000 learners, compared with in 2018. The decrease is a consequence of the safe and healthy, the frequency of occupational in 2019. approximately 302,000 in 2018. The increase organizational change announced in August accidents fell to an alltime low 0.9 per million was due to expansion of our 2018 projects 2019, when around 300 employees were laid working hours in 2019, compared with 2.4 in In 2019, Novozymes had 951 active patent across regions and addition of new projects. off globally across the organization. 2018. families, which comprise the number of inventions that have active patent applications Customer engagement Number of employees Frequency of accidents (per million working hours) or active patents. The number of active patent Novozymes conducts an annual customer families has been reduced from 1,041 in 2018, satisfaction survey and tracks progress on its as we have abandoned patent families that are Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is assessed no longer needed, in order to free up resources on a scale from -100 to +100. In 2019, we for focusing on the updated strategy Better received an NPS of +54, compared with +50 in business with biology. See more details about 2018, which confirms our solid relationships our new products in ‘This is Novozymes’. with our customers. Business ethics In 2019, Novozymes reinforced its business integrity principle commitment. 99% of Novozymes’ employees in scope completed business integrity training in 2019, on par with 2018. The employee absence rate was 1.9% compared with 2.1% in 2018. As in 2018, there were no breaches of competition law in 2019. Novozymes promotes equal opportunities and strengthens diversity in the global The number of investigated fraud cases workplace. At December 31, 2019, 31% of increased to 42 in 2019, compared with 34 in senior management (directors and higher) were 2018. None of the investigated fraud cases had women, up from 30% in 2018. a material financial impact. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Social and governance performance 62 Consolidated social and governance data Note 2019 2018 Labor practices & human rights Employees, total 2.3 No. 6,125 6,427 Women 2.3 % 37.6 37.7 Rate of absence 8.1 % 1.9 2.1 Women in senior management 8.1 % 31 30 Occupational health & safety Fatalities No. Frequency of occupational accidents 8.2 Per million working hours 0.9 2.4 Frequency of occupational diseases 8.2 Per million working hours 0.1 0.4 Innovation New products 2.4 No. 9 8 Active patent families 2.4 No. 951 1,041 Business ethics Completion of business integrity training for employees in scope 8.3 % 99 99 Breaches of competition law 8.3 No. Investigated fraud cases 8.3 No. 42 34 Community engagement Estimated number of learners reached 8.4 No. 329,000 302,000 Customer engagement Customer satisfaction, Net Promoter Score (NPS) 8.5 No. 54 50 Reference to notes without data Responsible sourcing 8.6 n.a. n.a. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Social and governance performance 63 T Notes N o Basis of reporting Net working capital 6.5 Fees to statutory auditors 1.1 Significant changes and events 4.1 Inventories 6.6 Cash flow 1.2 Basis of reporting 4.2 Trade receivables and 6.7 Group companies contract assets Net operating profit after tax 4.3 Other receivables Environmental data 2.1 Segment 4.4 Contract liabilities 7.1 Climate change 2.2 Revenue 4.5 Other liabilities 7.2 Energy 2.3 Employees 4.6 Assets held for sale 7.3 Water s 2.4 Research and development costs 7.4 Waste e 2.5 Other operating income, net Capital structure and financing 7.5 Environmental compliance, etc. 2.6 Tax 5.1 Financial risk factors and risk 7.6 Bioethics & biodiversity 2.7 Earnings per share management 7.7 Product stewardship 5.2 Financial income and Financial Invested capital costs Social and governance data 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment 5.3 Other financial liabilities 8.1 Labor practices & human rights test of goodwill 5.4 Derivatives – hedge accounting 8.2 Occupational health & safety 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 5.5 Common stock and treasury stock 8.3 Business ethics 3.3 Leases 5.6 Financial assets and liabilities by 8.4 Community engagement 3.4 Provisions category 8.5 Customer engagement 8.6 Responsible sourcing Other financial notes 6.1 Management remuneration 6.2 Stock-based payment 6.3 Commitments and contingencies 6.4 Related party transactions Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 64 Basis of reporting 1.1 Significant changes and events Implementation of IFRS 16 Leases Termination of The BioAg Alliance Divestment of the pharma-related royalty Novozymes implemented IFRS 16 on leases In February 2014, Novozymes and Monsanto In April 2019, Novozymes divested the pharmaas of January 1, 2019. The standard has a formed The BioAg Alliance to discover, related royalty. The transaction is classified as significant impact on the balance sheet, as develop, and commercialize microbial a divestment of assets. Reference is made to leases are recognized in the balance sheet as solutions to increase crop yields and enhance Note 2.5 and Note 3.1 for more details. lease assets and lease liabilities. sustainability. In the income statement, the lease cost is As a consequence of Bayer’s acquisition of replaced by depreciation of the leased asset Monsanto, Novozymes and Bayer negotiated and an interest expense for the financial the future setup of The BioAg Alliance. In April liability, but the impact is insignificant. ROIC 2019, The BioAg Alliance was terminated, is impacted negatively, while free cash flow is and replaced by a multi-partner setup in impacted positively. BioAg. Novozymes is continuing a close innovation and commercial partnership with The impact on the Group’s consolidated Bayer. Reference is made to Note 2.5 for a financial statements is described in Note 1.2 description of the impact of The BioAg Alliance under Impact of new accounting standards. termination. The implementation has resulted in additional disclosures; see Note 3.3. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 65 Basis of reporting 1.2 Basis of reporting This section provides an overview of Consolidation of the environmental data and • Translation of foreign subsidiaries’ income experience and various other factors. Actual Novozymes’ principal accounting policies, the social and governance data follows the same statements from average exchange rates results may differ from these estimates. critical accounting estimates and judgments principles as the financial reporting. applied, a definition of materiality as well as Non-IFRS financial measures The estimates and underlying assumptions the impact of new or amended IFRS standards Translation of foreign currencies Novozymes uses certain financial measures are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Changes and interpretations. The consolidated financial statements are that are not defined in IFRS to describe the in estimates may be necessary if there are presented in Danish kroner (DKK). Group’s financial performance, financial changes in the circumstances on which The symbols I/S , B/S and ESG show which position and cash flows. These financial the estimate was based, or more detailed amounts in the notes can be found in the Exchange rate differences arising between measures may therefore be defined and information becomes available. Such changes income statement, the balance sheet, and in the exchange rate at the transaction date and calculated differently from similar measures are recognized in the period in which the environmental data and social and governance the reporting date are recognized as Financial in other companies, and may thus not be estimate is revised. data respectively. income or Financial costs. comparable. The application of the Group’s accounting The accounting policies described below Foreign currency transactions are translated The non-IFRS financial measures presented in policies may require Management to make apply to the consolidated financial statements into the functional currency defined for the annual report are: judgments that can have a significant effect on as a whole. Accounting policies and critical each company using the exchange rates the amounts recognized in the consolidated accounting estimates and judgments are prevailing at the transaction date. Monetary • Organic sales growth financial statements. Management judgment described in the notes to which they relate to items denominated in foreign currencies are • Economic profit is required in particular when assessing enhance understanding. The descriptions of translated into the functional currency at the • ROIC the substance of transactions that have a accounting policies in the notes form part of exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date. • Free cash flow before acquisitions complicated structure or legal form. the overall description of accounting policies. Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries Definitions of non-IFRS financial measures are The critical accounting estimates and ACCOUNTING POLICIES are translated into DKK at the exchange rates provided in the Glossary. judgments can potentially significantly impact Consolidation prevailing at the reporting date for assets and the consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements liabilities, and at average exchange rates for CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND comprise the financial statements of income statement items. JUDGMENTS Novozymes A/S (the Parent Company) The preparation of the consolidated financial and subsidiaries controlled by Novozymes The following exchange rate differences, statements and the environmental data A/S, prepared in accordance with Group arising from translation using the exchange and social and governance data requires accounting policies. The consolidated financial rate prevailing at the reporting date, are Management to make estimates and statements are prepared by combining recognized in Other comprehensive income: assumptions that can have a significant effect items of a uniform nature and subsequently on the application of policies and reported eliminating intercompany transactions, internal • Translation of foreign subsidiaries’ net assets amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses stockholdings and balances, and unrealized at the beginning of the year and related disclosures. The estimates and intercompany profits and losses. underlying assumptions are based on historical Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 66 Basis of reporting 1.2 Basis of reporting (continued) The table below shows the critical accounting estimates and judgments and their level of potential impact on the consolidated financial statements: Estimate/ Potential impact from Note Critical accounting estimates and judgments judgment estimates and judgments immaterial to the economic decision-making 2.2 Revenue Profit-sharing in partnerships Estimate of the readers of the annual report. The 2.6 Tax Group tax charge Estimate disclosures on environmental, social and 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill Estimate governance (ESG) issues include information 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill Intangible assets recognized at fair value Estimate on our management approach, targets, 4.1 Inventories Cost of work in progress and finished goods Estimate initiatives and related progress. 4.2 Trade receivables and contract assets Allowances for doubtful trade receivables Estimate Novozymes’ materiality assessment is a 4.4 Contract liabilities Deferred income Estimate systematic and rigorous process that integrates 8.4 Community engagement Learners reached Estimate inputs from external stakeholders, trend analyses and internal engagement with relevant departments including Investor Basis of reporting prepared in accordance with principles to GRI 101: Foundation 2016 to inspire Relations, Risk Management & Controls, The consolidated financial statements of that adhere to the following internationally its materiality assessment process and Quality and Sustainability and leadership from the Group have been prepared in accordance recognized voluntary reporting standards and to GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 to our commercial divisions. This process results with IFRS as adopted by the EU and further principles: report contextual information about itself. in a materiality matrix (www.novozymes.com/ requirements in the Danish Financial Information is presented on Novozymes’ en/about-us/sustainability/materiality) of Statements Act. Novozymes has prepared • AA1000(2008) framework for accountability. management approach to material financial and ESG issues and reflects the consolidated financial statements in The framework states that reporting must issues, taking inspiration from GRI 103: importance of those issues to stakeholders accordance with all the IFRS standards provide a complete, accurate, relevant Management Approach 2016 versus impact on Novozymes. We use our effective at December 31, 2019. The fiscal year and balanced picture of the organization’s materiality matrix to define our priorities and for the Group is January 1 – December 31. approach to and impact on society The principles are unchanged from last year. focus areas for the coming period. • UN Global Compact. Novozymes is a The consolidated financial statements have signatory to the UN Global Compact, a Defining materiality In 2019, no new issues were added to or been prepared on a going concern basis and voluntary policy initiative for businesses that Novozymes’ annual report is based on the deleted from the matrix and we further under the historical cost convention, with the are committed to aligning their operations concept of materiality, to ensure that the integrated it into our business strategy by using exception of derivatives and securities, which and strategies with ten universally accepted content is material and relevant. it as critical input for the strategy update in are measured at fair value. The accounting principles in the areas of human rights, 2019. In the following we highlight some of our policies are unchanged from last year except labor, environment and anti-corruption. If items are individually immaterial, they are material issues, for which, we have external for the implementation of IFRS 16 Leases. Read Novozymes’ UNGC Communication on aggregated with other items of a similar nature targets/flagship initiatives and make a direct Progress in the Sustainability section in the statements or in the notes. Novozymes contribution to an SDG target(s). The consolidated environmental data and • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards provides the specific disclosures required by social and governance data have been 2016 (GRI Standards). Novozymes refers IFRS unless the information is considered Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 67 Basis of reporting 1.2 Basis of reporting (continued) Material issues with For a full list of our material issues and details present value of future lease payments. external targets or flagship initiatives External target(s)/flagship initiative SDGs on the materiality assessment, please see our materiality matrix and value chain assessment Novozymes does not apply IFRS 16 to Innovation • HelloScience open innovation platform at novozymes.com. short-term leases, low-value leases or leases expiring before December 31, 2019. Limited reporting scope Profitable growth • Organic sales growth 5+% per year* The environmental data cover those activities Novozymes applies a single discount • EBIT margin 28% or above by 2022 that could have a significant impact on the rate to portfolios of leases with similar • ROIC incl. goodwill 23% or above by 2022 environment. Sites with activities considered characteristics. Climate change • 50% reduction in absolute emissions from not to have a significant environmental and energy operations by 2030 impact are not included. Such sites comprise The lease liability is measured using the • 100% renewable electricity by 2030 sales offices, R&D labs, and sites with limited marginal borrowing rate in the countries in • 15% reduction in absolute emissions from blending and storage of products. However, which Novozymes operates. The weighted purchased goods and services by 2030 measures are taken to ensure that at least average incremental borrowing rate for lease Water • 100% sites manage water in balance with local 97% of the total Novozymes quantity of the liabilities initially recognized at January 1, conditions by 2030 measured environmental parameter is included 2019 was 5.2%. in the reported numbers. Lease costs are not split into service Responsible sourcing • 100% of key materials and waste managed in circular systems by 2030 Impact of new accounting standards components and rental costs but accounted Novozymes has adopted the following new or for as a single lease component. Variable amended standards and interpretations from service components invoiced separately are Community engagement • Pledge 1% of our time to local outreach January 1, 2019: expensed as operating costs. and social investment activities by 2022 • IFRS 16 – Leases introduces a single lessee The following table shows the line items Occupational health • Maintain occupational injuries ≤ 1.5 accounting model, requiring lessees to that are significantly impacted by the and safety recognize leases in the balance sheet as implementation of IFRS 16. Line items that a lease asset and a lease liability. In the are not affected are not included in the income statement, the lease cost is replaced table. The implementation of IFRS 16 has Labor practices • 86 on our diversity index by 2022 and human rights • 80 on learning in employee survey in 2022 by depreciation of the lease asset and an had an insignificant impact on the income interest expense for the financial liability. statement, and hence is not included in the table. Waste • Develop programs to reach zero waste The standard was implemented on January by 2030 at 100% of sites 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective approach, and comparative figures have not been restated. At initial recognition, lease Get a full list of our nonfinancial targets in the Sustainability section. assets are measured at an amount equal to *2020 is the first year of a three-year strategy period and is expected to be impacted to some extent by portfolio changes. the lease liability, which is measured at the Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 68 Basis of reporting 1.2 Basis of reporting (continued) DKK million December 31, 2019 January 1, 2019 • IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Other than the impact from IFRS 16, the Net book value of lease assets recognized in: Treatments clarifies the accounting for adoption of the new and amended standards Land and buildings1 397 468 uncertainties in income taxes and interpretations has not had a significant Plant and machinery1 102 104 impact on recognition, measurement or Other equipment 155 192 • Annual Improvements to IFRSs (2015-2017) disclosures in the consolidated financial contains minor changes to four standards statements for 2019 and is not anticipated to Non-current lease liabilities2 453 571 have an impact on future periods. Current lease liabilities2 163 137 • Amendments to IAS 28 – Long-term interests 1. As of January 1,2019 DKK 56 million and DKK 92 million respectively was transferred from previously in Associates and Joint Ventures clarifies New standards and interpretations not yet capitalized finance leases. that an entity applies IFRS 9 including its adopted 2. As of January 1, 2019 a total of DKK 92 million was transferred from previous finance lease liabilities, impairment requirements, to long-term IASB has issued new or amended accounting included in other payables. interests in an associate or joint venture standards and interpretations that have not that form part of the net investment in the yet become effective and have consequently Consequently, as of December 31, 2019, ROIC The following table shows a reconciliation from associate or joint venture but to which the not been implemented in the consolidated was impacted negatively by 0.8 percentage operating lease commitments as of December equity method is not applied financial statements for 2019. Novozymes point, and Free cash flow was impacted 31, 2018 to lease liabilities as of January 2019. expects to adopt the accounting standards and positively by DKK 108 million, as repayments • Amendments to IAS 19 – Plan amendments, interpretations when they become mandatory. of lease liabilities are now included under The implementation has resulted in additional Curtailment or Settlement requires an entity None of the new or amended standards or Financing activities. Depreciation of lease disclosures; see Note 3.3. to use updated actuarial assumptions to interpretations are expected to have an impact assets amounted to DKK 124 million in 2019. determine current service cost and net on the consolidated financial statements. interest for the remainder of the annual reporting period after the plan amendment, DKK million curtailment or settlement Operating lease commitments at December 31, 2018 506 Discounted using the Group incremental borrowing rate as of January 1, 2019 (108) • Amendment to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Finance lease liabilities recognized at December 31, 2018 92 Features with Negative Compensations Short-term leases and contracts assessed as service agreements (12) clarifies how to classify particular prepayable Adjustment for useful life changes 230 financial assets, as well as clarifying an Lease liabilities recognized at January 1, 2019 708 aspect of the accounting for financial liabilities following a modification Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 69 Net operating profit after tax Organic sales growth Net operating profit after tax EBIT (1)% NOPAT Tax ROIC Invested capital excl. Net profit growth NWC Invested (2)% capital NWC DKK million Note 2019 2018 Revenue 2.2 14,374 14,390 Cost of goods sold (6,420) (6,135) Gross profit 7,954 8,255 Sales and distribution costs (1,631) (1,571) Research and development costs 2.4 (1,966) (1,865) EBIT margin at Administrative costs (838) (792) Other operating income, net 2.5 520 43 28.1% Operating profit (EBIT) 4,039 4,070 Exchange gains/(losses) (205) (89) Tax on adjusted operating profit (650) (717) Share of loss in associates (5) (17) Adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) 3,179 3,247 Average invested capital (see Invested capital section) 15,038 13,417 ROIC 21.1% 24.2% Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 70 Net operating profit after tax 2.1 Segment Segment reporting Worldwide operations geographical distribution of revenue may The internal reporting framework used for The Group operates in four geographical therefore vary from year to year if the delivery reporting on revenue and expenses to the regions: Europe, Middle East & Africa (including destination for these customers changes. Executive Leadership Team and the Board of Denmark), North America, Asia Pacific and Directors has been established to reflect and Latin America. From a revenue perspective, Most of the Group’s intangible assets and report on the global functional responsibility the US is the largest single market, contributing property, plant and equipment are located in setup at Novozymes. This setup consolidates ~31% of the Group’s revenue (2018: ~32%). Denmark, the US and China at ~50%, ~30% functions by type, and Management reviews and ~13% respectively (2018: ~50%, ~30% and the results of the Group as a whole to assess The geographical distribution of revenue is ~13%). performance. Thus, there is only one operating based on the country in which the goods are segment. delivered. With a number of customers, central deliveries are made to specified locations and the final destination is unknown. The stated Intangible assets and property, plant and Revenue 2019 (2018) equipment 2019 (2018) Net investments 2019 (2018) DKK million DKK million DKK million • Denmark 166 (204) • Denmark 6,007 (5,871) • Denmark 495 (713) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 5,174 (5,010) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 51 (49) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 13 (9) • North America 4,750 (4,893) • North America 3,935 (3,738) • North America 271 (309) • Latin America 1,407 (1,381) • Latin America 142 (160) • Latin America 21 (19) • Asia Pacific 2,877 (2,902) • Asia Pacific 2,003 (2,010) • Asia Pacific 191 (338) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 71 Net operating profit after tax 2.2 Revenue DKK million 2019 2018 Household Care 4,758 4,625 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES of Novozymes’ total annual revenue (2018: Food & Beverages 4,171 4,122 AND JUDGMENTS approximately 13%). Bioenergy 2,820 2,806 Novozymes has entered into partnerships A minor part of the revenue, related to the Agriculture & Feed 1,881 2,045 where Novozymes manufactures and sells expected profit-share on products sold to Technical & Pharma 744 792 products to a partner, who undertakes the the partner, requires significant judgment Revenue I/S 14,374 14,390 sales to end customers, and where the and estimates by Management. This involves profit on products sold to end customers is estimating future selling prices to end Emerging markets 4,938 4,980 shared between the partner and Novozymes customers, along with their impact on rebate Developed markets 9,436 9,410 based on predetermined profit-sharing schemes, and estimating product returns Revenue I/S 14,374 14,390 mechanisms. Revenue related to this type of from end customers. partnership comprises approximately 11% Sales to the five largest customers as a percentage of revenue 27% 28% At the beginning of 2019, contract liabilities The majority of Novozymes’ revenue is ACCOUNTING POLICIES microorganisms to customers, and each amounted to DKK 374 million (2018: DKK derived from the sale of goods to customers, batch delivered is considered a separate 573 million), of which DKK 26 million was where revenue is recognized when goods are Novozymes produces a wide range of performance obligation, as each batch is recognized as revenue in 2019 (2018: DKK 224 delivered. Less than 1% of Novozymes’ total industrial enzymes and microorganisms. distinct. million). revenue arises from royalties. Revenue includes the sale of goods and related services and royalties, and is Discounts Sales by currency 2019 (2018) Sales growth 2019 recognized at an amount that reflects Enzymes and microorganisms are sometimes DKK million DKK million the consideration to which Novozymes sold at a rebate. A rebate agreement can expects to be entitled. Revenue from the be set up in various ways, but common to straightforward sale of goods to customers all agreements is that revenue is recognized is recognized when control of the goods is based on the price specified in the contract, transferred to the customer, i.e. when goods net of the estimated rebate. The rebates are are delivered. Variable considerations are estimated based on experience, as well as included in revenue to the extent that they information related to expected orders 3-12 are not subject to significant uncertainty. months in advance. The estimated rebates are reassessed at the end of each reporting The performance obligations in the period. contracts are to deliver enzymes and • DKK ~10% (~10%) • EUR ~35% (~35%) • USD ~35% (~35%) • CNY ~10% (~10%) • Other ~10% (~10%) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 72 Net operating profit after tax 2.2 Revenue (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES Profit split Commission A trade receivable is recognized when the Novozymes has entered into partnerships Novozymes has entered into commission customer obtains control of the goods Returns where Novozymes manufactures and sells agreements where agents undertake sales and an invoice is issued, as this is the A few of Novozymes’ partnerships are products to a partner, who undertakes to third parties in return for commission point in time when the consideration is granted a right of return. No revenue is the sales to end customers. The profit on on realized sales. Revenue from such unconditional and only the passage of time recognized for the goods expected to be products sold to end customers is shared agreements is recognized when the is required before payment is due. Typical returned, as a refund liability is recognized. between the partner and Novozymes goods are delivered, as the nature of the payment terms are around 60 days. Estimates of the expected level of returns based on predetermined profit-sharing performance obligation is to provide the are based on analysis of historical returns mechanisms. specified goods. Contract liabilities consist of advance and knowledge of the relevant markets/ payments, deferred revenue and liabilities products. These estimates are updated at Revenue from these arrangements consists Other for refund goods. The contract liabilities are the end of each reporting period. As the of sales of products to the partner and Revenue collected on behalf of third parties recognized as revenue as the performance goods returned are usually scrapped, no the shared profit, and is recognized in is not recognized as revenue. obligations under the contracts are fulfilled. inventory asset is recognized. full when the goods are delivered to the other contracting party. This is done by Novozymes’ obligation to provide a refund calculating the expected profit based for products that are not of the agreed on insights, experience and other input quality or according to agreed specifications factors. The calculated profit is recognized under the standard warranty terms is as a contract asset or contract liability until recognized as contract liabilities. Reference an invoice is issued. The realized profit is is made to Note 4.4. settled periodically. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 73 Net operating profit after tax 2.3 Employees DKK million 2019 2018 In August 2019, Novozymes announced Wages and salaries 3,195 2,960 organizational changes related to the Pensions – defined contribution plans 292 306 updated strategy. As a consequence of the Other social security costs 284 232 changes, around 300 employees were laid Other employee costs 117 114 off globally across the organization. The Stock-based payment 46 100 employee cost in 2019 include restructuring Employee costs 3,934 3,712 costs related to this of around DKK 200 million. The one-off impact is partly offset Recognized in the income statement under the following items: by reduced employee cost in the remainder Cost of goods sold 1,447 1,350 of the year. In addition, the announced Sales and distribution costs 869 778 changes in the Executive Leadership Team Research and development costs 1,122 1,057 during 2019 has resulted in severance cost Administrative costs 504 492 of DKK 58 million. 3,942 3,677 Change in employee costs recognized in Inventories (8) 35 Employee costs 3,934 3,712 Number of employees end of year 2019 (2018) Employee costs 2019 (2018) No. of employees DKK million • Denmark 2,640 (2,687) • Denmark 2,084 (2,004) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 191 (191) • Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 171 (145) • North America 1,195 (1,301) • North America 1,065 (981) • Asia Pacific 1,792 (1,892) • Asia Pacific 500 (470) • Latin America 307 (356) • Latin America 114 (112) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 74 Net operating profit after tax 2.3 Employees (continued) 2019 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Average number of employees in the Group 6,341 6,351 Average number of employees who work with R&D 1,522 1,522 The number of employees is derived Number of employees outside Denmark as a percentage of total number of employees 57% 58% from contractual obligations, but does not include employees on unpaid leave, Part-time employees 292 296 temporary replacements, student interns, Full-time employees 5,833 6,131 agency employees, consultants or PhD Employees at December 31 ESG 6,125 6,427 students. In calculating the number of fulltime employees, employees with a workingSenior management 189 188 time ratio of 95% or more are counted as Management 1,136 1,207 full-time employees. Professional 1,711 1,820 Administrative 579 602 The average number of employees is calculated as the average of the number of Skilled workers, laboratory technicians and other technicians 1,294 1,364 permanent employees at the end of each Process operators 1,216 1,246 month. Employees by category ESG 6,125 6,427 Job categories are defined as follows: Employee gender distribution 2019 (2018) Senior management comprises the CEO, executive vice presidents, senior vice presidents, vice presidents and directors. Management comprises middle managers and specialists. Professional comprises employees with academic backgrounds as well as team leaders. Process operators comprises operators and unskilled workers. • Women 37.6% (37.7%) • Men 62.4% (62.3%) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 75 Net operating profit after tax 2.4 Research and development costs DKK million Note 2019 2018 Internal and external research and development costs 519 564 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Employee costs 2.3 1,122 1,057 Amortization and impairment losses, intangible assets 3.1 170 120 Research and development costs primarily Depreciation and impairment losses, property, plant and equipment 3.2 155 124 comprise employee costs, internal and Total research and development costs I/S 1,966 1,865 external costs related to the development of new products and to the ongoing optimization of production processes As a percentage of revenue 13.7% 13.0% for existing products, and amortization, depreciation and impairment losses related to intangible assets and property, plant In 2019, Novozymes launched nine new In 2019, Novozymes had 951 active patent and equipment used in the research and products (2018: eight new products). New families (2018: 1,041). Active patent families development activities. products comprise products with new or comprise the number of inventions for which improved characteristics. Novozymes has one or more active patent Research and development costs are applications or active patents at December 31. expensed as incurred unless the criteria for capitalization are deemed to have been met. Due to significant uncertainty associated with the development of new products, research and development costs are not capitalized. Income received from research and collaboration agreements is recognized in Other operating income. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 76 Net operating profit after tax 2.5 Other operating income, net DKK million 2019 2018 Income and grants concerning research projects/ ACCOUNTING POLICIES licenses, patents, etc., and other income collaborations 11 33 of a secondary nature in relation to the Other secondary income, net 15 10 Other operating income comprises income main activities of the Group. This item also Net gain from termination of The BioAg Alliance 300 that is not product-related. This includes includes non-recurring income items in Net gain from divestment of the pharma-related royalty 194 income from research and collaboration respect of damages, outlicensing, etc., and Other operating income, net I/S 520 43 agreements, government grants, sale of gains and losses on divestments. Other operating income was significantly A net gain of DKK 194 million related to the impacted by the termination of The BioAg divestment of the pharma-related royalty was Alliance at a net gain of DKK 300 million. recognized in 2019. The net gain comprises The net gain mainly comprises the release of the selling price less contingent consideration, the remaining deferred revenue of DKK 287 transaction costs and the disposed goodwill. million originating from the formation of the Alliance. Furthermore, the net gain comprises the income related to assets recognized at fair value offset by impairment losses and transaction costs. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 77 Net operating profit after tax 2.6 Tax Tax risk Joint taxation Novozymes operates in many markets via sales agreements (APAs) with the tax authorities in Novozymes A/S and its Danish subsidiaries CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES companies and distributors, while production the countries where internal transactions are are jointly taxed with the Danish companies of AND JUDGMENTS takes place in a small number of countries. the most significant. the Novo Holdings A/S Group. Joint taxation This leads to transactions between group also covers withholding taxes in the form of As the Group operates across many companies. Novozymes follows the OECD A majority of intercompany transactions within dividend tax, royalty tax and interest tax. The different countries, the calculation of the principles in setting internal transfer prices for Novozymes are covered by bilateral APAs. Danish companies are jointly and individually Group’s total tax charge in the income these transactions, but this is a complicated The APAs provide certainty that transactions liable for the joint taxation liability. Any statement inherently involves a degree of area and entails a tax risk, partly because the are carried out on arm’s length terms. Please subsequent adjustments to income taxes and estimation and judgment. Tax and transferarea is subject to political judgment in every also refer to Novozymes’ Position on Tax at withholding taxes may lead to a larger liability. pricing disputes with authorities in various country. Novozymes regularly enters into Novozymes.com. Tax for the individual companies is allocated countries may occur, and Management dialogue with tax authorities to reduce this in full on the basis of the expected taxable judgment is applied to assess the possible risk, and has entered into advance pricing income. outcome of such disputes. Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on Tax in the income statement account and on the final resolution of open items. As a result, there may be substantial DKK million 2019 2018 differences between the tax charge in the Tax payable on net profit (894) (890) consolidated income statement and actual Change in deferred tax 262 150 tax payments. Adjustment for previous years (12) 31 Tax in the income statement I/S (644) (709) Transfer of intellectual property from Switzerland to Denmark had a positive Calculation of effective tax rate: impact on the effective tax rate of 2.9% Corporate tax rate in Denmark (22.0)% (22.0)% in 2019 (2018: 3.1%). This is recognized in Difference in foreign tax rates. Non-taxable income less non-deductible expenses 0.6% (0.1)% Difference in foreign tax rates 2.6% 3.3% In 2019, Novozymes had a positive impact Other adjustments 1.8% 0.8% from uncertain tax positions related to Effective tax rate (17.0)% (18.0)% APAs, recognized in Other adjustments. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 78 Net operating profit after tax 2.6 Tax (continued) Deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities DKK million 2019 2018 2019 2018 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 947 742 (1,265) (1,193) Inventories 427 471 (197) (188) Corporation tax, comprising the current Tax loss carry-forwards 42 34 tax liability, change in deferred tax for the Stock options 109 75 year and possible adjustments relating to prior years, is recognized in the income Other 274 266 (55) (161) statement, unless it relates to items 1,799 1,588 (1,517) (1,542) recognized either in Other comprehensive Offsetting items (638) (650) 638 650 income or directly in Shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax at December 31 B/S 1,161 938 (879) (892) Uncertain tax positions are assessed individually and recognized if it is probable that an amount will be paid or received. The tax value of the unrecognized share of tax not expire amounted to DKK 20 million (2018: Deferred tax is measured using the balance loss carry-forwards, tax credits, etc. that do DKK 23 million). sheet liability method and comprises all temporary differences between the carrying amount and the tax base of assets and liabilities. No deferred tax is recognized for DKK million 2019 2018 goodwill, unless amortization of goodwill Deferred tax at January 1 46 34 for tax purposes is allowed. The tax value Currency translation adjustments 2 1 of tax loss carry-forwards is included in the Tax related to the income statement 229 123 calculation of deferred tax to the extent that Tax on shareholders’ equity items 5 (112) the tax losses can be expected to be utilized Deferred tax at December 31 282 46 in the future. Deferred tax assets B/S 1,161 938 Deferred tax is measured according to Deferred tax liabilities B/S (879) (892) current tax rules and at the tax rate Deferred tax at December 31 282 46 expected to be in force on elimination of temporary differences. Changes in deferred tax due to tax rate changes are recognized in the income statement, unless they relate to items recognized either in Other comprehensive income or directly in Shareholders’ equity. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 79 Net operating profit after tax 2.6 Tax (continued) Tax receivables and payables DKK million 2019 2018 Tax payables, net, at January 1 (401) (348) Currency translation adjustments (2) 3 Tax related to the income statement (872) (832) Tax on shareholders’ equity items 1 15 Tax paid for the current year, net 1,116 761 Tax payables, net, at December 31 (158) (401) Tax receivables B/S 273 174 Tax payables B/S (431) (575) Tax payables, net, at December 31 (158) (401) Of which due within 12 months (32) (80) Of which due after more than 12 months (126) (321) Tax payables, net, at December 31 (158) (401) Corporate income taxes paid are specified as follows: Income taxes paid in Denmark 701 546 Income taxes paid outside Denmark 415 215 Total income taxes paid 1,116 761 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 80 Net operating profit after tax 2.7 Earnings per share DKK million 2019 2018 Net profit for the year 3,155 3,227 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Less net profit attributable to non-controlling interests (1) (1) Net profit attributable to the shareholders in Novozymes A/S 3,154 3,226 Earnings per share is calculated as net profit attributable to shareholders in Novozymes Average number of shares A/S divided by the average number of Weighted average number of shares in circulation 285,110,290 290,422,325 shares in circulation. Average dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and stock awards 1,441,008 1,940,030 Diluted earnings per share is calculated Average number of diluted shares 286,551,298 292,362,355 as net profit attributable to shareholders in Novozymes A/S divided by the average Earnings per share DKK 11.06 DKK 11.11 number of shares in circulation, including Earnings per share, diluted DKK 11.01 DKK 11.03 the dilutive effect of stock options “in the money”. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 81 Invested capital ROIC down from 24.2% in 2018 to Invested capital EBIT 21.1% NOPAT Tax ROIC Invested capital excl. Increase in average invested NWC capital of DKK million Invested capital NWC 1,621 DKK million Note 2019 2018 Intangible assets 3.1 1,926 2,130 Property, plant and equipment 3.2 10,212 9,698 Investments in associates 37 42 Net working capital (see Net working capital section) 3,478 2,768 Financial assets, non-interest-bearing 15 14 Net investments excl. acquisitions Provisions 3.4 (243) (229) Other non-current financial liabilities, non-interest-bearing (11) (5) down from DKK 1,388 million in Other financial liabilities, non-interest-bearing (31) (110) 2018 to DKK million Tax, net 124 (355) Invested capital Average invested capital* *Average invested capital for 2019 includes an impact of DKK 563 million from the implementation of IFRS 16 at January 1, 2019 and December 31, 2019. 15,507 15,038 13,953 13,417 991 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 82 Invested capital 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill Acquired patents, CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES trademarks, Completed IT IT development licenses and development projects in AND JUDGMENTS DKK million Goodwill know-how, etc. projects progress Total Cost at January 1, 2019 1,086 2,942 533 59 4,620 Currency translation adjustments 2 2 4 Management assesses the risk of Additions during the year 129 47 54 230 impairment of the Group’s intangible assets. Disposals during the year (123) (425) (548) This requires judgment in relation to the Transfers to/(from) other items 84 (84) identification of cash-generating units Cost at December 31, 2019 965 2,648 664 29 4,306 (CGUs) and the underlying assumptions in the Group’s impairment model. Amortization and impairment losses at January 1, 2019 (2,062) (428) (2,490) If there is any indication of impairment, Currency translation adjustments (1) (1) value in use is estimated and compared Amortization during the year (163) (47) (210) with the carrying amount. The calculation Impairment losses (71) (71) of value in use is based on the discounted Disposals during the year 392 392 cash flow method using estimates of future Amortization and impairment losses at December 31, cash flows from the continuing use. The 2019 (1,905) (475) (2,380) key parameters are the expected revenue Carrying amount at December 31, 2019 B/S 965 743 189 29 1,926 streams and the rate used to discount the cash flows. Due to the termination of The BioAg Alliance, The BioAg Alliance, the impairment losses are A pre-tax WACC of 7% was used to calculate Intellectual property from The BioAg Alliance recognized and included in Other operating the discounted cash flows. As a consequence of the termination of The has been transferred to Novozymes free of income. BioAg Alliance, intellectual property from charge. These assets have been recognized at Impairment test of goodwill The BioAg Alliance has been recognized at fair value amounting to DKK 95 million and the The impairment losses were the result of Since 2016, Management has identified two fair value. Measuring the fair value of these corresponding income is recognized in Other impairment tests performed on assets where cash-generating units (CGUs): Novozymes’ assets requires Management assessment of operating income. the termination of The BioAg Alliance has main activities and the Biopharma CGU. With business plans for the individual assets. The resulted in reduced sales projections for the the divestment of the pharma-related royalty, key parameters are expected cash flows and The goodwill disposal is related to the assets in question. The cash flow used to test and thereby the remaining activity within the the WACC used to discount the cash flows. divestment of the pharma-related royalty. one of the assets for impairment was based Biopharma CGU in April 2019, only one CGU on business plans for the period 2019-2025, remains. Impairment and the terminal value used was based on In 2019, impairment losses of DKK 71 million the expected lifetime and cash flow over that As the market value of Novozymes is on two specific assets were recognized. As period. For the other impaired asset, the cash significantly higher than its equity, no further these are related to the termination of flow ceased in 2019 with the termination of key assumptions are used to determine The BioAg Alliance. whether impairment of goodwill exists (2018: no impairment). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 83 Invested capital 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill (continued) Acquired patents, Recognition of amortization and impairment losses by trademarks, Completed IT IT development function 2019 (2018) licenses and development projects in DKK million Goodwill know-how, etc. projects progress Total DKK million Cost at January 1, 2018 1,108 2,923 492 61 4,584 Currency translation adjustments (22) (2) (24) Additions during the year 21 14 25 60 Transfers to/(from) other items 27 (27) Cost at December 31, 2018 1,086 2,942 533 59 4,620 Amortization and impairment losses at January 1, 2018 (1,793) (359) (2,152) Currency translation adjustments 3 (1) 2 Amortization during the year (213) (68) (281) • Cost of goods sold 82 (179) Impairment losses (59) (59) • Sales and distribution 3 (7) • Research and development 170 (120) Amortization and impairment losses at December 31, • Administration 26 (34) 2018 (2,062) (428) (2,490) Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 B/S 1,086 880 105 59 2,130 Impairment The impairment losses were the result of and the terminal value used was based on In 2018, impairment losses of DKK 59 million impairment tests performed on assets where the expected lifetime and cash flow over that on two specific assets were recognized and indications of impairment had been identified period. For the other impaired asset, the cash included in Cost of goods sold and Research due to reduced sales projections for the flow was expected to cease in 2019. and development costs at DKK 46 million and assets in question. The cash flow used for the DKK 13 million respectively. impairment test of one of the assets was based A pre-tax WACC of 7% was used to calculate on business plans for the period 2019-2023, the discounted cash flows. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 84 Invested capital 3.1 Intangible assets and impairment test of goodwill (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES Expected useful lives are reassessed regularly. Intangible assets other than goodwill are measured at cost less accumulated The Group regularly reviews the carrying amortization and impairment losses. amounts of its finite-lived intangible assets Goodwill and IT development projects in to determine whether there is an indication progress are not subject to amortization. of an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the asset’s Costs associated with large IT projects for carrying amount exceeds its estimated the development of software for internal recoverable amount. Impairment losses are use are capitalized if incurred with a view to reversed only to the extent of changes in the developing new and improved systems. assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment calculation. Amortization is based on the straight-line method over the expected useful lives of the Goodwill is tested for impairment annually finite-lived assets, as follows: or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. • Completed IT development projects are amortized over the useful life. IT development assets are amortized over a period of 3-5 years • Acquired patents, trademarks, licenses and know-how are amortized over their useful lives. The useful lives of patents and trademarks are normally identical to the patent period. Licenses are amortized over the agreement period. Recognized patents, trademarks, licenses and knowhow are amortized over a period of 7-15 years Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 85 Invested capital 3.2 Property, plant and equipment Assets under Recognition of depreciation and impairment Land and Plant and construction and losses by function 2019 (2018) DKK million buildings machinery Other equipment prepayments Total DKK million Cost at January 1, 2019 5,694 10,645 1,846 1,848 20,033 Lease assets at January 1, 2019 412 12 192 616 Currency translation adjustments 59 99 19 8 185 Additions during the year 127 184 215 383 909 Disposals during the year (41) (71) (61) (33) (206) Transfer to assets held for sale (273) (273) Transfers to/(from) other items 1,068 307 169 (1,544) Cost at December 31, 2019 7,046 11,176 2,380 662 21,264 Depreciation and impairment losses at January 1, 2019 (2,915) (6,193) (1,227) (10,335) • Cost of goods sold 713 (556) Currency translation adjustments (22) (44) (9) (75) • Sales and distribution 39 (35) • Research and development 155 (124) Depreciation for the year (264) (504) (189) (957) • Administration 65 (33) Impairment losses (15) (15) Disposals during the year 15 64 40 119 Transfer to assets held for sale 211 211 Transfers to/(from) other items 2 (2) Depreciation and impairment losses at December 31, 2019 (2,990) (6,675) (1,387) (11,052) Carrying amount at December 31, 2019 B/S 4,056 4,501 993 662 10,212 The implementation of IFRS 16 as of January Capitalized interest and pledges Impairment to Assets held for sale. An impairment loss 1, 2019, resulted in an increase in Property, Interest of DKK 2 million (2018: DKK 29 million) An ongoing production related construction of DKK 15 million was recognized in Sales and plant and equipment of DKK 616 million. Refer was capitalized under Additions during the project was abandoned in 2019. This led to distribution cost and Administrative cost at to Note 1.2 for a description of the impact of year and included as Investing activities in the an expense of DKK 33 million, which was DKK 4 million and DKK 11 million respectively. the implementation of IFRS 16, and Note 3.3 statement of cash flows. Capitalization rate: recognized in Cost of goods sold. for additional disclosures relating to leases. 0.9% (2018: 2.98%). In 2018, an impairment loss of DKK 18 million Buildings expected to be sold within 12 on a building was recognized and included in Depreciation relating to leases in 2019 Land and buildings with a carrying amount of months, were written down to the expected Sales and distribution costs. amounted to DKK 124 million. DKK 1,526 million (2018: DKK 355 million) has selling price less transaction costs before being been pledged as security to credit institutions. transferred to Assets held for sale. Buildings The mortgage loans expire in 2029 and 2039. amounting to DKK 62 million was transferred Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 86 Invested capital 3.2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) Assets under Land and Plant and Other construction and DKK million buildings machinery equipment prepayments Total ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cost at January 1, 2018 5,415 9,808 1,679 1,648 18,550 Currency translation adjustments 51 107 18 5 181 Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and Additions during the year 121 326 87 890 1,424 impairment losses. Borrowing costs in Disposals during the year (8) (90) (24) (122) respect of construction of major assets are Transfers to/(from) other items 115 494 86 (695) capitalized. Cost at December 31, 2018 5,694 10,645 1,846 1,848 20,033 Depreciation is based on the straight-line Depreciation and impairment losses at January 1, method over the expected useful lives of the 2018 (2,718) (5,789) (1,117) (9,624) assets, as follows: Currency translation adjustments (15) (45) (10) (70) Depreciation for the year (168) (442) (120) (730) • Buildings: 12-50 years Impairment lossess (18) (18) • Plant and machinery: 5-25 years Disposals during the year 4 83 20 107 • Other equipment: 3-18 years Depreciation and impairment losses at December 31, 2018 (2,915) (6,193) (1,227) (10,335) The residual values and useful lives of the Carrying amount at December 31, 2018 B/S 2,779 4,452 619 1,848 9,698 assets are reviewed on an annual basis and Of which assets held under finance leases 56 92 148 adjusted if necessary at each reporting date. The Group regularly reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication of impairment in those assets. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be lower than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are reversed only to the extent of changes in the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment calculation. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 87 Invested capital 3.3 Leases IFRS 16 was implemented as of January 1, 2019. Refer to Note 1.2 for further description. ACCOUNTING POLICIES as cars and transportation containers. DKK million 2019 2018 Land and buildings 397 56 Lease assets Lease liabilities Plant and machinery 102 92 Lease assets are ‘right-of-use assets’ from Lease liabilities are initially recognized at Other equipment 155 lease agreements. If, at inception, it is the present value of future lease payments Carrying amount of lease assets 654 148 assessed that a contract contains a lease, including payments from extension or In 2018, DKK 148 million was recognized as finance leases. a lease asset is recognized. Lease assets purchase options that are considered are initially measured at the present value reasonably certain to be exercised. of future lease payments, plus the cost of Additions to the lease assets during 2019 was DKK 47 million. obligations to refurbish the asset. Payments The lease liability is measured using the include fixed payments, variable lease implicit borrowing rate in the contracts or, DKK million 2019 2018 payments depending on an index or a rate where this is not available, the marginal Lease liabilities and the exercise price of purchase options borrowing rate in the countries in which Less than 1 year 165 3 that are reasonably certain to be excercised. Novozymes operates. Novozymes applies a Between 1 and 5 years 307 15 single discount rate to portfolios of leases in More than 5 years 238 74 The lease assets are depreciated using the the countries in which Novozymes operates Undiscounted lease liabilities at December 31 710 92 straight-line method over the shorter of the based on contract currency and loan In 2018, DKK 92 million was recognized as finance lease liabilities. expected lease term and the useful life of periods. the underlying asset. The lease assets are DKK million 2019 tested for impairment whenever there is an If a lease contract is modified, the lease indication that the assets may be impaired. liability is remeasured. For building leases, Amounts recognized in the income statement lease terms are estimated taking the size Interest on lease liabilities 28 Lease assets are depreciated as follows: of the building and its strategic importance Variable lease payments not included in the lease liabilities 3 • Buildings: 1-12 years into consideration. Novozymes has entered Expenses relating to short-term leases 11 • Land: 10-90 years into several open-ended building leases Expenses relating to low-value leases 1 • Plant and machinery: 1-10 years and building leases with extension options. • Equipment and company cars: 1-10 years Lease terms of such agreements are Depreciation of lease assets per asset class estimated based on the strategic importance Land and buildings 68 Short-term leases and leases of low value of the buildings and the estimated time Plant and machinery 5 are recognized as expenses in the income frame neccesary to vacate the premises. Other equipment 51 statement on a straight-line basis over the The estimated lease term is reassessed at Depreciation of lease assets 124 lease term. each reporting date. The estimated lease terms for such contracts do not exceed 12 Novozymes’ portfolio of leases covers leases years. Amounts recognized in the statement of cash flows of land, buildings and other equipment such Total cash outflow for leases 136 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 88 Invested capital 3.4 Provisions 2019 2018 Dismantling and Legal and other Dismantling and Legal and other ACCOUNTING POLICIES DKK million restoration obligations Total restoration obligations Total Provisions at January 1 82 147 229 74 171 245 Reclassification to Contract Provisions are recognized where a legal or liabilities (20) (20) constructive obligation has been incurred Currency translation adjustments 1 1 2 3 (1) 2 as a result of past events and it is probable Additions during the year 168 168 5 42 47 that it will lead to an outflow of financial Reversals during the year (19) (19) (41) (41) resources. Provisions are measured at the Utilization during the year (137) (137) (4) (4) present value of the expected expenditure Provisions at December 31 83 160 243 82 147 229 required to settle the obligation. Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 25 90 115 72 60 132 Current B/S 58 70 128 10 87 97 Provisions at December 31 83 160 243 82 147 229 Dismantling and restoration Legal and other obligations In Management’s opinion, the outcomes of where part of the selling price received has to Dismantling and restoration relates to Novozymes is involved in a number of ongoing these cases are not expected to give rise to be repaid if certain patent registrations are not estimated future costs of environmental legal disputes, and provisions are made for any significant losses beyond the amounts obtained by 2021. In other obligations, DKK 40 restoration. Novozymes aims for its production the estimated costs of these based on a provided for at December 31, 2019. million has been utilized as a consequence of sites not to have a negative environmental current evaluation of the outcomes. In 2019, the termination of The BioAg Alliance. Other impact. These liabilities relate to established Novozymes settled a long-standing patent Other obligations include contingent long-term employee benefits account for only a circumstances, and the costs are expected to dispute, and as a result Novozymes has paid consideration, other long-term employee minor amount, as the majority of Novozymes’ be incurred either when concrete measures DKK 65 million to the counterpart, of which benefits and other contractual obligations. pension plans are defined contribution plans, are implemented or when a site is vacated. DKK 31 million was provided for in previous covering approximately 99% of employees. The expected costs and timing are by nature years. The remaining ongoing cases are The contingent consideration mainly relates These obligations are mainly expected to be uncertain. expected to be finalized in 2020-2021. to the divestment of the pharma-related royalty incurred over a relatively long period of time. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 89 Net working capital Average net working capital in DKK Net working capital million EBIT 3,123 NOPAT Tax ROIC Invested capital excl. Net working capital as % of sales NWC Invested 24.2% capital NWC DKK million Note 2019 2018 Inventories 4.1 2,613 2,820 Trade receivables 4.2 2,864 2,606 Contract assets 4.2 243 279 Other receivables 4.3 298 253 Assets held for sale 4.6 62 Trade payables (1,117) (1,418) Contract liabilities 4.4 (74) (374) Other liabilities 4.5 (1,411) (1,398) Net working capital 3,478 2,768 Average net working capital 3,123 2,396 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 90 Net working capital 4.1 Inventories DKK million 2019 2018 Raw materials and consumables 365 372 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES of 2019 (2018: DKK 938 million). Indirect AND JUDGMENTS production costs are assessed on an ongoing Work in progress 821 828 basis to ensure reliable measurement of Finished goods 1,427 1,620 Work in progress and Finished goods employee costs, capacity utilization, cost Inventories at December 31 B/S 2,613 2,820 are measured at cost, including indirect drivers and other relevant factors. Changes production costs. The indirect production in these parameters may have an impact on Cost of materials, included under Cost of goods sold 3,510 3,411 costs capitalized under inventories the gross margin and the overall valuation of Write-downs expensed during the year 110 117 amounted to DKK 907 million at the end Work in progress and Finished goods. Reversal of write-downs during the year* 63 33 *Part of the reversal of write-downs is attributable to written-down inventory being reused in production. ACCOUNTING POLICIES If the expected selling price less any completion costs and costs to execute the Inventories are measured at the lower of sale (net realizable value) of inventories is cost determined on a first-in first-out basis lower than the carrying amount, inventories and net realizable value. are written down to net realizable value. The cost of Work in progress and Finished Novozymes has entered into a few goods comprises direct production costs agreements where Novozymes supplies such as raw materials and consumables, goods to a customer’s premises but retains energy and labor directly attributable to title to the inventory until the goods are production as well as indirect production consumed in the customer’s production. costs such as employee costs, maintenance Such goods are derecognized from and depreciation of plants, etc. inventories in the period when they are consumed in the customer’s production. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 91 Net working capital 4.2 Trade receivables and contract assets DKK million 2019 2018 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Trade receivables, gross 3,022 2,768 AND JUDGMENTS Allowances (158) (162) Trade receivables at December 31 B/S 2,864 2,606 The allowance for expected credit losses for trade receivables and contract assets is Aging of trade receivables, gross: based on historical credit loss experience Up to 30 days 2,807 2,613 combined with forward-looking information Between 30 and 90 days 43 35 on macroeconomic factors affecting the More than 90 days 172 120 credit risk. The expected loss rates are Trade receivables, gross, at December 31 3,022 2,768 updated at each reporting date. Changes in allowances for trade receivables: At January 1 162 226 ACCOUNTING POLICIES As the contract assets relate to the Allowances during the year 15 48 partnerships, the credit risk is based on an Write-offs during the year (4) (90) individual assessment. Reversed allowances (15) (22) Trade receivables and contract assets are Allowances at December 31 158 162 measured at amortized cost less allowance Trade receivables and contract assets are for lifetime expected credit losses. written off when all possible options have Trade receivables Contract assets been exhausted and there is no reasonable In 2018, the change in allowances for trade Contract assets amounted to DKK 243 To measure the expected credit losses, expectation of recovery. receivables included a write-off related to the million at the end of 2019 (2018: DKK 279 trade receivables have been grouped based unrecoverable part of our receivable related million), and mainly related to the estimated on shared credit risk characteristics and The cost of allowances for expected credit to Beta Renewables S.p.A. The write-off was a profit split arising from partnerships that days past due. Furthermore, an allowance losses and write-offs for trade receivables consequence of the financial restructuring of Novozymes has entered into. for lifetime expected credit losses for and contract assets are recognized in Sales part of the M&G Group. trade receivables is recognized on initial and distribution costs. The contract assets are initially recognized as recognition. Novozymes has collateral held as security for revenue when goods are delivered to the other trade receivables in selected countries of DKK contracting party. When the realized profit split 32 million (2018: DKK 68 million). is invoiced, the contract assets are reclassified to trade receivables. No allowance for expected credit losses had been made for contract assets at the end of 2019 (2018: no allowance). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 92 Net working capital 4.3 Other receivables DKK million 2019 2018 Deposits 26 24 Prepaid expenses 102 100 Other 170 129 Other receivables at December 31 298 253 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 29 34 Current B/S 269 219 Other receivables at December 31 298 253 4.4 Contract liabilities DKK million 2019 2018 Up until April 4, 2019, Novozymes recognized The BioAg Alliance, deferred revenue 311 DKK 24 million of the deferred revenue Other contract liabilities 74 63 from The BioAg Alliance as planned. Due Contract liabilities at December 31 74 374 to the termination of The BioAg Alliance, the outstanding DKK 287 million has been Assessing the earnings process and Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: recognized in Other operating income. the underlying deliverables for The Non-current B/S 199 BioAg Alliance requires judgment and is Current B/S 74 175 based on estimates of the future. These Contract liabilities at December 31 74 374 estimates are by nature subject to a high degree of uncertainty, and changes in such estimates may impact the timing of revenue Expected to be recognized in the income statement: recognition in future periods. Due to the Within 1 year 74 175 termination of The BioAg Alliance, the Between 1 and 5 years 199 estimate related to The BioAg Alliance will After 5 years not be relevant going forward. Contract liabilities at December 31 74 374 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 93 Net working capital 4.5 Other liabilities DKK million 2019 2018 Employee costs payable 732 712 Stock-based payment settled in cash 16 11 Deferred income 30 50 Other payables 633 625 Other liabilities at December 31 B/S 1,411 1,398 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 37 Current B/S 1,411 1,361 Other liabilities at December 31 1,411 1,398 4.6 Assets held for sale DKK million 2019 2018 Assets held for sale comprises buildings that Carrying amount of non-current assets held for sale: are expected to be sold within the next 12 Land and buildings 62 months. The sale of buildings is a consequence Total B/S 62 of the organizational changes announced in August 2019, and the relocation to the new Non-current assets are classified as assets Innovation Campus in Lyngby. held for sale when their carrying amounts are to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable. Such assets are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 94 Capital structure and financing NIBD/EBITDA Capital structure and financing 0.8x Return on equity down from 28.4% to 27.5% Net interest-bearing debt Novozymes bought back 6.6 DKK million Note 2019 2018 million B shares under the stock Cash and cash equivalents (711) (723) buyback program at an aggregate Credit institutions 5.3 4,086 3,258 Transitional holiday accrual 5.3 58 transaction value of DKK million 2,000 Non-current lease liabilities 453 Current lease liabilities 163 Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) at December 31 4,049 2,535 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 95 Capital structure and financing 5.1 Financial risk factors and risk management Due to the international nature of Novozymes’ Hedging of currency risk is carried out in the Foreign exchange sensitivity – 2019 Foreign exchange sensitivity – 2020 estimate operations, our earnings and financial currencies in which Novozymes has the largest The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact Operating profit (EBIT) is exposed to currency position are exposed to a number of financial exposure. The hedging is managed by entering on net profit and other comprehensive income changes, as the effect of hedges is included risk factors. Financial risks are managed into derivatives such as forward contracts, of a 5% change in DKK versus the key in financial income/costs. EBIT is mainly centrally for the entire Group. The Treasury currency options and swaps. Loans and currencies to which Novozymes was exposed to the USD and EUR. A movement Policy is approved by the Board of Directors, deposits in foreign currencies are also utilized exposed on December 31, 2019. For other of 5% in the USD/DKK exchange rate would and sets the limits for the various financial for hedging purposes. Hedge effectiveness comprehensive income, the analysis shows result in a change in the expected EBIT for risks and the derivatives used to hedge risk. is assessed on a regular basis by comparing the impact on currency translation of net 2020 of around DKK 130-160 million (2019: The Treasury Policy is adjusted on an ongoing changes in the timing and value of the investments and does not include the impact DKK 130-160 million). A 5% movement in the basis to adapt to the market situation, and expected exposure in the relevant currencies of cash flow hedges, as these relate to future EUR/DKK exchange rate would result in a contains rules on which derivatives can be with the timing and value changes for the commercial transactions. change in expected EBIT for 2020 of around used for hedging, which counterparties can be designated cash flow-hedging transaction. DKK 200 million (2019: DKK 200 million). used and the risk profile that is to be applied. The sensitivity analysis reflects the transaction Of the expected USD cash flows for 2020, Where deemed appropriate, currency and translation risk, and assumes that the 75% has been hedged by forward contracts Currency risk risk related to net investments in foreign exchange rates change on December 31, 2019, at an average rate of DKK 6.53. As a result, Currency risk arises due to imbalances subsidiaries is hedged by taking out loans while all other variables remain constant. the impact on net profit from changes in the between income and costs in each individual and entering into swaps. Currently, there are The table shows the effect of an increase in USD/DKK exchange rate has been reduced currency and because Novozymes has more no open transactions used to hedge equity exchange rates. A decrease in the exchange significantly compared with the impact on EBIT. assets than liabilities in foreign currencies in investments. rate would have the opposite effect. connection with global operations. Foreign exchange analysis 2019 2018 Change in other Change in other Increase in Change in net comprehensive Change in net comprehensive DKK million exchange rates profit income profit income CHF 5.0% 54 (1) 59 CNY 5.0% (4) 112 (2) 116 USD 5.0% (1) 250 2 236 Other 5.0% 7 70 (1) 90 Total 2 486 (2) 501 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 96 Capital structure and financing 5.1 Financial risk factors and risk management (continued) Interest rate risk Credit risk At December 31, 2019, the Group considered At December 31, 2019, Novozymes’ financial Interest rate risk arises in relation to interestCredit risk arises especially on cash and cash its maximum credit risk to be DKK 4,051 million resources amounted to DKK 4,174 million bearing assets and liabilities. In accordance equivalents, derivatives, trade receivables (2018: DKK 3,795 million), which is the total (2018: DKK 4,023 million), consisting of net with Novozymes’ Treasury Policy, a minimum and contract assets. The credit risk on trade of the Group’s financial assets. At December cash and cash equivalents, overdraft facilities of 30% of loans must be at fixed interest rates. receivables and contract assets is countered by 31, 2019, the maximum credit risk related to a and undrawn committed credit facilities of DKK Hedging of the interest rate risk is managed by thorough, regular analysis based on customer single counterparty was DKK 279 million (2018: 3,758 million, which expire in 2020-2023. entering into fixed-rate loans and interest rate type, country and specific conditions. The DKK 308 million). swaps. credit risk on cash and cash equivalents With the exception of debt to credit as well as derivatives is mitigated by the Liquidity risk institutions, the maturity dates are primarily With the current hedging of interest rate Treasury Policy, which limits exposure solely to In connection with the Group’s ongoing within one year. risk, an increase of 1 percentage point in counterparties that have an investment-grade financing of operations, including refinancing, the average interest rate on Novozymes’ net credit rating. The credit risk is calculated on efforts are made to ensure adequate and interest-bearing debt would have a negative the basis of net market values and is governed flexible liquidity. This is guaranteed by using effect on net profit of DKK 10 million (2018: by the Treasury Policy. Novozymes has entered committed credit facilities and placing free negative effect of DKK 8 million). At December into netting agreements (ISDA or similar) with funds in deposits, government bonds or ultra31, 2019, 59% (2018: 62%) of the loan portfolio all the banks used for trading in financial liquid mortgage bonds in accordance with the was at fixed interest rates. instruments, which means that Novozymes’ Treasury Policy. credit risk is limited to net assets. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 97 Capital structure and financing 5.2 Financial income and Financial costs DKK million 2019 2018 Interest income 90 10 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Gains on fair value hedges 22 26 Fair value adjustments of cash-settled stock options 11 Financial income and Financial costs comprise interest income and interest costs, Financial income I/S 112 47 realized and unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses, as well as fair value Interest costs (58) (13) adjustments of cash-settled stock-based Interest on lease liabilities (28) incentive programs, which are offset against Losses on cash flow hedges (164) (42) Other liabilities and fair value adjustments Other financial costs (29) (22) of Other financial assets. Other foreign exchange losses, net (63) (73) Financial income and Financial costs also Write-down of financial asset (14) include fair value adjustments of derivatives Fair value adjustments of cash-settled stock options (5) used to hedge assets and liabilities, and Financial costs I/S (347) (164) income and costs relating to cash flow hedges that are transferred from Other Financial income/(costs), net (235) (117) comprehensive income on realization of the hedged item. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 98 Capital structure and financing 5.3 Other financial liabilities DKK million 2019 2018 Credit institutions 4,086 3,258 Derivatives 42 115 Transitional holiday accrual 58 Other financial liabilities at December 31 4,186 3,373 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 2,775 1,474 Current B/S 1,411 1,899 Other financial liabilities at December 31 4,186 3,373 Liabilities arising from financing activities 2019 2018 DKK million Credit institutions Lease liabilities Total Credit institutions Total Liabilities from financing activities at January 1 3,258 3,258 2,274 2,274 Lease liabilities at January 1, 2019 708 708 Financing cash flows 828 (108) 720 978 978 Foreign exchange adjustments 9 9 6 6 Other changes* 7 7 Total liabilities from financing activities at December 31 4,086 616 4,702 3,258 3,258 *Other changes include changes in lease liabilites from new or terminated leases and accrued interest expenses which will be presented as operating cash flows in the statement of cash flows when paid. Credit institutions – currency 2019 (2018) Credit institutions – time to maturity 2019 (2018) Loan portfolio – fixed or floating interest rate 2019 (2018) DKK million DKK million DKK million • EUR 1,719 (1,477) • Less than 1 year 1,380 (1,789) • Fixed interest rate 2,396 (1,808) 99 • Other 2,367 (1,781) • Between 1 and 5 years 1,477 (996) • Floating interest rate 1,690 (1,450) • More than 5 years 1,229 (473) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes Capital structure and financing 5.4 Derivatives – hedge accounting Fair value hedges The table below shows the derivatives the ACCOUNTING POLICIES Group has contracted in order to hedge currency exposure on financial assets and liabilities that give rise to currency adjustments Hedge accounting consists of positive and in the income statement. negative fair values of derivatives, which are recognized in the balance sheet under 2019 2018 Other financial assets and Other financial Contract amount Contract amount liabilities respectively. based on agreed Fair value based on agreed Fair value DKK million rates* Dec. 31 rates* Dec. 31 Derivatives used for fair value hedges Forward exchange contracts are measured at fair value on the CAD (25) (343) (9) reporting date, and value adjustments are CHF (1,153) 9 (1,351) 12 recognized as Financial income or Financial USD (333) 182 costs. INR 371 262 (14) Other (21) (2) (26) 1 Derivatives used for cash flow hedges and Fair value hedges at December 31 (1,161) 7 (1,276) (10) hedges of net investments in subsidiaries * Positive contract amounts represent a sale of the respective currency, and negative amounts represent a purchase. are measured at fair value on the reporting date, and value adjustments are recognized The forward exchange contracts fall due in The fair value hedges were 100% effective, as compared with a loss on hedged items of DKK in Other comprehensive income. the period January 2020 to June 2020 (2018: the gain on forward exchange contracts was 22 million (2018: loss of DKK 26 million). January 2019 to June 2019). DKK 22 million (2018: gain of DKK 26 million), Income and costs relating to cash flow hedges and hedges of net investments in subsidiaries are transferred from Other comprehensive income on realization of the hedged item and are recognized as Financial income or Financial costs. Derivatives are recognized at the transaction date. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 100 Capital structure and financing 5.4 Derivatives – hedge accounting (continued) Cash flow hedges The table below shows the derivatives that the Group has contracted to hedge currency and interest rate exposure in future cash flows. 2019 2018 Contract amount Contract amount based on agreed Fair value based on agreed Fair value DKK million rates* Dec. 31 rates* Dec. 31 Forward exchange contracts USD 1,764 (24) 2,235 (82) 1,764 (24) 2,235 (82) Interest rate swaps EUR/EUR – (2018: Pays fixed rate of 3.58% / earns variable rate of (0.271%)) 112 (4) DKK/DKK – pays fixed rate of (0.1075%) / earns variable rate of (0.3933%) 400 1 DKK/DKK – pays fixed rate of 0.595% / earns variable rate of (0.27%) (2018: (0.15%)) 451 (11) 521 (5) 851 (10) 633 (9) Cash flow hedges at December 31 2,615 (34) 2,868 (91) * Positive contract amounts represent a sale of the respective currency, and negative amounts represent a purchase. The forward exchange contracts fall due in At the end of 2019, the Group had hedged 75% the period January 2020 to December 2020 of expected future cash flows in USD for 2020 (2018: January 2019 to December 2019), and at an average rate of DKK 6.53 (2018: 100% of the swaps fall due in May 2026 and December expected future cash flows in USD for 2019 at 2026 (2018: July 2019 and May 2026). an average rate of DKK 6.21). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 101 Capital structure and financing 5.5 Common stock and treasury stock 2019 2018 Treasury stock 2019 Nominal value Nominal value No. DKK million No. DKK million % of common stock Common stock A common stock (shares of DKK 2) 53,743,600 107 53,743,600 107 B common stock (shares of DKK 2) 237,256,400 475 243,256,400 487 Common stock at December 31 B/S 291,000,000 582 297,000,000 594 Treasury stock B stock Treasury stock at January 1 9,405,806 19 12,051,096 24 Additions during the year 6,591,413 13 6,167,092 13 Disposals during the year (333,902) (1) (812,382) (2) Cancellation of common stock (6,000,000) (12) (8,000,000) (16) Treasury stock at December 31 9,663,317 19 9,405,806 19 Treasury stock 2018 No. 2019 2018 % of common stock Shares of common stock in circulation Shares of stock at January 1 287,594,194 292,948,904 Purchase of treasury stock (6,591,413) (6,167,092) Sale of treasury stock 333,902 812,382 Shares of common stock in circulation at December 31 281,336,683 287,594,194 Each A share entitles the holder to 20 votes, safeguard Novozymes’ long-term development In 2019, Novozymes canceled 6 million while each B share entitles the holder to two to the benefit of the company’s shareholders treasury shares, reducing the common stock to votes. and other stakeholders. 291 million shares. Each year, the Board of Directors assesses Treasury stock is used to reduce the common whether the ownership structure with A and stock and to hedge employees’ exercise of B common stock is optimal. The Board of granted stock awards and stock options. Directors maintains that this is the best way to Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 102 Capital structure and financing 5.6 Financial assets and liabilities by category The table below shows the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at December 31 by category. DKK million Note 2019 2018 Measurement and fair value hierarchy Trade receivables 4.2 2,864 2,606 All financial assets and liabilities, except Contract assets 4.2 243 279 for derivatives and other financial assets, Other receivables, excl. prepaid expenses 4.3 196 153 are measured at amortized cost. The Cash and cash equivalents 711 723 carrying amounts for these approximate fair value. Derivatives are measured at fair Financial assets at amortized cost 4,014 3,761 value based on observable data (level 2 input) according to the fair value hierarchy. Other financial assets 22 20 The derivatives are not traded on an Fair value through profit and loss 22 20 active market based on quoted prices, but are individual contracts. The fair value of Derivatives 15 14 these assets is determined using valuation Fair value through other comprehensive income 15 14 techniques that utilize market-based data such as exchange rates, interest rates, credit Financial assets 4,051 3,795 risk and volatilities. Other financial assets are measured at fair value based on nonobservable data (level 3 input). There are no Lease liabilities 5.3 (616) financial instruments measured at fair value Credit institutions 5.3 (4,086) (3,258) on the basis of quoted prices (level 1 input). Trade payables (1,117) (1,418) Transitional holiday accrual 5.3 (58) Other payables 4.5 (633) (625) Financial liabilities at amortized cost (6,510) (5,301) Derivatives 5.3 (42) (115) Fair value through other comprehensive income (42) (115) Financial liabilities (6,552) (5,416) Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 103 Other financial notes Realized target achievement Other financial notes under the three-year Executive Leadership Team incentive program This section contains other statutory disclosures not related to the previous sections. 61% Realized Group audit fee ratio during 2019 0.63 No. of Danish and foreign subsidiaries in the Group 44 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 104 Other financial notes 6.1 Management remuneration 2019 2018 Executive Executive DKK million Leadership Team Board of Directors Total Leadership Team Board of Directors Total Salaries and other short-term benefits 37 7 44 41 8 49 Defined contribution plans 8 8 10 10 Expensed stock-based incentive programs 11 11 43 43 Severance cost 58 58 Remuneration 114 7 121 94 8 102 Total remuneration for registered Executive Management excluding severance cost* 29 29 55 55 * Registered as of December 31. General guidelines for the remuneration of of individual targets and Novozymes’ targets compensation of up to two year’s base salary the remaining value of awarded stock and the Board of Directors and the Executive for financial, social and environmental and pension contributions. stock options has been expensed, DKK 4 Leadership Team of Novozymes A/S, assessed performance. The maximum annual cash bonus million. by the Board of Directors according to the is equivalent to five months’ fixed base salary Board of Directors recommendations of the Nomination and plus pension contributions. The stock-based The remuneration of the Board of Directors In November 2019, Novozymes announced Remuneration Committee, are approved at incentive programs are described in Note 6.2. comprises a fixed fee and is not based on the appointment of a new Chief Executive the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. Detailed incentives. Officer, Ester Baiget, who will join Novozymes information on Management remuneration is Members of the Executive Leadership Team on February 1, 2020. Ester Baiget replaces available in the Remuneration report found in have contracts of employment containing Changes to the Executive Leadership Team CEO Peder Holk Nielsen, who will leave the Governance section. standard conditions for executive officers In August 2019, Novozymes appointed a new Novozymes at the end of January 2020. Peder of Danish listed companies, including the Chief Financial Officer, Lars Green, who joined Holk Nielsen’s severance package totaling Executive Leadership Team periods of notice that both parties are required the Executive Leadership Team on September DKK 32 million was fully expensed in 2019. Remuneration of the Executive Leadership to give and noncompetition clauses. If an 1, 2019. Lars Green replaced former CFO The severance package consists of salary and Team comprises a base salary, pension executive officer’s contract of employment Prisca Havranek-Kosicek, who left Novozymes bonuses during the notice period (12 months) contribution, a cash bonus (short-term is terminated by the company without any in August 2019. Prisca Havranek-Kosicek’s as well as termination compensation (11 incentive program), stock-based incentive misconduct on the part of the executive officer, severance package totalling DKK 16 million months), and compensation for not being part programs (long-term incentive programs) the executive officer has a notice period of 12 was fully expensed in 2019. The severance of a stock-based incentive program in 2020. and other benefits (car, telephone, etc.). The months. In addition to the notice period, the package consists of salary and bonuses during Furthermore, the remaining value of awarded variable components of the total remuneration executive officer has a right to termination the notice period (12 months) as well as stock and stock options has been expensed, (cash bonus and stock-based incentive compensation of 12 months’ base salary and termination compensation (12 months), and DKK 6 million. programs) are relatively high compared with the pension contributions. However executive compensation for not being part of a stockbase salary and is subject to the achievement officers appointed before 2016 have a right to based incentive program in 2020. Furthermore, Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 105 Other financial notes 6.2 Stock-based payment Novozymes has established stock-based The number of stock options granted over the three-year qualifying period (2017-2019). The incentive programs for the Executive three-year period has been reduced by 591,251 stock options have a vesting period of four ACCOUNTING POLICIES Leadership Team, vice presidents and directors, stock options to reflect the realized target years, followed by an exercise period of five and other employees. The purpose of these achievement of 61%. years. The program for the vice presidents The Group has established stock-based programs is to ensure common goals for followed the same mechanisms as the program incentive programs comprising equityManagement, employees and shareholders. The program contains a maximum-value for the Executive Leadership Team. 61% of the settled and cash-settled programs. Allocation of programs has been, and remains, clause, allowing the Board of Directors to program was awarded to vice presidents. The dependent on profit, value-creation and, choose to limit the total allocation of stock program for directors is a stock option program The fair value of the employee services in some cases, sustainability targets being and stock options if the intrinsic value of the with the same targets for sales and economic received in exchange for the grant of stock achieved. The exercise price and the share program exceeds DKK 280 million at the end profit as the incentive program for the options and stock awards is measured price of a stock option are identical at the date of the program. The maximum-value clause Executive Leadership Team. Furthermore, there with reference to the fair value of the stock of grant. has been adjusted to reflect the change of were awards linked to EBIT and sustainability options and stock awards granted. The fair CFO. However, there will be no limitation on targets. 55% of the program was awarded to value is measured using the Black–Scholes In 2017, a three-year incentive program for the the total allocation, as the intrinsic value is directors. The total awards under the programs option-pricing model. Executive Leadership Team was established, DKK 101 million for the current Executive have an intrinsic value of DKK 117 million, covering the period 2017-2019. The program Leadership Team. thereby less than the maximum value clause The fair value of stock-based payment was a combination of stock options and stock, of DKK 350 million. The final number of stocks at the grant date is recognized as an with half of the incentive program allocated The total fair value of the program at grant allocated under these programs to be released employee cost over the period in which the in stock and half in stock options. The stock date was DKK 162 million. Based on the lower in January 2020 is 133,002. stock options vest. In measuring the fair options were awarded annually in 2017, realized level of target achievement, the value value, account is taken of the number of 2018 and 2019, while the stock was allocated of the program has been reduced to DKK In previous years, stock option programs employees expected to gain entitlement in 2017 and will be released in 2020. The 85 million. The value of the stock has been were established for all or selected groups of to the options as well as the number of accumulated economic profit generated in the expensed over the three-year qualifying period employees, conferring the right to purchase options the employees are expected to gain. three-year period was DKK 6.8 billion, resulting (2017-2019). The stock options have a vesting one share per stock option. Allocations This estimate is adjusted at the end of each in 81% of the economic profit pool (75% of the period of four years, followed by an exercise were made on the basis of the individual period such that only the number of options total program) being awarded. Average organic period of five years. The fair value of the stock employee’s base salary and achievement of a to which employees are entitled or expected sales growth during the three-year period was options will be expensed over a four-year series of business targets – both financial and to be entitled is recognized. less than 3%. Hence no stock or stock options period for each of the qualifying years (2017nonfinancial – set by the Board of Directors were awarded under the sales growth pool 2019). for each year. The stock options have a vesting The value of equity-settled programs is (25% of the total program). In total 61% of the period of three to four years, followed by recognized in Shareholders’ equity. The program is being awarded, which means that Furthermore, three-year programs were an exercise period of five years. In order to value of cash-settled programs, which are a total of 174,260 shares will be released in established in 2017 for vice presidents and exercise the options, the employee must still recognized as Other liabilities, is adjusted January 2020 including shares purchased using directors covering the period 2017-2019 (182 be employed on the exercise date. This does to fair value at the end of each period, and dividends accumulated during the three-year vice presidents and directors). The total fair not apply to persons who have retired, taken the subsequent adjustment in fair value is period. value at grant date was DKK 175 million. The voluntary early retirement or been given notice. recognized in the income statement under value of the stock has been expensed over the Financial income or Financial costs. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 106 Other financial notes 6.2 Stock-based payment (continued) Stock options The number of outstanding options (excl. stock awards) has developed as follows: Number of options DKK DKK million Executive Vice presidents Other Avg. exercise Grant date fair Grant date fair Leadership Team and directors employees Total price per option value per option value total Outstanding at January 1, 2019 1,934,249 4,165,211 1,871,253 7,970,713 266 Change in Management (62,626) 62,626 Granted 602,535 1,102,730 1,705,265 275 40 69 Allocation adjustment1 (591,251) (1,131,136) (1,722,387) 275 Exercised2 (269,842) (78,703) (348,545) 227 Forfeited (27,287) (35,731) (63,018) 277 Outstanding at December 31, 2019 1,882,907 3,902,302 1,756,819 7,542,028 267 Outstanding at January 1, 2018 1,535,250 4,096,296 2,161,945 7,793,491 253 Granted 497,697 745,908 1,243,605 301 51 64 Allocation adjustment (501) (501) 293 Exercised (98,698) (579,856) (199,713) (878,267) 209 Forfeited (96,241) (76,325) (172,566) 264 Expired (395) (14,654) (15,049) 89 Outstanding at December 31, 2018 1,934,249 4,165,211 1,871,253 7,970,713 266 Number of exercisable options at December 31, 2019 3,215,513 258 Number of exercisable options at December 31, 2018 1,990,159 218 1. The allocation of stock options for 2017-2019 has been reduced based on the realized level of target achievement for the period (Executive Leadership Team and vice presidents: 61% and Directors: 55%). 2. The weighted average share price for stock options exercised during 2019 was DKK 316 (2018: DKK 340). 2019 2018 Remaining term to Remaining term to Remaining term to Remaining term to maturity of up to maturity of over maturity of up to maturity of over five years five years Total five years five years Total Stock options outstanding No. 5,015,210 2,526,818 7,542,028 3,573,318 4,397,395 7,970,713 Weighted average term to maturity Years 4 7 5 4 7 6 Range of exercise prices DKK 160-317 249-335 160-335 157-317 249-335 157-335 Average exercise price DKK 264 275 267 255 274 266 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 107 Other financial notes 6.2 Stock-based payment (continued) During 2019, DKK 46 million arising from Most programs are equity settled, and no The fair value of employee services received stock-based payment was recognized in the liability is recognized for these. If allocations is measured with reference to the fair value income statement (2018: DKK 100 million), under the programs are made in countries of the equity instruments granted. Fair value DKK 45 million of which was from equitywhere ownership of foreign stock is not at grant date is measured in accordance with settled programs (2018: DKK 97 million) and permitted, the value of stock options is the Black–Scholes model, using the average DKK 1 million was from cash-settled programs settled in cash instead, and a liability of DKK exercise price, the option term and the (2018: DKK 3 million). The amount includes 16 million was recognized for this in 2019 following significant assumptions: DKK 10 million related to the remaining (2018: DKK 11 million). The intrinsic value of total costs from outstanding programs, exercisable cash-settled programs in 2019 was which was recognized in connection with DKK 14 million (2018: DKK 6 million). the announced change of CEO and CFO. The amount recognized in 2019 is impacted by an adjustment to the lower realized target achievement. 2019 2018 Expected future dividends per share DKK 37.4 34.1 Volatility % 23.2 23.9 Annual risk-free interest rate % 0.0 0.3 Weighted average share price at grant date DKK 275 301 Furthermore, the options are assumed to be Stock awards The total number of outstanding stock awards exercised two years after the vesting period, The stock allocated under the three-year at December 31, 2019 was 307,262 (2018: on average, or at the option’s expiry date if this programs is stock awards. The majority of the 495,005). The number has been reduced in is within one year. Volatility is estimated using stocks was allocated in 2017. In 2019, 11,428 2019, as a consequence of the lower level of the historical volatility over the last three years. stock awards with a fair value of DKK 3 million realized target achievement. The fair value The risk-free interest rate is based on Danish were granted to new employees enrolled in the of these at December 31, 2019 was DKK 100 government bonds with a maturity equivalent programs (2018: DKK 12 million). million (2018: DKK 144 million), which was to the option’s term to maturity. expensed over the three-year period (20172019). Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 108 Other financial notes 6.3 Commitments and contingencies DKK million 2018 Pending litigation and arbitration Recognized in the income statement in respect of rentals 127 Novozymes is engaged in certain legal cases. In the opinion of the Board of Rental commitments expiring within the following periods from the reporting date: Directors and the Executive Leadership Less than 1 year 119 Team, settlement or continuation of these Between 1 and 2 years 89 cases will not have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position. A liability is Between 2 and 3 years 62 recognized under Provisions where the risk Between 3 and 4 years 49 of a loss on a legal case is considered more Between 4 and 5 years 43 likely than not. After 5 years 144 Rental commitments at December 31, 2018 506 Contract conditions Several of the partnership contracts to which Novozymes is a party may be As of January 1, 2019, DKK 506 million from The above rental commitments relate to terminated by the other party in the event operating lease commitments was recognized noncancelable operating leases, primarily for of significant changes concerning ownership as Lease liabilities. Refer to Note 1.2 and Note buildings and offices. or control of Novozymes. Furthermore, a few 3.3 for a description of the impact of the contracts contain provisions that restrict implementation of IFRS 16. Novozymes’ licenses to use specific forms of technology in such situations. DKK million 2019 2018 Other commitments Novozymes is committed to increasing Contractual obligations to third parties relating to property, plant and equipment 200 171 production capacity in Latin America if a specific customer reaches certain milestones. The amount required to meet Other guarantees this commitment cannot be estimated Other guarantees and commitments to related companies 27 26 reliably at the moment. Other guarantees and commitments 242 332 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 109 Other financial notes 6.4 Related party transactions Novozymes A/S is controlled by Novo Holdings Related parties are considered to be the NNIT Group and the Chr. Hansen Group, All agreements relating to these A/S, domiciled in Hellerup, Denmark, which Novo Holdings A/S and the Novo Nordisk associates of Novozymes A/S, as well as the transactions are based on market price holds 72.0% of the votes in Novozymes Foundation, and the Board of Directors and Board of Directors and Executive Leadership (arm’s length). The majority of the A/S. The remaining stock is widely held. The Executive Management of these entities Team of Novozymes A/S together with their agreements are renegotiated regularly. The ultimate parent of the Group is the Novo together with their immediate families. Other immediate families. Related parties also Group had the following transactions with Nordisk Foundation (incorporated in Denmark). related parties are considered to be the include companies where the above persons related parties: Novo Nordisk Foundation’s subsidiaries and have control or joint control. associates, such as the Novo Nordisk Group, Transactions Outstanding balances DKK million 2019 2018 DKK million 2019 2018 The Novo Nordisk Group The Novo Nordisk Group Sale of goods and materials 26 36 Sale of services 77 85 Receivables 9 35 Purchase of goods and materials (64) (64) Payables (98) (109) Purchase of services (68) (51) The NNIT Group The NNIT Group Purchase of services (27) (32) Payables (7) (5) The Chr. Hansen Group The Chr. Hansen Group Sale of goods and materials 53 82 Receivables 11 18 Purchase of services (9) (26) Payables (3) In 2019, Novozymes purchased from Novo There were no transactions with related parties Rental commitments to related parties Holding 1,530,000 of its own B shares with the other than the transactions described and at December 31, 2019 amounted to DKK approval of the Board of Directors, at a price of normal remuneration of the Board of Directors 14 million, compared with DKK 15 million DKK 475 million. The transaction was based on and Executive Leadership Team, which is at December 31, 2018. the market price. presented in Note 6.1. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 110 Other financial notes 6.5 Fees to statutory auditors DKK million 2019 2018 Statutory audit 8 8 Other assurance engagements Tax assurance services 4 5 Other services 1 1 Fees to statutory auditors 13 14 Group audit fee ratio 0.63 0.75 Audit fee policy It is Novozymes’ policy that the annual fee for Implementation of the EU audit reform has concerning transfer pricing, and other general nonaudit services provided by the statutory led to restrictions on the nonaudit services financial reporting and tax consultancy. auditors should not exceed the annual fee that the auditors elected at the Annual None of the nonaudit services performed are for statutory audit services measured at Shareholders’ Meeting may perform. The fee prohibited. Group level. The Group audit fee ratio may for nonaudit services performed for Novozymes only exceed 1 with the approval of the Audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Committee. Revisionspartnerselskab is DKK 2 million (2018: DKK 2 million) and comprises audit of In 2019 and 2018 no such approvals were project accounts, tax advisory services given. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 111 Other financial notes 6.6 Cash flow DKK million Note 2019 2018 Non-cash items ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accrued interest income and interest costs (3) 3 (Gain)/loss on financial assets, etc., net 5 10 The consolidated statement of cash Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses 3.1, 3.2 1,182 1,088 flows, which is compiled using the indirect Realized loss and allowances for doubtful trade receivables (1) 23 method, shows cash flows from operating, Financial (gain)/loss on sale and disposal of assets 50 3 investing and financing activities, and the Unrealized foreign exchange (gain)/loss 10 125 Group’s cash and cash equivalents at the Tax 2.6 644 709 beginning and end of the year. Stock-based payment 6.2 46 100 Change in provisions (88) (16) Cash flow from operating activities Termination of The BioAg Alliance (335) comprises net profit adjusted for nonDivestment of the pharma-related royalty (194) cash items, paid financial items, corporate Profit/loss in associates 5 17 income tax paid and change in working Non-cash items 1,321 2,062 capital. Cash flow from investing activities Business acquisitions, divestments and purchases of financial assets comprises payments relating to the Divestment of the pharma-related royalty 430 acquisition and sale of companies and nonOther acquisitions and purchase of financial assets (4) controlling interests, intangible assets, and Cash flow from acquisitions, net 430 (4) property, plant and equipment. Additions of intangible assets 3.1 230 60 Cash flow from financing activities Intellectual property transferred from The BioAg Alliance 3.1 (95) comprises proceeds from borrowings, repayment of principal on interest-bearing Purchase of intangible assets 135 60 debt, repayment of lease liabilities, payment of dividends, proceeds from stock issues, Additions of property, plant and equipment 3.2 909 1,424 and the sale of treasury stock and other Additions to lease assets 3.3 (47) (92) securities. Purchase of property, plant and equipment 862 1,332 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash Undrawn committed credit facilities were DKK 3,758 million at December 31, 2019 (2018: DKK 3,646 million), all of which expire in 2020-2023. at bank and in hand less current bank loans due on demand. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 112 Other financial notes 6.7 Group companies ISO 14001-certified sites. All major companies are also ISO 9001 certified. Production Sales & Marketing Research & Development Holding companies, etc. Percentage Percentage of shares of shares Activity owned Activity owned Parent company Novozymes Deutschland GmbH*, Germany 100 Novozymes A/S, Denmark Novozymes Hong Kong Ltd., Hong Kong 100 Novozymes South Asia Pvt. Ltd., India 100 Subsidiaries Novozymes Italia S.r.l.*, Italy 100 Novozymes BioAg S.A., Argentina 100 Novozymes Japan Ltd.*, Japan 100 Novozymes Australia Pty. Ltd.*, Australia 100 Novozymes (Kenya) Limited*, Kenya 100 Novozymes Belgium BVBA*, Belgium 100 Novozymes Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.*, Malaysia 100 Novozymes Latin America Ltda.*, Brazil 100 Novozymes Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.*, Mexico 100 Novozymes BioAg Productos Para Agricultura Ltda., Brazil 100 Novozymes Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Mexico 100 Novozymes BioAg Limited, Canada 100 Novozymes Nederland B.V.*, Netherlands 100 Novozymes Canada Limited, Canada 100 Novozymes RUS LLC*, Russia 100 Novozymes (China) Biotechnology Co. Ltd., China 100 Novozymes Singapore Pte. Ltd.*, Singapore 100 Novozymes (China) Investment Co. Ltd., China 100 Novozymes South Africa (Pty) Ltd.*, South Africa 100 Novozymes (Shenyang) Biologicals Co. Ltd., China 100 Novozymes Korea Limited*, South Korea 100 Suzhou Hongda Enzyme Co. Ltd., China 96 Novozymes Spain S.A.*, Spain 100 Novozymes Bioindustrial A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes Sweden AB*, Sweden 100 Novozymes Bioindustrial China A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes Switzerland AG, Switzerland 100 Novozymes Biopharma DK A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes Switzerland Holding AG*, Switzerland 100 Novozymes BioAg A/S*, Denmark 100 Novozymes (Thailand) Limited*, Thailand 100 Novozymes France S.A.S.*, France 100 Novozymes Enzim Dis Ticaret Ltd. Sirketi*, Turkey 100 Novozymes Berlin, Germany 100 Novozymes UK Ltd.*,**, UK 100 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 113 Other financial notes 6.7 Group companies (continued) Percentage Percentage of shares of shares Activity owned Activity owned Novozymes BioAg, Inc., USA 100 Joint operations/associates Novozymes Biologicals, Inc., USA 100 Grundejerforeningen Smørmosen*, Denmark Novozymes Blair, Inc., USA 100 Grundejerforeningen Hallas Park*, Denmark Novozymes, Inc., USA 100 Microbiogen PTY Ltd.*, Australia 23.10 Novozymes North America, Inc., USA 100 Beta Renewables S.p.A.*, Italy 9.95 Novozymes US, Inc.*, USA 100 MagnaBioAnalytics LLC, USA 19.35 * Owned directly by Novozymes A/S. ** Novozymes A/S has guaranteed the liabilities of Novozymes UK Limited (company number: 1328873) in order that it qualify for the exemption from preparing individual financial statements under Section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of the year ended December 31, 2019. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 114 Environmental data Renewable energy share of total Environmental data energy consumption We measure our performance in areas where we believe we have significant impact on the environment. Monitoring our environmental data is key to measuring progress 30% against the ambitious goals we have adopted. We have a high focus on reducing Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from our own operations and on being more circular in the use of natural resources by reducing our footprint in other environmental areas like water, energy, waste and biodiversity. m3 of water saved 262,000 Percentage of biomass waste handled in a circular set-up 97% Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 115 Environmental data 7.1 Climate change Mitigating climate change impacts is material this ambition. Novozymes has committed to Recent examples of this include the LCA case In addition, Novozymes continues to support to Novozymes within its operations and help the world limit global warming increase studies for our JumpStart® and Optimize® global climate action through transparent throughout the value chain. Climate change to 1.5o C by saving 60 million tonnes of CO2 products, both of which are Novozymes BioAg climate disclosures, responsible public action is an integral part of our business by enabling low-carbon fuels in the transport solutions that enhance agricultural productivity advocacy and partnerships. Read more about strategy, as the transition towards a low-carbon sector in 2022. To reduce the negative impact and reduce environmental footprint. To know these efforts in the Sustainability section. economy offers many opportunities to support from our operations, we have committed more, refer to the spotlight article ‘Microbial the growth of Novozymes’ biological solutions. to reduce our absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG inoculants support Climate-Smart Agriculture’ At the same time, issues associated with emissions by 50% by 2030 (relative to a 2018 in the Sustainability section. climate change (regulatory action, physical or base year) on our way to becoming carbon reputational damage, etc.) pose multiple risks neutral by 2050. We have also committed to to Novozymes’ supply chain and operations reduce our absolute Scope 3 GHG emissions ACCOUNTING POLICIES Transport-related CO2 emissions (scope 3) and it is important that we address these risks from purchased goods and services category are calculated based on principles described through appropriate measures. by 15% by 2030 from a 2018 baseline. To know in the GHG Protocol. Reported quantities more about our new climate targets, please Reported CO2 emissions comprise scope comprise CO2 emissions related to transport Our approach refer to the Strategy section and the spotlight 1, scope 2 and emissions from outbound from all primary enzyme production sites to Novozymes’ Sustainability Policy and position article ‘The heat is on: Novozymes´ ambitious transport of products. the customer where Novozymes pays for the statement on climate change outlines the climate commitments’ in the Sustainability freight. Transport between production sites company’s approach to managing climatesection. CO2 from internally generated energy (scope is also included. Transport of raw materials change-related impacts. The Supply Operations 1) is calculated based on the amount of fuel to a production site is not included. CO2 and Quality and Sustainability departments Since 2004, Novozymes has been conducting consumed, using local emission factors. emissions generated at external warehouses are responsible for driving the climate change peer-reviewed cradle-to-grave life cycle are not included. Emissions data are action agenda, both inside and outside the assessment (LCA) studies to document the CO2 from externally generated energy (scope calculated based on distance and emission organization. Within its own operations, environmental impact of its biosolutions. The 2) is reported in accordance with both factors from the GHG Protocol. Novozymes’ efforts to reduce greenhouse studies are used to inform our stakeholders the market-based and the location-based gas (GHG) emissions are driven by corporate and to demonstrate to our customers ways methods, as defined by the Greenhouse The environmental impact potentials targets on GHG emissions and energy. In 2019, to reduce their CO2 emissions and leverage Gas (GHG) Protocol. The location-based for global warming and ozone layer Novozymes had a target of limiting the annual the positive impact on climate change made method uses annually determined local depletion are calculated on the basis of increase in absolute GHG emissions to levels possible by Novozymes’ solutions. The emission factors from power plants or their data published by the US Environmental lower than organic sales growth. The energycalculation tools and environmental databases organizations. If emission factors are not Protection Agency (EPA) and the Montreal related targets are reported on in note 7.2. that we use are updated on a regular basis available, annually determined emission Protocol published by the United Nations to take into account recent developments in factors from Danish authorities are used. Environment Programme (UNEP). In June 2019, Novozymes launched its updated supplying industries as well as process-related strategy and released its 2030 climate ambition efficiency improvements in our own production. along with long-term targets to help realize Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 116 Environmental data 7.1 Climate change (continued) 2019 highlights mix; see Note 7.2 for further details. In 2019, sales growth in 2019. This was mainly due to Five­-year operational emissions (CO2-eqv.) Novozymes’ commitment to make its CO2 emissions (scope 1+2 only) from our the transition to green electricity at one of our 1,000 tons operations less carbon intensive is based operations decreased by 24% to 330,000 tons plants in China. on two levers: implementing various energy from 437,000 tons in 2018. Novozymes met its efficiency projects and increasing the share of annual target to limit the rise in operational A breakdown of the operational emissions is renewable energy in its energy consumption CO2 emissions to levels lower than organic provided in the table. In 2019, Novozymes joined the growing list CO2-equivalent emissions of supporters of the Task Force on Climate 1,000 tons 2019 2018 Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and we Natural gas 35 34 are currently investigating its implementation. Gas oil, light fuel oil and diesel oil 4 3 We are inspired by the TCFD framework and HCFCs 1 1 in the coming years we will work towards • Scope 2 • Scope 1 Scope 1 40 38 initiating key activities for managing climaterelated issues and improved climate-related District heat 11 9 disclosures. Electricity 203 307 Steam 76 83 We are excited to embark on the journey Scope 2 (market-based) 290 399 towards our new climate ambition. Between now and 2030, Novozymes will reduce GHG emissions through improved energy efficiency Ship 6 5 at its production sites and sourcing 100% Truck 17 15 renewable electricity. We will also explore Air freight 12 15 opportunities to generate energy from waste Scope 3 35 35 streams for use in our operations and to share with our communities. As part of our 1.5o C Emissions, total ESG 365 472 commitment, we will monitor emissions across the value chain and work with our suppliers to reduce our Scope 3 emissions. Market-based vs. location-based scope 2 emissions 1,000 tons 2019 2018 Scope 2 CO2 emissions (market-based) 290 399 Scope 2 CO2 emissions (location-based) 415 452 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 117 Environmental data 7.2 Energy Energy is material to Novozymes across Novozymes’ Supply Operations and Sourcing 2019 highlights Energy from renewable sources accounted the value chain, as its operations depend departments manage and monitor all energy In 2019, Novozymes achieved its annual for 30% (target 28%) of the total energy on steam and electricity, while many of its efficiency and renewable energy-sourcing target of maintaining the increase in energy consumed in 2019, up from 23% in 2018. biosolutions enable downstream users to save efforts. consumption at a level lower than organic sales This was possible as we started procuring energy in certain applications (e.g. in laundry growth. Projects driving process optimization renewable energy for our production site in and dishwashing detergents and textile In the recent strategy update, Novozymes and energy efficiency undertaken at our sites Tianjin, China. We already procure renewable applications) compared with conventional introduced a new target on renewable throughout the year resulted in energy savings energy for our Danish and Brazilian facilities. methods. electricity. Novozymes commits to increase of 20,000 GJ. The savings originated from Novozymes will continue to seek renewable annual sourcing of renewable electricity to many projects including the replacement of energy opportunities for all other sites in Our approach 100% by 2030. Read more about our targets in inefficient pumps, the installation of new and order to reduce its operational CO2 footprint Novozymes manages energy in its operations the Strategy section. optimized ventilation systems etc. and deliver on the 100% renewable electricity through a two-pronged approach: reducing commitment. energy use in production by implementing The table provides details of energy consumed energy-saving projects, and increasing the by primary source. Going forward, Novozymes plans to replicate sourcing of energy from renewables. Relevant the best energy-saving projects at other targets drive our performance in these areas. Five-year energy consumption sites. In regions with fewer opportunities for 1,000 GJ renewable energy procurement, Novozymes Energy consumption by primary source will continue to prioritize investment in energy 1,000 GJ 2019 2018 efficiency projects. Natural gas 656 645 Biogas 70 69 Gas oil, light fuel oil and diesel oil 46 24 Internally generated energy, total 772 738 Electricity – conventional 1,347 1,825 Electricity – renewable 1,315 1,062 District heat 187 175 Steam 953 1,031 Externally purchased energy, total 3,802 4,093 Energy consumption, total ESG 4,574 4,831 Energy production from waste 86 72 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 118 Environmental data 7.2 Energy (continued) ACCOUNTING POLICIES heat and steam on site and is converted Reported quantities are based on meter to energy using factors supplied by utility readings, with the exception of steam, which Net energy consumption includes quantities providers or local authorities. Fuel for may be subject to calculation. consumed both in the production process transportation is not included. and in other areas, less energy production The renewable energy percentage is from Novozymes’ waste. Externally generated energy is the input calculated by dividing renewable energy to Novozymes of externally generated consumed by total energy consumption. Internally generated energy is measured electricity, heat and steam. Renewable energy used at Novozymes sites as fuel consumption converted to energy comprises energy generated from natural based on the lower combustion value and Energy produced from waste or wastewater processes and continuously replenished. weight by volume, except in the US, where is renewable and corresponds to the total Sources include solar, wind and hydropowerlegal requirements for reporting of CO2 state energy (heat, electricity or steam) produced based electricity and energy from biogas. that the higher combustion value is to be by an internal or external utility provider. An applied. Fuel consumption comprises all example is energy produced from biomass types of fuels used to produce electricity, waste or biogas. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 119 Environmental data 7.3 Water The production of Novozymes’ solutions is before being discharged to a final destination savings. One of those projects was the a water-intensive process and generates a point or used in agriculture for irrigation. All installation of a reverse osmosis system at ACCOUNTING POLICIES considerable amount of wastewater. Many of water efficiency and wastewater management one of our plants in China, which purifies our the raw materials required in our operations efforts are managed by Novozymes’ Supply process water and enables reuse in our cooling are agriculture-based and water-intensive to Operations, Quality and Sustainability towers. Novozymes met its annual target of Water includes drinking water, produce. In certain product applications such departments. restricting the increase in water consumption industrial water and externally supplied as laundry detergents and textile processing, to a level lower than the organic sales growth steam. Drinking water is water of drinkingNovozymes’ solutions can enable customers Demonstrating a continuing focus on water, in 2019. water quality. Industrial water is not of to achieve water savings compared with Novozymes concluded a third-party water risk drinking-water quality, but is suitable for conventional methods. assessment for five of its major production The table provides a breakdown of total water certain industrial processes, for example for sites (covering 87% of production) in 2019. consumed. use in cooling towers. Industrial water may In addition, our wastewater treatment The findings of the assessment gave input come from lakes or wells. solutions can improve processes and the to Novozymes’ 2030 ambition and strategy Five-year water consumption quality of treated water. Therefore, water is on water. Under our updated strategy, we 1,000 m3 The reported quantities are stated based on material for Novozymes across the entire value will take a context-based approach to water the metered intake of water to Novozymes chain. management in our operations and collaborate and include quantities consumed both more with local communities to manage water in the production process and in other Our approach as per the local basin conditions. We also have areas. The reported quantities of steam are Novozymes’ approach to water management an external target on water which is to reach converted to volume of running water and is anchored in its Sustainability Policy. more than 4 billion people by 2022 through our are therefore subject to calculation. We manage water-related risks within our solutions in laundry that replace chemicals in operations by improving water efficiency detergents. Learn more about our new strategy Wastewater is measured as the volume and ensuring compliance with wastewater and targets in the Strategy section. discharged by Novozymes or calculated discharge regulations at all our sites. Further, based on water consumption. wastewater and biomass treatment at our 2019 highlights production sites is given high priority. The In 2019, Novozymes implemented various wastewater is treated internally or externally water-related projects across our production in biological wastewater treatment systems sites that resulted in 262,000 m3 of water Water by primary source 1,000 m3 2019 2018 Drinking water 5,288 5,578 Industrial water 2,214 2,256 Steam 343 371 Water, total ESG 7,845 8,205 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 120 Environmental data 7.3 Water (continued) In 2019, as part of its water stewardship In 2019, in addition to running the existing Wastewater by treatment method efforts, Novozymes helped build a water wastewater projects, we spent time defining 1,000 m3 over-head tank near our production site in our wastewater project portfolio under the Patalganga, near Mumbai, which is in a water updated strategy. Some of the potential scarce region. When operational, this water wastewater activities will be focused on waste tank will give neighboring villages access to to energy and circular systems. clean water. Going forward, we will focus on increasing our The table provides details of wastewater understanding of the evolving ‘context-based’ generated in 2019. approach to water management, while working towards effectively implementing our new targets. • Novozymes-treated to external • Novozymes-treated to irrigation water recipient • Untreated to external treatment Wastewater treatment • Novozymes-treated to external treatment 1,000 m3 2019 2018 • Untreated to water recipient Wastewater used for irrigation 774 866 Wastewater discharged 5,373 5,440 Wastewater volume, total ESG 6,147 6,306 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 121 Environmental data 7.4 Waste Novozymes supports the transition to a circular subject to a diverse set of local regulations and Biomass economy through sustainable consumption involving several external service providers, The biomass generated makes up most of ACCOUNTING POLICIES and production, and we deliver biological we have adopted a site-specific management the waste and accounts for 97% of Novozymes’ solutions that enable our customers to adopt approach. total waste. The biomass is rich in nitrogen and sustainable production and consumption phosphorus and the energy can be recovered Biomass is measured or calculated on the practices. At the same time, we are committed 2019 highlights in biogas facilities. In 2019, 97% of our basis of volume or weight produced and to drive our own business towards more Novozymes generated 526,000 tons of waste in biomass was handled in a circular set-up with transported from Novozymes as liquid circularity. Reduction, reuse and recycling 2019 compared with 523,000 tons of waste in energy recovery in the form of biogas and/or fertilizer (NovoGro®), converted to a fertilizer of the planet’s limited natural resources are 2018. The majority of the waste was recovered, distributed to local farmers as our agricultural product with a higher dry matter content vital for a sustainable future. Circular waste and only 4% was sent for landfill. fertilizer product NovoGro®. As part of our (NovoGro® 30 or compost) or dried and used management is a key enabler in this and the recent strategy update, we have set a new as fuel for energy production. Biomass from reason why waste is a material issue for us. Waste and by­-products 2019 (2018) target to achieve 100% circular management of a newly built plant is sent for landfill with our biomass by 2022. A breakdown of the total energy production (biogas) as a temporary Our approach biomass generated is provided in the table. disposal method. Waste management at Novozymes is driven by our Sustainability Policy and is managed Solid waste is the registered volume of through the ‘Sustainable production and waste broken down into hazardous and consumption’ pillar of our recently updated nonhazardous waste, and by disposal strategy, which includes new ambitions and method. The amount recycled is the targets on circular waste management. We quantity recycled internally or sent to an aim to have 100% of key materials and waste external service provider for recycling. managed in circular systems by 2030. Biomass is not included in the reported • Recovered biomass 94.5% (94.4%) amounts of solid waste. Novozymes has 16 major sites reporting on • Recovered (recycled) solid waste 1.3% (1.2%) • Biomass sent for landfill 3.0% (2.9%) the three categories and disposal methods. As • Solid waste sent for landfill/incineration 1.2% (1.5%) waste management is a complex issue Biomass 1,000 tons 2019 2018 NovoGro® 412 347 NovoGro® 30 79 138 Compost 6 9 Landfill 16 15 Biomass, total ESG 513 509 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 122 Environmental data 7.4 Waste (continued) Waste To pave the way for our long-term ambition, The two other types of waste (nonhazardous we have set a target that all sites should and hazardous) combined account for 3% of have implemented programs to reach zero Novozymes’ total waste. In 2019, the recycling waste by 2022. The roadmaps on how to rate of waste was 52% compared with 44% achieve this at every site are to be defined in in 2018. The remaining 48% of the waste, collaboration with local experts and external which corresponds to 6,200 tons, was sent for service providers. In the years towards landfill or incineration without energy recovery. 2022, Novozymes will work actively with A breakdown of the total waste generated is local vendors to explore the site-specific provided in the table. opportunities. Waste 1,000 tons 2019 2018 Nonhazardous waste Incineration 2.3 2.1 Landfill 3.1 3.6 Recycling (external) 4.3 4.4 Recycling (internal) 0.1 Nonhazardous waste, total 9.7 10.2 Hazardous waste Incineration 1.0 2.3 Recycling (external) 0.2 0.2 Recycling (internal) 2.4 1.6 Hazardous waste, total 3.6 4.1 Waste, total ESG 13.3 14.3 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 123 Environmental data 7.5 Environmental compliance, etc. Compliance with environmental norms and Policy. All activities to ensure environmental action for these incidents have been agreed Novozymes received seven neighbor regulations is a high priority for Novozymes so compliance are anchored in the Quality and with the relevant authorities. complaints in 2019, down from 11 complaints as to maintain business continuity and daySustainability function. Our Environmental in 2018. to-day running of operations. Novozymes is Management System is based on ISO 14001 committed to complying with all environmental certification, and we strive to minimize the regulations and maintaining high standards number of non-compliances and neighbor ACCOUNTING POLICIES Breaches related to annual control of environmental management on various complaints. measurements of spills reported in previous aspects, including pollution prevention, Breaches of environmental regulatory years are not included, as they are not resource conservation and waste reduction. 2019 highlights limits are measured as the number of indicative of performance during the In 2019, 17 environmental incidents were incidents in the reporting year considered reporting year. Our approach registered across our facilities, compared not to be in conformity with environmental Novozymes’ commitment to environmental with 27 in 2018. Most of these were related permits or requirements under Neighbor complaints refers to the number compliance is outlined in its Sustainability to wastewater treatment. Plans for preventive environmental law. of registered environmental complaints, primarily odor and noise related. 7.6 Bioethics & biodiversity Novozymes’ research and business are based Our approach When we take biological samples in nature, it is Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefits on bioinnovation. To develop sustainable Novozymes’ position paper on industrial important that we always follow the local laws Sharing. Internal procedures in our solutions and applications for our customers, biotechnology describes our approach to of the countries where we operate as well as management system ensure that we live up we explore nature and take samples of managing and supporting safe and sustainable complying with globally recognized principles to our commitments. As an example, we have fungi, bacteria and enzymes among the use, and the adoption of robust, scienceon the utilization of genetic resources. We established a Nagoya Protocol steering group available biodiversity. Next, we assess the based regulations for products involving gene continuously discover new microbes that are which ensures compliance with the protocol samples and optimize applications by means technology, including the latest gene-editing valuable solutions for more environmentallyand that internal guidelines are maintained. of biotechnological research. That is why technologies. We seek to engage with relevant friendly industrial processes. Novozymes’ “bioethics & biodiversity” is a material issue for stakeholders to improve the general level of position paper on biodiversity articulates how Novozymes’ operations and its relationships knowledge about the sustainable and societal we endorse, acknowledge and respect the with external stakeholders. opportunities presented by biology, industrial principles of the United Nations Convention on biotechnology and modern gene technology. Biological Diversity and the complementary Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 124 Environmental data 7.7 Product stewardship Novozymes is committed to ensuring product This approach is implemented by means of 2019 highlights European Union Manufacturers and Suppliers safety and stewardship in our operations and many cross-functional teams, and the primary Novozymes remains firmly committed to of Ingredients to the Bakery, Confectionery, customer relationships. This is material to us, responsibility rests with Regulatory Affairs & maintaining high-quality dossiers under REACH and Patisserie Industries launched a series as many of our biological solutions serve as Product Safety. Procedures ensuring product and FIAP. With its extensive experience of webinars that explains the safety elements ingredients in consumer goods (e.g. in laundry stewardship are enforced globally and audited in responding to increasing regulatory relevant for this industry. In 2019, Novozymes detergents) or are used for manufacturing by the independent external body Bureau requirements, Novozymes, in 2019, worked also published a peer-reviewed article on consumer products such as foods, textiles and Veritas. on developing its compliance towards new medical surveillance at Novozymes production livestock. regulations such as Korean REACH. sites. Novozymes has also developed its position Novozymes’ ambition is to continue supplying on and approach to related topics such as Novozymes chairs the Enzyme Safety Working In 2020, we will continue to prioritize product safe products and substitute hazardous product information and labeling, traceability, Group, which plays a coordinating role stewardship practices at Novozymes through substances in its operations with safer and industrial biotechnology, animal testing, within The Association of Manufacturers and technical and risk assessments. We will more sustainable alternatives wherever REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization Formulators of Enzyme Products (AMFEP) further explore the feasibility to phase out possible. Novozymes strives to reduce the risk and Restriction of Chemicals) and FIAP (Food to develop advanced safety standards for priority substances and develop substitution of enzyme allergies among employees and Improvement Agents Package). enzyme use. Through the AMFEP, Novozymes, strategies, working our way towards our goals. downstream users by promoting adherence to recently collaborated with the Confederation We plan to drive a new initiative to develop enzyme safety standards. Novozymes has started to measure of European Paper Industries to develop safety safety guidance specially for the textile performance and monitor progress in product guidance for the paper industry, which will industry in a collaboration between AMFEP, Our approach stewardship, particularly in the areas of be published in early 2020. As a follow up to the Association of Manufacturers of Process Novozymes’ approach to product stewardship product safety and hazardous substance the safety guidance released for the baking and Performance Chemicals and the European is outlined in its Quality and Product Safety management. industry in 2018, AMFEP and the Federation of Apparel and Textile Confederation. Policy, which is an important element of Novozymes’ Quality Management System. Novozymes constantly strives to reduce the risk of potential harm to both human health and the environment in the manufacture, handling and use of its products. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 125 Social and governance data Accidents per million working Social and governance data hours We measure our social performance using a number of indicators in the areas of labor practices & human rights, occupational health & safety, business ethics, customer 0.9 engagement and community engagement. These indicators enable us to track our progress and respond to risks and opportunities related to both talent attraction and retention, and business development. Women in senior management 31% Completion of business integrity training for employees 99% Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 126 Social and governance data 8.1 Labor practices & human rights Employees are vital for Novozymes’ growth In 2019, we defined targets for 2020-2022 2019 highlights and the successful execution of its strategies. focused on building a culture where our Labor practices In 2019, the rate of employee turnover Therefore, it is important for Novozymes to employees thrive, grow and perform to bring We believe in promoting gender diversity increased to 12.7% from 8.8% in 2018. We focus on employee development and diversity out their best. To nurture diversity, our target is at work and are continuously focused on recorded a 1.9% rate of absence, which is in all its operations. Novozymes is responsible to achieve an 86 rating on our diversity index; increasing the number of women in leadership below our target of ≤ 2.0%. The rate of absence for ensuring that human rights are respected and to enable learning, our target is to achieve roles in the organization. In 2019, 31% of has been broken down into grouped job throughout its value chain. an 80-point rating on our employee survey. the senior management team were women, categories, based on whether the work carried exceeding our target for the year of at least out is primarily office-based. Our approach Novozymes respects human rights as defined 29%. We have adopted a common management by the UN Guiding Principles on Business approach and reporting structure for labor and Human Rights. Novozymes also respects This year, Science Magazine ranked Novozymes practices and human rights. Our People and the International Bill of Human Rights, the the world´s 7th best science employer. We have Organization (P&O) function, together with International Labor Organization’s Declaration been among the top 10 science employers in leaders across Novozymes are responsible on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the world for the last four years. for ensuring equal rights for all employees and, since 2001, we have been a signatory to and promoting diversity. We are committed the United Nations Global Compact. Employee statistics to ensuring equal opportunities and avoiding 2019 2018 discrimination based on race, religion, gender We have implemented the UN Guiding Rate of employee turnover – retirement % 1.0 1.0 or age in our global organization. Read more Principles on Business and Human Rights Rate of employee turnover – dismissal % 5.7 2.0 in our position paper on ‘Diversity and Equal in our operational policies and procedures. Rate of employee turnover – voluntary % 6.0 5.8 Opportunities’, at Novozymes.com. We also conduct due diligence and impact Rate of employee turnover, total % 12.7 8.8 assessments in countries where we operate Novozymes is committed to providing a work and offer grievance mechanisms to internal Rate of absence environment where all individuals can work and external stakeholders. Our position paper Senior management, management, professional together comfortably and productively, free of on Human Rights and Labor Standards is and administrative % 1.2 1.2 any forms of harassment and discrimination. signed by our CEO and outlines our approach Skilled workers, laboratory technicians, other Novozymes recognizes and respects the right to respect and manage human rights within our technicians and process operators % 2.6 3.0 to form and join associations and to bargain operations. We also published our third annual All employees ESG % 1.9 2.1 collectively. Our P&O function works together statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act. with local leadership to facilitate the fulfillment For more information, please refer to ‘Policies Other employee statistics of these fundamental rights in countries with and Position Papers’ at Novozymes.com. Average age Years 42.0 41.4 limited labor legislation. Average seniority Years 10.1 9.6 Number of expatriates No. 22 23 Average training cost spent per employee DKK 3,351 3,637 Costs as percentage of total employee costs % 0.5 0.6 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 127 Social and governance data 8.1 Labor practices & human rights (continued) Launched in 2018, Lead the Way aims to help The employee-survey result for ‘Satisfaction Human rights In 2019, we conducted the human rights all leaders at Novozymes to develop their core and Motivation’ was 77, not meeting our 2019 In 2018, we started to conduct regionally impact assessment for Europe, Middle East and leadership skills needed to drive employee target of ≥ 79. Additionally, for ‘Enabling focused human rights impact assessments to Africa (EMEA). Through these assessments, we engagement and performance, and to mobilize Employee Development’, we achieved a identify and assess human rights risks and identified the most salient human rights, and employees around our purpose and values. In result of 77, meeting our 2019 target of ≥ impacts in our business and supplier base. As are taking appropriate measures to mitigate 2019, the enrollment of leaders in the Lead the 75. The employee survey enables us to not human rights risks vary from region to region, the identified risks and gaps. Our aim is to Way program increased to ~57% from ~30% in only track the organizational mood but also this approach enables us to gain a more complete the assessments for the remaining 2018. to make room for better and more relevant comprehensive understanding of human rights regions, namely, China, Latin America and team talks focusing on how we work together risks, our positioning and the associated gaps North America, by 2021. at Novozymes. This is critical to ensuring our within the respective regions. success as a business and sustaining our reputation as a great place to work. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The rate of employee turnover is calculated Average age and seniority are calculated as Training costs express the cost of external as employee turnover divided by the the sum of employees’ total age/seniority in training courses and seminars, translated average number of permanent employees. whole years at the reporting date, divided by into Danish kroner at average exchange Absence is defined as time lost due to an Employee turnover is measured as the the number of employees. rates. Training costs are also shown as a employee’s illness, including sick leave, number of permanent employees leaving the percentage of total employee costs. and occupational accidents and diseases. Group during the preceding four quarters Expatriation refers to Novozymes employees The rate of absence is calculated as the (excluding employees at divested entities temporarily reassigned within Novozymes Women in senior management measures the number of registered days of absence as a transferred to the acquiring company). from the country of original employment for percentage of women in director positions or percentage of the total number of normal a period of more than six months. higher (i.e. senior director, vice president or working days in one year, less vacation and executive vice president). public holidays. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 128 Social and governance data 8.2 Occupational health & safety The health and safety of all our employees is 2019 highlights Our new global incident handling system of paramount importance to Novozymes, and Our safety performance was better than ever in CAPTURE has enabled us to implement ACCOUNTING POLICIES therefore forms a fundamental part of our 2019 thanks to a company-wide focused targeted, data and theme-based safety business strategy. The aim is to ensure that and dedicated effort. Our target was to limit initiatives. These initiatives focus on prevention Occupational accidents is defined as the robust safety processes, equipment, standards, frequency of occupational accidents per million and safety, for example machinery safety, and reported number of occurrences arising out tools and training are fully integrated into our working hours (lost-time injury frequency falling, tripping and straining of the body. of or in the course of work that result in way of working. We take appropriate measures rate) to 1.5 or below. We met our target as fatal or nonfatal injury with at least one day to ensure focus on occupational health and the frequency of occupational accidents was of absence from work apart from the day of safety across the organization, by means of 0.9 compared with 2.4 in 2018. For more injury. initiatives owned and driven locally under a information on occupational accidents and global framework. diseases, please refer for the tables provided. Occupational diseases is defined as the number of diseases contracted as a result Our approach of exposure to risk factors arising from Novozymes’ Quality and Sustainability work activity and notified as work related in function is responsible for supporting the accordance with local legislation. organization in ensuring a safe and healthy Consequences of occupational accidents work environment. To reinforce our safety No. 2019 2018 The consequences of occupational culture, we have a Global Health and Safety Return to original job 10 25 accidents with absence and occupational Policy, along with internal standards and Return to a different job in the same department 1 diseases are measured by recording the procedures. We monitor our performance Out of work or early retirement 1 work situation once the situation resulting and ensure continuous improvement through from an incident has stabilized, for example Case pending benchmarking of both internal and external whether the employees have returned to Occupational accidents with absence, total 10 27 key performance indicators. We define annual their original jobs, and the total number of targets to ensure we continue to improve our calendar days of absence. Total days of absence related to accidents registered in performance on health and safety. In 2019, as the same year 351 401 part of our strategy update, we increased our Frequencies of occupational accidents with focus on health and wellbeing and defined new absence and occupational diseases are Injury severity rate 35 13 ambitions and programs on these topics. For stated per million working hours. instance, we have a target to drive down the lost-time injury frequency rate by 2022 relative The injury severity rate is calculated by to a 2018 baseline. dividing total days of absence related to accidents registered in the same year by the number of occupational accidents. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 129 Social and governance data 8.2 Occupational health & safety (continued) Consequences of occupational diseases We also introduced a new global incident Brain Space is an ongoing initiative that No. 2019 2018 follow-up procedure. This procedure has aims to inspire employees, equip them Return to original job 1 4 supported various internal initiatives and with tools to nurture their brains and help Return to a different job in the same department resulted in high quality root cause analysis, them thrive in a digital and fast-paced Out of work or early retirement strong preventative countermeasures and, work environment. In 2019, we focused on sharing better practices and lessons learned. creating better conditions for our employees Case pending to concentrate and avoid distractions by Occupational diseases, total 1 4 Enzyme safety is a top priority for providing them with tips to avoid pseudo Novozymes. In 2019, we published a work and promoting brain-breaks at the Total days of absence related to diseases registered in the scientific study, which concluded that our workplace. same year preventive program works effectively, and our learnings enable us to improve ZEAL Moving forward, we will focus on the (Zero Enzyme Allergy) for the benefit of implementation of our updated strategy, our employees and customers. We have aiming to improve the safety related to our Types of occupational diseases continued to promote the culture of safety products and workplace, and the general No. 2019 2018 within Novozymes through our corporate wellbeing of our employees. Skin disease safety values and activities that promote Enzyme allergy 3 safe behavior. Other 1 1 Occupational diseases, total 1 4 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 130 Social and governance data 8.3 Business ethics Business ethics is at the core of our business access to relevant guidance on the intranet and therefore a material issue for Novozymes. and are encouraged to raise any concerns ACCOUNTING POLICIES a company in the Novozymes Group has We are committed to conducting business in a about business integrity to the designated violated applicable anti-trust regulations. responsible, ethical, and transparent manner, business integrity contacts or other relevant and to meeting stakeholders’ expectations of grievance channels. Novozymes also has a Completion of business integrity training All allegations of fraud are investigated high business integrity standards across our whistleblower system which allows employees refers to the percentage of the employees until it has been determined whether operations. and others to report their concerns relating to in scope who have undergone business they can be substantiated. The number of business integrity and corruption, fraud and integrity training in the last training period. fraud cases represents substantiated and Our approach other serious matters. Read more about our New entities are included within six months unsubstantiated matters reported to the Novozymes’ management approach to grievance channels at Novozymes.com. of acquisition. Business integrity training Audit Committee in the reporting year. business integrity is embedded in our is conducted for employees who can corporate values, policies and procedures. We offer mandatory business integrity potentially influence third-party interactions Novozymes defines fraud as an offence training annually for our employees in or decisions as part of their job role. This where an employee or third party either: Novozymes has adopted six business integrity scope. This training is designed and rolled comprises employees in professional, principles that lay the ground rules for out by Novozymes’ Chief legal compliance managerial or administrative positions. • Takes or removes the company’s property engaging with third parties and apply to all officer, based on input from regional lines of without its consent with intent to deprive employees across the world. The business businesses and questions raised during the The reporting criteria for competition the company of it, or integrity principles underline Novozymes’ zero year to ensure relevance and applicability. This law violations are whether it has been • Intentionally deceives the company by tolerance approach to bribery and set clear training includes real-life case studies and established by an authority member of the providing false documentation or by rules for gifts and donations. These principles reinforces employees’ commitment to business International Competition Network or by a suppressing the truth in order to obtain a act as Novozymes’ code of conduct in business integrity principles. Business integrity training competent court anywhere in the world that personal gain integrity matters and form the basis of our is also part of the onboarding training program efforts to eliminate all forms of corruption. For for new employees. more details, please see our position paper on business integrity at Novozymes.com. Novozymes’ recurring antitrust training provides general guidance on competition law A dedicated legal compliance function and is completed by relevant employees in handles business integrity-related matters and commercial roles across all regions. training of our employees. All employees have Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 131 Social and governance data 8.3 Business ethics (continued) Novozymes works proactively to prevent, Novozymes’ responsibility for ensuring ethical During the year, new initiatives such as a fraud Of the investigated cases, 53% were detect and respond to fraud, and we business practices also extends to ensure that e-learning module targeted at special functions substantiated and 35% of the substantiated continuously increase internal awareness and our business partners and stakeholders are and more frequent cyber fraud vulnerability cases were reported to the police. develop relevant programs or initiatives in this equally committed to preventing corruption assessments were launched to increase fraud area as required. and upholding business integrity principles. awareness and mitigate the exposure towards The charts below provide further details of the Our third-party due diligence processes include cyber fraud. reporting channels and consequences of fraud An internal control system enables monitoring and ensuring that our commercial cases. identification of fraud cases and addresses partners conduct business with integrity and In 2019, there were no violations of concerns raised, e.g. through our whistleblower share our values regarding legal compliance. competition law. Moving forward, we will continue to raise system. awareness of fraud and train employees in 2019 highlights The number of fraud cases investigated by business integrity, compliance and relevant These cases are reported to the Audit In 2019, the business integrity training was Novozymes increased to 42 from 34 in 2018. policies and procedures. Committee on a quarterly basis, and all completed by 99% of our employees in scope The investigated fraud cases did not have a allegations of fraud are appropriately and focused on anti-money laundering, gifts material financial impact. investigated in accordance with internal and hospitality. policies and procedures. Substantiated fraud will lead to proportionate disciplinary sanctions The antitrust training focused on concerns for the parties involved. relating to price communication. Reported fraud cases Reporting channels 2019 (2018) Consequences of substantiated fraud cases 2019 (2018) No. of cases • Whistleblower/tip-off 66% (75%) • Dismissal 25% (25%) • Internal controls and proactive detection 34% (25%) • Other disciplinary sanctions 30% (0%) • Substantiated • Open • Unknown perpetrator 45% (75%) • Unsubstantiated Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 132 Social and governance data 8.4 Community engagement We believe that businesses have a 2019 highlights Learners reached by geography 2019 (2018) responsibility to engage with the communities In 2019, we engaged approximately 329,000 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES in which they operate and invest strategically learners, with Asia Pacific and Latin America AND JUDGMENTS in programs that create value for society. We being major contributors. An overview of focus our community engagement and social the distribution of learners reached by the investment activities on education, which different regions is provided in the chart. Methodologies to count and consolidate we believe is crucial for global sustainable Moving forward, we will be implementing learners reached have been defined and development. Our programs are designed our new long-term strategy and encouraging are applied, but the reported numbers are specifically around biology, sustainability and our employees to contribute to their local still subject to assumptions and estimates, the environment. communities. for example when recording the number of participants at a conference. This means Our approach Read more about Educate in the Targets • Asia Pacific 43% (43%) that the result of the calculation will be an • North America 16% (21%) Our community engagement initiatives are section and at Novozymes.com. • Latin America 38% (25%) approximation. driven through education-related initiatives. • Europe, Middle East & Africa 3% (11%) These initiatives are anchored in our Quality and Sustainability department, and the various educational programs are driven and ACCOUNTING POLICIES implemented regionally by our sustainability managers. In total, we have educated more Learners reached comprises the total than 941,000 learners globally, since 2015. number of persons Novozymes reaches via its EDUCATE activities. An EDUCATE activity is an activity that engages the learner to a degree sufficient to confirm that awareness has been created. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 133 Social and governance data 8.5 Customer engagement Novozymes believes that customer Novozymes has set an annual Customer Key factors impacting the NPS include opinions serves as powerful indicator in Satisfaction Measurement target which refers customers’ appreciation for our commercial ACCOUNTING POLICIES determining the success and performance of its to the NPS that reflects customer responses and technical support and account solutions in the market. We therefore consider to the question: “How willing are you to management. They also note certain areas customer engagement and partnership to be recommend Novozymes to others?” of improvement, including challenges in The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is derived material for our business. implementing our solutions and how we from an annual questionnaire measuring Responsibility for measuring, analyzing perform in relation to the competition on how likely the customer is to recommend Our approach and addressing customer satisfaction and factors such as pricing. Novozymes to others. The NPS is calculated Each year, we conduct a satisfaction survey of performance is anchored across commercial as the share of promoters (on a scale of our customers across all divisions. This is to divisions. Our customers value our products and 0-100) less the share of detractors (also on a monitor customer perceptions of our solutions services and we recognize the importance of scale of 0-100). The resulting score is a value and services and learn where we can improve. 2019 highlights innovation to meet local needs and improve between -100 and +100. We use the survey as a dialogue tool with our In 2019, Novozymes invited 966 customers competitiveness. customers. Overall customer perceptions are across 85 countries to participate in the survey. measured via four key performance drivers: Net We achieved an NPS of 54, surpassing our Going forward, we will strive to maintain Promoter Score (NPS), Loyalty Index, Value of 2019 target of 50, with a 57% response rate. close relationships with our customers and Partnership, and Customer Satisfaction Score. The results hold for our large and smaller proactively work on the areas where we can customers, new and old, across regions. The improve. NPS score confirms our strong relationships with our customers. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 134 Social and governance data 8.6 Responsible sourcing At Novozymes, we are continually focused on our suppliers of directly sourced agricultural Novozymes’ updated strategy ‘Better business environmental, social and governance (ESG) raw materials are required to adhere to our with biology’ has an increased focus on issues across our value chain, and one of deforestation requirements by not contributing responsible sourcing supported by key longour material domains of focus is responsible to further deforestation and must have zero term commitments and targets. To further sourcing. It is crucial for Novozymes to have a tolerance for land grabbing. develop our responsible sourcing practices and secure supply of sustainable raw materials for help implement our updated strategy, going our production. Agricultural raw materials are a We ensure relevant training and capacityforward, we will strengthen partnerships with major constituent of our production processes building for all our category managers and our suppliers and drive ambitious programs for and we continue to focus our efforts on buyers. They receive instructions on how to responsible sourcing. sourcing renewable energy for our operations. apply the RPS in the selection and evaluation of Novozymes’ suppliers and have received We will focus on sourcing 100% renewable Our approach training on modern slavery and human electricity, reducing Scope 3 emissions from key Our approach to responsible sourcing is trafficking. raw materials, developing circular packaging mainly defined by our Responsible Purchasing management of all key materials and reducing Standards (RPS) and managed through our Through our SPM process, Novozymes screens or substituting prioritized substances to safer Supplier Performance Management (SPM) suppliers and classifies their risk based on alternatives. process. Responsibility is anchored within our spend, country and category. In case a supplier Supply Operations function. does not meet our assessment criteria, it Read more about our updated strategy and will be thoroughly assessed whether to work targets in the Strategy section. To know more, see our position statement with the supplier on a corrective action plan, ‘Responsible purchasing’ which includes or if choosing an alternative supplier is the 2019 highlights Supplier Guidelines that communicate our RPS appropriate response to ensure sustainable In 2019, Novozymes completed a human to suppliers, and our updated ‘Modern slavery performance across our supply chain. rights and impact assessment for the Europe, Statement’ at Novozymes.com. Middle East and Africa region (EMEA) of our Novozymes is a member of SEDEX, a supplier operations and supplier base. Read more Novozymes requires all contracted suppliers sustainability collaboration platform. This about these assessments in Note 8.1 Labor to comply with our RPS, as well as, when engagement will be an important part of our practices & human rights. requested, to complete questionnaires responsible sourcing approach going forward, and to accept visits and audits relevant for as we plan to enhance the foundation for As a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable confirmation of compliance with the standards. supplier performance and risk assessments by Palm Oil (RSPO), 100% of the palm oil we These standards cover various ESG criteria connecting more cross-functional data from sourced in 2019 was RSPO certified. including respect for human and labor our supplier base. rights, business ethics, employee health and safety and environmental stewardship. All Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Notes 135 Statement of the Board of Directors and Executive Management The Board of Directors and the Executive In our opinion, the accounting policies used are of the Group and the Parent Company, of Management have today considered and appropriate, and the Group’s internal controls the results for the year, and of the financial adopted the Annual Report of Novozymes A/S relevant to preparation and presentation of the position of the Group and the Parent Company for the financial year January 1 – December 31, Annual Report are adequate. The Consolidated as well as a description of the most significant 2019. The Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements and the Parent Company risks and elements of uncertainty facing the have been prepared in accordance with Financial Statements give a true and fair view Group and the Parent Company. International Financial Reporting Standards as of the financial position at December 31, 2019 adopted by the EU and further requirements in of the Group and the Parent Company and In our opinion, Novozymes A/S adheres to the the Danish Financial Statements Act, and the of the results of the Group and the Parent AA1000 AccountAbility principles (2008), and Parent Company Financial Statements have Company operations and consolidated cash environmental, social and governance data been prepared in accordance with the Danish flows for the financial year January 1 – are stated in accordance with the accounting Financial Statements Act. Management’s December 31, 2019. policies. Review has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. In our opinion, Management’s Review includes We recommend that the Annual Report be a true and fair account of the development in adopted at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. the operations and financial circumstances Bagsvaerd, January 23, 2020 Executive Management Board of Directors Peder Holk Nielsen Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen Agnete Raaschou-Nielsen Kasim Kutay President & CEO Chairman Vice Chairman Thomas Videbæk Lars Bo Køppler Kim Stratton Mathias Uhlén Lars Green Lena Bech Holskov Anders Hentze Knudsen Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 136 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Shareholders of Novozymes A/S Our opinion Our opinions are consistent with our Auditor’s The Consolidated environmental data and the Independence In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Long-form Report to the Audit Committee and Consolidated social and governance data of We are independent of the Group in Statements give a true and fair view of the the Board of Directors. Novozymes A/S, pages 60-63 and 115-135, for accordance with the International Ethics Group’s financial position at December the financial year January 1 to December 31, Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of 31, 2019 and of the results of the Group’s What we have audited 2019 comprise the environmental performance Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA operations and cash flows for the financial The Consolidated Financial Statements of and consolidated data, the social and Code) and the additional requirements year January 1 to December 31, 2019 in Novozymes A/S, pages 51-59 and 64-114, governance performance and consolidated applicable in Denmark. We have also fulfilled accordance with International Financial for the financial year January 1 to December data and the related notes, including our other ethical responsibilities in accordance Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and 31, 2019 comprise the consolidated income significant accounting policies. with the IESBA Code. further requirements in the Danish Financial statement and statement of comprehensive Statements Act. income, the consolidated balance sheet, the These are collectively referred to as the To the best of our knowledge and belief, consolidated statement of shareholders’ “Environmental, Social and Governance Data.” prohibited non-audit services referred to in Moreover, in our opinion, the Parent Company equity, the consolidated statement of cash Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 Financial Statements give a true and fair view flows and the notes, including significant Basis for opinion were not provided. of the Parent Company’s financial position accounting policies. We conducted our audit in accordance with at December 31, 2019 and of the results of International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) Appointment the Parent Company’s operations for the The Parent Company Financial Statements and the additional requirements applicable We were appointed as auditors of Novozymes financial year January 1 to December 31, of Novozymes A/S, pages 142-156, for the in Denmark. Our responsibilities under those A/S for the first time after the initial public 2019 in accordance with the Danish Financial financial year January 1 to December 31, 2019 standards and requirements are further offering on 21 March 2001. We have been Statements Act. comprise the income statement, the balance described in the section of our report. reappointed annually by shareholder resolution sheet, the statement of changes in equity and for a total period of uninterrupted engagement In our opinion, the Consolidated environmental the notes, including significant accounting We believe that the audit evidence we have of 19 years, including the financial year 2019. data and the Consolidated social and policies. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to governance data for the financial year January provide a basis for our opinion. 1 to December 31, 2019 are prepared in Collectively referred to as the “Financial accordance with the accounting policies for Statements”. the Consolidated environmental data and the Consolidated social and governance data. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 137 Key audit matters These matters were addressed in the context Key audit matters are those matters that, of our audit of the Financial Statements as a in our professional judgment, were of most whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and significance in our audit of the Financial we do not provide a separate opinion on these Statements for 2019. matters. Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Partnerships and collaboration agreements Novozymes has entered into several partnerships and collaboration agreements. We tested relevant controls including applicable information systems and monitoring controls implemented to ensure that profit-sharing, expenses and intangible assets from the partnerships and Some of these partnerships and collaborations include complex mechanisms for sharing profit, collaboration agreements are recognized and measured appropriately on an ongoing basis. expenses and intangible assets. Due to the complexity of the agreements, there are several uncertainties in relation to the interpretation of the agreements. We assessed the accounting treatment applied by Management of the termination of the BioAg Alliance, including measuring initial fair value of the intangible assets taken over due to the termination, The termination of The BioAg Alliance in 2019 also includes several uncertainties and assessments impairment of assets and cost associated with the termination. of deferred income, related intangible assets and accruals. We read the new agreements, assessed Management’s interpretation of the new agreements and We focused on this area because the partnerships and collaboration agreements and the related discussed the initial financial impact. accounting treatment of profit-sharing, expenses and intangible assets are complex and because establishing appropriate accruals, initial measuring of fair value of intangible assets and impairment We tested Management’s calculation of profit-sharing and related accruals etc. under the applicable testing requires significant judgement and estimation by Management. agreements, as well as reconciled inputs and key assumptions – for both internal and external sources – and we assessed the accuracy of the accruals in previous periods. Refer to Note 2.2, 2.5, 3.1, 4.2 and 4.4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We assessed whether the disclosures in relation to revenue and intangible assets are appropriate and met the requirements of accounting standards. Statement on Management’s Review consider whether Management’s Review is with the Consolidated Financial Statements, of Consolidated Financial Statements that Management is responsible for Management’s materially inconsistent with the Financial the Parent Company Financial Statements and give a true and fair view in accordance with Review, pages 3-50. Statements or our knowledge obtained in the the Environmental, Social and Governance International Financial Reporting Standards as audit, or otherwise appears to be materially Data, and has been prepared in accordance adopted by the EU and further requirements Our opinion on the Financial Statements and misstated. with the requirements of the Danish Financial in the Danish Financial Statements Act on the Environmental, Social and Governance Statements Act. We did not identify any and for the preparation of Parent Company Data does not cover Management’s Review, Moreover, we considered whether material misstatement in Management’s Financial Statements that give a true and fair and we do not express any form of assurance Management’s Review includes the disclosures Review. view in accordance with the Danish Financial conclusion thereon. required by the Danish Financial Statements Statements Act, and for such internal control Act. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial as Management determines is necessary to In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements and the Environmental, Social and enable the preparation of financial statements Statements, our responsibility is to read Based on the work we have performed, in our Governance Data that are free from material misstatement, Management’s Review and, in doing so, view, Management’s Review is in accordance Management is responsible for the preparation whether due to fraud or error. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 138 Furthermore, Management is responsible Environmental, Social and Governance Data. we are required to draw attention in our We communicate with those charged with for preparing the Environmental, Social and auditor’s report to the related disclosures governance regarding, among other matters, Governance Data in accordance with the As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs in the Financial Statements or, if such the planned scope and timing of the audit accounting policies applied, and for such and the additional requirements applicable in disclosures are inadequate, to modify our and significant audit findings, including any internal control as Management determines Denmark, we exercise professional judgment opinion. Our conclusions are based on the significant deficiencies in internal control that is necessary to enable the preparation of and maintain professional skepticism audit evidence obtained up to the date of we identify during our audit. Environmental, Social and Governance Data throughout the audit. We also: our auditor’s report. However, future events that are free from material misstatement, or conditions may cause the Group or the We also provide those charged with whether due to fraud or error. • Identify and assess the risks of material Parent Company to cease to continue as a governance with a statement that we have misstatement of the Financial Statements going concern. complied with relevant ethical requirements In preparing the Financial Statements, and the Environmental, Social and • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure regarding independence, and to communicate Management is responsible for assessing the Governance Data, whether due to fraud or and content of the Financial Statements and with them all relationships and other matters Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability error, design and perform audit procedures the Environmental, Social and Governance that may reasonably be thought to bear on our to continue as a going concern, disclosing, responsive to those risks, and obtain audit Data, including the disclosures, and independence, and where applicable, related as applicable, matters related to going evidence that is sufficient and appropriate whether the Financial Statements and the safeguards. concern and using the going concern basis of to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk Environmental, Social and Governance accounting unless Management either intends of not detecting a material misstatement Data represent the underlying transactions From the matters communicated with those to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company resulting from fraud is higher than for one and events in a manner that achieves fair charged with governance, we determine or to cease operations, or has no realistic resulting from error, as fraud may involve presentation. those matters that were of most significance alternative but to do so. collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence in the audit of the Financial Statements of misrepresentations, or the override of regarding the financial, environmental, social the current period and are therefore the key Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the internal control. and governance information of the entities audit matters. We describe these matters in Financial Statements and the Environmental, • Obtain an understanding of internal control or business activities within the Group to our auditor’s report unless law or regulation Social and Governance Data relevant to the audit in order to design express an opinion on the Consolidated precludes public disclosure about the matter Our objectives are to obtain reasonable audit procedures that are appropriate in the Financial Statements and the Environmental, or when, in extremely rare circumstances, assurance about whether the Financial circumstances, but not for the purpose of Social and Governance Data. We are we determine that a matter should not be Statements and the Environmental, Social expressing an opinion on the effectiveness responsible for the direction, supervision and communicated in our report because the and Governance Data as a whole are free of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s performance of the Group audit. We remain adverse consequences of doing so would from material misstatement, whether due internal control. solely responsible for our audit opinion. reasonably be expected to outweigh the public to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting interest benefits of such communication. report that includes our opinion. Reasonable policies used and the reasonableness of assurance is a high level of assurance, but accounting estimates and related disclosures is not a guarantee that an audit conducted made by Management. in accordance with ISAs and the additional • Conclude on the appropriateness of Hellerup, January 23, 2020 requirements applicable in Denmark will Management’s use of the going concern always detect a material misstatement basis of accounting and based on the audit PricewaterhouseCoopers when it exists. Misstatements can arise from evidence obtained, whether a material Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab fraud or error and are considered material if, uncertainty exists related to events or CVR no 3377 1231 individually or in the aggregate, they could conditions that may cast significant doubt reasonably be expected to influence the on the Group’s and the Parent Company’s Lars Baungaard Rasmus Friis Jørgensen economic decisions of users taken on the ability to continue as a going concern. If we State Authorized Public Accountant State Authorized Public Accountant basis of these Financial Statements and the conclude that a material uncertainty exists, mne23331 mne28705 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 139 Independent assurance statement on Novozymes’ 2019 sustainability reporting and adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles To the Shareholders of Novozymes A/S We have been engaged by Novozymes A/S’ Management’s responsibility Our team of experts has competencies with Scope, standards and criteria used Management to provide moderate assurance Adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility regard to assessing sustainability management We have planned and performed our work (review) as to whether Novozymes adheres to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and systems. In 2019, we have not performed based on AA1000AS (2008), using the the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008). Responsiveness is the responsibility of any tasks or services for Novozymes or other criteria in the standard to perform a Type 1 Management. clients, which would have conflicted with our engagement. Conclusion independence, nor have we been responsible Based on the procedures we have performed Our responsibility for the preparation of any part of the Annual We have worked to obtain a moderate and the evidence we have obtained, nothing We are responsible for planning and Report. Thus, we are independent as defined assurance (review) as to Novozymes’ adherence has come to our attention that causes us to performing the engagement to obtain in the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles believe that Novozymes does not adhere to moderate assurance (review) of Novozymes’ (2008)) and we consider our team qualified (2008). the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008) adherence with the AA1000 AccountAbility to carry out this independent assurance of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality engagement. Methodology, approach, limitation and scope and that the description of Novozymes’ and Responsiveness; forming an independent of work commitment to these, as set out in the Annual conclusion, based on the procedures we Our methodology has included procedures to Report, is not fairly stated. have performed and the evidence we have obtain evidence of Management’s commitment obtained; and reporting our conclusion to the to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008) This conclusion is to be read in the context of shareholders of Novozymes A/S. and of the implementation of systems and what is stated in the remainder of our report. procedures in support of the principles. Regarding the audit of the Consolidated environmental data and Consolidated social and governance data, we refer to the Independent Auditor’s Report. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 140 Based on an assessment of materiality and Observations and recommendations Regarding Materiality Regarding Responsiveness risk, our work has included: According to AA1000AS (2008), we are Novozymes continues to actively evaluate and 2019 has been a year of change in Novozymes required to include observations and manage current and likely future sustainability and there has been significant focus on driving • Review of processes related to how recommendations for improvements in relation issues and their impact on the business. During internal performance improvement and also Novozymes identifies its shareholders and to Novozymes’ adherence to the AA1000 2019, Novozymes has updated its assessment awareness and engagement on sustainability engages them in relevant business decisions AccountAbility Principles (2008). of the material sustainability issues for the issues. Novozymes continues to engage to develop and implement responses to business and within the new strategy three extensively with customers and partners to sustainability; Regarding Inclusivity new strategic opportunity areas relating to bring more and better sustainable products • Review of the process that Novozymes Novozymes continues to include sustainability removal of water contaminants, gut and oral forth that can contribute to the delivery of the used to identify and determine relevant into its core strategy and operational processes health, and alternative specialty proteins, Sustainable Development Goals. and significant (material) issues to the at Board, executive and operational level. This in which Novozymes believes it can bring organization and its shareholders and year, we have noted that significant work has significant impacts by introducing its biological We have communicated a few minor whether these issues are included in the been carried out to develop the non-financial solutions, are being pursued. Delivery of the recommendations for improvement to the sustainability reporting; targets and ambitions of the new strategy, and businesses’ long-term targets continues to be management of Novozymes. • Enquiries and interviews with the chairman that there have been enhanced involvement factored into senior management’s objectives of the Board of Directors, members of of business functions and external experts in and remuneration. the Executive Leadership Team and these processes. employees responsible for Novozymes’ commitment and adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008), and the existence of systems and procedures to support adaptation of the principles in the organisation. Our work focused on Novozymes’ updated strategy, Better business with biology. In particular, we explored how Novozymes will balance shortterm interests and long-term opportunities and considerations of impacts on different shareholders related to the refocusing and Hellerup, January 23, 2020 differentiated approach to the business in the strategy period. In addition, how PricewaterhouseCoopers sustainability and the UN Sustainable Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Development Goals, is embedded in CVR no.: 33771231 decision-making and can help drive future business growth; and • Assessed the presentation and disclosure Lars Baungaard Rasmus Friis Jørgensen of the shareholder engagement description State Authorized Public Accountant State Authorized Public Accountant included in the Annual Report. mne23331 mne28705 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Statements 141 Financial statements for Novozymes A/S Financial statements Financial activities Income statement 4.1 Financial income and costs Balance sheet 4.2 Credit institutions Statement of shareholders' equity 4.3 Proposed appropriation of net profit Basis of reporting 1 Accounting policies Other notes 5.1 Contingent liabilities and Primary operations pending litigation 2.1 Revenue 5.2 Related party transactions 2.2 Employee costs 5.3 Fees to statutory auditors 2.3 Other operating income 5.4 Common stock and treasury stock 5.5 Derivatives Other assets and liabilities 3.1 Intangible assets 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 Leases 3.4 Financial fixed assets 3.5 Other receivables 3.6 Deferred tax Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 142 Income statement, Novozymes A/S DKK million Note 2019 2018 Revenue 2.1 8,260 8,272 Cost of goods sold (3,867) (3,965) Gross profit 4,393 4,307 Sales and distribution costs (1,285) (1,092) Research and development costs (1,621) (1,482) Administrative costs (598) (600) Other operating income 2.3 1,237 1,458 Operating profit / EBIT 2,126 2,591 Income from investments in subsidiaries 3.4 1,494 818 Share of result in associates 3.4 (5) (7) Financial income 105 34 Financial costs (278) (164) Profit before tax 3,442 3,272 Tax (371) (555) Net profit 3,071 2,717 Proposed appropriation of net profit Dividend to shareholders 1,528 1,485 Revaluation reserve according to the equity method 2,147 2,434 Retained earnings (604) (1,202) 4.3 3,071 2,717 Proposed dividend per share DKK 5.25 DKK 5.00 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 143 Balance sheet, Novozymes A/S Assets Liabilities and shareholders’ equity DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 DKK million Note Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Intangible assets 3.1 3,064 2,446 Common stock 582 594 Treasury stock (4,142) (4,163) Property, plant and equipment 3.2 4,471 4,255 Revaluation reserve according to the equity method 2,117 1,050 Reserve for development costs 166 127 Investments in subsidiaries 3.4 8,581 8,163 Retained earnings 10,118 11,316 Investments in associates 3.4 37 42 Proposed dividend 1,477 1,438 Other long-term receivables 3.5 2 6 Shareholders’ equity 10,318 10,362 Receivables from Group enterprises 3.4 352 350 Financial fixed assets 8,972 8,561 Deferred tax 3.6 448 380 Other provisions 10 9 Fixed assets 16,507 15,262 Provisions 458 389 Raw materials and consumables 155 160 Lease liabilities 176 Work in progress 476 478 Credit institutions 4.2 2,716 1,474 Finished goods 707 816 Transitional holiday accrual 58 Inventories 1,338 1,454 Non-current liabilities 2,950 1,474 Trade receivables 924 920 Lease liabilities 92 Receivables from Group enterprises 158 671 Credit institutions 1,408 1,895 Tax receivables 344 12 Trade payables 512 749 Other receivables 3.5 138 85 Payables to Group enterprises 3,083 2,883 Receivables 1,564 1,688 Other payables 729 756 Current liabilities 5,824 6,283 Cash at bank and in hand 141 104 Liabilities 9,232 8,146 Current assets 3,043 3,246 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 19,550 18,508 Assets 19,550 18,508 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 144 Statement of shareholders’ equity, Novozymes A/S Revaluation reserve Reserve for according to the development Retained Proposed DKK million Common stock Treasury stock equity method costs earnings dividend Total Shareholders’ equity at January 1, 2019 594 (4,163) 1,050 127 11,316 1,438 10,362 Net profit for the year 2,147 924 3,071 Capitalized development costs 39 (39) Dividend received (1,244) 1,244 Dividend paid (1,486) (1,486) Dividend paid relating to treasury stock 48 48 Proposed dividend, gross (1,528) 1,528 Proposed dividend relating to treasury stock 51 (51) Purchase of treasury stock (2,000) (2,000) Sale of treasury stock 75 75 Write-down of common stock (12) 1,946 (1,934) Currency translation adjustments of investments in subsidiaries, etc. 155 155 Value adjustment of derivatives 44 44 Other adjustments 8 41 49 Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2019 B/S 582 (4,142) 2,116 166 10,119 1,477 10,318 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 145 NOTES SECTION 1 1 Accounting policies The financial statements of Novozymes A/S The accounting policies are the same as for Assets are recognized in the balance sheet of subsidiaries, based on the fair value of have been prepared in accordance with the the consolidated financial statements with the when it is considered probable that future the identifiable net assets on the acquisition Danish Financial Statements Act (accounting adjustments described below. For a description economic benefits will flow to the company and date, minus or plus unrealized intercompany class D). IFRS 16 was implemented at group of the Group’s accounting policies, please refer the value of the asset can be measured reliably. profits or losses, with the addition of any level and in the financial statements of to the consolidated financial statements. Liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet residual value of goodwill, is recognized under Novozymes A/S effective from January 1, 2019. when they are considered probable and can be Investments in subsidiaries and Investments No separate statement of cash flows has been measured reliably. At initial recognition, assets in associates respectively in the balance sheet. IFRS 16 was implemented using the modified prepared for Novozymes A/S; please refer to and liabilities are measured at cost. Assets If the shareholders’ equity of subsidiaries or retrospective approach, and comparative the consolidated statement of cash flows. and liabilities are subsequently measured as associates is negative and Novozymes A/S figures have not been restated. See Note 1.2 described below for each item. has a legal or constructive obligation to cover to the consolidated financial statements for Recognition and measurement in general the company’s negative equity, a provision is further information. The table below shows the Income is recognized in the income statement The recognition and measurement principles recognized. line items that were significantly impacted by as earned. take due account of predictable losses and the implementation of IFRS 16. The risks occurring prior to the presentation of Net revaluation of investments in subsidiaries implementation of IFRS 16 had an insignificant All costs incurred in generating the year’s financial statements that confirm or refute the and associates is recognized under impact on the income statement, and hence is revenue are also recognized in the income conditions prevailing at the reporting date. Shareholders’ equity in the Revaluation reserve not included in the table. statement, including depreciation, amortization according to the equity method. The reserve and impairment losses. Intangible assets is reduced by payments of dividends to the The implementation resulted in additional The accounting policies for intangible fixed parent company and adjusted to reflect other disclosures. See Note 3.3. Value adjustments of financial assets and assets follow those of the Group with the changes in the equity of subsidiaries. liabilities measured at fair value or amortized exception of goodwill, which is amortized over Except for the implementation of IFRS 16, the cost are also recognized in the income a period of 10 years using the straight-line The proportionate share of the net profits accounting policies are unchanged from 2018. statement. method. of subsidiaries less goodwill amortization is recognized under Income from investments in DKK million December 31, 2019 January 1, 2019 An amount equal to the total capitalized subsidiaries in the income statement. Goodwill Net book value of lease assets included in: development costs after tax is recognized in subsidiaries is amortized over a period of 10 Land and buildings 73 92 under Shareholders’ equity in Reserve for years using the straight-line method. Plant and machinery1 100 103 development costs. Other equipment 91 115 Dividend Financial assets The dividend proposed for the financial year is Non-current lease-liabilities2 176 254 Investments in subsidiaries and investments shown as a separate item under Shareholders’ in associates are recognized initially at cost equity. Current lease liabilities2 92 56 and subsequently measured using the equity 1. As of January 1, 2019 DKK 92 million was transferred from previously capitalized finance leases method. The company’s share of the equity 2. As of January 1, 2019 a total of DKK 92 million was transferred from previous finance lease liabilities, included in other payables Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 146 NOTES SECTION 2 2.1 Revenue DKK million 2019 2018 Reference is made to Note 2.1 to the Geographical distribution: consolidated financial statements concerning Denmark 166 203 segement information. Rest of Europe, Middle East & Africa 5,318 5,039 North America 1,032 1,228 Asia Pacific 1,316 1,407 Latin America 428 395 Revenue I/S 8,260 8,272 2.2 Employee costs DKK million 2019 2018 In August 2019, Novozymes announced In addition, the announced changes in the Wages and salaries 1,767 1,674 organizational changes related to the updated Executive Leadership Team during 2019 has Pensions defined contribution plans 186 180 strategy. As a consequence of the changes, resulted in severance cost of DKK 58 million. Other social security costs 22 21 around 125 employees were laid off in Denmark. Other employee costs 88 141 The employee cost in 2019 include restructuring Reference is made to Note 6.1 to the Employee costs 2,063 2,016 costs related to this of around DKK 100 million. consolidated financial statements concerning remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Average number of employees in Novozymes A/S 2,688 2,663 The one-off impact is partly offset by reduced Executive Leadership Team. employee cost in the remainder of the year. 2.3 Other operating income DKK million 2019 2018 Royalty income relating to subsidiaries 1,228 1,422 Other 9 36 Other operating income I/S 1,237 1,458 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 147 NOTES SECTION 3 3.1 Intangible assets 2019 2018 Acquired patents, Completed IT IT development licenses and development projects in DKK million Goodwill know-how, etc. projects progress Total Total Cost at January 1 1,839 1,688 523 58 4,108 2,999 Additions during the year 758 223 46 51 1,078 1,109 Disposals during the year Transfers to/(from) other items 84 (84) Cost at December 31 2,597 1,911 653 25 5,186 4,108 Amortization and impairment losses at January 1 (321) (923) (418) (1,662) (1,290) Amortization for the year (281) (132) (47) (460) (372) Disposals during the year Amortization and impairment losses at December 31 (602) (1,055) (465) (2,122) (1,662) Carrying amount at December 31 B/S 1,995 856 188 25 3,064 2,446 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 148 NOTES SECTION 3 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 2019 2018 Property, Production plant and Land and equipment and Other equipment under DKK million buildings machinery equipment construction Total Total Cost at January 1 2,507 4,908 946 1,314 9,675 9,001 Lease assets at January 1 92 11 115 218 Additions during the year 15 50 83 215 363 744 Disposals during the year (18) (6) (24) (70) Transfers to/(from) other items 980 124 96 (1,200) Cost at December 31 3,594 5,075 1,234 329 10,232 9,675 Depreciation and impairment losses at January 1 (1,388) (3,327) (705) (5,420) (5,203) Depreciation for the year (99) (174) (87) (360) (283) Impairment losses (5) (5) Disposals during the year 18 6 24 66 Depreciation and impairment losses at December 31 (1,492) (3,483) (786) (5,761) (5,420) Carrying amount at December 31 B/S 2,102 1,592 448 329 4,471 4,255 Capitalized interest Interest of DKK 2 million (2018: DKK 10 million) Land and buildings with a carrying amount of was capitalized under Additions during the DKK 1,526 million (2018: DKK 355 million) have year. Capitalization rate: 0.9% (2018: 1.40%). been pledged as security to credit institutions. The mortgage loans expire in 2029 and 2039. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 149 NOTES SECTION 3 3.3 Leases DKK million 2019 2018 Land and buildings 73 Plant and machinery 100 92 Other equipment 91 Carrying amount of lease assets 264 92 In 2018, DKK 92 million was recognized as finance leases. Additions to the lease assets during 2019 was DKK 10 million. Maturity analysis of the lease liability DKK million 2019 2018 Lease liability Less than 1 year 92 3 Between 1 and 5 years 79 15 More than 5 years 103 74 Undiscounted lease liability at December 31 274 92 In 2018, DKK 92 million was recognized as finance lease liability. DKK million 2019 Amounts recognized in profit or loss Interest on lease liabilities 5 Variable lease payments not included in the lease liability Expenses relating to short-term leases 6 Expenses relating to low-value leases Depreciation of lease assets per asset class Land and buildings 19 Plant and machinery 5 Other equipment 32 Depreciation of lease assets 56 Amounts recognized in the statement of cash flows Total cash outflow for leases 58 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial Statements for Novozymes A/S 150 NOTES SECTION 3 3.4 Financial fixed assets Investments in Investments in Receivables from DKK million subsidiaries associates Group companies Total Cost at January 1, 2019 8,650 128 350 9,128 Additions during the year 5 10 15 Disposals during the year (8) (8) Cost at December 31, 2019 8,655 128 352 9,135 Revaluation reserve at January 1, 2019 (487) (86) (573) Share of net profit/(loss) 2,152 (5) 2,147 Elimination of profit on internal asset transfers (658) (658) Dividends received (1,244) (1,244) Currency translation adjustment 155 155 Other adjustments 8 8 Revaluation reserve at December 31, 2019 (74) (91) (165) Carrying amount at December 31, 2019 B/S 8,581 37 352 8,970 At December 31, 2019, the revaluation reserve Reference is made to Note 6.7 to the included an amount of DKK 2,281 million consolidated financial statements concerning from the elimination of profit on internal asset investments in subsidiaries, joint operations transfer. and associates. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 151 NOTES SECTION 3 3.5 Other receivables DKK million 2019 2018 Prepaid expenses 68 41 Derivatives 15 14 Other receivables 57 36 Other receivables at December 31 140 91 Recognized in the balance sheet as follows: Non-current B/S 2 6 Current B/S 138 85 Other receivables at December 31 140 91 3.6 Deferred tax DKK million 2019 2018 Deferred tax at January 1 380 235 Adjustment for previous years 24 (12) Tax related to the income statement 51 68 Tax on shareholders’ equity items (7) 89 Deferred tax at December 31 B/S 448 380 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 152 NOTES SECTION 4 4.1 Financial income and costs DKK million 2019 2018 Interest income relating to subsidiaries 35 28 Interest costs relating to subsidiaries (26) (18) 4.2 Credit institutions DKK million 2019 2018 Long-term debt to credit institutions falling due after 5 years 1,229 473 4.3 Proposed appropriation of net profit DKK million 2019 2018 Proposed appropriation of net profit Dividend to shareholders 1,528 1,485 Revaluation reserve according to the equity method 2,147 2,434 Retained earnings (604) (1,202) Net profit 3,071 2,717 Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 153 NOTES SECTION 5 5.1 Contingent liabilities and pending litigation The below rental commitments relate to noncancelable operating leases, primarily for buildings and offices. DKK million 2018 Recognized in the income statement in respect of rentals 60 Rental commitments expiring within the following periods from the reporting date: Less than 1 year 56 Between 1 and 2 years 30 Between 2 and 3 years 7 Between 3 and 4 years 5 Between 4 and 5 years 4 After 5 years 5 Rental commitments at December 31, 2018 107 DKK million 2019 2018 Other commitments Contractual obligations to third parties relating to property, plant and equipment 92 89 Other guarantees Other guarantees and commitments to related companies 2,357 2,311 Other guarantees and commitments 151 126 Pending litigation and arbitration consolidated financial statements concerning Reference is made to Note 6.3 to the pending litigation and arbitration. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 154 NOTES SECTION 5 5.2 Related party transactions Transactions Outstanding balances DKK million 2019 2018 DKK million 2019 2018 The Novo Nordisk Group The Novo Nordisk Group Sales 103 121 Receivables 9 9 Purchases (129) (109) Payables (98) (76) The NNIT Group The NNIT Group Purchases (27) (32) Payables (7) (5) The Chr. Hansen Group The Chr. Hansen Group Sales 45 76 Receivables 10 18 Purchases (9) (26) Payables (3) In 2019, Novozymes purchased from Novo There were no transactions with related parties Reference is made to Note 6.4 to the Holding 1,530,000 of its own B-shares with the other than the transactions described and consolidated financial statements concerning pre-approval of the Board of Directors, at a normal remuneration of the Board of Directors transactions with related parties. price of DKK 475 million. The transaction was and Executive Leadership Team, which is based on the market price. presented in Note 6.1 in the consolidated financial statements. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 155 NOTES SECTION 5 5.3 Fees to statutory auditors DKK million 2019 2018 Reference is made to Note 6.5 to the consolidated Statutory audit 5 4 financial statements concerning fees to statutory Other assurance engagements auditors. Tax advisory services 1 1 Other services 1 Fees to statutory auditors 6 6 5.4 Common stock and treasury stock Reference is made to Note 5.5 to the consolidated financial statements concerning common stock and treasury stock. 5.5 Derivatives Reference is made to Note 5.4 to the consolidated financial statements concerning derivatives, as the figures and information in Novozymes A/S are identical to that information. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Financial statements for Novozymes A/S 156 Glossary Earnings per share (diluted) Free cash flow before acquisitions Net profit (attributable to shareholders in Cash flow from operating activities less cash Novozymes A/S) divided by the weighted flow from investing activities, changes in average number of shares outstanding net working capital, business acquisitions, (diluted). divestments and purchase of financial assets. EBIT/Operating profit Invested capital Profit before interest and tax. Total assets excluding interest-bearing assets and minority investments less interest-bearing EBIT margin liabilities. Profit before interest and tax as a percentage of revenue. Net interest-bearing debt (NIBD) The market value of interest-bearing liabilities EBITDA (financial liabilities) less the market value of Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and cash at bank and in hand and other easily amortization. convertible interest-bearing current assets. EBITDA margin Net working capital Profit before interest, tax, depreciation and Current assets less current liabilities used in, amortization as a percentage of revenue. or necessary for, the company’s operations. The main components are inventories, trade Economic profit receivables and trade payables. Economic profit is defined as adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) less (average invested Adjusted operating profit after tax capital * WACC). Operating profit adjusted for exchange gains/ losses, share of profit in associates less tax on Effective tax rate adjusted operating profit using the effective Income tax expense as a percentage of profit tax rate. before tax. Organic sales growth Equity ratio Sales growth from existing business, excluding Total shareholders’ equity as a percentage of sales from business acquisitions and balance sheet total at year-end. divestments, measured in local currency. Return on invested capital (ROIC) Adjusted operating profit (NOPAT) after tax as a percentage of average invested capital. Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance Glossary 157 About the report At Novozymes, our reporting ambition is to provide a single integrated report connecting the company’s business model, strategy, targets and performance through integrated financial and sustainability data. Editorial team Reporting and audits The report has been prepared in accordance areas; iii) the ability to protect and enforce The website contains The Novozymes Report with the International Financial Reporting the company’s intellectual property rights; iv) Editor in chief 2019, which, pursuant to section 149 of Standards (IFRS), the Danish Financial significant litigation or breaches of contract; Ann Lauritzen Steel, Global Communications the Danish Financial Statements Act, is an Statements Act and additional requirements of v) the materialization of the company’s & Brand extract of the company’s annual report. It also Nasdaq Copenhagen A/S for the presentation growth platforms, notably the opportunity for alas@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 2027 contains the financial statements of the parent of financial statements by listed companies. It marketing biomass conversion technologies company Novozymes A/S. Together, these is also inspired by the GRI’s G4 Sustainability or the development of microbial solutions Finance constitute the company’s annual report as filed Reporting Guidelines. See Basis of reporting in for broad-acre crops; vi) political conditions, Jens Breitenstein, Finance with the Danish Business Authority. the report for more details. such as acceptance of enzymes produced by jlb@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 1087 genetically modified organisms; vii) global PwC has audited the consolidated financial Forward-looking statements economic and capital market conditions, Investor Relations statements, the parent company financial This annual report contains forward-looking including, but not limited to, currency exchange Ulrik Wu Sware, Investor Relations statements, and the environmental and social statements, including statements about future rates (USD/DKK and EUR/DKK in particular, ulms@novozymes.com | tel. +45 3077 3187 data. PwC is also the sustainability assurance events, future financial performance, plans, but not exclusively), interest rates and inflation; provider, basing its assurance on the AA1000 strategies and expectations. Forward-looking and viii) significant price decreases for inputs Corporate Sustainability Assurance Standard (2008). statements are associated with words such and materials that compete with Novozymes’ Sahana Naganathan, Sustainability as, but not limited to, “believe,” “anticipate,” biological solutions. The company undertakes sana@novozymes.com | tel. +91 8030593500 The audit covers financial, environmental “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “project,” no duty to update any forward-looking and social data. These are marked “Audited “could,” “may,” “might” and other words with a statements as a result of future developments Text by PwC.” See also the statements in the similar meaning. or new information. The editorial team from Novozymes, headed by report. PwC has not audited the sections Global Communications & Brand of the report under the headings The big Forward-looking statements are by their very picture, Our business, Governance, and nature associated with risks and uncertainties Photography Sustainability. The Sustainability section that may cause actual results to differ Lars Just, Thorbjørn Hansen and Ty Stange includes our Communication on Progress materially from expectations, both positively prepared in accordance with the UN Global and negatively. These risks and uncertainties Design & web Compact principles, our report index based on may include unexpected developments in i) the BystedFFW A/S the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as ability to develop and market new products; ii) detailed sustainability data regarding our main the demand for Novozymes’ products, marketEditing & proofreading activities in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, driven price decreases, industry consolidation, Fokus Translations Denmark, India and the US. and launches of competing products or disruptive technologies in Novozymes’ core Novozymes A/S Accounts and performance About the report 158 Sustainability Sustainability CEO statement Progress on the UNGC Ten Principles Materiality Sustainability governance Measuring our performance Driving action with our stakeholders Novozymes A/S Sustainability Contents page 160 CEO statement Committed to making a better world Novozymes continues to deliver impactful innovation to the world in our quest for sustainable solutions to combat climate change and deliver on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2015, we made the UN Sustainable Stepping up our ambition challenges embodied in the SDGs and by year. We will invest to bring more impactful Development Goals (SDGs) our own. The In our pursuit of generating more growth and growing consumer desire to live lives that are innovation to the market and to progress on SDGs inspired our purpose and strategy having a greater impact on the world, in June better for themselves and the environment. our 2030 commitments and 2022 mid-term and we began our journey to contribute to 2019 we launched our updated strategy – targets on climate, water and sustainable the goals. In the years since, Novozymes Better business with biology. Through it, we will Combatting climate change production and consumption. has made significant progress in delivering focus on addressing three global challenges The world needs to limit the increase in global on the goals. Since 2015, the use of our – climate, water and sustainable production warming to 1.5o C. In September 2019, UN We will continue to harness the power of products has enabled the reduction of an and consumption. These are the areas where Secretary-General António Guterres asked biology to make the world a better place. As estimated 380 million tons of CO2 equivalent we believe our biological solutions can make leaders to come to the annual UN Climate our commitment to our purpose and the SDGs emissions. In addition, we have delivered the greatest difference and where we can Summit to present plans, not make speeches. remains strong, our commitment to the UN transformative innovations, catalyzed reliably measure our progress. For each of In my address at the summit, I announced our Global Compact and its Ten Principles has partnerships for change, expanded the reach the three challenge areas, we commit to grow science-based commitment to keeping the never been stronger. of our sustainable solutions and helped an the positive impact from our solutions and to temperature rise caused by climate change estimated 941,000 people learn about the manage the environmental footprint of our below 1.5o C. Novozymes is among the first few benefits of biology. own operations. We have set ambitious longcompanies globally to set up science-based term 2030 commitments and 2022 mid-term targets validated and accepted by the Science We continue to focus on reducing the impact of targets. Based Targets initiative (SBTi). our own operations while driving sustainable business growth. In 2019, 30% of the energy But what brings our updated strategy alive By 2030, we will halve absolute CO2 emissions Peder Holk Nielsen we consumed was from renewable sources. is our focus on our employees. We want to from our own operations compared to a 2018 President & CEO We substantially improved our performance inspire people to take action on the SDGs and baseline on our way to becoming carbon in managing safety at our workplace and we begin by pledging 1% of our time to local neutral by 2050. Importantly, we will enable recorded our lowest number of occupational outreach activities by 2022. emission reduction across our value chain and accidents per million working hours. engage with our suppliers to reduce emissions This is our action plan to maximize our from our raw materials. In addition, we will In summary, we progressed towards our goals, contributions to the SDGs. also help the transport sector reduce their CO2 but we still need to do better – by making our emissions by enabling the production of bioown operations more sustainable but also by Innovating for the SDGs based, low-carbon fuels. growing our business to enhance the reach and We will invest in exploring biological solutions impact of our solutions. in new strategic opportunity areas like Human Looking ahead Oral & Gut Health and Alternative Proteins. In 2020, we will focus on implementing our These opportunities are inspired by the strategy and the commitments we made this Novozymes A/S Sustainability CEO statement 161 Progress on the UNGC Ten Principles Novozymes continues its commitment to the Ten Principles and made significant progress in 2019. Theme Summary of key engagements in 2019 Human rights Novozymes and the UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and • UN Guiding Principles on Business and respect the protection of internationally Human Rights proclaimed human rights; and Novozymes has been a LEAD member of Novozymes participates in the UNGC’s • Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2011 local networks and engages in activities to Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and actively supports the UNGC’s global promote sustainability across all our regions. For disclosure on progress refer to Note 8.1 and Note 8.6* and regional work on the SDGs and climate Labor rights change. In the Danish local UNGC network, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Novozymes participated in the working freedom of association and the effective Human Rights In 2019, we continued our engagement group on human rights and shared our recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) with the UNGC’s work on ‘Ambition approach and insights on Novozymes’ Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Loops’, and interacted with them during Human Rights Impact Assessments. and compulsory labour; the development of our non-financial Principle 5: the effective abolition of child targets, including support for the campaign In Brazil, Novozymes participated in the labour; and ‘Business Ambition for 1.5˚C — Our Only UNGC’s Young SDG Innovators program. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Future’ as one of its first signatories. Our project on mobile wastewater treatment For disclosure on progress refer to Note 8.1 and Note 8.6* systems that can help companies reuse Environment Novozymes continues to participate in the water and help underserved communities Principle 7: Businesses should support a • UN Global Compact Climate Action Platform Action Platform ‘Pathways to Low Carbon treat domestic wastewater was selected precautionary approach to environmental and Resilient Development’, in the lead amongst various other entries. challenges; • UN Convention on Biological Diversity up to the UN Climate Action Summit in Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote • UN Caring for Climate greater environmental responsibility; and September 2019 and beyond. In China, Novozymes received the ‘Global • Business Council for the UN (BCUN) Principle 9: encourage the development Partnership Award 2019: The Best Practice and diffusion of environmentally friendly • Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) We are also a continuing member of Caring of Implementation of UN SDGs’ for our technologies. • below50 for Climate, a long-standing initiative efforts mainly in the areas of climate action • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) between UNGC, UN Environment and and ecology protection. For disclosure on progress refer to Note 7.1 to 7.7 and Note 8.6* UNFCCC. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against • UN Convention against Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) For disclosure on progress refer to Note 8.3 and Note 8.6* *Refer to Notes in ‘Accounts and performance’ Novozymes A/S Sustainability Progress on the UNGC Ten Principles 162 Materiality Novozymes’ materiality matrix serves as critical input in identifying our focus areas and priorities, informs our strategic decisions and guides our disclosure and reporting. Defining materiality Our matrix in 2019 Refer to ‘Materiality’ at Novozymes.com for Novozymes’ materiality assessment is a Our materiality matrix informed the recent further details on our materiality assessment systematic and rigorous process that integrates strategy update process to identify our and how we address our material issues across inputs from external stakeholders, trend operational focus areas. There were no new our value chain. analyses and internal engagement with issues added to or deleted from the matrix. relevant departments including Investor Relations, Risk Management & Controls, Issue category Quality & Sustainability and leadership from Medium High All our commercial divisions. This process results Innovation in a materiality matrix of financial and ESG Economic issues which reflects the importance of those Proﬁtable growth Environmental issues to stakeholders versus the impact they Partnerships Corporate & customer Governance have on Novozymes. governance Water engagement Trade policies Social Solid capital Business Compliance IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS We use our materiality matrix to define our structure ethics priorities and focus areas for the coming Climate change period, and it acts as a guide in determining Product & energy stewardship the topics we include in our annual disclosure. Bioethics & Corporate focus areas biodiversity Targets/Flagship initiatives Understanding the matrix Labor practices Occupational Waste & human rights health & safety Contributes to SDG target(s) Novozymes’ materiality matrix has three categories low, medium and high material Responsible sourcing issues. The illustration here reflects our medium and high material issues and Community engagement highlights those issues where we have external Tax & social investment High targets/flagship initiatives and make a direct contribution to one or more SDG target(s). Deforestation & Data security land use change Animal High materiality, welfare detailed disclosure Medium Medium materiality, limited disclosure IMPACT ON NOVOZYMES Low materiality, no disclosure Novozymes A/S Sustainability Materiality 163 Sustainability governance At Novozymes, sustainability is a key component of our business strategies and management processes. Novozymes and the SDGs As sustainability is such an integral part of Board was established in 2018 to ensure In June 2019, Novozymes launched its Novozymes’ purpose and strategic direction, that sustainability forms an integral part of updated strategy, Better business with We advance solutions that have the it is governed by the Board of Directors and the company’s strategy and actions which biology, and new targets, and the Novozymes’ potential to have the greatest impact the Executive Leadership Team. The Board are anchored and executed across various SDG Governance Board played a fundamental on the SDGs. We have identified six is responsible for overseeing financial and commercial divisions and operations. Refer to role in this process. Read more about our SDGs that we believe Novozymes’ ESG performance as part of the Executive 'Sustainability governance' at Novozymes.com updated strategy in 'Strategy'. technologies and actions can Leadership Team’s day-to-day running of for further details. contribute significantly to. the company. Novozymes' SDG Governance Novozymes’ SDG Governance Board In 2018, Novozymes established the SDG Governance Board to build a shared understanding of the opportunities and risks associated with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to translate this knowledge into corporate priorities and targets. The SDG Governance Board consists of an Impact Board and a Foundation Board. Impact Board Foundation Board The Impact Board sets Novozymes’ strategic global direction and The purpose of the Foundation Board is to provide the foundation ambition in respect of the SDGs. The board also develops and for ensuring that Novozymes’ sustainability performance in our executes a strategy for integrating sustainability into business operations, supply chain and other functions allows us to build on and strategies and management processes. maintain our sustainability leadership position. The Impact Board consists of the Executive Leadership Team as well The Foundation Board consists of SVPs and VPs representing a Read more in “Novozymes as a number of SVPs and VPs from different areas of the business. variety of Novozymes’ functions. and the SDGs” Novozymes A/S Sustainability Sustainability governance 164 Measuring our performance Sustainability highlights Sustainability drives the way we do business and we have always taken the triple bottom line approach to generate economic, environmental and social value. Novozymes’ key growth driver is to deliver 2019 Highlights solutions that improve the performance of our customers and partners, while having a better impact on the world. To ensure that we add value across our stakeholder ecosystem, we Environmental 87 30% 262,000 Set new climate target in million tons of CO emissions saved energy m3 of water saved actively engage with our stakeholders across a line with 1.5°C pathway (estimated) by our customers through consumption – veriﬁed by SBTi the application of Novozymes’ products from variety of themes. Read more in ‘Driving action renewables with our stakeholders’. We manage our performance on material ESG issues through relevant targets and KPIs. We also believe in sharing our performance in Social the most transparent way. Read more about our performance in 2019 in ‘Accounts and 0.9 12.7% 100% 97% 20,000 occupational accidents rate of employee of palm oil sourced of our biomass waste was GJ of energy saved performance’. Our sustainability leadership per million working hours turnover was RSPO certiﬁed handled in a circular system has been recognized by many indices and presented with a number of awards. Through the implementation of our updated strategy, we aim to increase the positive impact of our biological solutions, while also managing the environmental footprint of our operations. Novozymes’ ambition is to 329,000 Regional Human Governance 31% 99% 0 Rights Impact continuously improve business operations learners educated Assessment completed women in senior of employees across our value chain, making them more (estimated) under EDUCATE for EMEA management completed business fatalities efficient, environmentally friendly and socially integrity training responsible. As part of our updated strategy, we have set long-term 2030 commitments and 2022 mid-term targets to measure our progress going forward. Novozymes A/S Sustainability Measuring our performance 165 Measuring our performance New non-financial targets 2030 COMMITMENTS 2022 TARGETS In June 2019, Novozymes launched an updated strategy, together with a set of new WORLD Limit global warming increase to 1.5°C • Save 60 million tons of CO2 by enabling low-carbon non-financial targets. Our commercial priorities fuels in the transport sector in 2022 were the starting point for the target setting process. On that basis, we identified areas Ensure clean and efficient water use • Reach >4 billion people by contributing to laundry where our biological solutions can have the We will help solutions that replace chemicals in 2022 greatest impact on the SDGs and for which we the world... can reliably measure progress. We assessed Produce more and better products with • Gain 500,000 tons of food by improving what our customers and employees care about less impact efficiency from farm to table in 2022 and looked to our peers and other leading companies for inspiration. OPERATIONS 50% reduction in absolute CO2 emissions from • Reduce absolute CO2 emissions from operations on our way to carbon neutral in 20501,3 operations by 40%1 Our targets focus on People (inside and outside the company) and three global 100% renewable electricity3 challenges: Climate, Water, Production & 15% reduction in absolute CO2 emissions from Consumption. For each of the global challenge We will achieve… purchased goods and services1,3 areas, we have defined 2030 commitments and 2022 mid-term targets. Our new targets 100% sites manage water in balance with • Develop context-based water management framework considers both our opportunity local conditions programs at 100% of sites to make a positive impact through our solutions and our responsibility to manage the 100% key materials and waste managed • Develop plans for circular management of 100% environmental footprint of our operations. in circular systems of key packaging materials • Achieve 100% circular management of our biomass • Develop programs to reach zero waste by 2030 For more information on how we have at 100% of sites framed our targets, see 'Strategy'. EMPLOYEES • Achieve a score of 80 on learning in employee survey in 2022 • Achieve a score of 86 on our diversity index by 2022 • Achieve a score of 81 on Zymer spirit index by 2022 • Maintain occupational injuries2 ≤ 1.5 We will… • Pledge 1% of our time to local outreach activities 1 Compared to a 2018 baseline 2 Defined as a three-year rolling average of occupational injuries with absence per million working hours 3 Verified by SBTi Novozymes A/S Sustainability Measuring our performance 166 In the spotlight The heat is on: This means the world needs to drastically accelerate climate action. to generate energy from waste streams for use in our operations and to share with our local communities. Novozymes’ In September 2019, at the U.N. Climate Action Summit, Novozymes announced new ambitious climate commitments. Novozymes’ Novozymes’ impact goes beyond its production alone, and the company must account for ambitious climate President and CEO Peder Holk Nielsen said “UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres asked companies to come up with plans – not just emissions that occur outside its operational boundaries. We will monitor emissions across the value chain and work with our suppliers to commitments speeches; here is one of the first, validated, and science-based commitments – backed up by a robust plan for action.” reduce emissions from key raw materials. By 2030, we aim to reduce absolute CO2 emissions from purchased goods and services by 15%, compared to a 2018 baseline. To tackle climate change, the world needs Stamp of approval By 2030, Novozymes will reduce absolute to limit the increase in global warming to CO2 emissions from its operations by 50% “This is not about Novozymes 1.5°C. Novozymes is committed to doing compared to a 2018 baseline, on our way to and one company only; we want its part and helping the world reach the becoming carbon neutral in 2050. to inspire others across our goals of the Paris Agreement. value chain to follow suit – and This target has been validated by the Sciencetransparency is key” – Peder Holk Based Targets initiative (SBTi) as being in line Nielsen. with a 1.5°C pathway. SBTi is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global B uilding on a decade of climate action When the world reached a landmark Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute In many geographies, Novozymes actively Novozymes has been engaged in climate agreement in Paris in 2015, Novozymes hailed (WRI), and the World Wide Fund for Nature supports policies to promote the use of issues for more than a decade. We work global leaders for taking the first step towards (WWF). SBTi has established a comprehensive sustainable, low carbon fuels. Transportation with our stakeholders to enable the transition a low-carbon future and recognizing the crucial verification process which considers a accounts for about 25% of total energyto a low carbon economy. We were one of the role the private sector plays in this transition. company’s industry profile, its historical related global CO2 emissions – and to limit its very first companies to document the carbon We are committed to helping the world achieve emissions and the latest climate models. contribution to the increase in global warming, footprints of our products and demonstrate the goals of the Paris Agreement by providing this sector will require a range of solutions, how biological solutions can enable customers low-carbon, biological solutions, while also More action, fewer speeches including low-carbon fuels. We have set a target to reduce emissions. reducing our own greenhouse gas emissions. Our new climate commitments are the to help the transport sector save 60 million culmination of months of effort by our tons of CO2 emissions in 2022 by enabling the On the operational side, we have successfully In 2018, the UN Intergovernmental Panel engineers, production teams and experts to production of bio-based, low-carbon fuels. decoupled growth from emissions. Since on Climate Change (IPCC) released a report define a detailed roadmap for climate action. 2010, we have grown our revenue by 48%, stating that to avoid catastrophic and In addition to investing in energy efficiency while absolute emissions from Novozymes’ irreversible climate impacts, we need to limit projects and sourcing 100% renewable operations have risen only 6%. the increase in global warming to 1.5°C. electricity, we will also explore opportunities Novozymes A/S Sustainability In the spotlight 167 Driving action with our stakeholders Creating value for our stakeholders and meeting stakeholder expectations on material sustainability issues is a priority for Novozymes. We strive to catalyze partnerships that drive collective action on the SDGs, enable a sustainable bioeconomy and deliver on our purpose. Customers their approach to sustainable development. Suppliers Funding for research in plant sciences At Novozymes, we engage with our customers These trends include consumer scrutiny on Continuous engagement with our suppliers The Novo Nordisk Foundation (NNF) through strong partnerships to provide animal welfare and sustainable farming, is key to driving our sustainability agenda awarded a grant of DKK 203 million to the sustainable solutions tailored to their needs. digitalization of livestock management and and further developing our responsible Collaborative Crop Resilience Program To measure our impact and support our chronic diseases in pets. sourcing practices. Our approach to (CCRP), a new research project to be carried customers’ sustainability commitments, • Novozymes was awarded Gold recognition responsible sourcing is defined by our out in Denmark and the United States. The we also participate in customer-driven from Ecovadis for our sustainability Responsible Purchasing Standards (RPS) and project aims to study the interaction of the assessments that provide us with opportunities performance. managed through our Supplier Performance roots and leaves of plants with bacteria for learning and improving our performance on • Novozymes completed the full B Impact Management (SPM) process. We will work to for the purpose of enabling more efficient material ESG issues. Assessment (BIA) as part of our partnership strengthen our supplier sustainability profile and sustainable agricultural practices by with Seventh Generation. by continuing the enrollment of suppliers reducing the use of fertilizer and pesticides 2019 highlights onto SEDEX. We will also strengthen our by promoting natural bacteria that coexist • Novozymes partnered with Orkla (one of our commitment to obtaining certification of with the plants. Novozymes played a key “As part of our B-Corp key customers in Europe) on a joint project relevant raw materials with a sharp focus on role in bringing together the universities commitment, we consider to provide more environmentally-friendly sustainability. involved and the NNF by ensuring their solutions, specifically in the reformulation the broader social impacts participation in the CCRP. of laundry detergents across three of their of our suppliers’ business 2019 highlights leading brands to reduce the amount of and community engagement. • For our TEDA site in Tianjin, China we began chemicals (surfactants) and reduce the Novozymes has joined us in sourcing high quality renewable energy carbon footprint through the power of our our efforts toward continuous certificates (REC) issued by Goldpower, enzymatic solutions. sourced from a nearby advanced biomass sustainability improvement by • The Institution of Chemical Engineers plant in the city of Nangong. (IChemE) Malaysia presented Novozymes participating in the full BIA. We • Through our partnership with Ørsted, one and Sime Darby Research with the Palm Oil are impressed with the results of our energy suppliers, we successfully Award and the Sustainability Award for our and proud of our continuing delivered the first batch of steam, derived joint project ‘Enzymatic Assisted Extraction partnership with Novozymes” from sustainable biomass as a substitute to of Palm Oil’ which demonstrates the benefits Joey Bergstein, CEO, Seventh coal for our site in Kalundborg, Denmark. of the enzyme-assisted oil extraction process, • Novozymes is a member of the Roundtable Generation including higher yield, greater profitability, on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). In 2019, and improved sustainability performance. 100% of the palm oil we sourced was RSPO • Our partner Boehringer Ingelheim visited certified and nearly 80% of our soy materials Novozymes to share their insights on trends sourced were certified by recognized in the animal health industry as well as certification bodies. Novozymes A/S Sustainability Driving action with our stakeholders 168 In the spotlight The yield benefits of JumpStart® and Optimize® have been documented by statistical analyses published Microbial inoculants support in peer-reviewed literature. The assessments of environmental benefits have been conducted in collaboration with biogeochemical modelers from renowned instituClimate-Smart Agriculture tions and the two studies have been subject to critical review by international expert panels, as required by the ISO standard for life cycle assessment (LCA). Novozymes’ investment in LCAs of existing agricultural inoculants has revealed general patterns in the environmental benefits of microbial yield enhancers, which can be used Novozymes’ microbial inoculants enhance agricultural productivity, in support of future product launches. reduce environmental impacts and improve climate resilience. I n a world of increasing crop demand, finite JumpStart® Optimize® In the highly optimized land resources, and a changing climate with JumpStart® contains a Optimize® is applied on and resource-intensive more frequent weather anomalies, it is vital naturally occurring soil soybeans and other legume soybean production in the to optimize crop yields and nutrient utilization. fungus which improves the plants in North America, US, Optimize® generally To maximize yield potential and enhance stress crop’s uptake of phosphorus South America and Europe. provides a moderate tolerance, crops need an optimal start and a and is used in multiple Optimize® contains a yield improvement continuous uptake of essential nutrients in crops, including corn, soy, wheat, and canola. naturally occurring soil bacterium that is (1-2%) and thereby also their growth cycle. “Microbial inoculants can The improved uptake of phosphorus results involved in the nitrogen fixation process moderate environmental benefits. play a vital role in this regard,” says Thomas in early vigor, greater stress tolerance, of legumes, such as soybeans. Optimize® In a year with suboptimal soil Stenfeldt Batchelor, Vice President, BioAg and ultimately higher yield. The improved ensures the plant has the beneficial bacteria conditions, Optimize® can be a key yield is accompanied by reduced nitrogen necessary to capture nitrogen directly from the factor in obtaining high crop yields. In this article, we discuss two case studies losses to the aquatic environment and atmosphere. that demonstrate these benefits. reduced emissions of nitrous oxide, a potent “The findings of the LCA studies highlight greenhouse gas, to the atmosphere. The In Argentina, yield improvements with the positive role that Novozymes’ microbial Novozymes’ microbial solutions improve the improved plant growth also results in a larger Optimize® generally amount to 5-6%. The inoculants can play in Climate-Smart uptake of nutrients in crops and also make root system whereby more carbon is stored accompanying increase in root growth binds Agriculture (CSA),” says Jesper Hedal them more resilient to stress factors such as in the soil. Finally, increased demand from a carbon in the soil and thereby reduces Kløverpris, Senior Sustainability Specialist, dry spells. Microbial solutions increase crop growing world population can be satisfied with atmospheric CO2 concentration. In addition, Global Sustainability and EMEA Public Affairs. yields and provide a number of environmental less pressure on natural habitats from higher the yield benefit results in reduced pressure benefits. These results have recently been crop yields. If used on all US corn, Jumpstart® on natural habitats and thereby in reduced CSA is a framework developed by the United documented by two studies for our JumpStart® could potentially reduce greenhouse gas GHG emissions from land clearing. Optimize® Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization and Optimize® products based on the ISO(GHG) emissions by 3.9 million tons of CO2 reduces GHG emissions of soybean production (FAO) to ensure sustainable agricultural standardized life cycle assessment (LCA) corresponding to annual tail pipe emissions in the Buenos Aires region by no less than strategies. methodology. from 820,000 US passenger cars. 17% per ton of soybeans produced. Novozymes A/S Sustainability In the spotlight 169 In the spotlight Driving action with our stakeholders Employees Community Educate Novozymes drives employee engagement Novozymes invests in various educational through various regional initiatives that programs across our regions to help people support the development of our employees, understand the potential of biology. Our Ambassadors increases their motivation, drives safety programs are tailored to the needs of the awareness, strengthens safety culture and communities in which we operate. These encourages healthy lifestyles. New employees programs focus on improving scientific literacy in China are required to complete an e-learning and environmental awareness. In total, we module on sustainability at Novozymes during educated an estimated 329,000 learners in onboarding. We are also exploring initiatives to 2019 through these initiatives. Moving forward, further strengthen employee engagement on we have introduced a new target called our sustainability goals in the updated strategy. INSPIRE, for which we have pledged 1% of our employees’ time to community engagement. 2019 highlights Driving community • This year we launched our new Innovation 2019 highlights engagement initiatives Campus in Lyngby, Denmark, that has been • In Denmark, Novozymes educated designed to encourage collaboration and approximately 5000 school students through with our employees. innovation. We have created flexible and two programs. In collaboration with the inspiring workspace zones that promote new scientific learning center LIFE, we knowledge sharing and socializing, and developed two cases for their mobile lab. As T support working in silence. part of the ‘Naturfagsmaraton’ initiative, we he Educate Target Ambassador The program is • In North America, employees engaged in created and distributed 1500 experiment programme is an honorary deeply embedded direct conversations with the site’s preferred sets for schools where students tested how a recognition for employee in Novozymes' 'Touch Values'. Currently, training and development vendors at an starch stain can be cleaned with the help of volunteers who are deeply involved in the we have 18 ambassadors from various event focused on exploring individual and enzymes. EDUCATE activities. This program aims functions across all of Novozymes’ sites team needs. • In Latin America, Novozymes created an to encourage employee involvement in in China. They support and encourage • Building on Novozymes’ approach to safety alliance with the Argentine government community engagement initiatives and other employees to engage in EDUCATE management, in China, we also organized through the Centro Cultural de La Ciencia strengthen the internal communication activities on their respective sites through a health management session focused on (Science Cultural Center) to set up an of EDUCATE target projects across all of sharing their personal experiences and cervical vertebra health for our employees. interactive program, Fuerza Atómica (Atomic Novozymes’ sites in China. insights. • We introduced a new initiative called ZEDx Force), which thousands of people attended Friday in India, where employees learn to learn about scientists and the challenges The Ambassadors directly support four “Through the EDUCATE something new and spark ideas together, they face in building scientific knowledge. enabling their overall career development. core Educate Initiatives in China, namely, activities we can create a The Parent’s Class, Biology Catalyzes the footprint about biology and Beauty of Life, The Little Biologists and science in children’s minds,” the Biology Education Innovation. They says Wu Gui Fang, Director, AP are experienced lecturers and educators, F&B Application Research and an with expertise in biology, communication Educate Ambassador. and volunteer work. Novozymes A/S Sustainability Driving action with our stakeholders 170 In the spotlight Driving action with our stakeholders Investors Novozymes At Novozymes, maintaining a transparent and • Novozymes continues to be recognized by ongoing dialogue with our investors on both various indices and rating agencies as an financial and ESG performance is crucial to ESG leader in our sector. We are included secures Green ensuring a strong long-term relationship and in the Corporate Knights’ 2020 Global 100 improving our performance on material issues. Most Sustainable Corporation in the World Index. Mortgage Loan 2019 highlights • Novozymes has a strong tradition of • Novozymes announced its updated strategy, transparent reporting on its climate change Better business with biology, and new nonimpacts, and we submit climate change financial targets and commitments at the data to CDP annually. We received a ‘B’ Capital Markets Day in June 2019. This was score in CDP’s climate change disclosure well received by our investors and we look and management assessment. Refer to forward to our continued engagement during www.cdp.net to access our submission. Our energy-efficient innovation its implementation. campus secures the loan from • We are inspired to work with frameworks such as the Task Force on Climate Related finance partner Nykredit. Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and in the coming years we will work towards improved climate-related disclosures taking guidance N from the TCFD framework. ovozymes’ commitment to sustainability • We are seeing increased interest among also extends to our approach to our investors in disclosures on and financing and we are continuously engagement in ESG topics including risks exploring sustainable financing initiatives. and opportunities, clean revenues, workforce metrics and animal welfare. In 2019, we obtained a Green Mortgage Loan for our new energy-efficient innovation campus in Lyngby, Denmark. The loan is provided by our finance partner, Nykredit, and is funded by the proceeds from Green Mortgage Bonds. “Sustainable financing is one of our top priorities and to support this we launched the Green Bonds Framework in April 2019. We are pleased to support the journey toward sustainable development. With its highly energy efficient innovation campus in Lyngby, Denmark, Novozymes is one of our first Danish customers in the Green Mortgage Program. We are proud of our continued partnership.” Nykredit. Novozymes A/S Sustainability Driving action with our stakeholders 171 Driving action with our stakeholders Governments, industry associations, others to advocate for passage of the Sustainable We engage with governments in all our Chemistry Research and Development Act regions, primarily through policy advocacy. Our which was finally passed by the House of engagement with industry or trade associations Representatives in October 2019. further helps us in our policy advocacy efforts. Novozymes presents its positions to • China Business and Biodiversity policymakers and other interested parties in Partnership (CBBP): Novozymes became one accordance with national and international of the first companies to join CBBP which laws. was established in May 2019. CBBP aims to bring members and government together Our public affairs employees in Europe, United on one platform to engage in dialogue on States, India and China, primarily engage biodiversity protection and sustainable with governments through advocacy and utilization-related policies, laws and consultation forums. They are registered in standards. It will also support members in dedicated lobbyist registers, as legally required evaluating biodiversity risks and sharing best (e.g: Transparency Register in Brussels). In practices through the global network. 2019, we spent approximately DKK 11.4 million globally on our advocacy efforts. • White paper to help E10 execution in China: As a member of the drafting committee As a member of various institutions that of the white paper ‘Global Experience support our sustainability commitments, we of Biofuel Policy and Implementation’, explore partnerships and drive collective Novozymes actively participated in the action. discussions and provided expertise. This white paper was published by the China 2019 highlights Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation • The Sustainable Food Platform (SFP): The (CPCIF) in June 2019. SFP partnership under the Danish Initiative P4G (Partnering for Green Growth and • Confederation of Indian Industry (CII): the Global Goals 2030) saw good progress Novozymes is an active member of various in 2019. Novozymes together with other committees of CII. Through the Committee partners in the initiative are developing a on Bioenergy which is co-chaired by biscuit recipe that includes local Ethiopian Novozymes, we provide support in the quinoa and whey protein ingredients, made implementation of India’s National Biofuels possible with enzymes. Next steps are to Policy through various activities including improve biscuit recipes, produce locally and The Bioenergy Summit 2019 – Farm2Fuel. test with Ethiopian consumers. This summit was an excellent platform for various stakeholders working in the biofuels • Green chemistry policies in the US: sector to engage with the government. Novozymes, together with the GC3 Sustainable Chemistry Alliance, continued Novozymes A/S Sustainability Driving action with our stakeholders 172 Driving action with our stakeholders • HelloScience: In May 2019, Novozymes’ • Business Council for the United Nations collaborative innovation and project (BCUN): In 2019, Novozymes joined the development platform was awarded the BCUN of the UN Foundation as part inaugural SDG Tech Innovation Award in of its wider efforts to engage with key Copenhagen for its work to drive and build stakeholders on the global sustainable partnerships that make a lasting difference development agenda. Novozymes has to sustainable business development worked closely with BCUN around its climate around the world. HelloScience also change initiatives, including its support for hosted ‘LiveLabs’ in Bangalore, India and ‘Business Ambition for 1.5°C – Our Only Copenhagen, Denmark to drive further Future’ and commitments from the private innovative collaborations across the SDGs. sector. • Below50: Novozymes is a founding • United States Council for International member of below50, a global campaign to Business (USCIB): During 2019, Novozymes reduce emissions in the transport sector continued its longstanding involvement with by increasing demand for low-carbon USCIB, with CEO Peder Holk Nielsen being fuels. In 2019, below50, along with the re-elected to its Board of Trustees as its California Low Carbon Fuels Coalition Sustainability Champion. Novozymes also (LCFC) and the Biotechnology Innovation helped support the launch of the USCIB Organization (BIO), jointly organized and ‘All-in Campaign’ to enhance multilateral hosted a Multi-State Legislative Strategy engagements between businesses, the UN session RE: Passage of Low Carbon Fuel and international organizations. Standards (LCFS) at the BIO World Congress in Iowa. This event kicked off joint work by Read more in ‘Stakeholder engagement’ at below50, BIO and the LCFC to advocate Novozymes.com. for more state-level policy that emphasizes the reduction of carbon intensity of transportation fuels in the US. • International Chamber of Commerce (ICC): Novozymes worked through the course of 2019 to help support the development and deployment of ICC’s new strategy and priorities, which include a core focus on Climate Change and Sustainable Development. Novozymes joined various events like the UN High-level Political Forum and the UN General Assembly together with ICC to support the deployment of the SDGs. Novozymes A/S Sustainability Driving action with our stakeholders 173 tive i nterac Exp l o re e r ­ e p ort at t h h l i g h ts from ymes. com hi g o v o z 2019.n report © Novozymes A/S, Krogshoejvej 36 2880 Bagsvaerd, Denmark
