Sustainability Report 2019 1 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 Falck at a glance Falck is an international market leader in emergency response and healthcare. We help people in urgent need, bringing peace of mind to our customers. Our strongholds are in the Nordics, the US and Colombia. We operate in 30 countries. We take pride in turning care into action Every year, Falck responders drive 195 million We are more than 30,000 by delivering emergency response and kilometres. That corresponds to 250 times healthcare services 24-7 – whenever urgent help is needed. professionals working to help We are a reliable partner to the local the distance to the moon and back. people in urgent need. communities where we operate and we Ambulance Roadside are committed to exploring new ways of Assistance working with our customers. We love what we do. United in the belief We provide emergency response within that every life is precious and that we make ambulance, fire services and roadside a difference for people in urgent need, we assistance. Within healthcare services, we enjoy careers with real-life impact. We have been in emergency response since provide doctor’s consultations, physiological That is why we can always promise that 1906 and psychological treatments. And we prevent accidents from happening. Healthcare Portfolio we are: Businesses There when you need us 2 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 1.0 Intro Contents 1.0 Intro 4 5.0 Environment & climate 17 ABOUT THIS REPORT A word from the CEO 4 Our environmental and climate footprint 17 This report serves as our first annual Communication on Progress to the UN 2.0 Our approach to sustainability 5 6.0 Trust 19 Global Compact, to which we became a Our commitment 5 A trusted business partner 19 signatory in January 2019. Risk and impact assessment 6 Increasing trust in our whistleblower system 21 The reporting covers our social, environSustainability dashboard 7 Competition case and self-cleaning mental, ethical and diversity impact and programme 22 actions and therefore represents our statu3.0 Health & well-being 8 tory statement on social responsibility and Health and well-being is our business 8 the underrepresented gender in accordance Skilled healthcare professionals 10 with sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. Quality management and patient safety 11 This Sustainability Report is part of Falck’s 4.0 People 12 annual reporting and covers the same An engaged workforce 12 period as Falck’s Annual Report 2019. Introducing our Winning Behaviours 14 Health and safety 15 A diverse company promoting equal rights and opportunities 16 3 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 1.0 Intro A word from the CEO Signing the UN Global Compact is a milestone on our sustainability journey In January 2019, Falck became a signatory customers and patients. In 2019, we increased Falck’s vehicles drive 195 million kilometres care services. This will supplement our efforts to the UN Global Compact. We committed our focus on both these areas. every year, corresponding to 250 times the to ensure and improve responsible business to the Ten Principles and pledged to align distance to the moon and back. We wish to practices within our key focus areas of health, our strategies and operations with universal Falck is a people business. Every day, our emmitigate any adverse impact our business people, environment & climate and trust. principles on human rights, labour, environployees put themselves at risk to save the lives activities may have on the climate and the ment and anti-corruption and to take action of others. Their health and safety continue to environment, focusing our efforts on fuel to advance societal goals. be a key concern to us. consumption. In 2019, we added relevant KPIs within this area to our sustainability dashBeing mindful of how we impact social, enviOver the recent year, safety increased in board. Jakob Riis ronmental and economic developments, we importance as improved data quality uncovPresident and CEO pay particular attention to our impact on 1) ered more accurate numbers of the number Our sustainability efforts are firmly embedded the access to health of our customers and the of fatalities, health and engagement levels in in our Code of Conduct, and in 2019, we accelcommunities in which we operate, 2) the peoour business. To us, every life is precious, and erated training in this and in our whistleblowple we employ, 3) climate and the environment we want to be a great place to work. Thereer system, Falck Alert. After a ruling at the around us, and 4) the trust of our employees, fore, we work diligently to bring the number beginning of the year on a competition case customers and other stakeholders. of fatalities to zero and to improve health and dating back to 2014-15, we further increased engagement levels across our workforce. focus on compliance, transparency and ethics. These four areas constitute the four main We also carried out an internal investigation chapters of this report. In 2019, we conducted our second annual globto identify any past or present violations of al engagement survey which led to numerous the Code of Conduct. Health stands at the core of our business. local initiatives, and globally to the develEvery day, Falck employees across business opment of a common approach to how we It is our ambition over the coming years to units and countries help people in urgent need, should act towards our colleagues, patients, define shared value projects together with our bringing peace of mind to local communicustomers and society: our three Winning business partners and customers. Such projties where we operate. Adequate healthcare Behaviours. In 2020, we have made safety a ects will enable us to have a positive impact training of our frontline employees and strict global priority and added global expertise and on society beyond our own business and will quality management procedures are prerequiresources to the extensive work that is being most likely focus on fleet electrification and sites for us to deliver high-quality services to carried out locally. the development of new prehospital healthFalck Sustainability Report 2019 2.0 Our approach to sustainability Our commitment Policy, governance and shareholders Falck’s sustainability efforts are integrated in our daily business In 2019, Falck’s Board of Directors adoptdecisions and strategy. Our commitment is firmly embedded in our ed a Corporate Sustainability Policy, laying out the principles for our work within Code of Conduct and in our Winning Behaviours. sustainability. The policy is available at falck.com Responsibility for Falck’s sustainability reporting is shared between Global HR, Global Compliance and Global BrandFalck is an international leader in emergency We integrate our sustainability efforts in our MAKING OUR COMMITMENT OPERATIONAL ing & Communications. These functions response and healthcare services. We help daily business decisions and strategy. Our In making our commitment operational, we report directly to the President and CEO people in urgent need, bringing peace of mind commitment is firmly embedded in our Code have conducted a compliance risk selfof Falck. to local communities where we operate. of Conduct and in our Winning Behaviours. assessment which measures our risk maturity on Code of Conduct and sustainabilityTwo of Falck’s main shareholders are Our patients, customers, employees and sociFOUR MAIN FOCUS AREAS, FOUR SDGS related risks. Additionally, we have carried out Danish foundations with clearly defined ety in general place trust in us. Falck is comBeing mindful of how we impact social, ena global employee engagement survey. The non-profit purposes: The Lundbeck mitted to acting responsibly as a company vironmental and economic development, we assessment and survey provide input to our Foundation (59%) supports biomedical and to contributing to socially, environmentalgive particular attention to our impact on 1) ongoing implementation efforts and mitigatsciences research, primarily in the field of ly and economically sustainable developments. the access to health of our customers and the ing actions. In relation to this, we have defined brain research, while TryghedsGruppen communities in which we operate, 2) the peoa number of non-financial KPIs in order to (12%) finances the Tryg Foundation’s COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT ple we employ, 3) climate and the environment measure our outcome and progress which are non-profit activities promoting safety, In January 2019, we became a signatory to the around us, and 4) the trust of our employees, illustrated in a sustainability dashboard. health and well-being. Falck’s third main UN Global Compact, and this report serves as customers and other stakeholders. These four shareholder, KIRKBI (29%), is the private our first annual Communication on Progress areas are described further in the four main This 2019 Report has increased focus on enviholding and investment company behind to the UN Global Compact. We commit to chapters of this report. ronmental reporting by including fuel data and the Lego Group. its ten principles on human rights, labour, envian expanded Environment & climate chapronment and anti-corruption and thereby also For each focus area we have identified the UN ter. We still, however, face a number of data to the principles for sustainable development Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) which challenges, making it our priority to conduct agreed upon internationally and referenced best corresponds to our efforts and which concise risk assessments and set specific tarin the UN Global Compact, i.e. the principles we believe we can contribute to most: SDG 3 gets within all focus areas. Such activities will gether with business partners, raising our level mentioned in The International Bill of Human (Good health and well-being), 8 (Decent work provide more accurate data which will allow of ambition and making an impact on society Rights, the International Labour Organizaand economic growth), 13 (Climate action) us to base specific activities upon that data. beyond our own business. Such projects will be tion’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and 16 (Peace, justice, and strong institutions). defined within the next few years. and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on This way, we ensure that we address the Alongside our efforts to ensure, document the Environment and Development and the global challenges most closely linked to Falck’s and improve sustainable business practices, UN Convention against Corruption. usiness. we intend to define shared value projects to5 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 2.0 Our approach to sustainability Risk and impact suggesting an inherently high-risk impact stment in the scoring, which assigns a higher assessment for bribery & corruption and competition risk where no conflicts of interest have been compliance. Since 2018, we have implemenreported, placing more focus on transparency. ted mitigating actions, including publishing In 2019, Falck introduced the registration of a zero-tolerance statement and conducting personal interests via the One Compliance A compliance risk self-assessment enables us to define face-to-face competition dawn-raid training app, which requires employees to disclose priorities and mitigating actions. of relevant employees. For the whistleblower personal interests that could potentially be or system, reporting entities indicate that there become conflicts of interest. The registration remains a slight lack of trust in and awareness system will be integrated further in 2020. The of the system, which has led to a negative risk increase in competition compliance is likely assessment of how the system is perceived. In due to the heightened awareness of the issue, 2019, Falck launched the We Speak Up camprompted by a competition case in Denmark Risk and impact assessments are necessary to The 2019 compliance risk assessment was paign to increase knowledge of Falck Alert, and the global dawn-raid training which remake our sustainability commitment operaticarried out as a self-assessment structured and this campaign will continue in 2020. sults in the respondents assigning a higher risk onal as it allows us to understand the matuaround the 13 areas of Falck’s Code of Conimpact score for competition compliance. rity of the organisation and where priorities duct. Risk scores are determined by selecting The overall risk score for Falck has decreased In 2020, Falck will review how to integrate and mitigating actions are needed. pre-defined answers to a number of practisince 2018, but separatley bribery & corrupthe risk assessment into an online tool, and cal questions related to the operations. The tion, conflicts of interest and competition we expect the results may be used for data In 2018, we performed a separate, basic huresults from the 2019 risk assessment were compliance have increased. The risk increase analytics. man rights risk assessment, which continues compared with the results from the first comfor conflicts of interest is caused by an adjuto form the basis of our HR priorities together pliance risk assessment carried out in 2018. with our global engagement survey. In 2019, we performed our second annual global comMost Falck entities completed the compliance COMPLIANCE RISK ASSESSMENT pliance risk self-assessment, which included risk self-assessment form in 2019, and the asA Bribery & corruption human rights as a risk area. sessment thereby forms a risk profile for Falck 5. Severe B Facilitation payments overall and for each business unit as well as an C Gifts & hospitality In 2020/21, we intend to conduct a full human overall risk score per country. The compliance D Conflicts of interest rights risk and impact assessment and to inrisk score is used to determine focus areas by clude a climate and environment impact anacountry, business unit and overall for Falck, 4. Major E Fraud F Competition compliance lysis. Together with the annual compliance risk and it serves as input to the 2020 compliance 3. Moderate A F G Company assets & data protection Impact assessment, this will give us a full overview of work plan. B E I H Working with business partners our sustainability-related risks and adverse G M J impacts, enabling us to define priorities and The results of the 2019 assessment identify H I Human rights C K D Occupational health and safety 2. Minor mitigating actions based on in-depth knowbribery & corruption, competition compliance J L Environment ledge and data. The purpose of the compliand the misconduct reported through the K ance risk assessment is to assess the compliwhistleblower system as Falck’s top three L Social investments 1. Insignificant ance risk profile of our global business and to compliance risks based on the average of all M Whistleblower system identify the areas where we have the greatest responses to the self-assessment. These were risk of having an adverse impact. also identified as the top three risks in 2018, 1. Never 2. Rarely 3. Sometimes 4. Most of time 5. Always High Likelihood 6 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 2.0 Our approach to sustainability Sustainability dashboard Sustainability dashboard 2019 2018 2017 People Employee turnover1 25.2 30.2 27.1 The sustainability dashboard defines a numunsatisfactory and therefore subject to a deSickness absence2 3.6 3.4 3.0 ber of KPIs describing Falck’s social, environgree of uncertainty. We are in the process of Work-related accidents mental and ethical impact. The KPIs relate to changing our reporting system from a decenLost time injury frequency (LTI)3 14.3 11.9 15.6 the overall focus areas of our sustainability tralised process to a more global process, and Diversity gender efforts, within which we measure our outcome this large-scale change is taking longer than Employee gender ratio (female/total) (%)4 31 37 35 and progress as described in this report. anticipated. However, the quality of our data Management gender ratio (female/total) (%)4, 5 29 37 30 has improved since 2018, and we do trust the Women on BoD (female/total) (share)6 2/6 2/6 2/6 Compared to 2018, we have added KPIs relatoverall trends. Employee engagement ing to environment & climate, namely KPIs for Response rate (%) 63 61 fuel efficiency and CO2 emissions by our fleet. Overall employee satisfaction score 71 69 These numbers are, however, not available for 2017, as we implemented a new fleet manEnvironment & climate agement system in 2018-19. KPIs have not yet Kilometres driven (1000 km) been defined for the focus area health, but Notes Ambulance7 156,590 166,351 1) Number of permanent employees resigned or termiRoadside assistance8 26,101 28,241 are expected to be defined in 2020/21. nated (due to reasons other than major contract loss or restructuring initiatives) as a percentage of the Total9 182,691 194,592 average number of employees in the year. Targets have not been added to the sustain2) Total number of working hours lost due to sickness Fuel efficiency (litres/100 km) (hours paid for plus hours not paid for) as a percentage Ambulance 15 15 ability dashboard as our strategic direction of total number of paid-for working hours. within sustainability has not yet been defined, 3) Number of work-related employee accidents (incl. faRoadside assistance 13 13 talities) resulting in one or more days of work lost due and as we continue to experience difficulties to the incident. Both permanent and on-call employees CO2 emissions (tonnes) are included. The LTI frequency rate is calculated as Ambulance10 61,944 65,565 with data quality in some areas. We expect to number of LTIs per one million hours worked. add targets for all KPIs in 2020/21. 4) Excluding part-time firefighters Roadside assistance11 9,355 10,144 5) Managers defined as employees with people responsibility. Total 71,299 75,709 6) According to the Danish Financial Statements Act The KPIs in the dashboard are elaborated §99b, 40% of board members must be of the underrepupon in the applicable subsequent chapters. resented gender. Two out of six members counts Trust as 40%. 7) Ambulances, person transport vehicles Whistleblower system 8) Trucks, vans, support vehicles Number of reports 257 53 32 HR DATA QUALITY 9) Excluding company cars As referred to in the 2018 Sustainability 10) 75% diesel, 25% petrol (estimate) Reporting ratio12 0.88 0.20 0.10 11) Diesel Anonymous reports (%) 53 76 95 Report, our HR data quality and validity is 12) Number of reports per 100 employees 7 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 3.0 Health & well-being Health & Health and well-being well-being is our business Falck is in the business of helping people in As a provider of emergency response and healthurgent need. We commit to providing high-quality care services, saving lives and promoting health emergency response and healthcare solutions in and well-being is at the heart of our business the communities where we operate. and our business model. Falck’s Ambulance business forms an importand Industrial Fire Services, our dedicated staff Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being ant and integral part of the prehospital healthprevent accidents and loss of life every day. for all at all ages care systems and value chains which we supSDG targets: 3.4, 3.8. 3.c port. We are there when we are needed, and In other words, health is in the heart of our our highly skilled ambulance staff save lives business. It is also a part of our DNA, and our and care for patients’ well-being every day. employees are proud to perform life-saving Similarly, in our Healthcare business unit, our care for people. In our global engagement surWhy this is healthcare professionals provide psychological vey 2019, the global score to the question about Sufficient and high-quality health and emergency care is vital for important and physiological treatments that improve the “purpose” was 83 out of 100. That is six points societies not only to preserve and promote the population’s health and to society quality of life, but also to ensure optimal use of healthcare resources. lives of employees, enabling them to return to higher than our external benchmark and shows work sooner and continue a healthy work life. an exceptional sense of pride in the work we Global Assistance transports people safely do. This is also reflected in the fact that Falck Why this is Our core business is to help people in need. We take pride in being home when needed, and in Road Assistance employees globally perform voluntary first aid important there in times of distress and we promote a proactive approach to training, support the work of local communities to Falck health. within bystander resuscitation (CPR), teach accident prevention and much more. Our targets To provide emergency response and healthcare solutions of a high Falck in numbers quality in the communities we work in. OPEN SOURCE APPROACH TO INNOVATION Ambulance services 1,800,000 As a global provider of ambulance services, Inability to attract an adequate number of skilled employees. Patient transport services 4,000,000 Falck wishes to contribute to the development Our risks Unsatisfactory quality of services. of prehospital care through close partnerships Doctor’s home visits 1,400,000 with public healthcare players, local comStrict quality management procedures. munities, patients, relatives and technology Our actions Physiological treatments: 1,500,000 Continuous training of employees. providers. Psychological treatments: 230,000 8 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 3.0 Health & well-being Our business model Within the next few years, Falck intends to define shared value projects together with business partners, raising our level of ambition Key resources Business units Value created and making an impact on society beyond our own business. Through such projects we wish to explore new ways for prehospital care and PEOPLE Ambulance CARE AND SAFETY exploit new technologies in a scalable way in We rely on our more than 30,000 • Emergency medical services We save lives, treat and transport highly skilled and trained employees • Patient transport services patients, support healthy workplaces order to enable more healthcare for less. We • Special event coverage and communities, save valuables and want to develop new solutions in collaboration assist on the roads EQUIPMENT • Community healthcare with customers and the local communities in We use high-quality equipment which we operate. And we wish to share our enabling effective diagnostics and EFFICIENT OPERATIONS results with others, through an open source resolution Road Assistance We deliver efficient operations and • Towing adapt our global models to meet approach to innovation. PARTNERSHIPS • Car service subscriptions local customer needs We partner with local communities to customise our global services to A GREAT PLACE TO WORK We offer challenging and purposeful local needs Healthcare work with opportunities for personal • Occupational healthcare and professional development INNOVATIVE CULTURE • Private healthcare subscriptions We utilise new technology and explore new ways of working SOCIETAL IMPACT We perform life-saving and lifePortfolio Businesses improving care to people around BRAND & REPUTATION • Fire services the globe We benefit from a strong brand • Global assistance and a solid reputation for being SHAREHOLDER VALUE effective, reliable and caring in We deliver value to shareholders everything we do 9 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 3.0 Health & well-being Skilled healthcare professionals Our services are delivered by emergency standards when developing a new medical response and healthcare professionals. We strategy and training ambulance instructors train our people in our own and customers’ how to create a productive learning environconcepts, we provide proper, high-quality ment with emphasis on feedback and reflecequipment and we aim at keeping our skill tion. Similar initiatives take place across Falck. sets at high professional standards. COPD PATIENTS TREATED IN Operating contracts with local requirements, our strategies to ensure high-quality stanTHEIR HOMES Training of ambulance instructors in Denmark dards are developed entity by entity and often In 2019, Falck and the Region of Southcontract by contract. In the recent year, Falck ern Denmark concluded a pilot project In 2019, Falck launched a new training propersonnel with emphasis on feedback and Ambulance Denmark took another important concerning the treatment of patients gramme for its ambulance instructors in reflection. step in developing its expertise to the highest with COPD (chronic obstructive pulmoDenmark. nary disease) in their homes through Therefore, the Quality and Development team increased use of blood tests and ultraAmbulance instructors are paramedics/emerat Falck Denmark developed a new, intersound scanning performed by ambulance gency medical technicians, who have taken nal training programme for instructors. The NEW MEDICAL STRATEGY AND personnel. The results of the project are on a role as instructors while continuing their training runs over 11 days and consists of four MEDICAL DIRECTOR expected to be published in a number of shifts in ambulances. They are dedicated to modules. The content was developed based In Denmark, Falck developed a new scientific articles in 2020. helping develop the professional skills of their on surveys and focus group interviews with medical strategy in 2019, supporting colleagues and play a critical part in ensuring ambulance instructors. It centres around the the professional development of ambuA spin-off project is currently being that Falck can deliver prehospital training and five topics of scientific research and evidence, lance personnel and the medical quality performed concerning increased use of healthcare services at a high, professional teaching methods, presentation skills, psyof our services. Among other things, we ultrasound scanning of patients with level. Ambulance instructors are expert teachchology and being a healthcare professional appointed a new medical director and shortness of breath and/or chest pain. ers and healthcare professional role models, role model. developed a new training programme whose primary task is to create a productive for ambulance instructors. learning environment for Falck’s ambulance 10 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 3.0 Health & well-being Quality management and patient safety ISO ISO ISO 9001 18001 14001 Falck is committed to taking care of our pathrough quality assurance which goes beyond tients. Therefore, patient safety and quality in the legal contract requirements. our business is central to us. ISO certifications The Business Quality Management model also To ensure patient safety, we are committed to supports innovative medical services and the Falck’s ISO landscape is complex and varies from country following strict quality management proceduhighest quality standards within medical practo country and from business unit to business unit. In res across our business. We are in the process tices, resulting in increased safety for patients. order to streamline the certification process and create a of implementing a fully operational, integrated Falck is currently in the process of defining better overview of global processes, we have introduced Business Quality Management model, suppormedical KPIs for parameters such as timelia global certification programme and the ownership of ted by our global enterprise management syness, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, medical certifications has been transferred to Business Quality stem and driven by the global Business Quality compliance and serious adverse events. These Management. By working with the standards in an inteand Risk Management team. This will support KPIs will be part of our sustainability reporting grated manner, we can achieve higher operating effiFalck’s journey towards operating as one going forward. ciency. We can detect and identify problems in due time, company through global models and secure which means that we can quickly take steps to avoid the consistency of quality across the business. same mistakes in the future. Governance, processes, audits and risk manaAmbulance services are being certified under the ISO gement are being centralised and standardised certification programme. Sweden, the UK, Spain and with focus on optimisation and continuous Denmark were certified in 2019. Ambulance services in improvements across the Falck organisation. Germany and Colombia are certified locally in ISO 9001 With the Business Quality Management model and will be integrated in the global certification programimplemented across Falck, it will be a key me. business driver and competitive advantage, creating transparency, increasing knowledIndustrial Fire Services is certified globally in ISO 9001, ge-sharing and strengthening Falck’s role as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. a reliable and trustworthy business partner 11 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 4.0 People People An engaged workforce Falck is a people business and our workforce We want to be a great place to work for is our most important asset. We aim to proprofessionals within emergency response and vide them with an inspiring, diverse and safe healthcare. To support this goal, we conduct an workplace that provides equal opportunities annual, global engagement survey. and where everybody can thrive personally and professionally. Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Being a great place to work is an ambition bition is to further increase the engagement we take pride in. It is also an integral part of score as well as the response rate in the years SDG targets: 8.5, 8.7, 8.8 our strategy. An engaged workforce is more to come. committed, better performing and delivers services at a higher level. To ensure a continLOCAL CHALLENGES REQUIRE Why this is As part of a global society, companies are obliged to promote and ued focus on employee engagement and to LOCAL SOLUTIONS important ensure an inclusive workplace with decent working conditions for all measure progress, we conducted our second, Engagement scores are local and show large to society their employees. global engagement survey in 2019. variations from country to country, from unit to unit and from team to team, as engageWhy this is Compared to 2018, almost all scores inment to a high degree is related to daily We are a people business; our workforce is our key asset. important creased, while none decreased. The overall practice, experience and what matters locally. Their well-being is vital for a sustainable and profitable business. to Falck engagement score (eSat) improved by two Therefore, the focus of the follow-up activities points to 71 and is now close to the external is to reinforce and support local actions. Fair pay, decent working conditions and equal treatment for all benchmark of 72, which was our goal. Our targets our people. Leaders are required to work together with An engaged, skilled and mentally and physically fit workforce. The scoring on “Purpose” was exceptionally their teams to get results, creating concrete high, proving that Falck provides a purlocal action plans to tackle the issues. Within Data quality issues. Work accidents and sickness. Unfair compensapose-driven and meaningful workplace for two months of the completion of the survey, Our risks tion. Lack of diversity. High employee turnover. people who wish to save and improve lives. all leadership teams in business units and Deep-dives into “Leadership” and “Change countries must upload action plans, and withFurther improve reporting and data quality. capacity” confirm that we are working on the in four months all teams must upload action Our actions Implementation of actions increasing engagement. Global health and right global priorities but that we still have a plans, allowing them to meet the target for safety focus. Continued focus on Falck as a diverse workplace. way to go and that a continued and dedicated 2020 at local level. By enforcing this collective focus throughout 2020 is needed. Our amand dedicated effort throughout the organ12 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 4.0 People isation, our aim is to go from numbers to Another example comes from Ambulance Denaction and to make working with engagement mark, where the eSat score went up by four an integral part of working for Falck. points and the response rate went up by 23 Engagement survey eSat points following a dedicated effort that identiScore = 71* 23,257 employees invited One example comes from Spain, where a lack fied three main focus areas and defined action 24 questions Engagement has increased or of team-feeling and motivation among displans at national, regional and local levels. eSat: 71 (+2) stabilised across all business patch workers was remedied through shared units. 1/3 of all countries exceed Response rate: 63% (+2) training sessions, giving staff an opportunity the target of 72. to voice own concerns and listen to colleagues. Comments: 24,812 (+26%) Large markets such as the US, The eSat score increased by four points. 17 scores increased, 0 decreased the UK and Germany score low. * eSat is our measurement on engagement Turnover Turnover total Purpose Leadership Score = 83 3 out of 5 would recommend their manager to 25.2 In 2019, overall employee turnover at others but 1 out of 5 respondents would not.  5% of all respondents answer 9 Falck decreased by 5 points. While the neutral or favourable to their turnover was still high, it was not unex(30.2) work being meaningful to them. pected as the company is currently going through a business transformation. Change capacity Work-life balance However, the turnover number contains Change communication stands out with the large variations between countries, lowest score. 1 out of 3 employees is dissat87% business units and job types. In the US, Turnover by country % isfied with how communications are handled for example, turnover among primarily 45 when changes are made. frontline ambulance personel was as high 40 30% 34% 36% as 39%, whereas turnover in Denmark 35 87% of all employees indicate that they was only 12%. 30 can balance their work and personal life 25 successfully. 20 Almost 1 out of 5 does not feel supported Falck therefore works with turnover at in their effort to adapt to organisational 15 a local level, in line with our engagement 10 changes. initiatives. We see it as business critical 5 31% 52% 17% that we are able to retain and develop 0 our key people. US Colombia UK Germany Spain Norway Denmark 13 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 4.0 People Introducing our Winning Behaviours Falck is a people business and a service Our Winning Behaviours company, and the way we behave is fundamental to our success as a company and a workplace. We want to create a culture where our behaviours win hearts and minds, and where there is clarity about what good looks like when it comes to how we interact. Behaviours that unite us across business units and countries. We are committed We build trust Together, we to care create more value In 2019, Falck developed three Winning Behaviours describing how we act and interact. People in need are at the heart of every Quality and ethics take priority in everything We bring value to society and people in need The Winning Behaviours not only describe how decision we make, and we always strive to we do. We protect our license to operate by by being there when they need us. we act today but also define how we should improve our competitive edge in offering being transparent and living by high compliact to become even stronger in the future. excellent services to save and improve more ance standards. We never settle to create value for shareThey give us clarity, direction and pride as we lives. holders. In doing so, we honour past investwork together to save and improve lives. They We make no compromise when it comes to ments in our business and allow for future act as a mental compass, set the direction We respond fast and have what it takes to loyalty and consistency to earn and uphold funding in developing emergency response across business units and countries and are turn care into action. the trust of our customers and society. We and healthcare services. the backbone of our global HR offerings, conapproach competition with a strong ethical cepts and tools. We care about what we do, who we work compass. We work efficiently together across funcfor, who we provide our services to and the tions, countries and business units to conpeople we work with. We are open and honest with our managers, tinuously improve our services and surpass our employees and each other. We are never ordinary standards which sets us apart afraid to speak up if Falck’s integrity is at from competition. stake. 14 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 4.0 People Health and safety Leadership development Falck is committed to ensuring decent idated into our global quality management programme working conditions and a safe and healthy system, and global learnings and strateworking environment for our employees. gies are being developed to bring down the The 2018 engagement survey proved that lay the foundation for future leadership at number of fatalities to zero and to improve leadership is critical to supporting and Falck across business units and countries. Every day, Falck people put themselves at health and safety across Falck. building engagement, and that manager The programme strengthens the leaderrisk to save the lives of other people, fighting relationships are of crucial importance and ship role, makes room for personal reflecfires or driving ambulances at high speed. The Occupational Health and Safety Policy is represent a key lever for change. Strong tion and development while equipping and This produces stressful situations and may an integral part of Falck’s Code of Conduct. leadership is a prerequisite for a successful training our leaders in using concrete leadalso influence the mental health of employorganisation where people thrive. In order ership tools and practices. The programme ees if not handled with professionalism and to increase engagement and performance is first being rolled out to our frontline empathy. Defusings and debriefings after sein our organisation, we need leaders who managers, who are the closest leaders to rious incidents form an integral part of work communicate openly and transparently a large group of employees meeting our processes, and we offer professional psychological assistance whenever needed. 3.6 (3.4) sickness absence about decisions, leaders with a clear understanding of their mandate, and leaders who are aware of their role in shaping the customers every day. We believe that the new leadership In 2019, one colleague did not make it home Falck culture on a daily basis. development programme will positively infrom work following a collision, three patients During the past three years, sickness absence fluence employee attraction, retention and died while under our care and two people rates have remained stable at a relatively In 2019, we therefore initiated a global engagement levels – and ultimately our died in collisions with ambulances. To us, low level. Our focus going forward will be on leadership training programme, which will financial results and customer experience. every life is precious and every single one of keeping these levels low. these six fatalities is a daily reminder that safety must come first. 14.3 (11.9) Safety increased in importance over the recent year. Initiatives were carried out locally to counter a development like the one we saw. In 2020, we have made safety a global lost time injuries (LTI) priority and added global expertise and reLeading Leading Leading sources. Data on fatalities and other health In 2019, lost time injury frequency at Falck with care the business through trust and safety related issues are being consolincreased by 20% compared to 2018. 15 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 4.0 People A diverse company promoting equal rights and opportunities Falck is committed to promoting diversity, fair EQUAL RIGHTS AND FAIR TREATMENT countries. In analysing the data, we see a cations etc.), the distribution is balanced at a and equal treatment and to avoid any kind of Equal rights and fair treatment require that highly diversified picture. 46/54 female/male ratio. discrimination and harassment. We want to all employees are treated and treat others be an inclusive workplace for all employees with respect and dignity and can speak freely. In terms of age, the majority of employees beThe female/male ratio is almost the same regardless of age, gender, nationality, sexual A key indicator is the question in the global long to Generation Y (1980-99) or Generation X among people managers (29/71) as within the orientation, political standpoint, religion or engagement survey concerning respect. 89% of (1965-79), which also represent the most active entire workforce (31/69), and on the Execuany other facet of personal identity. Falck employees believe they are treated with work groups in general. The data on tenure tive Management team, the ratio is 3/5 after respect and dignity in their work. That is three shows a balanced distribution with substantial three women joined the team in 2019, namely We work actively towards a balanced gender percentage points up from 2018 and indicates numbers of employees in all work-experience Michala Fischer-Hansen, EVP Assistance, composition across the organisation and to that we are on the right track. However, workgroups. Annette Damgaard, SVP Healthcare and Elisincrease the share of the underrepresented ing with fundamental trust, compliance and abeth Milton, SVP Global HR. gender, in particular at management level. leadership will continue to be a key focus area In terms of gender, there are very clear variaAccording to the Diversity and Inclusion Policy for us throughout 2020. tions across business units, reflecting business Falck meets the criteria of the Danish Finanintroduced in 2018, candidate pools for manprofessions. For example, 91% of industrial cial Statements Act concerning a balanced agerial positions must always include at least DIVERSITY WITHIN AGE, TENURE AND GENDER firefighters are men, whereas 71% of jobs withgender composition among members of the one candidate from the underrepresented In our monthly reporting, we monitor age, in Healthcare are held by women. In the global Board of Directors as two of the six sharegender. tenure and gender across business units and support functions (IT, Finance, HR, Communiholder-elected board members are women. Age distribution of Falck employees Tenure with Falck Gender distribution per business unit % % % 60 30 100 50 25 80 40 20 60 30 15 40 20 10 20 10 5 0 0 0 Baby boomer Generation X Generation Y Generation Z 0-1 1-2 2-3 3-4 4-5 5-7 7+ Ambulance Assistance Healthcare Industrial Global Global (1946-64) (1965-79) (1980-99) (after 1999) years years years years years years years Fire Services Functions Assistance Male Female 16 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 5.0 Environment & climate Environment Our environmental and & climate climate footprint We wish to mitigate any negative impact our Falck strives to reduce its environmental and climate impact. business activities may have on the environWe commit to identifying and mitigating risks, promoting ment and climate, focusing our efforts on the sustainable processes and products and increasing energy fuel consumption of our vehicles. efficiency with a special focus on fuel consumption. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. SDG targets: 13.2 Falck commits to proactively seeking to In 2018-19, we implemented a global fleet identify and mitigate risks in all activities at management system enabling us to operate all levels of the organisation which might have and follow up on vehicle and fuel data and Why this is an adverse impact on the environment or the considerably increasing the reliability of our Climate change is the result of human emissions of greenhouse gases, important climate. data. Also, we have introduced the following which in turn causes extreme weather events, disrupting ecosystems to society and human livelihoods. initiatives: It is our assessment that our greatest adverse impact derives from the fuel consumption • Efficient route planning Action on climate change is both urgent and required by all comWhy this is of our vehicles. Therefore, in 2019 we started • Modern vehicles panies. With saving and improving lives being at the core of Falck’s important reporting on fuel consumption and corre• Alternative fuel types ambition, we wish to mitigate the adverse impact our activities may to Falck have on communities. sponding CO2 emissions, and this is where we • Driving skills intend to focus our sustainability efforts and Falck supports environmental innovation and awareness so that we mitigating actions in the coming years. These initiatives are, however, only the humble Our targets can find new ways to reduce our adverse impact, which among other things includes the fuel consumption of our fleet. beginnings of our mitigating actions and However, we realise that we also impact development projects within fuel consumpLimited knowledge of environmental and climate impact. climate and the environment in other ways, tion. Over the next few years, Falck intends Our risks Low fuel efficiency and a high level of CO2 emissions. e.g. through the energy consumption of our to define shared value projects together with Low environmental and climate awareness among employees. buildings, the production of our suppliers and business partners, raising our level of ambition the travels of our employees, cf. the scope 1-3 and making an impact on society beyond our Environmental impact assessment. Reporting on fuel consumption guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol own business. We expect one such project will and CO2 emissions. Efficient route planning, modernisation of fleet, Our actions Accounting and Reporting Standard. We will concern electrifying our fleet or implementing local green driving initiatives. Definition of shared value projects with strategic partners. take this into account in a future analysis. any other alternative fuel that might prove most energy-efficient at the time. 17 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 5.0 Environment & climate Increasing fuel efficiency and driving fewer kilometres 1 3 In 2019, Falck’s vehicles drove 195 million kiloAlternative fuels emit less CO2 than fossil metres, corresponding to 250 times the disfuels. In 2019, Falck developed a first respondtance to the moon and back. We take action er prototype (doctor’s car) Tesla X electric car at several levels to reduce the adverse impact with a fuel cell system for extra battery power Code of Conduct and ISO certifications of this activity: efficient route planning can supply, and ten Nissan NV-200 electric cars shorten the distance driven by our ambulancwere added to the operation of patient transEnvironment is one of the 13 areas of In addition to the Code of Conduct, es and patient transport vehicles. In 2019port services in Copenhagen. In Sweden, Falck Falck’s Code of Conduct, which states Falck holds a number of ISO certifica20, Falck is implementing a global dispatch drives hybrid gas/petrol ambulances for lower that all employees are expected to contions related to environmental sustainsystem which will optimise our route planning, emission, supporting the national goal of an sider the environmental impact of their ability, notably ISO 14001 (Environmenimprove patient services and reduce fuel emissions-free Sweden by 2023. Hybrid gas/ actions and the actions of our business tal Management). These certifications consumption by choosing the shortest journey petrol cars are also used for patient transport partners. We expect our employees and apply to the Ambulance and Industrial when other requirements are met. in Copenhagen. business partners to support a precauFire Services businesses. tionary approach to the environment 2 4 and take steps to work in a sustainable manner. We encourage our employees to Modern vehicles consume less fuel. In 2019, Driving skills and behaviour also influence fuel use resources sustainably and create a ISO Falck selected strategic suppliers for ambuconsumption, and Falck regularly runs local climate-conscious working environment. lance and road assistance vehicles, and in green driving campaigns in selected countries, 2019-20, 130 new roadside assistance trucks including the use of telematics for improved In 2020/21, we will develop a separate 14001 will be in operation with multiple mileagedriver behaviour and fuel savings. policy for Environment, underlying the saving features. Code of Conduct. 18 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 6.0 Trust Trust A trusted business Trust is vital to our license to operate, and partner it is essential that we conduct business in a Falck’s compliance strategy contributes to our ability way that never breaches the trust of our emto build trust and develop a culture of integrity ployees, our partners, our customers and the embedded in the highest ethical standards. communities in which we operate. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable The global compliance strategy, Leading access information, from management and development, provide access to justice for all and build Compliance 2020, ensures that compliance at deskworkers to frontliners. effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Falck is simple, innovative and accessible to SDG targets: 16.5, 16.6 all employees, business partners and our comIn 2019, Falck introduced the One Compliance munities. Compliance at Falck is driven by the app, which consolidated the existing Code overall aspiration of one global compliance of Conduct app solution with the Falck Alert platform, easily accessible, understandable whistleblower system and will be the go-to Why this is and fitted to how employees today seek and resource for all Code of Conduct matters. The Corruption harms society and results in increasing costs, non-compliimportant ance, unfair competition and erosion of trust in governments. app introduces forms where employees must to society register all given or received gifts and hos10 POLICIES UNDERLYING THE pitality along with the appropriate approval Every day, we are expected to be there when we are needed, which FALCK CODE OF CONDUCT process. Employees must also use the app Why this is requires us to be a trusted business partner to the local authorities important to register any personal interests that could and communities which we serve. Falck therefore has a zero-tolerance 1. Bribery & corruption to Falck potentially be perceived as or are a conflict approach towards breaches of the Code of Conduct. 2. Gifts & hospitality of interest. With the app, Falck now has a Falck is committed to ensuring trust throughout all operations where 3. Conflicts of interest centralised overview of all activities under Our targets business is conducted with integrity and high ethical standards in the Code of Conduct and a framework within 4. Fraud compliance with applicable laws, regulations and internal policies. which all compliance activities can be inte5. Competition compliance grated, providing for useful data analytics. Breach of the Code of Conduct. Mistrust in Falck’s whistleblower 6. Company assets & data protection Our risks Falck has published a zero-tolerance statesystem. Mistrust in the tone from management. 7. Human rights ment which applies to all employees at Falck. 8. Occupational health & safety The statement reiterates Falck’s ambition to Further implementation of the Code of Conduct. Implementation 9. Social investments be at the forefront of ethical business pracOur actions of new One Compliance app. Follow up on global compliance risk assessment. tices, sets management’s tone in identifying 10. Whistleblower system ethical conduct as a non-negotiable priority 19 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 6.0 Trust and defines strict compliance through ten WE BUILD TRUST principles. Any violation of the Code of ConAn important part of Falck’s compliance ZERO-TOLERANCE STATEMENT duct or its underlying policies will undergo a approach is to ensure that compliance is easily structured and independent investigation prounderstood by and accessible to all employees 1.  At Falck, all employees are expected to behave ethically and to refer to the Code cess followed by appropriate remedial actions. globally. While the One Compliance app proof Conduct for guidance on best ethical vides the platform, Falck needs to ensure we practice. In 2019, Falck also initiated an analysis to prehave reached all employees appropriately. 2.  Falck does not tolerate unethical behaviour pare a third-party screening process, which will or violations of the Code of Conduct by any be implemented in 2020. With a focus on autoIn 2019, Falck therefore initiated the We Build employee. 3.  All employees are responsible for completmating a due diligence process, the programme Trust campaign. The campaign focused on ing the Code of Conduct training and to will ensure that Falck only conducts business training all employees globally on the Code comply with it at all times. with third parties that live up to our ethical of Conduct and building trust within Falck as 4.  All employees are required to report any standards and applicable laws and regulations. part of the cultural turnaround. Part of buildactual and/or suspected violations of the ing this trust is to raise awareness and unCode of Conduct to their manager or through Falck Alert. The global compliance risk self-assessment derstanding around of the Code of Conduct, 5.  Employees reporting on violations will be conducted in 2019 indicated that the top three ensuring that everyone plays by the rules. MODERN SLAVERY ACT protected from retaliation. compliance risks continue to be bribery & corTRANSPARENCY STATEMENT 6.  S uspicions of violations will be investigatruption, competition compliance and miscon2019 marks the first year of the global Code ed, and implicated employees must be duct reported through the whistleblower sysof Conduct training programme, which will In April 2019, Falck released its annutreated in a fair and objective manner. 7. All employees involved in investigations tem. These areas will continue to be a central now continue to run annually for all desk al Modern Slavery Act Transparency must be treated equally, regardless of job part of Falck’s compliance activities in 2020. workers and biennially for frontline employees. Statement in which we highlight our title or level at Falck. The training was carried out through either review of existing policies as well as 8.  Violations of the Code of Conduct will reThe foundation of Falck’s compliance proe-learning, a pdf document accessible in our our expectations for the new Code of sult in disciplinary actions, such as re-traingramme is now in place. In 2020, Falck will global enterprise management system or Conduct to better assess our human ing, reprimands, suspension or dismissal. 9. Intentional violations of the Code of Confocus on further communicating our whisface-to-face training. By end of 2019, 100% rights impact. duct will result in immediate dismissal. tleblower reporting and no-retaliation policy, of desk workers in Falck’s core markets and 10. Two written reprimands will result in ensuring that the zero-tolerance statement 85% of frontline employees had completed Both statements are available at dismissal. becomes an integral part of our organisation the training. In 2020, Falck will push for the www.falck.com globally, and on adequate implementation of remaining employees to complete the training. all policies and procedures globally, with local support where needed. 20 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 6.0 Trust Increasing trust in our whistleblower system Falck’s whistleblower system was introduced campaign, through which Falck promoted a Falck received 257 reports, compared to 32 the system and know they can use it without in late 2018, and in 2019 it was integrated in culture of full transparency to create more reports in 2017. Falck continues to encourage fear of retaliation. the One Compliance app. The way in which trust in the whistleblower system. Statistics employees to use the system so that conusers report incidents has not changed. All on Falck Alert reports were published along cerns can be investigated appropriately and Despite the decrease in anonymous cases, Falck employees, business partners and third with anonymised outcomes of cases and a objectively. Falck still aims to further build on the culture parties can still use Falck Alert to report convideo showing the process of reporting. of trust within the organisation. In 2020, cerns about irregularities or improper actions In 2019, 53% of all reports in Falck Alert were Falck will continue to regularly publish the that fail to comply with applicable laws and After the roll out of the We Build Trust and made anonymously compared with 77% in Falck Alert statistics, containing number regulations, the Falck Code of Conduct or We Speak Up campaigns, Falck Alert saw 2018. With a global best practice benchmark of reports, anonymous vs. named, types of internal policies. The app is available for all an overall increase in cases reported and a at 56%, we have managed to reach the best cases and reporting countries and focus on smartphones and as a desktop version. decrease in the number of cases made anonpractice target in two years, focusing on telling the stories in order to demystify the ymously. The number of reports received via building trust among our employees, customperception of whistleblower reports. IncreasFalck continued encouraging employees to Falck Alert in 2019 had increased sevenfold ers and society. The reduction in anonymous ing transparency will build more trust in the raise concerns through the We Speak Up since it was reintroduced in 2017. In 2019, cases is an indication that employees trust system. Number of reports received Number of reports per 100 employees Share of anonymous reports % % 300 2.50 100 240 2.00 80 180 1.50 60 120 1.00 40 60 0.50 20 0 0.00 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Best practice 2017 2018 2019 Best practice 21 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 6.0 Trust Competition case and self-cleaning programme Ruling from the Danish 3. A pply a zero-tolerance approach to ensure settlement agreement, the parties waived any documents from e-mail accounts and netCompetition Authorities that quality and ethics always take priorifurther claims, and all litigations between the work drives of current and former employty at Falck. parties were withdrawn. ees as well as interviews with employees and other stakeholders. On 30 January 2019, Falck received a rulThe self-cleaning programme was built on In December 2019, Falck received a fine from The review uncovered issues related to parting from the Danish Competition Council initiatives taken from 2016 onwards and SØIK (the State Prosecutor for Serious Econerships, conflicts of interest and instances for having violated the Danish competition aimed at building a stronger, transparent and nomic and International Crime) of DKK 30 of local management not acting in the best rules in 2014-15 in connection with the compliant Falck. Initiatives included establishmillion. When setting the size of the fine, SØIK interest of the company, giving Falck a finite award and transfer of the ambulance oping a new executive management team and emphasised that Falck has collaborated with list of issues to address and actions to be eration contract in the Region of Southern a top 30 executives group as well as a global the authorities in the investigation and that completed. Most issues had already been Denmark to a new provider (BIOS). Falck compliance function, reintroducing the Code Falck has compensated for losses related to dealt with, while others were dealt with decided to accept the ruling. of Conduct and whistleblower system, an inthe case. The fine was paid in early January after the review. Actions taken included tegrated operating model supported by global 2020. re-training, reprimands and dismissal of SELF-CLEANING PROGRAMME functions and clearer processes as well taking employees as well as changes in the ownerFollowing the ruling, Falck initiated a full ownership of entities in Latin America, 2. I NTERNAL REVIEW CONCLUDED ship structure and governance of entities. comprehensive “self-cleaning programme” Slovakia and Australia and making a number In the spring and summer of 2019, Falck to ensure transparency and a zero-tolerof divestments. carried out an internal review of its business 3. ZERO-TOLERANCE APPROACH ance and speak-up culture on ethics. The together with external experts. The review ADOPTED self-cleaning programme aimed to: 1. SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT WITH covered the years 2004-19 and aimed at In the spring of 2019, Falck launched the ALL PARTIES identifying any past and present violations of We Build Trust campaign with increased 1. Compensate parties that had suffered On 24 June 2019, Falck reached a settleFalck’s Code of Conduct that Falck’s managefocus on and global online training in the losses resulting from the conduct of ment agreement regarding the payment of ment was not aware of. Code of Conduct, increased awareness Falck that led to the ruling of the Comcompensation for losses resulting from the about the whistleblower system and the petition Council. acts which had led to the ruling of the Danish Based on reporting from Falck’s whistleblowadoption of a zero-tolerance approach Competition Council. The settlement was er system, business assurance visits, risk towards breaches of the Code of Conduct. 2. Carry out an internal review to identify made between Falck, the Region of Southern reporting, ethics and compliance reporting A zero-tolerance statement was published, and deal with past or present violations Denmark, the Dutch owners of BIOS and the as well as input from Falck’s new managereiterating that violations of the Code of of Falck’s Code of Conduct. bankruptcy estate of BIOS in Denmark. Falck ment and other stakeholders, potential Conduct would not be tolerated and that agreed to compensate the parties with a topics of concern were identified. This led to a all reports or suspicions of violations would total amount of DKK 152.5 million. With the fact-finding exercise that included 3.8 million be swiftly and objectively investigated. 22 Falck Sustainability Report 2019 1.0 Lorem ipsum Falck A/S Sydhavnsgade 18 2450 Copenhagen SV Denmark Tel.: +45 70 33 33 11 www.falck.com www.falck.dk CVR no 33 59 70 45 23
