Sustainability Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (UNGC) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UNGC Human rights ■ When hiring employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit attaches great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. In accordance with their qualifications, the majority of Geberit employees at the production sites and sales companies are paid well above the mini­ mum wage range. This considerably reduces the risk of human rights violations. See $ GRI 202-1 Principle 1: ■ In its Code of Conduct, Geberit undertakes to be an exemplary, reliable and fair business partner and em­ Support and respect the ployer at all times. As a fair partner, Geberit recognises all laws, directives and internationally recognised protection of standards as well as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and complies with them in internationally proclaimed full. All new employees at Geberit are trained on the Code of Conduct as part of the Welcome events. human rights See $ Code of Conduct for Employees, $ GRI 102-16, $ GRI 412-2 ■ Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored Group-wide as part of an annual survey and supple­ mented by internal audits on site. There were no significant breaches in 2019. See $ GRI 412, $ GRI 419 ■ The Geberit Integrity Line gives all employees the opportunity to report irregularities anonymously. No inci­ dents were recorded by Geberit in 2019. ■ With respect to human rights abuses, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who can be influ­ enced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimise this risk and requires that business partners and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards. See $ Sustainability strategy, $ Management Approach Procurement ■ The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit’s suppliers act in accordance with in­ Principle 2: ternal and external guidelines, such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Make sure the company is ILO core labour standards. As of the end of 2019, a total of 2,263 suppliers had signed the Code of Con­ not complicit in human duct. This equates to over 90% of the total procurement value. In 2019, 172 existing suppliers were identi­ rights abuses fied in the highest risk category as defined by Geberit, which corresponds to around 8% of the procure­ ment value of Geberit. A systematic planning and performance of audits is conducted for these suppliers. See $ Code of Conduct for Suppliers, $ Management Approach Procurement ■ In 2019, four third-party audits were carried out at suppliers in China and Egypt. The results showed that the majority of occupational safety and environmental standards are complied with. Appropriate corrective measures are agreed in cases of non-compliance. See $ GRI 308-2, $ GRI 414-2 Labour practices ■ No rights with respect to exercising the freedom of association or collective bargaining as defined in the Principle 3: ILO core labour standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is verified annually as part of Uphold the freedom of a Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in 2019. See $ GRI 407 association and the ■ There are currently 8,646 employees (corresponding to 74% of the workforce) who are covered by effective recognition collective agreements (e.g. collective labour agreements, wage agreements). In Germany, Austria, Switzer­ of the right to collective land, France, Italy, Finland, Sweden, Poland and Ukraine, over 90% of employees are subject to a collective bargaining labour or wage agreement. There are no collective agreements with employees in place in the USA and China. See $ GRI 102-41 Principle 4: ■ Geberit’s exposure with respect to forced and child labour is considered low because of its industry, busi­ ness model, the countries in which business activities are carried out, as well as its high level of vertical in­ Uphold the elimination of tegration and high quality requirements. See $ GRI 408, $ GRI 409 all forms of forced and compulsory labour ■ Geberit categorically rejects all forms of forced and child labour. According to the annual Group-wide sur­ vey, no cases of forced and compulsory or child labour were discovered in 2019, nor were any cases re­ Principle 5: vealed during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The basic principles established in Uphold the effective the Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliance with the ILO core labour standards for the abolition of child labour exclusion of forced and child labour. See $ GRI 408 $ GRI 409 ■ The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how Geberit assumes re­ sponsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adherence with the ILO core labour standards. According to the annual Group-wide survey, there was one case of verbal sexual harassment reported in 2019. This incident was resolved and the employee responsible has left the company. Principle 6: See $ GRI 406-1 Uphold the elimination of ■ Geberit’s personnel policy and recruitment practices do not differentiate between members of the local discrimination in respect community and other applicants or employees. See $ GRI 202, $ GRI 406 of employment and occupation ■ Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This includes the prohibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and documented in 2019 as part of the annual Group-wide survey. The proportion of female employees as of the end of 2019 was 24%; in management this figure was 11%. See $ GRI 405, $ Geberit Code of Conduct Geberit Annual Report 2019 Sustainability Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (UNGC) Environmental protection ■ With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors operates an ex­ tensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks (incl. environmental risks) linked to the business ac­ tivities. See $ GRI 102-11 ■ Since 1990, Geberit has followed a long-term environmental strategy, plus a sustainability strategy that was developed later. It has been committed to environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of water-saving and sustainable products. This is also defined as a manage­ ment principle in the Geberit Compass. Environmental criteria are considered in all decision-making processes. A demonstrably high standard is achieved in this regard, one which often exceeds statutory re­ Principle 7: quirements. See $ Geberit Compass, $ Environmental policy Support a precautionary ■ The carbon footprint – from the provision of raw materials, combustibles and fuels, the manufacture of approach to products at Geberit, logistics and use, right through to disposal – reveals that product use (69.2%) and the environmental challenges provision of raw materials (16.8%) are by far the largest sources of CO2 emissions. See $ Carbon footprint ■ In 2019, CO2 emissions amounted to 222,639 tonnes, corresponding to a decrease of 3.8%. CO2 emis­ sions per net sales (currency-adjusted) fell by 7.0%, meaning that Geberit exceeded its target of 5% per year. See $ GRI 305-2 ■ A long-term CO2 target was defined in 2016 that is compatible with the two-degree target set out in the Paris Agreement and the Science Based Targets Initiative. Within this context, Geberit planned to reduce its absolute CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by 6% between 2015 and 2021 to under 240,000 tonnes (based on organic growth). This target was already achieved in 2018. See $ GRI 305 ■ The Geberit Group has a Group certificate in accordance with ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and ISO 45001 (occupational health and safety) that is valid until 2021. The annual preparation of a corpo­ rate eco-balance has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental management since 1991. The absolute environmental impact was reduced by 3.7% in 2019. The environmental impact per net sales (cur­ rency-adjusted) dropped by 6.9%, meaning that Geberit exceeded its target of 5% per year. This progress is founded largely on continuous improvements in efficiency at the energy-intensive ceramics plants. Since the acquisition of Sanitec in 2015, the absolute environmental impact has been reduced by 14.9% and eco-efficiency increased by 27.5%. See $ ISO certificate, $ Chapter 9 Planet, $ Sustainability strategy ■ Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy efficiency: in addition to process optimisation – partic­ Principle 8: ularly in the newly acquired plants – important measures include the continuous modernisation of the infra­ Undertake initiatives to structure and machine fleet, the optimisation of the kilns used for ceramic production, the improved use of promote greater enviwaste heat (heat recovery) as well as the careful use of compressed air. See $ GRI 302-4, ronmental respon$ Facts and Figures sibility ■ As part of the long-term CO2 strategy, specific goals for the share of renewable energy sources by 2021 were also established: 45% for electricity and 10% for combustibles. The purchased green electricity was increased by 3 GWh to 53 GWh. In total, renewable energy sources account for 42.1% of electricity and 4.3% of combustibles. See $ GRI 305-5 ■ Beginning with the development process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional prin­ ciples are used, risks are minimised and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco-design has been an inte­ gral part of the development processes since 2007 and has already been adopted in more than 125 devel­ opment projects. Eco-design is also implemented in product modifications and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to environmental aspects. See $ Chapter 10.1 Products and innovation ■ The water footprint throughout the Geberit value chain shows that nearly 100% of the water consumption is attributable to the use of Geberit products by customers. Water-saving solutions can therefore exert a major impact: all dual-flush and flush-stop cisterns produced since 1998 have saved around Principle 9: 3,120 million m3 of water in 2019 alone. See $ SDG Reporting, $ Water footprint Encourage the ■ Geberit supports the economical use of water in the sanitary industry and played a key role in establishing development and the European Bathroom Forum (EBF) in 2017. One of the first tasks was the launch of a new European wa­ diffusion of ter label as a voluntary and flexible instrument to support customers in the selection of resource-efficient environmentally friendly products. See $ Chapter 10.1 Products and innovation technologies ■ Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As a leading sys­ tem provider of sanitary solutions, Geberit is already offering suitable products for this purpose. See $ Reference magazine Anti-corruption ■ As a long-term member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed to high standards in combating corruption. In addition to the Code of Conduct, there are additional guidelines on prevention and employees receive training in this area. See $ GRI 205 Principle 10: ■ In 2019, the Internal Audit Department audited a total of 21 companies and did not discover any cases of Work against corruption corruption. in all its forms, including ■ Since 2017, an Integrity Line has been available to suppliers for anonymously reporting irregularities in the extortion and bribery procurement process. No cases were reported in the reporting year. See $ GRI 102-17 ■ As a rule, Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and documented as part of the annual Group-wide survey. Geberit Annual Report 2019
