2 0 1 9 S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Our ideas and concepts for a sustainable future Our ideas and concepts for a sustainable future Product stewardship is our main focus, but sustainability at MTU goes far beyond climate protection and safe flight operations. It encompasses resource-conserving and environment-friendly production and maintenance as well as fair and safe working conditions, equal opportunities for all employees and high-quality training and development. Compliance forms a key part of our corporate culture and sustainability does not end at the gates of our plants: we involve the supply chain in our activities, too. 100 % reduction in emissions 65% less aircraft noise Is this possible for air travel? This is the vision With the help of our Clean Air Engine agenda, that drives us. Our long-term goal is to help we want cut aircraft noise by more than half. aviation become emissions-free and, in doing so, Flying as a whole is set to become significantly achieve the two-degree target set out in the Paris quieter, too. Climate Agreement. “The coronavirus pandemic demonstrates the importance of responsible and decisive action. As a company, we bear responsibility for the protection and health of our employees, but we also recognize our obligation to society and the environment. That is why we are continuing to pursue the changes necessary to create a more sustainable future.” Reiner Winkler Chief Executive Officer MTU Aero Engines AG Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Coronavirus pandemic The enterprise MTU About this report 2019 Sustainability Report Introduction Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Reiner Winkler Chief Executive Officer MTU Aero Engines AG Dear readers, The coronavirus pandemic presents us all with unexpected challenges, affecting the way people and companies all over the world live and work. Things that the entire aviation industry, and by extension MTU, had previously taken for granted have now been thrown into disarray. But what the crisis reaffirms is the importance of responsible and decisive action. As a company, we bear responsibility for the protection and health of our employees, but we also recognize our obligation to society and the environment. That is why we are continuing to pursue the changes necessary to create a more sustainable future. We firmly believe that we can achieve a great deal by doing so. Climate action is at the forefront of our sustainability activities. In times of climate change, the aviation industry, too, must do its bit to help reduce CO 2 emissions. We have a vision and that is to be an enabler of emissions-free flight and looking at all the options for driving the decarbonization of aviation. In doing so, we want to help achieve the goal of limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius, as set out in the Paris Agreement. We also address a wider range of topics in this report. Our climate action efforts extend to production activities at our sites. In that regard, we are currently examining new climate concepts for our facilities. You can also read about the specific progress we made in 2019, not only in reducing CO 2 emissions in our plants, but also with respect to energy consumption and waste management. We include the supply chain in sustainable value creation and attach great components. As part of our due diligence, we carry out supplier risk analyses, a process that we intend to refine in the future so we can further enhance our assessment of potential risks. 1 2019 Sustainability Report Our compliance system sets out the legal and ethical framework for our actions, while our Code of Conduct and internal guidelines lay down clear requirements and serve as a point of orientation. To supplement this compliance system, we introduced a new reporting platform in 2019. Through this web-based helpline, all MTU stakeholders have the We have already achieved a great deal, but we still have a lot to do. Our success is contingent on a motivated, qualified and healthy workforce. At MTU, we provide an innovative and diverse working environment with flexible working models, tailored personal development options and social working standards marked by a sense of responsibility. We have priority during the coronavirus pandemic and we have introduced a whole host of additional measures accordingly. Last but not least, we are committed to an innovative leadership culture that supports us in all our undertakings. To give this our sites both in Germany and abroad. These leadership values are now firmly established at all management levels throughout the Group. Even in these difficult times, we are committed to conducting our business sustainably in all its various facets. You can find out for yourselves how we go about that in this sustainability report. I hope it makes for a stimulating read! Yours sincerely, Reiner Winkler Chief Executive Officer MTU Aero Engines AG 102-14 2 2019 Sustainability Report Overview The enterprise MTU services are characterized by innovative and sometimes unique approaches. 86 10,660 employees of MTU; its predecessor BMW Flugmotoren GmbH was consolidated sites around the founded in Munich in 1934. 3 2019 Sustainability Report 4.6 billion 16 company euros locations in around revenue the was recorded by MTU for the world give MTU a presence in important markets and regions. MTU Aero Engines is a technological leader in low-pressure turbines, high-pressure compressors, turbine center frames as well as manufacturing processes and repair techniques. In the commercial OEM business, the company plays a key role in the development, manufacturing and marketing of high-tech components together with international partners. company ranks among the top three service providers for commercial aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. The locations around the globe; Munich is home to its corporate headquarters. More at www.mtu.de 4 2019 Sustainability Report You can find this film at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6P_ruIozIGI The 2019 financial year: We continued on our path of success For us, 2019 was another record year and we were able to continue our profitable growth trajectory. We take a longdevelopment of the communities where our business activities are located. We create attractive jobs in a high-tech employed 10,660 people at fully consolidated locations around the world, with 293 young apprentices training. We are a major employer in the region at all major international locations. Our plan is to establish a new repair site in Serbia, where we will provide specialist aviation training based on the dual-track system in Germany. We offer competitive salaries for our employees. We also contribute to society through the tax we pay on our profits. As a local investor and patron, we promote education and the academic landscape, for example by maintaining close ties to universities and colleges, especially in the regions where our sites are located. We invest in our locations and are in the process of expanding our plants in Munich, Hannover, Ludwigsfelde in Germany and Rzeszów in Poland. Through our innovative capabilities, we create upstream value chains and jobs in the supply chain. We work with around 6,200 suppliers, mainly in Europe. profit (EBIT adjusted) rose by 13% to reach a new all-time high of EUR 756.9 million. We reported net income of EUR 2019, which in purely numerical terms translated to production capacity utilization of some four years. Geared turbofan engines accounted for the majority of the new orders we took. They serve as the basis for our Clean Air Engine agenda 2 emissions. 5 2019 Sustainability Report Financial data (in EUR m) GRI 201-1 2019 2018 Revenue 4,628.4 4,567.1 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT, adjusted) 756.9 671.4 Income taxes 178.2 154.0 Earnings after tax (adjusted) 537.6 479.1 Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment 478.9 272.8 and intangible assets Consistent with our goal of steadily increasing shareholder value, we continued our pattern of positive development in 2019. Net value added has remained at a consistently high level over several years, and again amounted to EUR 1.4 billion in the year under review. Most of that (62.4%) went to our employees in the form of wages, salaries and other benefits, while the Group retained 25.1%. The proportion allocated to pay taxes levied by public authorities accounted for 10.6%. To overcome the crisis resulting from the coronavirus pandemic, MTU has taken various financial measures Supervisory Board to the Annual General Meeting to carry forward the net profit for financial year 2019 into this year. Consequently, it was not possible to make any statements about dividends to shareholders at the time this report went share program. Value added 2019 (in EUR m) Gross value added = revenue and other income; dividends to shareholders: The Executive Board and Supervisory Board proposed to the Annual General Meeting to carry forward the net profit for 2019 into this year. 6 2019 Sustainability Report Ratings & rankings independent experts. The company is currently listed in the following sustainability indexes and rankings: Information about the coronavirus pandemic This sustainability report covers the 2019 financial year and is being published as the world fights against the coronavirus pandemic. People and companies are in a different situation today than they were in the reporting year. MTU is doing its part to help contain the pandemic and has taken numerous measures to protect its workforce. The current situation notwithstanding, we want to live up to our corporate social responsibility. You can find more information here. More information about: Ratings & rankings: www.mtu.de 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-5, 102-7, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1 7 2019 Sustainability Report Coronavirus pandemic MTU vs.virus The coronavirus pandemic presents us all with unexpected challenges, affecting the way people and companies all over the world live and work. In times like these, we bear responsibility as a company for the protection and health of our employees, but we also want to show our solidarity with society and do what we can to help. Here is an overview of the measures we are taking and the activities we have launched. Employee protection is at the center of our coronavirus crisis management. The following provides a summary of all the information available to us up to the editorial deadline on June 12, 2020 relating to our ongoing measures and activities in response to the coronavirus pandemic. The goal of all measures and activities is to get through the crisis together with determination, protect employees and visitors at our locations from 8 2019 Sustainability Report We protect our employees pandemic. These technical and organizational measures apply both to the actual workstations and to daily workflow processes. We want to offer our employees the best possible protection against the coronavirus and minimize the risk of infection as far as possible. The aim is to prevent infection in day-to-day working life. To this end, we have drawn up guidelines that are binding for all employees. We increasingly rely on mobile working, virtual conferences and alternating presence in the office to limit the number of employees present at one time and reduce the risk of infection. Hygiene measures such as increased cleaning of contact surfaces or the distribution of disinfectant on the premises are intended to help prevent the spread of the virus. We have issued distancing and hygiene regulations that must be strictly adhered to during any unavoidable meetings of small groups requiring physical attendance as well as in communal areas and canteens. The wearing of protective masks is mandatory wherever a minimum distance of two meters cannot be maintained, for example in production. MTU provides masks for this purpose. If necessary, we take MTU vs. virus: Our protective measures include the wearing of masks at work and taking hygiene precautions such as regular hand disinfection. We are running a comprehensive communication campaign to keep employees continuously up to speed with important which various functions of the company are represented, has initiated company-wide measures to protect employees. The committee also ensured that all the German sites were coordinating with one another on a daily basis. 9 2019 Sustainability Report How we are responding to the economic crisis We want to ensure that MTU emerges from the crisis at full strength and with its capacity for innovation fully intact. In view of the pandemic, the company temporarily suspended most of its activities at several European sites in April 2020. Besides being our response to the beginnings of an interruption in the supply of materials, this coordinated shutdown of our operations was a way for us to protect the workforce and help contain the spread of the pandemic. We did this in close cooperation with our customers and partners. We made sure that we were there for all stakeholders during this time and ensured our availability to handle important concerns. Wherever operations had to be maintained, appropriate precautions were taken to protect employees. The shutdown affected our production sites in Munich and in Rzeszów, Poland, as well as our maintenance operations in Hannover and Ludwigsfelde near Berlin. This enabled us to weather the first phase of the crisis calmly and collectedly and with great cohesion. Following the suspension of operations, we resumed with short-time working arrangements at our German sites. The organizational and technical measures we have adopted to prevent coronavirus infections mean we continue to ensure Supervisory Board to the Annual General Meeting to carry forward the net profit for financial year 2019 into this year. MTU is continuing to closely monitor the highly dynamic situation surrounding the coronavirus and is taking the necessary operational and financial precautions in good time to minimize any negative economic impact on the We responded quickly: Occupational safety in line with the new legal standard sites and to offer the maximum possible protection against infection to the employees on-site for this purpose. The measures comply with the new occupational safety standard issued by the German Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (BMAS SARS-CoV-2 occupational safety standard of April 16, 2020). All employees in Germany received written instructions on this in early May 2020. In this way, we are fulfilling our legal duty of care as an employer to prevent coronavirus infections. Instruction on the new statutory occupational health and safety standard is a fundamental component of our operational measures concept and is supplemented as required by instructions and measures specific to technical 10 2019 Sustainability Report We show solidarity Because short-time working can lead to cases of particular hardship among colleagues, MTU has set up a solidarity relief fund worth more than EUR 4 million. The Executive Board and well over 90% of senior management have waived a significant slice of their variable remuneration for the past financial year. This solidarity fund enables us to help ensure MTU vs. virus: Each site issues employees with masks centrally. In addition, at the beginning of April we were able to donate protective masks to Bavarian hospitals and the Brandenburg regional association of the German Red Cross. We have also been directly involved in fighting the pandemic through support and donations. In Munich, we provided more than 50,000 protective masks for use in Bavarian emergency facilities and hospitals. This was possible because MTU always keeps protective masks in stock, further masks were due to arrive and we had sufficient equipment available for emergency operations. MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg donated 10,000 masks to the Brandenburg chapter of the German Red Cross. The masks were mainly put to use in local care facilities. Staff at MTU in Rzeszów took part in a fundraising campaign for the nearby hospital in La cut, one of the clinics in Poland providing intensive care for coronavirus patients. Employees and management felt it was important to support first and foremost those people working in hospitals and care settings, who are giving their all. MTU vs. virus: members and employees also used video conferencing to stay in touch with customers, partners and their teams during the crisis. 11 2019 Sustainability Report Our reporting concept About this report Each year, MTU Aero Engines AG compiles a sustainability report to comprehensively inform its stakeholders about corporate responsibility (CR) of an economic, environmental or social nature within performance and also describes the priorities and progress made in 2019, building on the previous report. It supplements the non-financial statement in our Annual Report. Reporting period and cycle The reporting period covers financial year 2019 (January 1 to December 31). To better organize how information is presented and provide explanatory context for readers, activities from outside the reporting period are also cited in some cases. The report is published annually in German and English and will be available as an online report at sustainability.mtu.de PDF download Scope of validity The information and key performance indicators refer to the specified Group reporting entity, unless otherwise indicated. MTU Aero Engines, Munich, Germany (headquarters) MTU Maintenance Hannover, Hannover, Germany MTU Maintenance Berlin-Brandenburg, Ludwigsfelde, Germany MTU Aero Engines Polska, Rzeszów, Poland MTU Maintenance Lease Services B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands MTU Maintenance Canada, Vancouver, Canada MTU Aero Engines North America, Rocky Hill, United States Vericor Power Systems, Alpharetta, United States Reporting standard and topics The 2019 Sustainability Report was drawn up in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and meets the GRI all required standard disclosures as well as on our management approaches for key topics and on selected indicators for each topic. We provide a GRI index graphics with statements relevant to GRI have been appropriately marked. The relevant GRI standards end of each page. 12 2019 Sustainability Report A materiality matrix presents the sustainability topics that are significant for the MTU Group and shows how they are weighted from an internal (X-axis) and external (Y-axis) perspective. It is regularly checked and updated, and serves as the basis for selecting the key topics and performance indicators for this report. Material topics UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals The 2019 Sustainability Report also provides information on progress made in accordance with the ten principles of the principles GRI index. The relevant principles are also listed at the end of each page. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, we support the Sustainable Development Sustainable Development Goals. Key figures and collection methods All data and information for the reporting period was collected by the relevant departments using representative methods. Environmental KPIs are collected via the environmental management systems at the individual sites and then consolidated centrally in the CR database according to agreed criteria. The HR KPIs are collected and evaluated centrally at the headquarters in Munich for Germany, and locally for all non-German sites. Once the data is evaluated, it is sent to the CR database. All other data is requested from the CR coordinators in the relevant departments and compiled centrally in the CR database. Financial KPIs are collected and published in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Supplementary information and previous reports MTU regularly informs its stakeholders about sustainability issues. You can find supplementary information, more detailed analyses and older publications online: Corporate responsibility at MTU Compliance at MTU MTU annual reports In addition, we regularly report on important and/or current sustainability topics in central MTU publications and through various communication channels. News and media External validation of the report The CR reporting for this sustainability report was not subject to external auditing or validation. The majority of corporate processes that underlie data collection for CR reporting are certified. We have already reported selected key figures for topics of very high importance in our non-financial statement. These have been verified by auditors as part of a limited assurance. 13 2019 Sustainability Report Contacts Please address questions about the report to corporateresponsibility@mtu.de Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the current understanding, expectations and assumptions of MTU Aero Engines and are based on the information available to management at the present time. Forward-looking statements provide no guarantee that certain results and developments will actually occur in the future, and they entail risk and uncertainty. Consequently, for a variety of reasons, the actual future results of MTU Aero Engines may deviate substantially from the expectations and assumptions expressed here. MTU Aero Engines assumes no obligation to update the statements contained in this communication. This document has been formulated in gender-neutral terms. 102-45, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56 14 Corporate governance Conducting business responsibly We bear responsibility for our activities, not only in economic terms but also in environmental and social terms. That is why sustainability is our guiding principle. Our sustainability strategy and our sustainability management support us in this. Meanwhile, our comprehensive compliance system guarantees ethics and integrity in the company. Respect for human rights is fundamental to what we do. 500 employees trained Zero tolerance approach on compliance to violations Sustainability strategy and organization Global Development Goals Material topics Stakeholder dialogue Compliance Human rights Corporate governance Our responsibility Sustainability strategy and organization Aviation is changing. It must become cleaner, quieter and thus more sustainable. As an engine manufacturer and key player in the sector, we want to actively drive these changes. We think of sustainability primarily in terms of developing innovative propulsion solutions for better climate action. Our mission is to achieve emissions-free flying. But our focus also extends beyond products. As a manufacturing company and employer of nearly 11,000 people, we act responsibly in all key areas. This calls for sustainable propulsion concepts that must significantly improve aircraft energy and emissions footprints and reduce aircraft noise to make flying more sustainable. Shouldering responsibility is simply part of our corporate identity. This sense of responsibility is reflected in every area of our business and extends to the entire value chain. Climate action is a key concern. It is a challenge for our business, but also an incentive to focus our innovative strength on sustainable solutions. In 2019, sustainability as a strategic goal was enshrined in our corporate objectives and is part of our corporate strategy. global flow of commodities. This calls for sustainable propulsion concepts that meet the high safety standards of aviation, improving energy and emissions footprints and reducing aircraft noise. We follow our technology roadmap to help us achieve our long-term goal of emissions-free aviation. In doing so, we want to help achieve the goal of limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius by 2050, as set out in the Paris Agreement, and pave the way for the decarbonization of the industry. We firmly believe that taking a sustainable approach to our business will allow us to remain competitive and successful in the long term. In this way, we can ensure that our products create value for our customers by helping airlines to offer passenger flights that are less harmful to the environment and climate. 15 Corporate governance Air travel should remain attractive, including to future generations. We work on sustainable propulsion concepts follow our technology roadmap to help us achieve our long-term goal of emissions-free aviation. That is why product stewardship is the cornerstone of our sustainability strategy, which addresses the key topics of product quality, flight safety, fuel efficiency, CO 2 emissions, noise emissions and innovations. We take a comprehensive approach to sustainability that extends to compliance, environmental protection at our locations, employee concerns, the supply chain, and corporate citizenship. In total, we have defined 24 strategic focus topics Key topics. In addition to long-term solutions, we also want to make quick-impact improvements. Our contribution to the SDGs We support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations. Of the 17 goals for 2030, eight are particularly important to us because we can directly help achieve them. Our greatest impact on achieving the SDGs is through eco-efficient engines and environmental protection in production. The following goals are relevant to us: Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs 16 Corporate governance Our company is steeped in tradition and has a strong foundation of values The Executive Board conducts our business activities with responsibility toward our employees and toward society as well. The German Corporate Governance Code been following for many years. MTU CEO Reiner Winkler is a member of the government commission that established and develops these rules. A key tool we use for embedding sustainability within and throughout MTU is our Code of Conduct. It defines clear standards for working with and regulating our behavior toward stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, authorities and business partners. Our Code of Conduct is binding for all employees, managers and members of the Executive Board. It was developed and rolled out jointly by the Executive Board and the Group works council. Following the Code is a top priority and all stakeholders have access to a system through which to report breaches. We investigate all reports and leads and take disciplinary action should a breach be proven. The Code of Compliance Key topics of the Code of Conduct MTU Code of Conduct empower, we create trust), we are creating a leadership culture based on trust and support that promotes sustainable and innovative thinking. 17 Corporate governance Achieving more together: The UN Global Compact from 156 countries have entered the UN Global Compact. One of them is 10,833 MTU. They undertake to work continuously on improving the social and ecological impact of companies ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which we joined in 2011, as a guide to responsible corporate governance. As a signatory, we are committed to respecting human rights, ensuring fair working conditions, protecting the environment and preventing corruption. We strive to continuously improve the way in which we implement these principles across the company. And through our Code of Conduct supply chain. This Sustainability Report also serves to outline progress made in accordance with the UNGC. We take direction from the following standards and guidelines on sustainability topics: UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights Principles of the UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Core labor standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) German Corporate Governance Code our management We have integrated sustainability into organizational structures and established sustainability management throughout the MTU Group. A Corporate Responsibility (CR) Board is responsible for the implementation of CR management on behalf of the Executive Board. Through the CR management system, we monitor our sustainability strategy, tier-1 senior management team. It is responsible for driving the topic of sustainability forward at MTU. The CR Board meets on a regular basis and as required. In the financial year 2019, for instance, the Board convened for a special Materiality analysis. The CR Board is in charge of CR activities at MTU and implements relevant actions and initiatives. It reports regularly to the Executive and Supervisory Boards. If needed, representatives from further operational functions are invited to the meetings. A central CR coordination team manages Group-wide sustainability activities, overall CR management, communication with stakeholders about CR topics, and reporting on CR issues. It also works with an interdisciplinary CR team to continuously develop CR management. 18 Corporate governance An important role in the operational implementation of the strategy is played by the CR coordinators: They work with experts in their disciplines to develop goals and measures, implement them, and take responsibility for monitoring their progress. In collaboration with the managers and experts in their business areas, the divisional coordinators are heavily involved in shaping the strategic focus of their respective CR goals and developing these goals over time. CR management officers at the sites support the CR divisional coordinators and the overall CR coordination team. By implementing this organizational structure, we ensure that sustainability is embedded throughout the entire company in all relevant topics. CR management at MTU We have a CR management system in place to steer our sustainability strategy. The CR Board makes the decisions, a central CR coordination team manages Group-wide sustainability activities and overall CR management, and the CR divisional coordinators work to develop and implement goals and measures in their disciplines. Risk management We integrate sustainability risks into our internal control system, and map and evaluate them using defined processes. MTU has established a Group-wide integrated risk management and control system, based on the leading international COSO II ERM Framework standard, with which it manages risks and opportunities for its business. The system also takes into account non-financial risks. For the topic of compliance, MTU has established a separate risk assessment and a separate reporting line, which the Compliance Officer coordinates. Building on these processes, the company conducts a quarterly risk survey on sustainability topics of high materiality. In consultation with their upper management, the CR divisional coordinators conduct the survey according to standardized criteria and use a scale similar to the one for risk management. The results of the risk assessment are reviewed quarterly by the CR Board. If necessary, the Board passes the report on to the risk management team and, if appropriate, to the Executive Board. The risk assessment for financial year 2019 identified no significant risks in relation to the top issues of our CR strategy. Material risks are those that are very likely and have a severe negative impact. 19 Corporate governance Founded by the Financial Stability Board, the has published recommendations for achieving transparent corporate reporting on climate-related risks and opportunities. The core elements of these recommendations are governance, strategy, risk management, metrics and targets. Through our product solutions and resource-conserving production, we are working hard to tackle the challenges of climate change and to continuously lower CO 2 emissions. We already report extensively on climate-related topics in our Sustainability Report and also disclose our performance and progress in the CDP ratings. We advocate companies releasing transparent, relevant sustainability information and are currently exploring how we can implement TCFD recommendations. Outlook Society expects industry to come up with solutions for a more livable future. We are aware of our role and responsibility in this transformation process and want our contribution to making flight an ecologically viable option also for future generations to extend beyond excellent products and services. This is what drives us to invest in our sustainability efforts and refine our strategy. In the process, we want to set more mediumto long-term goals in all areas, further underline the significance of sustainability within the company and rework our risk management. 103-2, 103-3 1-10 20 Corporate governance Global goals for sustainable development At a United Nations summit held in September 2015, the international community of states adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, thus making it clear that the current global challenges can be effectively addressed in a joint effort only. The agenda aims to make sure that economic progress goes hand in hand with social justice and ecological responsibility. Industry is also called upon to do its bit and make contributions towards achieving the 2030 Agenda goals. MTU lives up to this responsibility. 21 Corporate governance Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals At the core of the 2030 agenda are 17 goals for sustainable development, or SDGs for short. These goals embrace the implementation of the SDGs and have identified eight goals to which we can contribute and which are therefore relevant for MTU: Overview of our contribution to the SDGs The following examples and projects show the specific action we take to promote individual SDGs. They are intended to reflect the range of topics and activities with which we encourage sustainability in the company, in the supply chain or as part of our commitment to corporate social responsibility. 22 Corporate governance SDG 4: Quality education Offering good educational opportunities: To enable lifelong learning, we have created digital learning worlds at MTU that provide an appealing environment, available in several languages, for our employees to flexibly build on their knowledge. We also provide high-quality training for our youngest employees: our apprentices. We offer training for ten different career paths as well as practical courses of study in collaboration with selected vocational academies. And our training is second to none: last year, our top training was recognized with an award from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry (IHK). Employee development Other ways we support SDG 4: Corporate social responsibility SDG 5: Gender equality Promoting diversity & inclusion: Chief Technical Officer Lars Wagner has assumed patronage of our new Network of Engine Women (NEW), which we established in Munich in 2019. NEW is all about new suggestions, new impetus, new routes and new perspectives. The idea behind it is to tap deeper into the benefits of diversity by exploring innovation, creativity and corporate Diversity and inclusion Other ways we support SDG 5: Human rights Corporate social responsibility 23 Corporate governance SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth Protecting employees: We attach great importance to safe working conditions at our plants and subsidiaries. The importance of this concern came to the fore during the coronavirus crisis and it became a focus of our activities. We want to do our bit to contain the pandemic and ensure our employees are protected against infection through a wide range of measures. In addition, we donated over 60,000 face masks to medical and social MTU vs. virus Other ways we support SDG 8: MTU as an employer Human rights Occupational safety Supplier management SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure We joined forces with other companies to form the Munich Business Climate Pact (Klimapakt Münchner Wirtschaft), which entered its second round in 2019. In the first round, we already succeeded in saving some 7,500 metric tons of CO 2 . Now we have set ourselves a new goal and want to save another 5,000 metric tons. More Emissions Other ways we support SDG 9: Climate & flying Aircraft noise Environmental management Conservation of resources 24 Corporate governance SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production water: At our headquarters in Munich, we use well water for cooling to a great extent in our production processes and subsequently feed it back. As a result, we draw only small amounts from the municipal drinking water supply. To enable us to use well water, we have our own wells on our premises. Using well water contributes to climate action and protection, as it means we eliminate the need for energy-intensive cooling processes such as compressor cooling systems. More information about environmental Conservation of resources Other ways we support SDG 12: Climate & flying Aircraft noise Environmental management SDG 13: Climate action Rethinking aircraft propulsion: conceivable propulsion concepts for the future to pave the way for more climate-compatible aviation. Their creative and innovative approaches also foresee a role for fuel cells. Because they emit only water, fuel cells enable virtually climate-neutral and pollutant-free flying. Read about how this could Climate & flying Other ways we support SDG 13: Environmental management Emissions 25 Corporate governance SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions Working together for integrity: We introduced a new reporting system in 2019 that is online, anonymous and available in several languages. iTrust enables employees and external stakeholders to submit reports and any leads can be accessed via the MTU intranet and website. More information about Compliance Other ways we support SDG 16: Supplier management SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals Europe commits to clean aviation: a wide range of areas in order to make a difference. Collaboration with universities and research institutions is especially important when it comes to research and development. At the Paris Air Show on June 19, 2019, we signed up to Horizon Europe, a declaration of intent by 23 European companies, universities and research institutions. This agreement provides the framework for key collaborations on climate action and has the ambitious goal of emissions-free flight. More information about our climate action Climate & flying Other ways we support SDG 17: Corporate social responsibility More information about: Sustainable Development Goals Source: UN communications materials 26 Corporate governance Key topics of focus Materiality analysis We have developed a sustainability strategy that is the cornerstone of our commitment to corporate social responsibility. As part of a systematic process, we regularly analyze important fields of action and key topics for our sustainability management and reporting. In doing so, we have an eye on both MTU business and the concerns of our stakeholders. Our focus is on product stewardship, which addresses the key topics of quality, safety, fuel efficiency, aircraft engine CO 2 We review our sustainability strategy annually as regards the latest changes and developments. This allows us to recognize opportunities and risks for our business in good time and to honor our claim of being a company that acts in a sustainable manner. In this materiality analysis, we evaluate the individual topics using defined criteria. These criteria The criteria are incorporated into the evaluation according to a defined weighting scheme. The analysis covers all our key business areas and fully consolidated locations as well as information gathered from our dialogue with stakeholders, with which we address societal expectations and requirements. More information about Stakeholder dialogue. We present the results for the respective financial year in a materiality matrix. 27 Corporate governance The materiality analysis follows a multi-stage process: It is managed by the central CR coordination team, with analysis of the key topics performed by the CR divisional coordinators within the departments. Next comes a workshop in which the interdisciplinary CR team discuss the evaluation of the topics and their position within the materiality matrix. Acting as the ultimate decision-making body for sustainability, the CR Board then signs off on the matrix. The Executive Board Our CR management in detail Results for 2019 For financial year 2019, we defined a total of 24 topics with a material economic, environmental or social impact, which we are pursuing as part of our sustainability management. Changes to the previous year mainly relate to the higher importance rating of human rights for our CR management, which henceforth extends not only to our own employees, but also to the supply chain (previously only with respect to responsible sourcing). Due to expansion at numerous success. Group-wide, diversity & equality of opportunity were rated less of a priority in the reporting year. In addition, the aspect of discrimination is covered by human rights. Given the differing approaches to managing IT security and data protection, we have evaluated and mapped these topics separately. Due to current challenges, environmental protection in production is of increasing importance within our sustainability strategy. The same goes for responsible supply chains (responsible sourcing, OEM and MRO). 28 Corporate governance Materiality matrix: Important sustainability topics for MTU Evaluation of topics for the financial year 2019 adopts the materiality concept in accordance with the legal implementation of CSR guidelines in Germany (CSR-RUG) Steadily increasing shareholder value and demographic change are no longer pursued as individual topics within our sustainability strategy. Steadily increasing the value of the company is already covered by the definition of materiality and thus is the foundation for all our activities. Demographic change is no longer a separate topic because the relevant aspects, such as employee training, are already covered by other topics. Environmental and occupational safety compliance has been integrated into those topics. We have identified no new key topics as part of the current materiality process. 29 Corporate governance Product stewardship Material topics Relevance for MTU along the value chain Upstream Activities within Downstream activities the MTU group activities (e.g. supply chain) (e.g. flights operated by airlines) Product quality and flight safety significant significant significant Innovation significant significant significant Fuel efficiency and CO2 emission of products significant significant Noise emission of products* significant significant Exhaust emission of products significant significant Corporate governance Material topics Relevance for MTU along the value chain Upstream Activities within Downstream activities the MTU group activities (e.g. supply chain) (e.g. flights operated by airlines) Trade compliance significant significant significant Anti-corruption significant significant significant Human rights significant significant significant IT security significant significant significant Data protection significant significant significant 30 Corporate governance Employees and society Material topics Relevance for MTU along the value chain Upstream Activities within Downstream activities the MTU group activities (e.g. supply chain) (e.g. flights operated by airlines) Employee development significant significant Occupational safety significant significant significant Diversity and equality of opportunity significant Work-life balance significant Health management significant Stakeholder dialog significant significant Corporate citizenship significant Value creation Material topics Relevance for MTU along the value chain Upstream Activities within Downstream activities the MTU group activities (e.g. supply chain) (e.g. flights operated by airlines) CO2 emissions at production sites significant Environmental management: water significant Environmental management: energy significant Noise abatement at production sites significant Environmental management: waste significant Responsible sourcing OEM business significant significant significant Responsible sourcing MRO business significant significant significant *material topic for commercial aircraft engines due to inclusion in certification specifications 31 Corporate governance 102-46, 102-47, 103-1 1-10 32 Corporate governance Providing information about sustainability Stakeholder dialogue Maintaining a dialogue with our stakeholders plays a key role in our success. In terms of sustainability, this means creating transparency in our performance and progress, actively providing information about key topics, and addressing societal developments and requirements in a timely manner. This allows us to continuously improve and increase confidence and trust in our company. We embrace dialogue with our stakeholders and make use of various opportunities and formats to this end. For example, we invite stakeholders to events at MTU such as the 40th anniversary of MTU Maintenance Hannover last year, as pictured here. We strive to conduct a proactive, mutually supportive dialogue with our key stakeholders. We pursue this dialogue regularly, with the actual frequency determined by the need for communication and/or information. Our aim is to achieve wide societal acceptance for our business activities and to provide information about the challenges, developments and technologies relating to sustainable aviation. This stakeholder dialogue also gives us the opportunity to respond to suggestions, expectations and feedback and act on new topics in good time. It helps us evaluate how our Materiality analysis Stakeholders are individuals, groups or organizations that have a regular relationship with MTU. Our key stakeholders are employees, customers, business partners, suppliers and shareholders. We are also in continuous dialogue with scientists, researchers, analysts, journalists, politicians, associations, NGOs, employee representatives, neighbors and communities. 33 Corporate governance Communication with our stakeholders takes place over various channels and platforms so we can incorporate their online available on our website to invite all stakeholders to discuss our sustainability strategy. In 2019, we collected and evaluated just under 250 responses, while expanding the survey to include questions about our efforts to achieve UN Sustainable Development Goals. At our locations, we pursue a direct dialogue with the general public, for instance with community representatives, neighbors and other interest groups. In 2019, key sustainability topics we addressed in our stakeholder dialogue included climate action and environmental 2 (SAFs), human rights (especially in the supply chain), sustainable finance as well as social topics such as diversity. We are also stepping up our use of social media channels to communicate about sustainability topics and we now post on Twitter and Instagram in addition to Facebook, LinkedIn and Xing. MTU currently has some 55,000 followers, and this from politics, industry and associations and plan to do so again in 2020. Industry dialogue: MTU took part in the National Aviation Conference 2019 in Leipzig (left). At the Paris Air Show, we provided visitors to our booth with information about our activities and concepts. 34 Corporate governance Our stakeholder groups and dialogue platforms Employees Topics Forms of dialogue Health and safety Internal media Career and advanced training opportunities Employee surveys Compensation and benefits HR services Work-life balance Dialog and information events Diversity and equality of opportunity Company suggestion scheme Co-determination Business partners and customers Topics Forms of dialogue Product quality and safety Voice of the customer Sustainable technologies Trade fairs Product fuel efficiency Corporate communications media channels Human rights Compliance Suppliers Topics Forms of dialogue Product quality and safety Supplier portal Environmental protection Audits Responsible sourcing Supplier surveys Compliance with MTU standards Supplier Days Capital market Topics Forms of dialogue Product innovation/eco-efficiency Annual General Meeting Responsible corporate governance Conferences and roadshows Human rights Investor discussions Compliance Trade fairs 35 Corporate governance Climate protection Ratings Risk management Financial communications Supplier management Science and research Topics Forms of dialogue Developing new technologies Joint research projects Promoting research and teaching Work in MTU centers of excellence Networking between industry and research Trade fairs Study of engineering and scientific disciplines Visits from university student groups Recruiting Presentations/discussions at universities Media Topics Forms of dialogue Innovation and technologies Press releases Aviation sector/eco-efficiency Press conferences and briefings MTU as an employer Plant tours Financial issues Internet / social media Site development Trade fairs Compliance Region Topics Forms of dialogue Social commitment Museum open house days Climate protection Community partnerships MTU as an employer Internet / social media Site development Plant tours Compliance Politics, public agencies Topics Forms of dialogue Developing and promoting technology Parliamentary evening Climate protection, eco-efficiency Plant visits Political frameworks and regulations Trade fairs 36 Corporate governance Mobility concepts Political discussions Site development Background talks Demographic change Visits by political delegations Globalization Compliance Associations and organizations Topics Forms of dialogue Eco-efficiency Meetings and committees Promoting innovation and technology Participation in forums and events Economic and labor policies Political dialogue MTU takes no party political position as a matter of principle. We purposely cultivate relationships with parties and factions on certain topics, as aviation is affected to no small degree by political decision-making, especially at the national and European levels. Our key points of contact include elected representatives and decision-makers from ministries at the state, federal and EU levels as well as from subordinate authorities and the German Armed Forces. To centrally by the Group Representation Office of the Corporate Communications department. Topics of discussion with political decision-makers included innovation, technology development and funding, eco-efficiency in 2019, focusing on climate and flight as well as SAFs, the relevance of air traffic to society, site development, economic and labor market policy, and export of goods. We pursue our industry-specific interests through memberships in various professional associations. Overview of our memberships in the GRI index under Organizational profile We do not make any financial or in-kind donations to political parties. All interactions in the political arena are carried Code of Conduct, and must be granted central approval. Mandatory requirements are stipulated in our compliance management system and Code of Conduct, including those relating to donations, sponsorship, customer events, in-house events, hospitality and corporate gifts. Compliance with these rules and regulations is the responsibility of the relevant manager in each case and is ensured by means of an internal monitoring system. Donations & sponsorship Compliance 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 415-1 10 37 Corporate governance Ethics & integrity Compliance We act with integrity in our working and business relationships. The key basis for this is a Group-wide Code of Conduct that provides all of us with binding guidelines for our behavior in the company, toward our business partners, our customers, and in society. For us, compliance means adhering to the law and our internal regulations, such as our Code of Conduct. In doing so, we pursue a zero-tolerance approach to violations should they occur. contain clear requirements for employees and provide an authoritative point of orientation. For the success of our company and for our collaboration with our stakeholders, compliance is essential. MTU conducts its business as a fair employer, business partner and customer, and advocates transparent competition where all parties are on an equal footing. Integrity and responsible conduct are core values of our corporate culture and are embedded in MTU Code of Conduct, which is binding for all employees, managers and members of the Executive Board. These Group-wide compliance rules include topics that are important to us, including key compliance issues such as corruption prevention or antitrust law. 38 Corporate governance Key topics of the Code of Conduct MTU Code of Conduct Each employee must be familiar with and observe the legal requirements relating to their role, the terms of their employment contract and company regulations. Managers have a particular responsibility to uphold these requirements and regulations and to act as role models. We also expect our business partners to fully comply with all applicable laws. Code of Code of Conduct for Suppliers signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we have committed ourselves to preventing corruption within our company Principle 10 of the UNGC. In the interests of maintaining sustainable corporate leadership, we take our lead from the and international compliance standards, such as the issued by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Our commitment to fighting corruption extends beyond the company as well; besides our status as a UNGC signatory, we are also a member of the AeroSpace and Defence anti-corruption initiative. 39 Corporate governance Anti-corruption One focus of our compliance activities is the prevention of corruption. MTU condemns corruption of any kind as well as all other forms of white-collar crime. Our long-term success is founded on compliance with legal requirements and our own internal guidelines, which strengthens trust in MTU. In addition to the Group-wide Code of Conduct, our internal regulations concern the prevention of corruption and apply especially to customer events, donations, sponsoring and the approval process for sales consultants. Our contribution to the SDGs Agenda. It calls for a significant decrease in all forms of corruption and bribery. With a comprehensive compliance system in place, we are actively taking steps to combat corruption and bribery, minimize the risk thereof and support fair competition. We expect our suppliers to uphold the same standards as we do. In this way, we as a company are able to contribute to sustainable development in line with SDG 16 and, with integral and transparent business practices, provide an open and progressive environment that benefits society as a whole. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs Embedding compliance in the organization MTU has a compliance system for the entire company. As the final decision-making authority, the CEO is responsible for correct conduct are a Compliance Board and a Compliance Officer. Both the Compliance Board, whose members are top managers from various departments, and the Compliance Officer hold Group-wide responsibility. The Compliance closely with the Compliance Board in further developing the compliance system. The Compliance Board holds regular and ad hoc meetings at the request of the Compliance Officer. The Compliance Officer provides quarterly updates to In addition, the managing directors of the sites must ensure that all compliance-relevant provisions and regulations are adhered to within their areas of responsibility, and they must see to it that compliance is appropriately embedded in the local organization. 40 Corporate governance The core functions responsible for ensuring ethical and correct conduct at the company are a Compliance Board and a Compliance Officer. Responsible international trade Another key compliance topic for us is observance of international trade law, also known as trade compliance. MTU has its own organizational unit dedicated to ensuring trade compliance and has also instituted requirements for thorough control laws govern which products, services and technical data we are permitted to sell or provide and to where, to whom and for what purpose. Compliance with the applicable international trade regulations is a binding requirement of the Code of Conduct. The central international trade department is responsible for implementing regulations with process standards that are uniform throughout the company. These processes include the review of all documents, software and parts prior to shipping to make sure they are in line with export control regulations or existing authorization requirements. The international trade department has been granted cross-divisional authority to issue certain directions, which extends to the right to stop deliveries. The department head reports directly to the Chief Operating Officer in his capacity as the person in charge of MTU exports. 41 Corporate governance Data protection and IT security In our business activities, we take care to provide comprehensive data protection. In times like these and given the increasing levels of digitalization in the world of work, such protection is becoming more and more important. We have established an appropriate management system and expect all employees to comply with data protection regulations, A claim that is underpinned by our Code of Conduct. We have appointed data protection officers or coordinators in all of our Group companies, who are instructed in all relevant regulations. The aim is to achieve uniform data protection and data security standards for the handling of personal data throughout the Group that meet the requirements both of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and of the national legislation applicable at each location. The Executive Board is briefed on data protection once a month. We also intensively discuss the topic of IT security, as this is a fundamental prerequisite for our business success. MTU has an IT security management system in place and implements appropriate protective measures on a technical and organizational level to ensure its IT systems are stable and secure. This also includes an internal body of rules and regulations that we have established in line with the international ISO 27001 standard. Our compliance management system works We want to prevent compliance violations and ensure that business decisions are made with integrity. We do not tolerate any kind of conduct that violates laws or regulations. We respond to reports immediately and appropriately, and take disciplinary action in the event of detected violations. In such cases, MTU applies a principle of zero tolerance. In the reporting year, we did not identify or confirm any suspected instances of corruption. We also did not receive any formal complaints regarding corruption. No significant fines were levied against MTU for breaches of applicable laws, And it faced no legal action stemming from corruption or due to antitrust or anticompetitive practices. In 2019 as in previous years, we had no reportable violations regarding data protection. Similarly, there were no substantial violations of the principles underpinning the Code of Conduct. Global reporting system We have set up a global whistleblower system that allows employees and external stakeholders to report instances of unlawful conduct to the Compliance Officer. Tips and reports can also be submitted anonymously via a web-based electronic reporting system. If the report is found to be credible, the Compliance Officer initiates the investigative steps necessary. The ways we have established for reporting non-compliance are communicated to employees through internal media channels and explained to external stakeholders in writing or on our website. In the reporting year, an internal communication campaign informed all employees and managers at all sites across the Group about iTrust, the turns out to be unfounded. This is ensured by means of an internal regulation. We wish to make it clear that whistleblowers acting in good faith shall not be penalized or disadvantaged by the company in any way. In addition, employees can confide in their superiors, the legal department or HR. 42 Corporate governance 500 employees In the reporting year, we trained more than 500 employees across all hierarchical levels on compliance matters at our sites. Training employees on compliance To ensure a functional compliance culture, MTU puts a high priority on preventing possible forms of misconduct and raising awareness of compliance issues among employees. When new employees are taken on, we inform them about the Code of Conduct and require them to sign a declaration to uphold it. We also present and discuss the Code of Conduct at the introductory event for new employees at all our locations. We regularly train our employees and managers at all hierarchical levels on the Code of Conduct, corruption prevention and the compliance management system. This applies in particular to new hires. In addition, we hold compliance training as needed for employees from selected areas, such as sales. In the reporting year, we trained more than 500 employees across all MTU sites on compliance matters in both e-learning and classroom sessions. In addition, we continuously provide information about and raise awareness of special compliance issues, such as data protection, in a way suitable for each target group. The Compliance Officer and the legal department can also advise our employees and managers as needed. Limiting risks of non-compliance We have put various control mechanisms in place to ensure compliance throughout the company and to minimize risk. In the reporting year, we evaluated all fully consolidated sites for corruption risks; no substantial risk was found. The Compliance Officer additionally inspects all sales support consulting contracts for possible corruption risks before they are placed or renewed, 2019 included, and found no indications of corruption. Potential consultants are also subject to an assessment by an independent provider of due diligence services. The corporate audit department conducts regular compliance audits in which it checks business processes and procedures for conformity to legal requirements and adherence to internal guidelines. 43 Corporate governance Outlook We aim to continuously improve our compliance system and always ensure that our Group regulations are up to date. To that end, once a year we evaluate whether changes or amendments are necessary. In doing so, we draw on a wide range of input, including concerns raised by our employees. Here is what we have resolved to do: We are further developing our reporting system for all Group locations and also aim to rework the Code of Conduct and the corresponding e-learning course. Furthermore, in 2020 we plan to implement a new training concept in the area of international trade law. uniform level of data protection with a standard in place that applies across the Group worldwide. 102-12, 102-16, 103-2, 103-3, 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1, 412-2, 418-1, 419-1 1, 10 44 Corporate governance Our due diligence Human rights We respect human rights and are committed to seeing that they are upheld within the Group and upstream along the value chain. Respect for human rights is firmly embedded in our corporate culture by means of several instruments. Beyond this commitment, we aim to prevent the violation of human rights at MTU and in the supply chain. MTU sees it as its duty to respect the individuality and dignity of all, maintain equality of opportunity in the workplace and prevent discrimination. The protection of human rights is guaranteed by the Code of Conduct for all employees. MTU respects the internationally proclaimed human rights set out in the Human Rights rights as a Group-wide issue that involves many different areas, including social labor standards/law for employees and sustainable supplier management. for Business and Human Rights. We are conscious of our responsibility as a company with global operations, and aim to carry out our due diligence with regard to human rights as best we can. We pursue the goal of preventing human rights violations from occurring in our own business activities (zero-tolerance principle). 45 Corporate governance Our contribution to the SDGs As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we support this important international initiative that aims to uphold human enacting a responsible employment policy for our workforce. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs Codes of Conduct for Employees and Suppliers MTU sees it as its duty to respect the individuality and dignity of all, maintain equality of opportunity in the workplace and prevent discrimination. The protection of human rights, the right to appropriate remuneration, as well as recognition of regulations governing employee and union representation under labor and works constitution law, are implemented Group-wide through the Code of Conduct. As an employer, we want to create fair working conditions based on legally binding employment contracts with appropriate remuneration. This includes the right to unionize and to adopt collective agreements. Compliance with the Code of Conduct and ethical principles is enshrined in the MTU Principles. In addition, MTU is bound by legal obligations that may differ from location to location; in Germany, for example, MTU must honor the General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG), which prohibits discrimination against employees and job applicants. Also in Germany, we have worked with employee representatives to enact internal guidelines on fair and cooperative conduct that are designed to prevent bullying, sexual harassment and discrimination. They stipulate a systematic process for handling complaints. When they join the company, new employees are informed about the regulations laid down in the Code of Conduct and levels. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers applies to upstream value creation activities. Our suppliers are obligated to uphold this Code of Conduct, which is informed by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the core labor standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The Code requires suppliers to observe and uphold human rights and to ensure that they are not complicit in any human rights violations. In addition, it calls for compliance with labor standards regarding the freedom of association, the right to collective bargaining, the prohibition of forced and child labor, the equality of remuneration regardless of gender, and equal treatment of employees. And finally, we require our suppliers to apply the Code to their subcontractors and reserve the right to terminate any contract with a supplier using Suppliers 46 Corporate governance Grievance mechanisms Established reporting procedures are intended to ensure that we rigorously follow up on all complaints or reports of human rights infringements. Reports may be made by employees or external stakeholders to the Compliance Officer as a confidential contact point in the Group, or anonymously via the new, web-based iTrust reporting system, available in multiple languages. This applies to all human rights concerns. Additional points of contact for employees have been set up at each location, about which we provide information on site. For example, in compliance with legal regulations such as the AGG in Germany, a trained person on site is identified as the contact point for complaints regarding discrimination. For cases of sexual harassment, female employees can go to a female contact person. In accordance with Canadian law, MTU Maintenance Canada has established an Employment Equity Committee to review complaints and reports and has also named an Employment Equity Officer to serve as a confidential point of contact. At MTU Aero Engines Polska, this function is carried out by a person elected by the employees. Employees can also report grievances to managers, the works council or the head of human resources. The Executive Board is informed about infringements committed by MTU depending on the severity of More information about the collaboration between management and the works council in the chapter on MTU as an employer Across the entire Group, no site received a substantiated complaint in 2019 according the respective antidiscrimination legislation in effect there. Furthermore, there were no substantial violations within the MTU Group of the principles underpinning the Code of Conduct. No reports of suppliers violating the Code of Conduct regarding human rights were submitted. Risk analysis We have identified no business location that we must consider at significant risk of child, forced or compulsory labor, or at which the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining could be compromised. MTU considers the risk of human rights violations among its employees to be low at all its locations, as it is bound by the relevant national legislation that protects human rights and can play a direct role in upholding them. Regarding the supply chain, we apply a concept for an annual risk analysis of all key suppliers to the sites in Germany, Poland and Canada as well as the MTU Aero Engines North America subsidiary. The concept takes into account MTUspecific product groups and the countries they are sourced from. This process incorporates the assessment of the annual Global Slavery Index compiled by the Walk Free Foundation, which evaluates countries regarding forced and child labor and legal frameworks, among others. MTU applies the concept to the OEM and MRO segments separately, since each handles procurement through its own organizational units. Throughout this process, we have identified no supplier that poses a significant risk as regards child, forced or compulsory labor, or at which the freedom of association or right to collective bargaining could be compromised. MRO also conducts a supplier evaluation twice a year for vendors used by the German sites. In the future, we will expand the evaluation to cover additional sustainability aspects as well. 47 Corporate governance Conflict minerals We take various steps to safeguard the respect of human rights in the supply chain. This applies especially to the procurement of certain raw materials known as conflict minerals: for example, tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold, which can be found in some of our engine components. These minerals can cause problems in procurement because they are sometimes mined in Central African countries, where the profits are used to finance armed conflicts that commit human rights violations. MTU strives for a sustainable and transparent value chain that excludes the use of conflict minerals. We never directly purchase conflict minerals, but they can find their way into our production or pre-production at the various levels of our global supply chain. According to the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act applicable to companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States, our American partners and customers require that we disclose the origin of minerals used in our components and limit our sources to certified mining companies and primaryalloy producers (Conformant smelters and refiners list). In turn, MTU demands that its relevant suppliers should specify the origin of such minerals, in order to ensure that the value chain contains only conflict-free raw materials. The general terms and conditions and contract provisions require suppliers to provide information about the source of minerals in accordance with the EICC/GeSi Conflict Minerals Reporting Template. In 2019, no infractions came to the knowledge of MTU that infringe on the principles of the Dodd-Frank Act. Outlook We plan to further refine our risk analysis concept for suppliers in 2020, putting the emphasis on a more differentiated evaluation of product risk. Monitoring for NAP in Germany is scheduled to finish in 2020, and a new EU regulation on conflict minerals is due to take effect in 2021. We keep an eye on these developments in human rights law so as to properly comply with relevant requirements in a timely fashion. More information about our supplier management 103-2, 103-3, 406-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 412-1, 412-3, 414-1, 414-2 1-6 48 Product stewardship Creating sustainable and safe products When it comes to climate action in aviation, we firmly believe that we can bring about positive change. With this optimistic mindset, we continue our work on enabling passengers to fly safely and with a clear conscience in the future. We pursue a definitive technology roadmap to develop new products for the next few decades. Because we want to do more than just keep our finger on the pulse—we want to find solutions for a long and sustainable future. Zero emissions from air travel 65% less aircraft noise Product quality and flight safety Climate & flying Aircraft noise Research and development Product stewardship Ensuring high standards Product quality and flight safety Every year, millions of people board an aircraft equipped with our products and technologies. We aim to high demands on quality and safety in our processes along the entire value chain. Not least because reliable and high-quality products are our trademark. Safety and quality are the top priority in aviation. We conduct our operations in accordance with uniformly high quality standards and safety regulations across the whole MTU Group. Safety is imperative in aviation, and legal requirements concerning safety are subject to strict monitoring by the relevant authorities. This is why product quality and flight safety are just as important to us as well. The company must comply with the legal requirements imposed upon it as an organization that develops, manufactures and maintains products, parts and equipment for the aviation industry. These include aviation-authority licenses, approvals and certifications as well as safety and environmental requirements as legally mandated by regulatory authorities. Through stringent quality standards, we ensure that these are implemented across the Group and at all levels of the value chain in accordance with the law, thus adding value for our customers and partners. In addition, safe mobility solutions play a key role in the economy and society and represent an important global challenge for the future. 49 Product stewardship A Group-wide integrated management system (IMS) ensures compliance with laws and internal regulations and clearly The quality framework is enshrined in a management manual that is binding for all employees and managers across the Officer (COO) and reports quarterly to the Executive Board on quality aspects and flight-related incidents. MTU Safety Management in accordance with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standard is part of the IMS and defines how to handle safety-related air-traffic events. Appropriate organizational structures and responsibilities, such as a Flight Safety Board and a Flight Safety Manager, have also been established. High quality standards together with product safety and reliability are enshrined in the MTU Principles as key corporate objectives. Through independent, accredited external auditors, we regularly validate and certify our IMS. Sustainable product lifecycle We take into account all safety and environmental requirements of regulatory authorities in the early stages of planning new engines for later use, and compliance must be documented as part of the certification process. We employ a comprehensive testing program involving test rigs and test series to validate the safe flight operation of our products. This includes being able to ensure safe operation during a hailstorm or a bird strike (following a bird ingestion event) and complying with strict limits on pollutants and noise emissions. MTU components frequently exceed aviation authority requirements, because our customers demand high standards when it comes to fail-safe operation and ecoefficiency. In addition, our manufacturing and maintenance of engine parts and modules meets all required occupational safety and climate protection standards. Sustainability over the entire lifecycle of an engine Engine materials such as titanium, nickel and alloying elements such as platinum or rhenium are of high value, and this explains why aircraft engines have very high recycling rates. As a vendor, we have no direct influence over the scrapping of engines, which is carried out by specialist companies. 50 Product stewardship We examine our engine modules for their impact on the environment, health and safety throughout their development, continuous progress is development. Our mission is to design every new engine we collaborate on so that it is greener, quieter and more fuel-efficient than its predecessor. We use only fault-free and clearly identified components that have been approved by the appropriate aviation authority and are based on approved development documentation. They must also have been produced or maintained in compliance with aviation regulatory processes by a company officially authorized to do so. 0 breaches of In 2019, we didn't again record a single breach of compliance with regard to the quality and safety of compliance our products. The aviation sector has strict rules governing documentation in order to verify the airworthiness of components and same standards and audit them regularly to ensure compliance. To ensure quality and safety requirements are upheld, we have implemented comprehensive monitoring and testing processes along the entire value chain. Safety-critical components (engine components are categorized into various safety classes) are subjected to particularly rigorous testing to verify their technical quality. Strict requirements also apply to materials. Since fail-safe materials are a basic prerequisite for aviation safety, all engine components, including all materials we use, must be approved by the aviation authorities after undergoing extensive test series. In the previous financial year, once again there were no breaches of statutory regulations regarding compliance in connection with the purchase or operation of our products that resulted in a fine, saction or warning for MTU. Our quality standards are high At MTU, we develop and refine our quality system together with our standards and regulations on an ongoing basis. This involves applying the ideas that emerge, for example, from collaboration in the Aero Engine Supplier Quality Group or from regular exchanges of experience and information among our quality managers in the aviation industry. In the reporting year, we improved our internal quality reporting system to better assess customer complaints, for instance. 51 Product stewardship We include all our employees in our high quality standards and provide key information across all locations through our Group by providing them with relevant information (Q Info bulletins and lessons learned). We provide managers and employees with training on quality issues specific to the individual sites. Every employee receives IMS training. Shopfloor/office management at all production and maintenance sites also supports continuous improvement: employees and managers exchange views on quality and other issues several times a week and initiate short-term measures if problems arise. We completed our Group-wide quality initiative for the commercial MRO segment at the end of 2019. With the initiative, we improved planning and maintenance processes throughout all MRO activities in accordance with best practice, or put ourselves on the right track making improvements. We have customers and authorities conduct regular internal and external audits of quality issues to ensure that the uniformly high standards within the company are adhered to and that they comply with the regulatory requirements. Customer satisfaction is at the core of all we do management system, supports us in ensuring customer satisfaction, process orientation and continuous improvement in all phases of development, production and maintenance. IMS takes into account, for example, the requirements of the standards ISO 9001, EN/AS9100, ISO 14001/EMAS and OHSAS 18001 (to be replaced by ISO 45001), and serves as a model approach in the aviation industry. We set great store by customer complaints as an indicator of their satisfaction with the quality of MTU products. We follow up and analyze all customer complaints relating to products delivered in substandard quality. Appropriate measures are then defined and implemented so as to permanently eliminate the cause of the defects. In 2019 as in 2018, our goal was to lower or at least keep the number of customer complaints stable at all locations. We succeeded in doing this only at certain locations. At the majority, the number increased due to significantly higher production volumes and changes to the local product portfolio, for example, the new geared turbofan engine program or MRO parts We are in dialogue with our customers MTU Maintenance offers maintenance and additional services for aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines, and is thus active in the end-customer business. Direct interaction with customers, specifically airlines, leasing companies and module to measure current customer satisfaction levels for our Hannover, Ludwigsfelde and Vancouver sites and for all main products. Each customer has the option of providing feedback about product quality, service, logistics and contractual terms. We use this valuable feedback to identify areas for improvement and initiate measures accordingly. Doing so allows us to continuously optimize our performance, increase customer satisfaction and stay competitive. In addition, MTU Maintenance Lease Services runs its own system for measuring satisfaction in the engine leasing and asset management business. 52 Product stewardship More information about: Clean Air Engine agenda: Climate & flying and Aircraft noise Climate protection in production MTU maintenance technologies 102-43, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1, 416-1, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2 53 Product stewardship Eco-efficient engines Climate & flying What moves us? What can we move? These are questions we have been asking ourselves since long before the current social debate on climate action. Moreover, we have been pursuing a roadmap for sustainable product development for years. This guides the hard work we are doing to minimize aircraft 2 step further and are aiming for emissions-free flight. We are driving climate action in air transport with our innovative and low-emission propulsion concepts. A prime example is the PW1100G-JM geared turbofan for the 2 emissions by 16%. Aviation is an important backbone of the economy. It ensures worldwide mobility, contributes to growth and prosperity it. However, flying has an impact on the environment and in particular on the climate and has recently seen strong growth rates. This is a major challenge that we are addressing as a responsible company: we are actively involved in shaping the change towards sustainable aviation with innovative, low-emission propulsion concepts. Our activities focus on climate action and the reduction of in-flight CO 2 emissions, with the ultimate goal of achieving fully emissions-free aviation. The only way we can do this is if the entire industry pulls together and policymakers implement the appropriate framework. For that reason, we are involved in numerous aviation initiatives. 54 Product stewardship Our contribution to the SDGs beyond, as aviation is characterized by very long development and operating cycles. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs Pioneering: Our approach to climate action We are working on solutions to make flying more environmentally friendly, with a focus on reducing fuel consumption and hence the CO 2 emissions of engines. Given our expertise in the development and manufacture of high-pressure compressors and low-pressure turbines, this is something we can directly influence. We are also conducting research into new propulsion concepts that will pave the way for aviation to become emissions-free. Sustainable product development with reduced fuel consumption is contained in the MTU Principles. We have also formulated guidelines on product development according to environmental criteria in our MTU Code of Conduct. Fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions are directly proportional and are a major factor in how aviation affects the climate. This is why improving fuel efficiency is very important to us, as it reduces both resource consumption and the impact on the climate. In addition, the use of alternative fuels, known as sustainable aviation fuels (SAFs), can significantly reduce CO 2 emissions both from the aircraft fleet already in service and from our new engines. This is why we are calling for the use of SAFs. They are absolutely essential for climate-friendly aviation. Our vision: Emissions-free flight. this way will we be able to help achieve the goal of limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius, as set out in the Paris Agreement. 55 Product stewardship We are committed to meeting the goal set out in the Paris Agreement of 2015 of limiting global warming to less than Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA) the worldwide targets set out by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) to long-term emissions-free aviation. We are currently revising our Clean Air Engine agenda to redefine targets and ensure we help achieve the overarching Paris target. We have a climate strategy and are pursuing a clear goal Climate change is one of the greatest global challenges of our time. There is broad consensus in society on limiting climate change to a maximum temperature increase of two degrees Celsius by 2050 (Paris target). To achieve this, global emissions of greenhouse gases must be drastically reduced. According to the International Energy Agency, global air traffic is responsible for some 2.7% of CO 2 emissions around the world (data from 2015). MTU has made climate action a key focus of its sustainability strategy and pursues specific goals, particularly for products, as the vast majority of CO 2 products. We actively support decarbonization, i.e. the shift to a long-term carbon-free economy, and include our own business activities in our climate action. Learn more about this commitment under Climate protection in production. The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports that the climate impact of air traffic is due mainly to CO 2 emissions, ozone production as a consequence of NO x (nitrogen oxide) emissions, and the formation of contrails and cirrus clouds. Since CO 2 emissions have the greatest effect on the climate, the greatest potential for us to have an impact lies in cutting down on this greenhouse gas by developing energy-efficient engines. New combustor concepts can significantly reduce NO x emissions, Since the combustor is not one of the components in our commercial aviation portfolio, we can make only an indirect contribution to avoiding nitrogen oxides by improving efficiency. Contrails and cirrus clouds also have an impact on the climate; they are generated under certain temperature and humidity conditions in the atmosphere triggered by particle and water emissions. Clever selection of flight routes and altitudes can greatly reduce contrails and cirrus clouds or even avoid them. Contrails can also be reduced with the help of sustainable fuels, developed by MTU promise major reductions in the long term, both in terms of NO x emissions and in the formation of contrails. 56 Product stewardship 3 million metric The first generation of the GTF Engine Family already powers 744 aircraft through the air, helping tons of reduce CO emissions by more than three million metric tons. (Source: CO2 The aviation industry is characterized by long product cycles, with aircraft engines as a rule spending 30 years in service before they are decommissioned. Goals to produce more eco-efficient engines must therefore have a long-term perspective and are established in memoranda of understanding by the aviation stakeholders (airlines, aviation industry, research, aviation authorities). In Europe, goals aimed at cutting fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions are defined in the SRIA since 2012. However, since these are not sufficient to meet the target set out in the Paris Agreement, we have undertaken to accelerate and broaden our activities in this regard. We believe that aviation must become emissions-free in the long term, which is why we are currently revising our Clean Air Engine agenda and the specific goals it pursues for We have already achieved a great deal: The geared turbofan engine With the first generation of the GTF Engine Family, which we are developing and manufacturing together with our partner Pratt & Whitney, we have not only achieved but in fact exceeded our first climate target of a 15% reduction in CO 2 emissions (16% for the PW1100G-JM that powers the A320neo, for example). Since 2016, this engine family has been successively introduced in various models for a total of five aircraft applications. With almost 10,000 orders and options, it has become a major business success and measurably reduces the burden on the environment: this first generation has already enabled airlines to avoid more than three million metric tons of CO 2 in flight. It also brings x emissions are 50% lower than those of its predecessor model. 57 Product stewardship Our Clean Air Engine agenda: Paving the way for emissions-free flight Following the promising launch of the new geared turbofan engine, we now want to reduce fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions even further. To achieve this, we are taking an evolutionary approach based on the geared turbofan, which still offers huge potential for improvement. In the next generation, we want to develop its technology and turn it into an ultra-high bypass engine. Running the new engines on sustainable fuels (SAFs) will largely avoid CO 2 emissions altogether. Our engineers are already busy working on preliminary designs and technologies for the new generation. Sky 2, we are driving development to get the engine ready for full-scale production; for example, we opened a new component test center at our headquarters in Munich in 2019 to test new materials and designs. This technology development work could be completed by 2027. We advocate the use of sustainable aviation fuels We believe they are indispensable in paving the way to climate-friendly aviation. The idea is to shift away from consuming fossil fuels and toward sustainable, renewable fuels. We are doing our part to ensure that this potential is harnessed for aviation. 2 emissions; our ultimate goal is to make aviation emissions-free. In our pursuit of this goal, we have completely new engine architectures hold great potential and open the door to emissions-free flight. We are pursuing several promising concepts, which our experts are already working on together with universities: one is known as the composite cycle concept, in which an additional piston compressor and piston engine significantly increase air compression. In turn, this further reduces fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions. The advantage of this approach is that the design of the aircraft would not have to be changed to accommodate such an engine. However, it brings with it another great challenge: the high pressure and temperature ratios in the engine increase NO x emissions. Another concept, the water-enhanced turbofan (WET engine), employs a heat exchanger to use the energy from the combustor for the turbine to generate additional power. A condenser is employed to obtain the requisite water from the consumption and CO 2 emissions by a large degree. In addition, it greatly limits the climate impact of contrails by largely eliminating emissions of water vapor. If this concept proves to be viable, there will be a further challenge to solve together with the aircraft manufacturer: how to integrate the required condenser into the aircraft. At the same time as developing these revolutionary new heat engines, we are pushing ahead with the development of electric propulsion systems. 58 Product stewardship Battery-electric or hybrid-electric propulsion systems? Both are conceivable things stand, however, battery-electric engines are not technically feasible for existing commercial passenger aircraft. capacity is still far too small to power commercial flights. But battery-electric flight is a viable option for air taxis carrying a small number of passengers over short distances. One possible concept for longer distances would be hybrid propulsion systems combining electric motors, generators, gas turbines and batteries. These open up completely new possibilities in aircraft design and propulsion technology systems, however, are the significant weight they add and energy conversion losses. We are participating in this future propulsion system through our stake in Silent Air Taxi, which was unveiled to the public in 2019 and is being developed A true alternative: Sustainable fuels Our position is clear: aviation must move away from the use of fossil fuels and tap far deeper into renewable energy sources. Because sustainable fuels have the potential to neutralize CO 2 emissions generated by aviation, they are an indispensable part of efforts to reach the target of the Paris Agreement. do this, for instance, through our involvement in the Bauhaus Luftfahrt think tank and the Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany (aireg), an association we set up together with airlines, manufacturers and research institutions. The first synthetic fuels have already been approved for flight operations, having successfully met the stringent quality modify the engine or aircraft. Currently, only biomass-based fuels are available in larger quantities. However, the inputs for their production would otherwise be used for food and these fuels are much more expensive than conventional kerosene. Experts believe that there is greater potential for non-biogenic processes, in other words for synfuels that are produced using renewable electricity or sunlight. There are two methods suitable for producing electricityand sunlight-based fuels: power-to-liquid (PtL) and sun-to-liquid (StL). However, the production processes for this artificial kerosene are not yet available on an industrial scale, which means the fuels are still very expensive; at the moment, they cost many times as much as standard kerosene. 59 Product stewardship Power-to-liquid is a pioneering process for generating kerosene from water and CO 2 The power-to-liquid processes uses renewable energy to produce hydrogen, synthesizes it with CO 2 to form hydrocarbons and processes these into a liquid fuel. Does the future belong to the fuel cell? One very promising propulsion concept is the hydrogen-powered fuel cell as an emerging technology for sustainable aviation. It emits nothing but water, paving the way for climate-neutral and pollutant-free flight. This concept uses hydrogen as its energy source and employs electric motors to drive the propulsors. Hydrogen has a very high energy the fuel cells available today are not suitable for use in larger aircraft. Nevertheless, in light of their potential, we are pursuing this concept as a long-term solution as part of our Claire Technology Agenda. 60 Product stewardship You can find this film at https://youtu.be/8t0q_S-e2o0 102-12, 103-2, 103-3, 201-2, 302-5, 305-3 7, 8, 9 Picture: www.airbus.com 8 Product stewardship Eco-efficient engines Aircraft noise As part of our sustainable product development, we are not only working on reducing fuel consumption and the climate impact of air traffic. Our Clean Air Engine agenda also focuses on reducing aircraft noise and sets out clear targets to this end. Flying as a whole is set to become significantly quieter, too. Powered by the geared turbofan from our Clean Air Engine agenda, the A320neo has reduced its noise footprint (propagation of aircraft noise in the airport area) by 75%. Further improvements are in the pipeline. We are committed to active environmental protection and determined to reduce aircraft noise. This is important because quiet propulsion concepts can improve the situation for residents living near airports, thereby promoting approach to climate action, we have established several pillars to anchor the issue of aircraft noise in the company. In our global Code of Conduct, we commit to climate protection and explicitly to reducing noise emissions from aircraft engines. We want to set standards in this area, and we have formulated our goal accordingly. The MTU Principles also 62 Product stewardship Our contribution to the SDGs noise levels improves the aviation infrastructure that is important for growth and prosperity while at the same time leading to lower levels of pollution for people living around airports. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs In contrast to CO 2 emissions, to receive certification from aviation authorities both aircraft and engines must meet noise limits set by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO); in the past, these limits have been successively tightened. Furthermore, at almost every airport in the world, the fees charged for takeoff and landing are dependent on the noise emissions of the aircraft model. How is aircraft noise generated? Aircraft noise is caused by both the engine and the aircraft itself. Noise during takeoff is largely down to the fan and engine airflow; during landing, the aircraft also adds to noise as a result of turbulence around the fuselage, wings and landing gear. In the certification of new aircraft models, noise is measured using a standardized process at three defined points and then cumulated. Aircraft noise has decreased continuously since the 1960s, by a total of about 17 EPNdB (effective perceived noise decibels) or about 70%. 63 Product stewardship Quieter flying: Our Clean Air Engine agenda provides answers in this area, too Climate & flying, but also targets for reducing aircraft noise emissions. Our project is in line with the European aviation industry and research Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda (SRIA), which calls for noise reductions of 55% by 2035 and 65% by 2050. With the first-generation geared turbofan, we have already significantly reduced aircraft noise emissions as part footprint (spread of aircraft noise near airports) of 75%. 65% less aircraft With our Clean Air Engine agenda, we have not only set ourselves targets for protecting the climate. We also want to gradually reduce aircraft noise In the next step, Claire Stage 2, improvements to the second-generation geared turbofan are set to reduce aircraft and engine noise emissions by 50% (base year 2000). To achieve this, the engine industry has developed the necessary fans with a low pressure ratio and low-noise low-pressure turbines as part of European research programs such as ENOVAL. 64 Product stewardship SRIA and Claire agenda targets for reducing noise emissions perceived noise decibels) are relative to the limits defined by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) (Stage 4). A reduction in noise emissions of 10 EPNdB corresponds to a 50% cut in perceived noise. In the third and final stage of Claire, noise emissions are set to be reduced by as much as 65% (base year 2000) thanks to new engine architectures such as integrated and distributed engines. Our engineers are currently working on various promising concepts for the future, and our acoustics experts are involved in our projects at every stage of product development, from technology management to subsequent engine design and optimization. 102-12, 103-2, 103-3 7,8,9 Picture: www.airbus.com 65 Product stewardship Sustainable innovations Research and development innovation that keep us in this top position. With our comprehensive research and development activities, we want to implement innovative and sustainable solutions that strengthen our our customers, employees and shareholders. We bring together smart minds and a whole host of experts who are working on the solutions of tomorrow. Our engineers are also focusing their attention on emissions-free flight. We are committed to the principle of integrated environmental protection, which takes a precautionary approach to how applies above all to our research and development work. In the technology and innovation process, our experts investigate environmental and societal driving forces for aviation and take them into account when defining MTU concepts and targets. We receive input for our analyses and stakeholder expectations through various channels as part of our stakeholder dialogue, which we conduct on an ongoing basis with all stakeholders. More information about Stakeholder dialogue 66 Product stewardship Our contribution to the SDGs Our sustainable product solutions for aviation generate added value for our customers and for society. In this way, we 2030. We conduct intensive research and development work with numerous specialists in the company and in collaboration with universities and research institutions. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs An Innovation Board regularly discusses all topics related to technology and innovation and initiates technology projects and studies. The Technology steering committee, of which the Chief Operating and Chief Program Officers are also Climate action and Aircraft noise) and receives regular updates on progress and the course of the projects. MTU manages its product development in a multistage technology and innovation process. Short-term product development is oriented toward concrete customer specifications on the basis of existing technologies. In the medium term (up to 15 years), we will create advanced product designs and derive technology requirements from them. And over the long term (up to 2050), our engineers will use a technology radar to develop pilot concepts and initiate the development of enabling technologies. The basis of this technology process is our culture of innovation, which we cultivate with a variety of initiatives. These include a Group-wide innovation management concept, the Inno Lab and Ideation Challenges through which we gather and evaluate ideas from employees related to a specific field of innovation. 67 Product stewardship the Inno Lab at MTU, on the global search for technology trends and the significance of a company culture that Read the interview here We stepped up our investment in clean technologies in the reporting year: in 2019, we invested EUR 214.3 million (2018: EUR 201.2 million) in research and development. R&D as a proportion of revenue was 4.6% (2018: 4.4%). A large portion of research and development spending goes toward improving the environmental sustainability of aircraft engines (lower fuel consumption, weight reduction, lower CO 2 emissions, noise reduction). MTU employs almost 1,300 engineering specialists around the world. Our teams bring together bright minds from fields as diverse as acoustics, fuel cells, 3D printing and bionicss. Our intellectual property management system ensures that we protect our extensive technological expertise A large portion of our research and development spending, which amounts to EUR 214.3 million, goes toward improving our environmental 214.3 sustainability of aircraft engines. We currently have around 150 technology projects in the research million euros pipeline. 68 Product stewardship We have an extensive network maintain a network of some 100 universities, research institutions, and companies around the world network. MTU is involved in all major national and European research programs that push the development of ecologically efficient engine technologies for aviation. These programs bring together researchers from a wide range of manufacturers and universities. 100 research We have access to a strong network of universities, research institutions and companies and participate in important aviation research partners programs. In addition, we cooperate directly with numerous universities and research institutions and maintain several centers of competence at selected German universities, which are devoted to specific research topics. There is more information Corporate social responsibility 102-12, 102-43, 103-2, 103-3 7, 8, 9 69 Value creation Sustainable production As a manufacturing company, we face the challenges of climate change and resource conservation. With our environmental management system, we aim to develop, manufacture and maintain engines and modules in a way that is as energy-efficient as possible and minimizes emissions and raw material consumption. We view environmental and climate protection as our corporate responsibility. That applies not only to our manufacturing operations, but also to our products and services. We include the upstream supply chain in a sustainable process of creating value. 11.6 448,000 million euros spent on metric tons of C02 saved climate protection for our Munich location Environmental management Conservation of resources Emissions Supply chain Value creation Climate protection in production & maintenance Environmental management Climate protection is an important maxim guiding how we do business. At all MTU sites around the globe, we aim to be efficient in our use of energy and resources, limit our emissions and avoid environmental risks. We strive for continuous improvement in all these areas. We ensure compliance with statutory requirements and internal standards through regular measurements and tests, for example on environmental samples. Climate protection is an important principle guiding our corporate behavior and is implemented in our business processes. It is also enshrined in the global Code of Conduct policy of integrated environmental protection that starts at the causes of pollution and evaluates the environmental impact of our production processes and products in advance. We integrate insights from this into corporate decisions. We apply the precautionary principle so as to keep negative environmental impact to a minimum. The most significant way we can help protect the climate is by means of ecologically efficient products, as the environmental impact (energy consumption and CO 2 emissions) of our products is greatest during their use. Climate & flying Integrated environmental protection covers: Making continuous improvements Precautionary principle Involving employees Limiting environmental impact Carefully complying with statutory limits and requirements Using resources and energy sparingly 70 Value creation We spent around EUR 11.6 million 11.6 on climate protection in 2019; investments into improving the environmental compatibility of our sites accounted for around half of million euros this amount. Furthermore, we have embedded our environmental responsibility in the MTU Principles in the section entitled 2019. Responsibility for company-wide climate protection is assumed by the Executive Board. Uniform high standards are applied across the MTU Group through an environmental management system that defines processes, responsibilities and targets at the site level. Environmental protection is part of our Integrated management system (IMS) environmental criteria apply to all divisions and processes and are laid down in documented process flows and special company standards. Minimum operating standards for our machines and facilities, such as engine test cells, are stipulated by national legislation and local specifications. For machines and facilities with environmental implications, this body of rules and regulations is supplemented by approval from the authorities. We conduct measurements, tests and inspections at regular intervals to ensure our machines and facilities are operating invariably in accordance with these rules and regulations. environmental department and take care of implementing measures on a local level. The Executive Board receives a sites. As of 2020, we have now switched this internal reporting metric to CO 2 emissions per production hour. Individual site managers are directly responsible for climate protection; they receive advice and support from the local environmental departments. The environmental departments regularly share their innovations and best practices with each other. We regularly train employees on matters relevant to the environment, such as the safe handling of hazardous goods or chemicals. Some of our sites are certified to ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management systems, and/ or to the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). Overview of our certifications structures at our Munich site with an ISO 50001 energy management system, as we have done in Hannover. 71 Value creation Our contribution to the SDGs Through our environmental management system, we continually improve energy and resource efficiency and minimize emissions of CO 2 and pollutants in production and maintenance. In this way, we meet the expectations of our Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs We use various measures to achieve improvements in our energy and carbon footprints. In the reporting year, we spent some EUR 11.6 million in total on investments and ongoing expenses in a bid to increase our environmental compatibility. These include, for example, wastewater treatment, safe waste disposal, use of renewable energies, investment in environmental protection. We have our environmental management system regularly reviewed Our goal is to constantly develop and refine our operational climate protection measures. Independent external auditors and environmental consultants conduct annual reviews at our German sites to confirm our implementation of and adherence to the applicable climate protection management requirements, and provide recommendations for improvement. We always pass these reviews with flying colors. This monitoring is supplemented by internal inspections steer environmental management in the company and to influence its further development. Emergency management plans have been prepared to deal with interruptions to operations with a negative environmental impact, and a crisis committee has been set up. We also hold regular staff drills and provide instructions on what to do in the event of an emergency. MTU has comprehensive fire protection measures in place that comply with legal directives. In 2019 as in previous years, there were no incidents at the production sites with a negative environmental impact, nor were any fines levied against the company for breaches of statutory requirements relating to the environment. No nonmonetary sanctions were brought against MTU. 72 Value creation Climate protection in dialogue with stakeholders available media channels to direct complaints and report abuses to us, which we will immediately follow up. This applies to employees, suppliers, residents and other stakeholders. In the reporting year, we received a complaint at our Hannover location from an industrial neighbor regarding an unpleasant odor and vibrations from the test stand. We responded to this by taking successful countermeasures. Stakeholders can consult environmental officers at the provide information to the public annually about our environmental impact and environmental management. In addition, we offer stakeholders the opportunity to to give feedback. We are a member of the Climate Management 2.0 Peer Learning Group in the German network. In this group, we share experiences with other companies and work together to develop solutions to the major climate action challenges. We promote greater climate protection in industry and business through the following global and local initiatives: UN Global Compact Been-i Bavarian energy-efficiency network Munich Business Climate Pact (Klimapakt Münchner Wirtschaft) We involve our employees in active environmental protection endeavors and promote environmentally conscious behavior through awareness events, information campaigns and training courses at all our production sites. Raising the awareness of all employees in production and administration is part of our Code of Conduct regarding climate protection. At our Munich headquarters, we want the Zero mission to reduce resource consumption and emissions and promote environmentally conscious behavior among our employees. All fully consolidated production sites of the MTU Group worldwide (Munich, Hannover, Ludwigsfelde, Rzeszów and Vancouver) are included in our environmental reporting for this Sustainability Report. By comparison, smaller sites are not relevant for our environmental impact and are therefore not included. 73 Value creation Outlook In 2019, we analyzed new concepts for climate action at several of our sites, the evaluation of which is still ongoing at the time of writing. Potential implementation of such a concept at the site or group level is therefore still to be determined. In line with the Zero vision from our eponymous Zero mission, we are also setting up a new environmental program for 7, 8 74 Value creation Responsible conduct Conservation of resources When producing engine modules or engines in our plants, or when maintaining them in our maintenance shops, we aim to conserve resources as far as possible. Using processes that are efficient in terms of energy and raw materials, we aim to minimize consumption of scarce resources and reduce emissions. In this way, we are able to contribute to climate action and protection. We release rainwater from our shops and a small part of the groundwater we obtain into the stream in accordance with our permit from the authorities. With the help of our environmental management system, we aim to advance our resource-conserving production processes, and gradually improve energy efficiency in the manufacture of our products and in the maintenance of engines and modules. Our goal is highly efficient production and maintenance with minimal use of resources. We use raw materials, water and energy sparingly. This is set out as a guideline for all employees in our Code of Conduct and our MTU Principles. Conserving resources is also a way for us to reduce our production costs. The use of resources depends on batch sizes in production and maintenance. In 2019 we were again ramping up production at all sites, which poses a particular challenge for us when it comes to reducing or consumption or resources and energy. 75 Value creation Our contribution to the SDGs In making our process as resource-conserving as possible, we support two global Sustainable Development Goals A secondary objective of SDG 9 calls for sustainable industry with more efficient use of resources and increased use of environmentally friendly technologies and industrial processes. Our sustainable waste management system contributes in particular to SDG 12, which calls for a significant reduction in global waste generation by 2030. All the measures we take to protect resources, reduce our energy requirements, and above all use renewable energies, ultimately also Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs Energy MTU relies on a mix of renewable and non-renewable energy sources and chooses energy resources based on security of supply, cost effectiveness and environmental considerations. Regarding non-renewable primary energy, we use natural gas, the aviation fuel kerosene and a very small amount of diesel and heating oil (together accounting for less than 5%). In Munich, we generate electricity and heat using a cogeneration plant (BHKW). Compared to conventional power plants, cogeneration plants are much more efficient and emit less pollution. In addition, we use biomethane for the BHKW. The Hannover site makes use of solar energy with the aid of a solar thermal power plant and, in 2019, commissioned a BHKW cogeneration plant comprising three micro gas turbines for generating electricity and heat. We also achieve greater energy efficiency by having the sites use waste heat from compressed air generation as thermal energy (combination principle). In the reporting year, we invested some EUR 1.4 million in energy-saving measures. The main driver of these measures was a renovation of the facade to make it more energy-efficient and a switch to high-efficiency pumps in Hannover. 76 Value creation Scope 1 and 2 (consumption in MWh; share in %) GRI 302-1 Production sites only Measures for energy-efficient production/maintenance Well water for cooling purposes District heating network modernization Improvements to thermal insulation Building automation systems Heat recovery systems Renewable energy Energy-efficient compressed air supply Energy-efficient lighting systems Waste heat from compressed air generation Electric transport in the plants Machine shutdowns during disruptions of production to reduce the base load 77 Value creation Our energy consumption megawatt hours (MWh) compared with 162,200 MWh for 2018 (+3.9%). Scope 1 primarily concerns the energy sources natural gas and kerosene. Kerosene is used as a fuel for testing engines on the test stand, so consumption depends on how extensive the tests are and on engine size. MTU has no influence on the type and duration of test runs. All newly maintained as well as manufactured engines must complete a test run prior to delivery for safety reasons and to demonstrate their performance. Our digitalization strategy is making strides toward increasing the use of simulations in development and manufacturing in order to reduce the amount of development testing for new engines. To this end, a number of projects in the area of development and technology are already underway. This is an important contributor to resource conservation. Regarding renewable energy, we used 20,800 MWh of biomethane for our cogeneration plant, a slightly larger share than in the previous year (2018: 18,100 MWh). In 2019, we procured a total of 129,000 MWh of external energy (Scope 2), somewhat more than in the previous year (2018: 125,600 MWh). Purchased energy is mainly electricity, with a share of 96.3%. Our use of green electricity is determined by the extent to which our chosen suppliers feed it into the grid. Our selection is based on economic and environmental considerations. MTU Maintenance Canada gets all its electricity from hydroelectric power stations and procurement. Energy supply, production, Scope 1 and 2 (in MWh) GRI 302-1 2019 2018 2017 Total 297,600 287,800 277,600 Direct energy consumption, natural gas, kerosene, 168,600 162,200 151,100 other = Scope 1 Indirect energy consumption, electricity, district 129,000 125,600 126,500 heating = Scope 2 Covered by Scope 1: non-fossil fuels = biomethane 20,800 18,100 Production sites only; the vegetable-oil-powered BHKW was decommissioned in 2017 and a new facility powered by biomethane went into operation in 2018. The total energy requirement for Scope 1 and 2 was 297,600 MWh in 2019, which, even with the production ramp-up, primarily the consumption of our main energy sources electricity and natural gas and implement improvements. 78 Value creation Our progress in energy management in 2019 Renovation of lighting in several production facilities, Munich Switch to LED lighting, several production sites An end to computers in stand-by mode, Munich, Vancouver Switch from pneumatic tools to electrically operated tools, Ludwigsfelde Renewal of pumps and systems, renovation of facade and roof, Hannover Preparations underway to recover compressor heat to use for heating rooms, Rzeszów Remote working from home, Munich, Vancouver Water Water is a valuable resource that we use sparingly. We have effective water management systems in place at all production sites. Our water consumption also fluctuates depending on production volumes. In keeping with the precautionary principle, we treat wastewater properly and in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. One of the aims of the Zero mission at our Munich site is to decrease water consumption overall (absolute reduction) or, when production increases, to keep the increase in water consumption at a lower rate (relative reduction). In 2019, we invested some EUR 1.1 million in improved wastewater management. Our fully consolidated production sites are in Germany, Poland and Canada, so they are not located in water-stressed regions as determined by the or low/medium). Water-stressed regions are regions in which water is a scarce resource. We monitor the development of water availability in the regions in which we operate, which allows us to make decisions about additional measures to take, if required. Our water consumption We use drinking water for production and maintenance processes, in sanitary facilities and in the cafeteria. In addition, we use well water for cooling processes. We record water consumption locally as an absolute value. Water withdrawal amounted to around 9.7 million cubic meters for all production sites (2018: 8.7 million m 3 ). The higher water usage figure is due primarily to more groundwater at the Munich site (where we use Quaternary groundwater from our own wells). The water used was 97.9% groundwater and only 2.1% came from the municipal drinking water supply. Using well water contributes to climate action and protection, as it eliminates the need for energy-intensive cooling processes such as compressor cooling systems. 79 Value creation We use recirculated water as much as possible in chemical process baths for applying protective coatings to blades and also for the process water in installations for testing component damage. Thanks to this recirculation, we have to treat only a small amount of wastewater before discharging it into the municipal sewers. This enabled us to save around 614,000 m 3 of water in the reporting year. We also use recycled water for the chemical cleaning of engine parts. Our sustainable water management also includes systematic inspection and renovation of the well water and sewer networks. Water balance (in m3 ) GRI GRI 303-3-303-5 2019 2018 2017 Total 9,691,000 8,682,000 8,820,000 Intake Potable water 204,000 186,000 173,000 Groundwater 9,487,000 8,496,000 8,647,000 Total 9,652,000 9,176,000 9,018,000 Discharge Sewer system 133,000 140,000 132,000 Surface water 1,634,000 1,519,000 1,290,000 Groundwater 7,885,000 7,517,000 7,596,000 Production sites only; no water withdrawal or discharge in water stress areas; data presented in line with official wastewater and well reports and may deviate from previous publications. At the Munich site, a small proportion of the well water and some of the rain water collected from the roofs is discharged as surface water via the Schwabenbächle stream. Rainwater is discharged into the municipal sewer system only in the event of heavy rainfall. As a result, the sum of the volume discharged into groundwater and surface water may not correspond to the volume withdrawn. Water quality We treat wastewater in suitable sewage systems according to the type and extent of pollution. The quality of the discharged wastewater complies with the official requirements issued for the respective sites. We carry out strict monitoring at the sites to ensure that legal limits are observed and comply 100% with all local authority requirements. Neither water sources nor water surfaces were negatively impacted or polluted by our operating activities, and again no harmful substances were leaked in 2019. This also applies to our site in Canada in particular, which is located directly on Sea Island in the Fraser River estuary in Richmond, British Columbia. The surrounding nature conservation areas are crucial for salmon migration and the Pacific route of migratory birds. 80 Value creation Material and waste The long service life of our products and the continuous improvement of our maintenance processes ensure our demand for raw materials is reduced. Aircraft engines as a rule spend 30 years in service before they are decommissioned. In all of our production methods, we pay attention to efficiency in the use of materials and seek to avoid waste. We develop our own production and repair methods that are characterized by their high material aircraft engine repair. Using special techniques the company has developed in-house, we repair engine components that in other maintenance shops would have to be replaced with new parts. For example, we manage to give around 70% of all engine blades a second, third or even fourth lease on life. We are gradually expanding this product recycling approach to include new processes with an eye to achieving even longer service lives and thus greater material efficiency. For instance, in the case of life-limited parts, we have succeeded in repairing integrally manufactured engine We have abolished single-use cups at our Munich and Hannover sites and replaced them with returnable or deposit cups. This means we already fewer singleavoid using 400,000 single-use cups per year; our site in Ludwigsfelde use cups also plans to make the switch. We achieve greater material efficiency in the production of new parts by using additive processes such as 3D printing of metals. This manufacturing technology enables the rapid 3D production of highly complex components and allows for just 5-10% of the powder ending up as excess material that cannot be used. This significantly reduces the amount of resources used. 81 Value creation Harmless materials: REACh regulation Wherever possible, we avoid using materials that are hazardous to the environment or to health in our manufacturing processes and products. According to the European REACh (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) regulation, certain substances of very high concern (SVHCs) containing chromium(VI) are subject to authorization. We implement all provisions of the EU regulation for protecting employees and the environment. We use the REACh-listed material chromium trioxide for wear and corrosion protection. The European Chemicals Agency EChA authorized MTU to continue its use in several of our processes until 2029 on the basis of the extremely safe workplace standards in our surface coating activities. At the same time, we are pushing ahead with the long-term elimination of SVHCs that require authorization. Two technology projects are currently underway with which we are looking for (registration, authorization, etc.) via the General Terms and Conditions of Purchase if they use REACh substances in their auxiliary or operating materials. Our material consumption The consumption of production materials (alloys, spray powder and steel) amounted to 4,340 metric tons in the past financial year, while the quantity of consumables and supplies was 10,080 metric tons. In total, we needed 16,030 metric tons of materials in 2019, slightly up from the previous year (15,110 metric tons) due above all to a greater requirement for production materials as a result of the ramp-up. Of this total, 10% were made from renewable materials. As part of our Zero mission in Munich, we switched to recycled paper for all printers in 2019, which meant that we were able to obtain just under 1% of our material from recycled sources. Material consumption (in tons) GRI 301-1 2019 2018 2017 Total 16,030 15,110 12,490 Production material 4,340 3,760 2,520 Consumables and 10,080 10,030 8,920 supplies Other materials 1,610 1,320 1,050 Externally sourced material for production sites; production material comprises titanium and nickel alloys and spray powder; consumables and supplies include oils, cooling lubricants, chemicals, lubricants, gases and kerosene and diesel used as fuel; the other material comprises paper, cardboard packaging and wooden pallets and boxes. For the period mentioned above, we compiled our material consumption according to new parameters. As a result, it may deviate from earlier data published for the Our products require the use of materials that are classified as conflict minerals due to their possible origin in Central Africa and can be problematic with regard to human rights violations. Rather than procuring these mineral raw materials directly, we have implemented appropriate processes in our supplier management in order to comply with our human More information about Human rights 82 Value creation Waste management MTU practices sustainable waste management with the safe disposal of waste sorted according to waste type and recycling process. First and foremost, we try to avoid waste, reuse leftover materials and use waste either for its materials or as energy; if recycling is not possible, waste is disposed of properly. In this way, we seek to minimize material consumption and waste disposal volumes. This is how we achieve high recycling rates over the years. We have abolished single-use drinks cups at our Munich and Hannover sites and replaced them with returnable or deposit cups. cease using single-use cups. Waste footprint (in t) GRI 306-2 2019 2018 2017 Total waste 8,370 8,010 7,100 Recycled 7,320 7,060 6,210 Disposed of 1,050 950 890 Share of hazardous waste 3,440 3,290 3,010 Recycled 2,590 2,440 2,210 Disposed of 850 850 800 Production sites only; not including construction waste Total waste generation in 2019 amounted to 8,370 metric tons and increased only marginally year on year (+4.5%). Measured against that total, the MTU Group achieved an overall recycling rate of 87.5%. The amount of waste produced and recycling routes depend primarily on production capacity utilization. The share of hazardous waste in the reporting period was 41.1%. In 2019 as in 2018, no soil contamination was found at MTU sites that resulted from the leakage of hazardous materials or pollutants. 103-2, 103-3, 301-1, 301-3, 302-1, 302-4, 303-1, 303-3, 303-4, 303-5, 306-2, 306-3 7-9 83 Value creation Climate action at our sites Emissions We want to continuously reduce the greenhouse gas emissions and airborne pollutants resulting from development, manufacturing and maintenance work in our plants as a contribution to protecting the global climate and improving local air quality. Through numerous measures, we are making progress in these areas. We support e-mobility solutions: we have installed charging stations on our premises and introduced electric cars and hybrid vehicles to our fleets. We plan to expand the scope of our efforts in this regard in the future. The use of energy for manufacturing and maintenance in our plants results in emissions of greenhouse gases and airborne pollutants, which contribute to climate change. Additional greenhouse gas emissions occur in the upstream and downstream value chain. The greatest proportion of emissions with an effect on the climate occurs when our products are used. This is why CO 2 and pollutant emissions from our products are of greater relevance to us and form the focus of our sustainability strategy. For a detailed description of how we have used a technology agenda to set Climate & flying. We continuously assess greenhouse gas emissions related to the manufacture and maintenance of engines and modules at our plants according to the recognized international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. Our aim is to reduce as carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), methane (CH 4 ), nitrous oxide (N 2 O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulfur hexafluoride (SF 6 2 emissions are relevant for MTU. Our carbon footprint is made up of direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) from sources owned by the company and of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) that come from the consumption of bought-in electricity and district heating. Upstream and downstream CO 2 emissions, for example generated by suppliers or from business trips and transports in the external logistics chain, fall under Scope 3. 84 Value creation Our contribution to the SDGs manufacturing company in the face of global challenges such as climate change. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs CO 2 In 2019, MTU emitted a total of 78,800 metric tons (2018: 76,000 metric tons) of CO 2 , representing a slight increase in absolute CO 2 emissions of 3.7%. This is due primarily to a rise in Scope 1 CO 2 emissions at almost all sites resulting from higher production volumes. Our Scope 1 emissions are caused mainly by the use of natural gas (which accounts for 20.1% of the overall carbon footprint) and kerosene (also 20.1%); our natural gas requirements are dependent above all on production volume, our kerosene requirement on the type and duration of test runs. At 50.8%, use of electricity (Scope 2) makes up the largest share of CO 2 emissions. Scope 2 emissions have remained at a constant level over the last three years. Our specific CO 2 emissions amounted to 168 kilograms per production hour in 2019. CO2 emissions (in t CO2 equivalents) Scope 1 and 2 GRI 305-1, 305-2 2019 2018 2017 Total 78,800 76,000 74,400 Scope 1 38,200 36,500 34,000 Scope 2 40,600 39,500 40,400 Production sites only; emission factors according to the GHG Protocol with site-specific emission factors for Scope 2; figures reported here from previous years may therefore standardized emission factor for all companies that differs from our local emission factor. 2020. With the help of this program, we want to reduce the CO 2 (baseline year: 1990). And we aim to do so even though production has quadrupled over the past decade. In total, we have already saved some 448,000 metric tons of CO 2 . A new environmental program for the Munich site, with defined reduction targets up through 2022, is being planned. 85 Value creation 448,000 By the end of 2020, we want to metric tons of reduce CO 2 emissions at our Munich site by 25%. We have already saved CO2 almost half a million metric tons. Examples of CO 2 Using well water for cooling purposes: some 5,600 metric tons Turning machines off instead of putting them on standby: 770 metric tons Operating BHKW 2.0 cogeneration plant using biomethane: 6,500 metric tons Using micro gas turbines: 260 metric tons MTU is a member of the Munich Business Climate Pact (Klimapakt Münchner Wirtschaft), which entered its second 2 by 7,500 metric tons; now, we have set our sights on cutting a further 5,000 metric tons by 2021. As a manufacturing company, we believe we have a special duty here. This initiative was recognized by the German government as a particularly innovative energy efficiency network at the Hannover Messe 2019. In addition, our in-house Zero mission at our Munich site has launched various actions to minimize consumption and emissions. Electric driving for our transport solutions, and we also support employees in finding a more sustainable way to get to electric charging stations on our premises. international non-profit organization CDP and climate strategies on an annual basis. By participating, we aim to further improve the climate-related information about our carbon footprint and are currently examining how to communicate business-relevant climate risks and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We present our position on TCFD recommendations here. 86 Value creation Electromobility at MTU We also extend our climate action efforts to cover our transport and logistics chain. Measures include optimizing routes for in-plant transport and using vehicles with better environmental performance or electric motors to reduce fleet consumption. We reduce CO 2 emissions by, for example, setting an upper emission limit for our company vehicles or by using electric cars in our vehicle fleet. In Germany, we have a total of eight all-electric and two plug-in hybrid vehicles in use, representing 6% of the whole fleet. We expect to be able to increase that to at least 10% in 2020. We have installed eight normal charging stations, some of them in employee parking lots. By 2022, we aim to expand the network to as many as 15 charging stations for MTU and employee vehicles, and to offer rapid-charging stations as well. Furthermore, local public transportation network or web portals for carpooling. Last year, as part of our Zero mission, we conducted a survey of the 5,527 employees at the Munich site to find out about the transportation they use and sustainable alternatives. We are currently reviewing the results of the survey for potential solutions to put into practice. Emissions from the transport and logistics chain (excluding company vehicles) fall under Scope 3, for which we do not have complete data. The amount of CO 2 emissions caused by business trips (travel by aircraft, train or rental car) totaled 6,900 metric tons in 2019. CO2 emissions (in t CO2 equivalents) Scope 3 from business travel GRI 305-3 2019 2018 2017 Total 6,900 6,600 6,700 Emissions per employee 0.8 0.9 0.9 emission factors according to the GHG Protocol, historical values reported here may therefore deviate from earlier publications. 87 Value creation Airborne emissions The energy sources we use generate other airborne emissions aside from CO 2 emissions. The use of kerosene, natural gas, electricity and district heating from fossil fuels causes the emission of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide and dust. We aim to reduce these emissions as well. For example, generation of electricity and heat in the new BHKW cogeneration plant at the Munich site cuts emissions of nitrogen oxides by 80% and of carbon monoxide by 66% compared to its predecessor. Absolute emissions for 2019 totaled 266 metric tons, which, due to production activities, due to the use of kerosene in test runs. Airborne emissions (in tons) Scope 1 und 2 GRI 305-7 2019 2018 2017 Total 266 244 243 Carbon monoxide 42 38 40 (CO) Nitrogen oxide 184 167 162 (NOX listed as NO2 ) Sulfur dioxide 36 35 36 (SOX listed as SO2 ) Particulates 4 4 5 (dust) Production sites only; data newly recorded for the period detailed above, for which some emission factors were corrected. 88 Value creation Outlook In 2019, we analyzed new concepts for climate action at several of our sites, the evaluation of which is still ongoing at the time of writing. Potential implementation of such a concept at the site or group level is therefore still to be determined. It may also be possible to use sustainable aviation fuels across the Group, which would enable us to perform sustainable test runs on our test stands using climate-neutral fuels. We will continue to investigate the feasibility of this approach with regard to economical, technical and approval-related considerations. 102-3, 103-2, 103-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-7 7-9 89 Value creation Responsible sourcing Supplier management We work with numerous suppliers around the globe; they play a key role in our value creation. We have a shared goal: to work together as partners to achieve sustainable production. As a basis for this collaboration, we have defined the environmental and social criteria that are important to us. We procure components, goods and services for our production and maintenance activities from suppliers based all over the world. We integrate the global supply chain into our sustainability activities. The value added of an MTU product includes important pre-production stages at external suppliers. We seek to create reliable relationships with those suppliers based on mutual trust. In keeping with our claim of sustainable value creation and the expectations of our stakeholders, we uphold certain standards in purchasing. For us, the pursuit of sustainable supplier management (responsible sourcing) encompasses environmental and social aspects as well as transparency along the supply chain. Key sustainability requirements are mandatory for suppliers. We place the same standards as regards sustainability on the collaboration with our suppliers that we do on our own business activities. To a large manufacturer: OEM) and commercial maintenance (maintenance, repair and overhaul: MRO). However, they each have their own organizational units for sourcing production material. aspects on the supply step immediately upstream (tier 1). However, our direct suppliers are contractually obliged to ensure that their subcontractors also abide by our defined standards. In 2019, our sites worked with 6,253 suppliers around the world; our supplier base was smaller than in the previous year (2018: 6,983), especially regarding OEM suppliers from Germany. Europe is home to 82.9% of the suppliers, with 63.9% of the total number of suppliers located in Germany. 90 Value creation MTU suppliers 2019 by region (production and non-production material) Supplier base for production material and non-production material for OEM (new and spare parts) and MRO (commercial maintenance) segments EMEA = Europe (excluding Germany), the Middle East and Africa; Americas = North, Central and South America plus the Caribbean; Asia Pacific = East Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania; estimates for Vericor The purchasing volume for production material in the OEM business in 2019 ran to some EUR 611 million for the OEM business (2018: EUR 516 million) and to just under EUR 2.4 billion for MRO (2018: EUR 1.9 billion). In 2019, we purchased non-production material to the tune of EUR 720 million for OEM and MRO combined (2018: EUR 510 million). By and large, we were able to source production and non-production material for the OEM business at our own discretion. By contrast, MRO purchasing volume for spare parts and repair work is subject to strict requirements imposed by the relevant OEMs. As a result, MTU Maintenance has less room for maneuver in selecting suppliers. The sole exception is MTU Maintenance Lease Services (MLS) in Amsterdam. Measured by purchasing volume, the Western Europe and North American markets, which are so important generally for procure across the entire breadth of the supply chain, from blanks to finished parts. We always source castings and forgings externally, and the same goes for special materials for which MTU has not built up manufacturing expertise, such as electronic control systems. If possible, we source our supplies directly from the manufacturers of blanks or The measures we take regarding conflict minerals in raw material purchasing sourced parts lies between 52% (Poland) and 69% (Germany). 91 Value creation Purchasing volume 2019 by region (in EUR m) Purchasing volume for OEM (new and spare parts) and MRO (commercial maintenance) segments. EMEA = Europe (excluding Germany), the Middle East and Africa; Americas = North, Central and South America plus the Caribbean; Asia Pacific = East Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania; non-production material excluding Vericor; production material for Vericor estimated Local value creation is particularly important when purchasing non-production material and services, as is the wide variety of goods and services. We procure non-production materials predominantly in the countries in which we operate. The local proportion of the purchasing budget (production and non-production material) was 19.6% in Germany and 44.3% in Poland. Overall, MTU sourced 18.7% of its entire purchasing volume from local suppliers. Our contribution to the SDGs Through responsible supplier management, we can help achieve a number of the global Sustainable Development Goals. In particular, we view our commitment to fair, global supply chains for our products through compulsory social corporate social responsibility outside our factory walls. Through compliance requirements for suppliers, we support, for corruption and bribery worldwide. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs 92 Value creation Setting sustainable standards in purchasing We have established a binding Code of Conduct informed by the and contains the following social and environmental standards: respecting internationally recognized human rights core labor standards, protecting the environment and combating corruption. Each contract signed by a supplier includes the commitment to abide by these principles and to communicate them to subcontractors. The Code of Conduct applies to suppliers of the European manufacturing sites and of MTU Maintenance Canada and MTU Aero Conditions of Purchase also contain environmental, social and compliance stipulations. In our General Terms and When managing our suppliers, we place a particularly strong focus on safeguarding the respect of human rights. This Human rights and conflict minerals in the supply chain To raise awareness of sustainability standards in the supply chain, we regularly provide purchasers with training on professional compliance matters and on the MTU Code of Conduct prohibits corruption, bribery, the granting of undue advantage, and anti-competitive behavior. Our purchasers are also trained on the Code of Conduct for Suppliers. In addition, we offer special corporate responsibility training, including bespoke training for purchasers. Compliance Officer. Reports can also be submitted anonymously via the web-based iTrust system, which is available in several languages. Should a supplier be implicated in charges of corruption, extortion, the granting of undue advantage or the use of child labor in the execution of a contract for MTU, the collaboration agreement will be terminated without notice. If other principles of the Code are violated, the supplier must demonstrate that suitable corrective measures have been initiated and implemented and must guarantee this in writing. MTU reserves the right to carry out on-site audits to verify compliance with the Code of Conduct. No accusations of possible breaches of the Code of Conduct were reported or registered during the period under review. Nor were there any complaints about suppliers. Therefore in 2019, as in previous years, no supplier partnership was terminated because of sustainability deficiencies, confirmed cases of corruption or other complaints. Risk management and assessment We believe partnerships based on trust are key to sustainable supplier management. For this reason, we seek out longterm relationships with our suppliers. In the OEM business unit for aircraft engines, for example, a large proportion of the materials and services is based on contracts with a typical term of two or more years. Contractually agreed buffer inventories allow us to respond quickly to fluctuations in demand. In the reporting year, MTU worked with 1,407 new supply chain. This process includes a binding supplier disclosure and contractual undertaking to comply with the Code environmental aspects, we request proof of certification to standards such as ISO 14001. Using periodic evaluations, we regularly review existing suppliers, including with respect to their ISO 14001 certification. Once approved, suppliers must regularly demonstrate their ISO 9001 compliance for quality management via re-certifications. We present our analysis of risks relating to human rights in the supply chain in this report under Human rights develop this in the future. 93 Value creation Outlook Our plan is to integrate sustainability aspects into supplier audits for the OEM and MRO business. 1-5, 8 94 Employees and society Social responsibility We are a leading player in the aviation industry underpinned by a strong team. To bring out the best in our employees, we create a working environment that is attractive, sustainable and marked by a sense of responsibility. This includes flexible working arrangements, high-quality training and development and comprehensive occupational health and safety. Standardized leadership values provide guidance and create a leadership culture based on trust and support that promotes sustainable and innovative thinking. The cornerstone of our corporate social responsibility is exchange and cooperation with science and research. 5.4 million euros 4.4 accidents per for education 1,000 employees MTU as an employer Occupational safety Employee development Diversity & inclusion Corporate social responsibility Employees and society Responsible employment policy MTU as an employer We create an innovative and respectful working environment in which our employees can develop in the long term and deliver the best results for MTU. As an attractive and responsible employer, we also find the right people with exactly the right talent that we need. We are working on lots of exciting projects and tasks with which we are actively shaping the future of aviation. To do this, we rely on the expertise on the part of each and every one of us. We are a driver of technology in the high-tech sector of aviation and want to help shape key changes. Our capability to innovate and remain competitive is key to our existing and potential employees perceiving us as an attractive employer. We draw on a global workforce of motivated and highly qualified employees who pull together to tackle tasks and challenges. Thanks in particular to the ramp-up of new engine programs as well as to automation and digitalization at the company, we are increasingly needing to grow our team of highly skilled professionals. To ensure our continued success, we want to attract the most talented individuals to MTU and create a working environment in which all our employees can perform at their best. We foster this environment with our respectful and cooperative leadership culture in which we recognize strong performance, promote flexible and digital working arrangements and welcome feedback. We offer our employees opportunities for long-term personal development, embrace diversity and inclusion, and protect 95 Employees and society 10,660 The MTU family is growing: At the end of 2019, MTU employed more employees at people than ever before. 10,660 to be MTU previous year. corresponds to an increase of 9.5 percent. Our MTU family has been growing and growing since 2016. The number of of the total workforce is in Germany alone. The share of the workforce in North America was 6.8%. 92% of employment contracts were permanent in 2019. Total workforce at fully consolidated sites including apprentices, interns, thesis students and doctoral candidates, students and holiday staff, temporary part-time employees ventures in Europe and Asia are not fully consolidated and are therefore not included. Responsibility for employment issues lies with the Executive Board. The CEO is also the Director of Labor Relations. corporate strategy. It also assists in efforts to achieve these targets. The full Executive Board receives regular reports on human resources policy. Responsibility for successful implementation lies with local human resources departments and the respective technical departments and managers. 96 Employees and society Our contribution to the SDGs five years, MTU has created almost 1,400 new, high-quality jobs across the Group and is pursuing the overall goal of conducting sustainable business. For us, this also includes offering all employees fair and secure working conditions. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs We have a human resources strategy that we use to position MTU as a sustainable employer for existing and new employees alike. In 2019, we revised this strategy to further enhance the attractiveness and competitiveness of the company in the labor market. The aim of our efforts to further develop the stature of MTU as an employer is to secure the sustainability of our company, particularly to ease generational change at the German locations, and to utilize the potential of automation and digitalization for the ramp-up of the new engine programs. To this end, an internal team of experts has formulated specific goals to further enhance the MTU working environment and has drawn up fields of collaboration, modern HR tools and the acquisition of expertise required for the future. We have also introduced common leadership values and rolled them out across the Group in 2019: We transform, we empower, we create trust. These form the basis for a cooperative and coaching-oriented management style and collaboration that keeps MTU on the road to long-term success. 97 Employees and society Employee groups by region GRI 102-8 2019 2018 2017 Blue collar workers Germany 49.3% 49.4% 50.0% Rest of Europe 50.9% 51.5% 49.7% North America 49.1% 49.5% 47.9% White collar workers Germany 50.7% 50.6% 50.0% Rest of Europe 49.1% 48.5% 50.3% North America 50.9% 50.5% 52.1% Employees on temporary contracts 865 866 346 Germany 706 701 346 Rest of Europe 154 154 -North America 5 11 -Apprentices 293 306 298 Germany 280 279 287 Rest of Europe 0 0 0 North America 13 27 11 Temporary agency staff 395 514 579 Germany 395 513 539 Rest of Europe 0 1 40 North America 0 0 0 98 Employees and society Blue-collar and white-collar employee groups measured as a proportion of the active workforce (employees with permanent or fixed-term contracts, temporary part-time employees on parental leave, excluding students, interns, trainees/apprentices, short-term holiday workers, temporary workers and employees from external companies); we have been collecting data on employees on temporary contracts for all regions since 2018. Social working standards apply for all employees As an employer, MTU shows responsibility towards its employees by creating long-term, secure employment based on key principles of corporate social responsibility. These social and labor standards are defined in a Group-wide Code of Conduct and incorporate: Observance of human rights Equality of opportunity in the workplace Dealings with suppliers, customers and business partners in industrial relations Cooperation with employee representatives and labor unions Entitlement to appropriate remuneration Occupational health and safety Employee training and development MTU Code of Conduct Reporting procedures for suspected breaches of this Code of Conduct, statutory requirements, plus our internal Compliance Human rights the UN Global Compact, we are committed to observing its principles of respect for human rights and equal treatment in the workplace, and we undertake to implement fair working conditions in accordance with the International Labour core labor standards. employment contracts, we observe national statutory requirements as well as internal company agreements and notice periods as laid down by law. It is the duty of managers to ensure that company agreements are properly observed on a day-to-day basis in their areas of responsibility. In 2019, 98% of the people employed by the company in Germany were covered by collective agreements (e.g. collective bargaining agreements), a figure that stood at 85.7% worldwide in the same year. 99 Employees and society We welcome feedback and ideas from our employees The relationships we form with our employees are based on respect and trust and we take their concerns into account: works councils that maintain regular, open and trust-based dialogue with management. The German sites also have a employee representatives support the interests of the workforce in dealings with management. In addition, the interests of employees are represented on the Supervisory Board, where seats are filled on the basis of parity. We carry out an employee survey at regular intervals at all of our larger locations to provide important impetus for the ways to tap that potential. The next round of surveys is planned for 2021. Moreover, we have established further employee involvement forums at our sites around the world. These range from works meetings in Germany and townhall meetings in the United States to special instruments such as leadership feedback and team barometers. We use an idea management system to obtain and evaluate improvement suggestions from employees. Another way for employees to contribute is by submitting ideas for smart solutions as part of our regular Ideation Challenges. We take particularly promising suggestions and test their potential and feasibility in projects in our Inno Lab. In addition, in late 2019, we called on managers at certain hierarchical levels to work in interdisciplinary teams to develop a vision for MTU for 2040. upper-level management. We will again review all submissions and follow up on valuable impetus. Award-winning attractiveness as an employer In comparative analyses with other companies, MTU received several employer awards again in 2019. Certifications and rankings in 2019 TOP Employer Germany Top employer for training (MTU Maintenance Hannover) TOP Employer Poland TOP Employer British Columbia (Canada) Top Company and Open Company on Kununu 100 Employees and society The turnover rate remained at a low 3.4 % level again in 2019. Together, all the programs and measures we pursue help ensure that MTU remains an staff turnover We also regard our low staff turnover rate as yet another sign of high employee satisfaction. In the reporting year, this length of service with the company. In Germany, we achieve an average length of service of around 14 years. Staff turnover GRI 401-1 2019 2018 2017 No. of employees that left the company 289 313 281 Germany 192 228 186 Rest of Europe 37 39 39 North America 60 46 56 Turnover rate (%) 3.4 4.0 3.8 Germany 2.7 3.5 2.9 Rest of Europe 4.6 5.9 6.9 North America 8.9 7.6 9.9 report on new hires in the chapter on Diversity & inclusion 101 Employees and society We reward performance with attractive remuneration and additional offers For us, fair wages are part of an appreciative and respectful approach. The right to appropriate remuneration is one of receive competitive remuneration that reflects their performance, regardless of gender or other characteristics against which discrimination occurs. The remuneration of pay-scale employees in Germany is based on collective bargaining MTU applies a consistent methodology for evaluating performance at all levels of the hierarchy, from senior managers to employees included in collective bargaining agreements. The performance criteria are based on corporate, center or departmental objectives and are designed to measure how employees and managers contribute to reaching these objectives. Goal attainment is discussed during the year (milestone meeting) and at year-end (goal attainment meeting). All managers undergo performance reviews to evaluate achievement of their personal targets, and In 2019, 92.8% of all MTU employees worldwide received a regular appraisal of their performance (at least once a year). We offer a broad range of additional perquisites. In addition to the statutory obligations, in Germany these include accident insurance, profit-sharing, family-related services, mobility benefits, a healthcare service and training opportunities. The company has a pension scheme for all its employees, who can opt to top up the share contributed by the company themselves on a voluntary basis. This gives them the flexibility to manage their own pension funds as they see fit. At our international locations we offer a range of additional benefits such as private life insurance, health insurance and retirement planning support. 114 In addition to their salary, we offer our employees a wide range of social benefits such as a company pension scheme; in 2019, we invested EUR millon euros programs. We also offer an annual employee stock option program in Germany (participation rate in 2019: 2,517 employees). Some of our international locations offer their own long-term bonus schemes, as in Rzeszów (Poland), or award annual bonuses, as is the case in Vancouver (Canada). 102 Employees and society Enabling flexible and digital working At MTU, we believe in teamwork. We recognize the specific needs and various life phases of our employees and respond to these by providing various offers and opportunities for flexible working through a range of part-time models and mobile working arrangements. This way, we help achieve a better work-life balance. Part-time work increased in the reporting year, accounting for 7.4% of employment (data collected only in Germany, 2018: 6.8%). The number of employees on parental leave in Germany in 2019 rose to 395 (2018: 324). plan to enhance them with a social intranet. Using new digital communications channels, we aim to promote knowledge exchange throughout the company and bring employees from different areas into contact with one another. Alternative working arrangements (Germany) GRI 102-8, 401-3 2019 2018 2017 Part-time employees (in %) 7.4 6.8 6.6 Employees on parental leave, total 395 324 311 Employees on parental leave, female 143 127 128 Employees on parental leave, male 252 197 183 The right to parental leave in Germany is governed by the German Parental Allowances and Parental Leave Act, which applies to the entire workforce. The legislation Our initiatives include Flexible working hours and flextime accounts Wide variety of part-time working arrangements Educational leave Teleworking Sabbaticals Parental leave Job sharing Support for families (advice on arranging childcare, care services) Mobile working 103 Employees and society 3, 6 104 Employees and society Ensuring a high level of protection Occupational health and safety At MTU, our employees should have a safe and healthy environment in which to work. This forms a key part of our corporate social responsibility and is fundamental to our corporate success. High occupational safety standards and a company health management system lay the foundation for a capable workforce. We strive to develop and enhance our preventative occupational safety concept and employee health services on an ongoing basis. In 2019, we again achieved a high level of safety that exceeds the industry average by a significant margin. We strive to prevent health and safety risks to our employees. To achieve this, we take a whole range of precautions such as providing personal protective equipment. MTU places a great deal of importance on the safety of its employees. Occupational safety and employee health are Group-wide Code of Conduct Conduct as a mandatory minimum standard for all of our international subsidiaries. In addition, we have established an internal standard that lays down parameters, rules and KPI definitions applicable across all locations. A Group report is submitted to the Executive Board each quarter. Our occupational safety approach is not centralized, so all locations are responsible for implementing their own, which enables them to tailor it to their local needs and requirements. At the individual production sites, occupational safety is the responsibility of the site managers; occupational safety officers are appointed at the management level. Local technical departments take action on occupational safety issues on-site Canada is represented in locally organized occupational safety committees, the composition of which includes employee representatives. 105 Employees and society Our contribution to the SDGs and organizations to support safe working environments for all employees. We consider this SDG to be relevant for MTU because we can help achieve it directly by implementing strict occupational safety standards and ongoing preventative measures. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs Occupational safety forms part of our integrated management system (IMS) policy improved. At the European production sites, workplace regulations that are mandatory for all employees contain important safety rules pertaining to accident prevention, fire protection and what to do in the event of workplace or commuting accidents. The occupational safety management systems in place at the German sites are certified standard or the new ISO 45001 international standard for occupational health and safety management systems, to 4.4 accidents per That is far above the industry average. At 4.4 per 1,000 employees in 2019, the number of reportable accidents at MTU was significantly 1,000 below the metalworking industry average of 34 accidents per 1,000 employees employees. 106 Employees and society We strive to prevent health and safety risks to our employees and third parties. To this end, we regularly assess workspaces for any risks and hazards they present for employees. Where necessary, we implement appropriate measures to prevent or at the very least minimize potential stresses. That also applies to workspaces occupied by temporary workers. With the aim of permanently reducing the number of accidents and reaching a level of safety that aspires to prevent any accidents whatsoever, the local occupational safety officers record all accidents according to uniform criteria and investigate them together with the affected employees / temporary workers and their managers. Should the assessment reveal specific aspects pertaining to the cause of accidents, we will take further steps to increase safety precautions. In addition, the company has a system in place to record and evaluate near-misses at all production sites. We strongly encourage the workforce to report unsafe situations. Regular safety training for all employees and temporary workers is mandatory across the Group. We train all employees and temporary workers on health and safety matters specific to working life at MTU when they first start working at the company. In addition, managers receive repeated mandatory training on occupational safety. First-aiders are appointed and obligated to attend a refresher course every two years. The local technical departments carry out ongoing prevention work at the We achieve a high level of protection High standards in occupational safety across the Group were again one of our annual corporate objectives in 2019. In addition, accident-free and low-stress workspaces form part of our IMS policy. In addition, each year we define maximum tolerance thresholds at each location for category 4 reportable workplace accidents (accidents that entail more than three days lost), ranging from 0 to 10. Regrettably, we were not able to meet this threshold at two production sites. With 47 reportable workplace accidents entailing more than three days lost across the Group, 2019 increased number of accidents in the past financial year. Here, it should be noted that we employed more people across the Group than before. As in the previous year, the Group-wide accident rate was low in 2019 at 4.4 reportable workplace accidents per 1,000 employees (2018: 4.3). We have thus achieved a high level of safety compared to the of 34 accidents per 1,000 employees. As in previous years, there were no fatal accidents in 2019. We also record and analyze accidents involving temporary workers on our premises. Accidents among this group entailing more than three days lost dropped from 7 (2018) to 4 (2019). The accident rate (per thousand employees) has reduced from 5.5 to 3.6 as a result. 107 Employees and society Occupational safety GRI 403-9 2019 2018 2017 Reportable workplace accidents (more than three days 47 42 33 lost) Non-reportable workplace accidents 32 37 35 Non-reportable workplace accidents 21 12 20 (requiring medical attention) Fatal workplace accidents 0 0 0 Days lost as a result of reportable accident 1,226 922 486 Accident rate per 1,000 employees 4.4 4.3 3.7 Workplace accidents temporary workers 4 7 14 Fatal workplace accidents temporary workers 0 0 0 Accident statistics relate to total workforce at fully consolidated sites including apprentices, interns, thesis students, doctoral candidates, students and holiday staff, employees on fixed-term contracts, and marginal workers. Workplace accidents do not include any commuting accidents. The day of the accident does not count as a day lost. The marked increase in the number of days lost due to accidents is attributable to individual events involving particularly long absences. The total number of reportable workplace accidents in the Group is low. Analyses of accidents in 2019 show that the company has a very high level of technical and organizational safety with regard to its machines and equipment; accordingly, the accidents that arise tend to be related to behavior and less so to the operation of machines and equipment. We continue developing our safety culture We derive proactive measures from regular risk assessments, routine inspections of workstations, and audits in production and administration. These measures continue to focus on promoting safety-conscious working so as to continuously refine the safety culture. They include, for example, regular awareness campaigns at the individual sites: in Munich, for example, on forklift traffic on the premises, and in Hannover on the use of personal protective equipment. In 2019, we also placed a stronger focus on workplace ergonomics with better equipment and on further lowering 108 Employees and society ergonomic. In the redesign, we also furnished them with state-of-the-art suction devices, obviating the need for operators to wear protective masks. Outlook As a result of the greater number of days lost at the Munich site, we plan to launch a new occupational safety campaign to raise awareness of safe behavior in the workplace among production employees. In Hannover, we have started individual coaching sessions for shop foremen to support them in promoting safety-conscious behavior among their employees. We are continuing these measures in the offices. Moreover, we are currently revising our reporting of occupational safety incidents to the Executive Board in order to ensure that this topic gets even greater attention at the management level. We will also standardize our accident reporting for temporary workers across all sites. 109 Employees and society Health management Health is a key success factor when it comes to overcoming corporate challenges. The only way for MTU to retain its integrate health more strongly into our processes and structures as part of our company health management (BGM) system, especially considering demographic change and the digitalized world of work. For years now, ergonomics management in particular has been growing in importance at our German locations. Accordingly, we are taking a closer look at workstations in production and implementing ergonomic measures in Industry 4.0 processes In Germany, we again surveyed our employees about the services offered under our BGM system. The feedback shows In addition, compared to previous surveys, more employees stated that they had made use of the services (47% of the 2,500 respondents). In Germany, the health rate for the reporting period remained on a comparable level with the previous year at 94.4%.. Health rate 2019 2018 2017 Germany 94.4% 94.6% 94.6% medicine and are responsible for general preventive measures. These services are available to all employees and temporary workers. Counseling services offer employees and temporary workers support with performance and workrelated issues as well as mental health issues. In addition, all of our German locations offer supplementary in-house and external services. This includes in-house case managers, who provide advice for employees returning to work following a long absence, as a result of sickness or an accident for instance, to ensure that they get the best possible support with their reintegration. External providers offer a comprehensive support package for family-related matters. Additional benefits offered by MTU include fitness centers, which are run either in-house or by external partners, as well as physiotherapy, ergonomics training and on-site vibration training. Our employees outside of Germany can also take advantage of permanent health services. Employees in Vancouver, Canada have access to a free Employee Assistance Program. It offers a wide variety of support services on topics such as financial planning for healthcare costs, mental health, and personal or family counselling, as well as advice on equipping workspaces in a way that promotes good health. MTU Aero Engines North America offers its employees health and welfare benefits, including continued wages or salary for absences caused by illness or accidents as well as workplace reintegration. At our site in Rzeszów (Poland), the basic medical services on offer include a doctor who is onsite once a week, psychological support as needed, and sports club membership. 110 Employees and society Information about the coronavirus pandemic This sustainability report covers the 2019 financial year and is being published as the world fights against the coronavirus pandemic. People and companies are in a different situation today than they were in the reporting year. MTU is doing its part to help contain the pandemic and has taken numerous measures to protect its workforce. The current situation notwithstanding, we want to live up to our corporate social here. 103-2, 103-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-8, 403-9 111 Employees and society Promoting lifelong learning Employee development should be given every opportunity to give their best. In this time of societal change, we want to remain innovative and sustainable and have the right employees with the right skills in our ranks. That is why we promote lifelong learning in important phases of professional life and actively support our managers as they lead MTU to a successful future. We support our managers in their work with their teams to successfully transition MTU into the new decade and shape technological change. Innovative strength and competitiveness are key factors for success in the aviation industry. We firmly believe that continuous, intensive employee development is essential for MTU. This is why we are investing specifically in the training and development of our talent. In many areas in which we are active, aviation authorities prescribe additional qualification measures, such as mandatory training on human factors (failure through human error). The opportunities for personal and professional development of our employees also make us an attractive employer for new minds and our own talented individuals. In addition to industry-specific vocational training and dual courses of study aimed at building up knowledge over the Code of Conduct. Promoting vocational training opportunities and avenues for personal development for employees and managers is also enshrined in the MTU Principles and Group-wide HR strategy. In the reporting year, we signed off on a new human resources strategy, part of which is about helping us safeguarding our expertise, and building up future skills. The head of human resources is responsible for the training and development of employees Group-wide. The Executive Board receives an annual update on training indicators and discusses selected training initiatives. 112 Employees and society Our contribution to the SDGs time of digital change, we are giving our employees the chance to improve their sustainable skills. High-quality employee development featuring attractive training opportunities plays an important part in helping us make the most of the opportunities that digitalization presents to secure our long-term position as a technology leader. In addition, we contribute to the SDG by training young people in various professions. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs The huge significance of training and development is reflected in the scale of opportunities we offer and how much we invest in them. This is based on our Group-wide works agreement in Germany, which guarantees access to training for all employees and requires management to conduct an interview with each employee once a year to discuss their development opportunities (training interview). The directive applies to 83.8% of the total workforce. At our three sites in Germany, the works council is also involved in employee training in accordance with the German Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz) and has a say in the annual training and development program. International sites have their own regulations; at MTU Aero Engines North America, for example, each employee receives an annual development plan. That is how much we invested in employee training in 2019. To help our employees expand their 5.4 knowledge and skill sets, we offer virtual self-study courses, technical training and soft skills workshops. These offers are available to all million euros employees. A welcome-on-board program provides new employees with important information about working at MTU. In the spirit of life-long learning, we then continue to support them in widening their know-how and developing their potential. We establish training requirements annually in a standard process (training interview or divisional / company-level interviews). Employees evaluate training courses they have completed in a personal meeting with their manager, or in some cases via a feedback form. A training history documents completed training and development courses. Training officers can be consulted at any time for advice on needs-focused training. 113 Employees and society Digital learning worlds New learning techniques play a part in the digital transformation of the company. We make our development opportunities attractive and sustainable via an online learning portal, which we systematically feed with new content and formats. Since 2019, our employees in Germany have had the option of completing courses in English, and we have also set up an e-learning platform for our employees in Poland that offers web-based training in English and Polish. Another advantage is that employees can organize how to develop their know-how themselves, in consultation with their manager. Many employees are using our digital learning programs: 48% have already participated in online training. We are also seeing good participation from colleagues in manufacturing. In 2019, we continued our widespread investment in employee training. We invested EUR 5.4 million in training schemes Group-wide (2018: EUR 5.1 million). At 27,174, the total number of training days was slightly lower than in 2018, which is due to the increased use of short formats. On average, our employees each completed 2.5 days of training last year. At 16.1%, the proportion of women in training courses was somewhat higher than in 2018 and was above the Group-wide proportion of women of 14.7%. Employee training GRI 404-1 2019 2018 2017 Training days (total) 27,174 29,468 21,971 Training days per employee (Group-wide) 2.5 3 2.3 Training days according to employee category 3.2 (Germany) per manager Training per employee category (Germany) per 2.7 employee included in collective bargaining agreements Proportion of women in training courses (Group-wide) 16.1% 14.3% 13.6% Figures exclude Vericor (USA); we started recording training days by employee category in 2019 for Germany. 114 Employees and society We act according to consistent leadership values A focus in our employee development is on anchoring sustainable leadership skills in management. These skills will leadership behavior and an innovative corporate culture, we have established standardized, company-wide leadership values (we transform, we empower, we create trust). We introduced these in Germany in 2018 as part of a leadership spring 2019, we held launch events and related workshops to roll out our leadership values in Poland, the Netherlands and North America. The leadership values are thus now firmly established at all management levels in the Group. Under our corporate objectives for 2019, we resolved to see to it that the new leadership values are observed and that their effect on leadership culture is tangible in terms of performance. We are seeing positive signs that our leadership culture and create sustainable teams. Our multifaceted approach to training our managers We also offer development opportunities and programs across all hierarchical levels in order to identify and best cultivate new talent, while supporting our existing managers in their professional development. This involves not only a new Leadership Exploration Program for new managers, which was launched in 2019, but also a Development Center, which, by way of exercises and interviews, supports talented employees in honing their individual development plan for assuming a management position. These allow us to objectively evaluate talented individuals and promote their visibility throughout the company. Some 80% of new managers with leadership responsibilities appointed in 2019 had participated in Development Center activities. Specialist managers who are experts in their particular field but do not lead a team also receive assistance from a Development Center to prepare them for their role. In addition, every two years managers can take part in our International Leadership Program, which promotes a common understanding of leadership in a global corporate environment. A new round began in early 2019; participants included employees from our locations in Germany and abroad. Our programs We have numerous Group-wide initiatives that we use to develop our managers and support them both: Development centers Business Challenge Leadership Exploration Program Management transition coaching Building on Talent/International Building on Talent International Leadership Program We also offer programs for managers that are specific to the individual sites: Management development program, Ludwigsfelde (Germany) Management Growth, Rzeszów (Poland) Engineering Management (Shaping R&D Leadership), Rzeszów (Poland) 115 Employees and society Establishing and preserving valuable expertise Given the aging society in Germany, it is important for MTU to prepare to fill a large number of skilled and managerial positions over the coming decade. Our talent management approach also serves to ensure succession planning for graduates in areas in which too few potential managers work. A know-how buddy system and the exchange of expertise with the aid of knowledge maps help the company preserve valuable expertise and experience. At MTU Aero Engines North America, our U.S. engineering facility, we have a program for entry-level engineering graduates that rotates them through a variety of departments focusing on different areas of engineering. Moreover, we cover a certain portion of This location faces the special challenge of determining how to retain talented employees and help them grow. Award-winning work with young talent At MTU, training is a central component of securing promising young employees. We offer young people in Germany a solid grounding in ten different trades as part of a dual-track approach, while the places we offer for students taking dual courses of study offer different specializations. We pursue a holistic approach that goes beyond specialist topics to also cover social and ecological aspects, for instance through health and environment days or through corporate social . We are not alone in recognizing the high quality of the training we provide: In 2019, the Hannover Chamber of Industry and Commerce awarded MTU our Munich-based graduates were awarded the Bavarian State Prize by the Upper Bavarian government for their outstanding academic performance. They had trained to become qualified aircraft maintenance mechanics at MTU. of the total workforce (2018: 3.1%). As of the end of the year, MTU employed 293 apprentices. In addition, we offer practical courses of study in collaboration with selected vocational academies. New local training opportunities Also when it comes to establishing and expanding our locations, and the new appointments that come with that, it is essential to train our employees and provide them with a solid grounding in their field. In Hannover and Ludwigsfelde, metal workers seeking a lateral shift can gain additional qualifications and support our maintenance activities. In the course of the planned establishment of a new location in Eastern Europe, MTU Maintenance Serbia d.o.o, we signed a cooperation agreement with the Republic of Serbia. This agreement outlines the establishment of training for local aviation industry professionals following the dual-track system used in Germany. 116 Employees and society We get involved In an effort to attract potential recruits early on, numerous MTU sites take part in educational initiatives including: Training Night IdeenExpo science exhibition in Hannover Nature and Technology Days Teachers in Industry EUROTEC Jugend forscht contest for young researchers Komm, mach MINT! (a German STEM initiative) Business4School 103-2, 103-3, 404-1, 404-2 6 117 Employees and society Enabling equality of opportunity Diversity & inclusion Diversity makes us more successful and is therefore an integral part of our corporate culture. We consider a diverse workforce to be a real asset. Different ideas and experiences broaden our horizons and make us more flexible and innovative. At MTU, we are always working to increase diversity and inclusion, championing a culture of impartiality. We benefit from having a diverse workforce. Bringing different experiences, perspectives and employee backgrounds together in a team provides a springboard for the best ideas and concepts to emerge. MTU is actively committed to equality of opportunity and equal treatment of all employees and takes a clear stand against discrimination in the workplace. We have laid down these principles in our globally applicable Code of Conduct. We want to assign employees to positions in accordance with their skills, abilities and performance. Everyone has the Code of Conduct MTU Principles. We firmly believe that a diverse workforce bolsters our innovative capabilities and competitiveness. Given the high complexity of engineering projects, it is advantageous to have mixed teams. To ensure diversity and an inclusive working environment within the company, MTU embraces a corporate culture based on respect and appreciation that promotes fair and cooperative conduct. We have processes in place that allow These are laid out in detail in the chapter on human rights. 118 Employees and society As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, a unique sustainability initiative, we commit to preventing discrimination in the workplace. We are also committed to the following diversity and equality of opportunity initiatives: Charter of Diversity Munich Memorandum for Women in Management Komm, mach MINT! (a German STEM initiative) Our contribution to the SDGs the participation of employees with disabilities. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs We are committed to equality of leadership and gender We want to create a culture of innovation within the company, aided by the promotion of a diverse and international workforce. We attach particular importance in this context to gender diversity in order to make better use of all our potential in the face of societal change and better position the company for the future. We see fostering female talent that employer. It follows that one of our key goals is to increase the proportion of women in management positions to 13% by 2022 for all management levels in Germany except the Executive Board level. We are pursuing a separate goal for the Executive Board: by 2022 the number of female members is to reach 25%. The Supervisory Board already has two female members each from the employee and shareholder sides. 119 Employees and society 14.7% proportion of Upward trend: MTU employed more women last year and the share of management positions held by women increased to 11.5%. We want to further increase this share in the women future. The Executive Board is kept regularly informed about the fostering of female talent and the measures that have been initiated. In addition, it presents a report on equality at the works meeting at German locations once a year. In Germany, the works council is involved in decisions subject to co-determination, such as flexible working time rules. We also offer internal and external training opportunities in gender equality. The principal focus of our initiatives is to secure more female talent for the company and offer female employees greater support throughout their careers. A key part of this is our participation in mentoring programs, including: Cross-Mentoring Munich (a program organized by the City of Munich) Mentoring Program offered by the University of Stuttgart for Women in Studies and Research Accelerated Leadership Mentorship Program offered by the Women in Leadership Foundation, Canada Proportion of women GRI 102-8, 405-1 2019 2018 2017 Managers 11.5% 10.7% 10.3% Workforce 14.7% 14.4% 14.1% Germany 14.7% 14.2% 13.9% Rest of Europe 14.3% 15.3% 15.7% North America 15.1% 15.6% 14.4% Measured as a proportion of the active workforce (employees with permanent or fixed-term contracts, temporary part-time employees on parental leave, excluding students, interns, trainees/apprentices, short-term holiday workers, temporary workers and employees from external companies) and recorded at the end of each year; we do not have figures on the proportion of women by employee group. When it comes to the proportion of women in the workforce, we see an ongoing gentle upswing. The current share is 14.7 %. In 2019, we also succeeded in once again increasing the proportion of women in management (11.5%). We believe we are on course to achieve our goal of 13% women in management by 2022. 120 Employees and society We aim to take diversity aspects into account when filling new positions and selecting employees within MTU. In 2019, the proportion of women in the Development Center, a personal development program for talented employees with the potential to assume key roles, was 13.7% and thus greater than our current proportion of women in management positions. The share of new female employees across the workforce was 16.9%, slightly above the current rates for female employees in the workforce and in management positions. Women with a science or technical degree have excellent career opportunities. An interview with Dr. Mihaela Sorina Seitz, Senior Manager, Advanced Materials at MTU, on Read opportunities for women in business enterprises. In 2019, we once again achieved good results. Our placing sixth puts us among the best companies in Germany. Officer. This goes further than finding ways to better support female talent. It is also about having an interdisciplinary exchange and dialogue among employees and management with a view to identifying relevant pioneering topics and trends and developing suitable initiatives. In addition, we are a new project partner in Komm, mach MINT!, a German STEM initiative that aims to inspire more women to pursue qualifications and careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Programs and initiatives (internal and external) Talent Management Development centers Network of Engine Women Munich Memorandum for Women in Management Cross-Mentoring Munich (a program organized by the City of Munich) Women in Leadership Foundation Komm, mach MINT! (a German STEM initiative) 122 Employees and society We have a range of offers open to all employees to improve their work-life balance, including flexible working hours, services to assist families and mobile working opportunities Creating a working environment in which everyone can realize their potential As an early member of the Charter of Diversity, MTU has for years been committed to creating a working environment that is free from prejudice, one that recognizes and supports diverse potential. We want to be a positive example of diversity, create a culture of impartiality and ensure all employees have equal opportunities in the workplace. This approach is inclusive of employees who identify themselves as lesbian, gay, transgender or intersex. We embrace diversity and welcome all employees who wish to enhance the company. Individual talent should be able to unfold within a respectful and appreciative environment with an emphasis on solid performance and personal commitment. We support public initiatives to prevent bullying and discrimination, participating regularly in Pink Shirt Day in Canada, for instance. As part of our inclusion efforts, we recognize the importance of integrating employees with disabilities. In 2019, the proportion of our employees in Germany with disabilities was 5.1%, which meets statutory requirements. At our locations in Germany, we have elected representatives for employees with severe disabilities as well as dedicated inclusion officers who act as points of contact for issues relating to disability. New buildings at our locations, as the new We also believe in good relations between young and old, and we take age diversity into consideration in our company. We are meeting the challenges associated with the ageing workforce in Germany and the fact that people are working longer from career entry to retirement. To secure the long-term performance of our employees, we operate a company Occupational health and safety). Employees in every age group receive equal access to training and development. We offer a range of measures geared toward younger generations: Apprenticeships, trainee programs and development programs for high-potential employees ( Employee development). Age groups GRI 405-1 2019 2018 2017 < 30 years 18.2% 16.9% 14.9% 52.8% 52.4% 52.1% > 50 years 29.0% 30.7% 33.0% Measured as a proportion of the active workforce (employees with permanent or fixed-term contracts, temporary part-time employees on parental leave, excluding students, interns, trainees/apprentices, short-term holiday workers, temporary workers and employees from external companies) and recorded at the end of each year. In this time of demographic change, we have succeeded in increasing age diversity at MTU and achieving a greater age mix. The proportion of employees under 30 has risen from 14.9% (2017) to 18.2% in the reporting year. 123 Employees and society Cultural diversity provides us with opportunities As a globally active company, we consider internationalization to be a key indicator of diversity. Our engine business has a global outlook, and having an intercultural workforce helps us to be successful in different markets. A study by the Bertelsmann Stiftung (2018) innovative strength. As a long-established player in the industry, we have strong roots in Germany, but our character draws on a variety of cultural backgrounds. Employees of 55 different nationalities work together in Germany alone. In the face of rising xenophobia, we take an unambiguous position and call on our employees, for instance as part of International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, to take an active stand in favor of diversity and equality. Various activities (International Leadership Program, International Building on Talent) help us to enhance the international nature of our business. Find out more about our training programs 55 MTU is diverse: We have employees from 55 countries successfully working together in Germany and adding their individual cultural countries background to the mix. 6 125 Employees and society Strengthening local communities Corporate social responsibility In all that we do to contribute to social development, our focus is on research and education. As we drive aviation technology forward, we rely on a new generation of skilled employees and an innovative business environment. In addition, we support social projects that have a local impact close to our sites. qualifications, we place a focus on the development of methodological and social skills. wide variety of attractive jobs in a high-tech environment. This has a positive effect on the local employment situation, including in less economically successful regions such as Brandenburg, Germany. We also offer apprenticeships in various trades in Germany. We generally take a long-term approach to employment. In addition to training and developing our employees, we invest in the expansion of our plants, as we are currently doing in Munich, Ludwigsfelde, Hannover (Germany) and Rzeszów (Poland); in Serbia, we are planning to build a new repair shop. These investments strengthen the local economy and job market, and in turn have a positive effect on social aspects such as infrastructure and prosperity. We contribute to society through income tax, too. How we add value by steadily increasing shareholder value 126 Employees and society Our contribution to the SDGs engaged in increasing the number of girls and women who pursue scientific and technical careers, thus improving equality of opportunity. We create equal access to high-quality education irrespective of gender or other characteristics. Through intensive collaboration with universities and research institutions on increasing eco-efficiency in aviation, we enter into partnerships aimed at achieving the common goals of sustainable development. Such collaborations are highly important, especially when it comes to new, groundbreaking technologies such as electric flight. Learn more about our contribution to the SDGs Our corporate social responsibility As a company that engages heavily in research, our concept of corporate citizenship revolves around science and engineering initiatives. We seek out interaction and collaboration with the world of science and research and foster dialogue with young people and new talent. New cohort of aviation experts: We had almost 300 apprentices on board with us at MTU last year. They 293 complete a two-to-three-year dual-track system or an 18-month onthe-job training course at our site in apprentices We offer young people a solid grounding in various trades. In 2019, we had a total of 293 apprentices. That equates to 2.8% of the total Group-wide workforce. In Germany, where most of our apprenticeships take place, the share is 3.1%. Our integrated approach combines technical qualifications with methodological and social skills. It involves our apprentices in all aspects of the company, including health management, climate protection, social values and our noblame culture. At our planned new site in Serbia, we want to establish a local training program for aviation industry Stuttgart, Ravensburg and Berlin as well as with Baden-Wuerttemberg Cooperative State University to offer practical courses of study in business administration, information technology, mechanical engineering and business engineering. In addition, we participate in numerous educational projects and initiatives for children and young people ( Diversity & inclusion, 127 Employees and society Strong technology network Collaborating with universities and research institutions is a mainstay of our research and development work and a key part of fulfilling our responsibility to society. We have built strategic alliances with research partners to foster links between universities and industry and to safeguard our capacity for innovation. We run six scientific centers of competence at different universities across Germany, each with its own research focus. The German Aerospace Center (DLR) is building a test and simulation center for gas turbines in Augsburg, of which MTU will make intensive use. We want to use this center to validate numerical simulation processes (virtual engine) with experimental procedures in test cells in such a way that it is possible to draw up new designs in the future with considerably less testing. In addition, we co-founded Bauhaus Luftfahrt, a visionary think tank to address longer-term topics that pursues novel, unconventional, holistic and interdisciplinary research, bringing industry and science together under one roof. Among other things, the Bauhaus researchers devise visionary aircraft concepts and investigate ecological aspects and socio-political drivers in aviation. Collaboration with various Fraunhofer Institutes in Germany is With its broad spectrum of expertise, the Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft works on industry-related research contracts on our behalf. Our technology network We support the next generation of researchers and scientists We run a series of sponsorship schemes at the University of Stuttgart and DLR that support young researchers for a number of years after they finish their degrees, and we provide financial backing for a Deutschlandstipendium, or Technische Universität Braunschweig, we operate what is known as a maintenance laboratory to enable students to together with selected universities and colleges in their regions: MTU Aero Engines Polska has established an alliance with the Lezajsk Technical School, and MTU Aero Engines North America has a partnership with the CREC Aerospace Academy. Our engineering subsidiary in the USA also financially supports the Eurotech scholarship program at the University of Connecticut. Our long-term programs include a foundation through which we support highly talented young women studying scientific and technical disciplines. As well as providing financial grants, the offers personal advice and mentoring to help students get started with their careers. MTU research experts give regular presentations and guest lectures at universities. We provide a significant proportion of the lectures for the engine technology course at the Brandenburg University of Technology (BTU) Cottbus. MTU has endowed a chair for aircraft engine structural mechanics at the University of Stuttgart as well. We also give national and international university groups the opportunity to gain insights into how an industrial company works. We offer trainee programs, dual vocational training, work placements for high school students, work experience for students and market. In 2019, there were 523 students working with us as part of their undergraduate or postgraduate program, on work experience or as holiday staff. 128 Employees and society Each year, MTU confers the Wolfgang Heilmann Science Award for outstanding achievements by talented young students performing research in the field of aircraft engines at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology. We are also an industry sponsor of a prestigious German award for aerospace journalism that is awarded annually to non-specialist journalists for outstanding articles on aerospace trends and issues. How we get involved We support various social institutions. These are generally charitable organizations, preferably with a social focus, to which we provide assistance in the form of financial or in-kind donations. A key factor in selecting recipients is a local/ regional connection or a thematic link to our business. We prioritize support for specific projects over general institutional funding, which are selected and the support implemented independently by the MTU subsidiaries concerned on the basis of careful research. Internal guidelines govern the granting of donations and sponsorship, and a centrally managed clearance and approval process ensures that the rules are adhered to. Donations and sponsorship in 2019 (distribution in %) 129 Employees and society adjacent to the Munich headquarters. MTU Executive Board members Michael Schreyögg (1st photo, right, clockwise), CEO Reiner Winkler (2nd photo, right) and Lars In the reporting year, we supported over 80 projects and institutions. Together with regional partners, we also achieved local goals that we could not have met on our own. For example, MTU is committed to the Munich Business Climate Pact and makes a local contribution to sustainable development through e-mobility solutions. In the reporting year, we initiated a regional mobility forum at our Munich site in order to work together with politicians, industry and associations to improve local transport. Examples of our social responsibility projects in 2019 Luftfahrt ohne Grenzen (Wings of Help) e.V Sponsorship for childcare while schools are on vacation Funding of the TurBienchen e.V. child daycare center initiative, Munich Munich Theater for Children charitable company Cystic fibrosis charity run, Berlin Clinic Clowns e.V., Hannover Hospice for Children, Rzeszów Adopt-a-Family, Rocky Hill Hands on Hartford Community Meals, East Hartford 130 Employees and society Our sites commit in a wide variety of ways Our employees do their bit, for example, by taking part in Pink Shirt Day in Canada (top left) or in the Plant-to-Plant Challenge in Germany (top right). Even our agreement. Our apprentices volunteer in a variety of ways, for example by collecting returnable bottles from the break rooms and donating the deposit, or by clearing nearby streets of rubbish during a public action day. Our employees took Freiwilligenzentrum volunteering association in Hannover. In Rzeszów, MTU Aero Engines Polska celebrated the opening Rocky Hill, at our US location, employees support the local food bank with donations and help sort the food. In 2019, MTU employees once again took part in the Plant-to-Plant Challenge, this time cycling from the Ludwigsfelde site near Berlin to the Munich headquarters to raise funds for charity. Ten cents per kilometer ridden by the cyclists plus a donation from MTU added up to a total of over EUR 12,000 for charitable institutions. In addition, the company allows staff to undertake projects with the German Federal Agency for Technical Relief during their paid workday, and offers the services of lay justices for labor tribunals and social justice courts and of examiners for the Chamber of Industry and Commerce. 131 Employees and society Information about the coronavirus pandemic This sustainability report covers the 2019 financial year and is being published as the world fights against the coronavirus pandemic. People and companies are in a different situation today than they were in the reporting year. MTU is doing its part to help contain the pandemic and has taken numerous measures to protect its workforce. The current situation notwithstanding, we want to live up to our corporate social responsibility. You can find more information here. 103-2, 103-3, 201-1 7 132 Corporate governance Our sustainability program Goals and goal attainment for 2019 Corporate governance Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Compliance Introduce a web-based reporting system Goal Measure taken from compliance system review achieved Further refine the reporting system for all Group 2020 locations Revise the Code of Conduct 2020 2021 guidelines Conduct regular compliance audits to ensure Ongoing business processes comply with statutory requirements and guidelines Carry out employee training Ongoing We also held training sessions on compliance matters at all sites in 2019. As we revise the Code of Conduct, we will also adapt the corresponding e-learning course. In addition, we will be implementing a new training concept in the area of international trade. Stakeholder dialog Extend the ongoing stakeholder survey on Goal We have added the SDGs as a topic in the online sustainability topics achieved survey and received initial feedback. Undertake non-financial reporting in accordance Ongoing Part of the Annual Report. In 2019, we with the German CSR Guidelines incorporated the issue of human rights in the Implementation Act supply chain Exchange more information with partners on Ongoing sustainability issues Sustainability Benchmark and introduce new CR database Goal management achieved 133 Corporate governance Revise the risk management process 2020/2021 Revise risk management for sustainability topics according to CSR-RUG Benchmark CR management 2020/2021 Report on climate-related risks and 2020/2021 opportunities in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Participate in sustainability ratings Ongoing Conduct CR training Ongoing Train new CR team members and hold campus lecture Product stewardship Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Product quality and Lower or at least keep the number of customer Goal For the majority of sites, the number of customer flight safety complaints stable at all locations compared to partly complaints increased due to significantly higher the previous year achieved production volumes and changes to the local product portfolio. Run quality initiative at MTU Maintenance Goal Improvements for planning and maintenance achieved processes across the division according to the best practice principle Conduct monitoring and recertification audits Ongoing for quality management systems Climate strategy Achieve a 15%* reduction in CO2 emissions with 2021 Stage 1 of our climate strategy concluded with the first-generation geared turbofan the entry into service of the first generation of the geared turbofan engine family (Claire 1). All models in the family will be rolled out into largescale production approx. by 2021. Execute further stages of the Clean Air Engine Not yet We are currently revising our technology agenda agenda with a significantly faster reduction of defined and its specific targets for stages 2 and 3 with emissions compared to the old plan and the regard to climate action. It is to be adopted in long-term goal of emissions-free aviation 2020. Support the rollout of sustainable fuels with MTU Ongoing e.g. by participating in research projects, studies engine expertise and practical tests 134 Corporate governance Aircraft noise Achieve a 20 dB** (cumulative) reduction in 2021 noise emissions relative to ICAO Stage 4 with family will be rolled out into large-scale the first-generation geared turbofan production approx. by 2021. Achieve an 11 dB** reduction in noise 2030 Development of the necessary fans with a low emissions (per aircraft movement, corresponds pressure ratio and low-noise low-pressure to -55%) with the second-generation geared turbines as part of the ENOVAL European turbofan research program Achieve a 15 dB** reduction in noise emissions 2050 Reduced emissions thanks to new engine (per aircraft movement, corresponds to -65%) architectures such as integrated and distributed with the third-generation geared turbofan engines * compared to an engine from the year 2000, per passenger kilometer ** compared to an engine from the year 2000 Supply chain Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Supplier Incorporate sustainability aspects into existing From management supplier audits 2020/2021 Conduct annual survey of all relevant suppliers Ongoing For 75% of the Group reporting entity on compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act concerning conflict minerals Require new suppliers to commit to the Code of Ongoing For 75% of the Group reporting entity Conduct Conduct standardized assessment of risks in the Ongoing Further refinement of the risk analysis with regard supply chain to human rights is planned for 2020; the emphasis is on a more differentiated evaluation of product risk 135 Corporate governance Environmental protection in production Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Reduced Reduce CO2 emissions by 25% at the Munich site 2020 consumption of as part of Clean Air Industrial Site (benchmark energy and year: 1990) resources Evaluate a potential new climate action concept 2020 An interdisciplinary working group has been set up to examine an appropriate concept and how it can be rolled out within the Group. Zero mission (zero emissions, zero waste) in Ongoing Munich Carry out employee training on sustainable Ongoing environmental activities Reduce the environmental footprint of business Ongoing travel (resource consumption and CO2 emissions) by making increased use of modern communication technologies Energy-saving Reduce the amount of energy required to power Ongoing measures buildings Upgrade to LED lighting Ongoing Shut down machines and systems during Ongoing extended interruptions to operations Improve the efficiency of compressed air Ongoing generation Use groundwater for cooling Ongoing Material efficiency Sustainable manufacturing concepts: Apply new Ongoing laser-based additive manufacturing techniques to build production parts Develop materials that are more lightweight and Ongoing more resistant to extreme temperatures, resulting in lower fuel consumption and emissions. 136 Corporate governance Environmental Achieve certification to ISO 14001 and Ongoing The Hannover and Berlin sites are certified to ISO certifications validation under the Eco-Management and Audit 14001; the Munich, Hannover and Ludwigsfelde Scheme (EMAS) sites are validated under EMAS. The relevant audits were passed again in 2019. Publish annual environmental statements for the Ongoing German sites according to EMAS Employees Goal Status/ Comments Deadline Occupational Comply with the annual tolerance thresholds for Goal We exceeded the annual tolerance threshold for health and safety reportable workplace accidents at production partly sites achieved remains low with 4.4 accidents per 1,000 employees. Conduct employee survey on occupational Goal health management at the German sites achieved Run surveillance and recertification audits in the Annual Audits were passed again in 2019. Following MTU MTU Group in accordance with OHSAS 18001 Maintenance Hannover, MTU Aero Engines AG is for sites that are already certified now also certified to the new ISO 45001 standard. Run a safety at work campaign with key topics Ongoing Local measures were implemented at production sites in 2019. Promote a healthy diet Ongoing Perform ergonomics management Ongoing Attractiveness as Strengthen the international focus of employer Ongoing an employer branding Ongoing work-life balance Annual Poland and British Columbia, Canada Roll out initiatives for company-sponsored Ongoing Munich, Hannover childcare during summer vacation 137 Corporate governance Provide independent advice and facilitation Ongoing The services offered are reviewed and enhanced services for family-related matters on a regular basis, e.g. childcare network. Develop new offers to promote employee Ongoing 2019: Mobility survey and Bike Safety Day in mobility Munich; carpooling app in Ludwigsfelde Diversity & Have a higher proportion of women in By 2022 Target is set for women in management for inclusion management positions (target: 13%) and on the Germany Executive Board (target: 25%) Ongoing Intensified communication measures responsibility to promote equality of opportunity, particularly work-life balance Champion initiatives designed to promote young Ongoing female talent Employee Introduce a new online learning portal for Goal E-learning courses are being successively development employees achieved expanded for German sites and an online platform has been established at the Polish site. Offer new training opportunities to promote Goal New round of the International Leadership greater internationalization achieved Program (ILP) has been launched. Anchor the new leadership values company-wide Goal Management values are enshrined throughout the achieved Group at all management levels. Conduct management transition coaching Ongoing Employer/ Confer MTU Award to honor outstanding Goal MTU Award was conferred again in 2019. employee dialog performance achieved Run company suggestion scheme (BVW) for Ongoing The launch of a new concept is planned for 2020. practice Conduct training for managers on leadership 2020 values with the focus on employee involvement Society Goal Status/ Comments Deadline 138 Corporate governance Corporate Support employee volunteer work Ongoing volunteering Investing in young Have an endowed Chair in Structural Mechanics Ongoing talent of Aircraft Engines at the University of Systems Annual Leibniz University of Hannover, Technische Universität Braunschweig Operate an MTU foundation with the goal of Ongoing actively supporting development of female students in STEM disciplines Award the Wolfgang Heilmann Prize for young Annual scientists Promote science Sponsor the German award for aerospace Annual journalism journalism 139 2019 Sustainability Report Reporting in accordance with standards GRI and UN Global Compact index The MTU Aero Engines 2019 Sustainability Report was drawn up in compliance with the Global Reporting the GRI disclosures to the individual chapters in the report. Furthermore, the Sustainability Report serves to provide information on progress made in accordance with the UN Global Compact (UNGC). In this index, you will also find cross-references of the statements in this report to the ten principles of the UNGC. General disclosures GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 102-1 Name of the organization MTU Aero Engines 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services MTU Aero Engines 102-3 MTU Aero Engines 102-4 Countries where the organization operates 2019 Annual Report, p. 49 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form MTU Aero Engines 2019 Annual Report, p. 30 102-6 Markets served 2019 Annual Report, p. 149 102-7 Scale of organization MTU Aero Engines 102-8 6 Total workforce MTU as an employer 140 2019 Sustainability Report Diversity and inclusion Information on the proportion of women by employment type and employment contract is treated as confidential at MTU. 102-9 Supply chain Supplier management 102-10 Changes to the supply chain Supplier management 102-11 Precautionary approach Environmental management 102-12 External charters, principles, or other initiatives Compliance Climate and flying Environmental management MTU as an employer Diversity and inclusion 102-13 Memberships Selection: Aviation Initiative for Renewable Energy in Germany e.V. (aireg) Bauhaus Luftfahrt e.V. Metalworking and Electrical Industries (bayme) bavAIRia e.V. German Aerospace Industries Association (BDLI) Federation of German Security and Defence Industries (BDSV) Deutsche Gesellschaft für Luftund Raumfahrt Friends and Sponsors of the Deutsches Museum Deutsches Verkehrsforum e.V. German Aerospace Center (DLR) Enterprise for Health European Aerospace Quality Group Forum Luftund Raumfahrt e.V. IATA Strategic Partnerships Chamber of Commerce and Industry for Munich and Upper Bavaria (IHK) Münchener Bildungsforum gem. n.e.V. (Munich-based network for employee training and HR development) Stifterverband für die Deutsche Wissenschaft Trace International, Inc. Bavarian Industry Association Metalworking and Electrical Industries (vbm) 141 2019 Sustainability Report UN Global Compact (signatory) Association of German Engineers (VDI) Strategy (102-14) GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 102-14 Statement from the Executive Board Foreword by the Chief Executive Officer Ethics and integrity (102-16) GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 102-16 10 Values, principles and codes of conduct Compliance MTU as an employer Corporate governance (102-18) GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 102-18 Governance structure 2019 Annual Report, p. 26-27, 44-45 GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 102-40 Stakeholder groups Stakeholder dialogue 142 2019 Sustainability Report 102-41 3 Collective bargaining agreements MTU as an employer 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Stakeholder dialogue engagement Product quality and flight safety Research and development Environmental management MTU as an employer 102-44 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders Stakeholder dialogue GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 102-45 Consolidated Group entities About this report 102-46 Material aspects identified Material topics 102-47 List of material topics Material topics 102-48 Restatements of information Some climate figures from previous years have been recalculated. In such cases, this is indicated alongside the data in question in the report. 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report 102-50 Reporting period About this report 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 143 2019 Sustainability Report 102-54 Option to apply GRI standards About this report 102-56 External assurance About this report Management approach GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle 103-1 Boundaries to material topics Materiality principle MTU determines the relevance of the material topics along the value chain as follows: the relevance of upstream and downstream activities is based on information supplied to MTU by business contacts. We deem any topic to be relevant that plays a significant role in the business activities. 103-2 1-10 Management approach and its components The management approaches are presented for each material topic. 103-3 1-10 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability strategy and organization Material topics Stakeholder dialogue Management approaches to the material topics Topic-specific standards 144 2019 Sustainability Report GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle Economic performance 103-2, 103-3 7 Management approach Sustainability strategy and organization Corporate social responsibility Climate and flying 201-1 Value generated and distributed MTU Aero Engines Corporate social responsibility Key figures are not broken down by market or region 201-2 7 Financial implications and risks due to Climate and flying climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan and retirement plans MTU as an employer Procurement practices 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Supplier management 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supplier management and Canada. Anti-corruption 103-2, 103-3 10 Management approach Compliance 205-1 10 Operations assessed for risks related to Compliance corruption 205-2 10 Information and training about Compliance anti-corruption 205-3 10 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Compliance actions taken Anti-competitive behavior 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Compliance 145 2019 Sustainability Report 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Compliance anti-trust and monopoly practices GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle Materials 103-2, 103-3 7, 8 Management approach Environmental management Conservation of resources 301-1 7, 8 Materials used by weight or volume Conservation of resources 301-2 7, 8 Recycled input materials used Conservation of resources Product quality and flight safety 301-3 8 Recycled products and their packaging materials Conservation of resources Energy 103-2, 103-3 7, 8 Management approach Environmental management Conservation of resources 302-1 7, 8 Energy consumption within the organization Conservation of resources 302-4 7, 8 Reduction of energy consumption Conservation of resources 302-5 8, 9 Reductions in energy requirements of Climate and flying products and services Water and effluents 103-2, 103-3 7, 8 Management approach Environmental management Conservation of resources 146 2019 Sustainability Report 303-1 7, 8 Interactions with water as a shared resource Conservation of resources 303-3 7, 8 Water withdrawal Conservation of resources 303-4 7, 8 Water discharge Conservation of resources 303-5 7,8 Water consumption Conservation of resources Emissions 103-2, 103-3 7-9 Management approach Environmental management Emissions 305-1 7, 8 Direct (Scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions Emissions 305-2 7, 8 Energy indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas Emissions emissions 305-3 7-9 Other indirect (Scope 3) greenhouse gas Emissions emissions Climate and flying 305-4 7, 8 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions Emissions 305-5 8, 9 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Emissions 305-7 7, 8 Significant airborne emissions Emissions To evaluate emissions, we use the emission factors database. Where we deviate from this: for sulfur dioxide we use emission factors from our own measurements for kerosene; for nitrogen oxide and carbon monoxide from the operation of engines we use MTU-specific factors (average values from NOx and CO emissions according to the ICAO database for all engines tested by us for the climb out operating point; for 2019 we adjusted the average value to account for two missing engine types, thus increasing the emission factors for NOx by 9% and for CO by 30%). For indirect emissions we use specific, locally adjusted emission factors based on ProBas. Waste 103-2, 103-3 7, 8 Management approach Environmental management 147 2019 Sustainability Report Conservation of resources 306-2 7 Waste by type Conservation of resources and disposal method 306-3 7 Spills Conservation of resources Environmental compliance 103-2, 103-3 7 Management approach Environmental management 307-1 7 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Environmental management regulations Supplier environmental assessment 103-2, 103-3 8 Management approach Supplier management 308-1 7 New suppliers that were screened using Supplier management environmental criteria 308-2 8 Negative environmental impacts in the supply Supplier management chain GRI standard UNGC Reference/Comment principle Employment 103-2, 103-3 6 Management approach MTU as an employer 401-1 6 Employee turnover MTU as an employer Diversity and inclusion 401-2 Benefits provided to MTU as an employer full-time employees 401-3 6 Parental leave MTU as an employer 148 2019 Sustainability Report Labor/management relations 103-2, 103-3 Management approach MTU as an employer 402-1 3 Minimum notice periods regarding Germany: Agreements between the employer and operational changes the works council that are governed by collective notice under Section 77 of the German Works Council Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz). As a rule, this is also laid down in the collective agreements. In cases in an agreement between the works council and employer, the regulations governing the notice period remain valid until replaced. Also laid down in the collective agreements are the notice periods for the assertion of claims for employers as well as employees. In accordance with Polish law, in Poland this period is 3 working days for temporary permanent contracts dependent on the length of the term of employment. Canada: 2 weeks. USA: 60 days for matters affecting 50% or more of the workforce. Occupational health and safety 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Occupational health and safety 403-1 Occupational health and Occupational health and safety safety management system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and Occupational health and safety investigation of incidents 403-3 Occupational health services Occupational health and safety 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and Occupational health and safety communication The entire workforce of all our production sites is fully represented in the locally organized occupational safety committees, the composition of which reflects the legal requirements for employer and employee representation in the respective countries . 403-5 Worker training Occupational health and safety 403-6 Promotion of worker health Occupational health and safety 149 2019 Sustainability Report 403-8 Workers covered by occupational health and Occupational health and safety safety management system 403-9 Work-related ill health Occupational health and safety Training and education 103-2, 103-3 6 Management approach Employee development 404-1 6 Average hours of training per year per employee Employee development 404-2 Lifelong learning Employee development 404-3 6 Percentage of employees receiving regular MTU as an employer performance reviews Diversity and equality of opportunity 103-2, 103-3 6 Management approach Diversity and inclusion 405-1 6 Diversity of governance bodies and Diversity and inclusion employees 405-2 6 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of MTU as an employer women to men Non-discrimination 103-2, 103-3 6 Management approach Human rights 406-1 6 Cases of discrimination and corrective actions Human rights taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining 103-2, 103-3 2, 3 Management approach Human rights 407-1 2, 3 Operations and suppliers for which the right to Human rights freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Supplier management Child labor 103-2, 103-3 2, 5 Management approach Human rights 150 2019 Sustainability Report 408-1 2, 5 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Human rights incidents of child labor Supplier management Forced or compulsory labor 103-2, 103-3 2, 4 Management approach Human rights Supplier management 409-1 2, 4 Operations and suppliers with significant risk for Human rights incidents of forced and compulsory labor Supplier management Human rights assessment 103-2, 103-3 1, 2 Management approach Human rights Supplier management 412-1 2 Operations that have been subject to human Human rights rights reviews 412-2 1 Employee training on human rights policies or Compliance procedures 412-3 2 Significant investment agreements and Human rights contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Supplier management Supplier social assessment 103-2, 103-3 2 Management approach Human rights Supplier management 414-1 2-5 New suppliers that were screened using social Human rights criteria Supplier management 414-2 2-5 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Human rights actions taken Supplier management 151 2019 Sustainability Report Public policy 103-2, 103-3 10 Management approach Stakeholder dialogue 415-1 10 Political contributions Stakeholder dialogue Customer health and safety 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Product quality and flight safety 416-1 Products and services for which health and Product quality and flight safety safety impacts were assessed 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the Product quality and flight safety health and safety impacts of products and services Marketing and labeling 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Product quality and flight safety 417-1 Requirements for product labelling and Product quality and flight safety information 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product Product quality and flight safety labeling and information 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning In the reporting period, there were no incidents of marketing communications non-compliance with the regulations. Customer privacy 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Compliance 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches Compliance of data protection Socioeconomic compliance 103-2, 103-3 Management approach Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Compliance social and economic area 152 2019 Sustainability Report More information about: The GRI standards for sustainability reporting The ten principles of the UN Global Compact 153 Masthead Publisher MTU Aero Engines AG Eckhard Zanger Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Project management and contact point for questions regarding content Silke Hansen Corporate Responsibility Reporting corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de Photo credits Shutterstock, MTU Aero Engines AG, Lufthansa Group This Sustainability Report was published in an online-first format at https://sustainability.mtu.de/report2019/. The PDF is a summary of the report. In the interests of the environment, before you print the report out, please consider whether this is strictly necessary. MTU Aero Engines AG Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Phone +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 info@mtu.de www.mtu.de
