E L I L I L LY A N D C O M PA N Y 2019 UNGC Communication on Progress Contents PAGE 3 ABOUT LILLY & ABOUT THIS REPORT PAGE 4 A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO PAGE 6 LILLY’S RESPONSE TO COVID-19 PAGE 9 2019 RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS PAGE 13 HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 41 LABOR UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 56 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 77 ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC PRINCIPLES ADDRESSED: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Intro | Page 2 About Eli Lilly and Company Lilly is a global healthcare leader that unites caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people around the world. We were founded more than a century ago by a man committed to creating high-quality medicines that meet real needs, and today we remain true to that mission in all our work. Across the globe, Lilly employees work to discover and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, improve the understanding and management of disease, and give back to communities through philanthropy and volunteerism. To learn more about Lilly, please visit us at www.lilly.com and http://newsroom.lilly.com/social-channels. About This Report This report represents our Communication on Progress for 2019 in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Data and other updates contained in this report are focused on the 2019 calendar year and include global operations, unless otherwise noted. We also discuss data and trends from previous years, where relevant, and include some significant events and initiatives that occurred in the first half of 2020. This report does not include joint ventures, partially owned subsidiaries, or outsourced operations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Lilly refocused internal resources to execute response activities, including those necessary to ensure that employees and their families are safe and that patients have access to Lilly medicines. As a result of these actions, we decided to postpone third-party verification of selected environmental data and progress against 2020 goals for the 2019 report. We will be completing this assurance process later in 2020 and the resulting assurance will be posted on lilly.com. Lilly follows structured processes to collect, evaluate and calculate the data we report, to ensure appropriateness and accuracy. We consider external standards in deciding what data to collect and report. Our global health, safety and environment management system is periodically reviewed by an independent, accredited auditor to ensure conformance with the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care® Management System requirements. We welcome feedback on this content, as it helps us to prepare future reports. Mohamed Osman Mohamed Corporate Responsibility, Eli Lilly and Company Email: mmohamed@lilly.com Phone: +1-317-430-8123 Intro | Page 3 A Message from Our CEO Dear Stakeholders, DAVID A. RICKS Chairman and CEO Since Lilly’s last communication on progress to the United Nations Global Compact, the world has changed. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the way we live, the way we conduct business and, most important, the health and wellness of millions of people. Our response to the pandemic has been powered by our purpose, as we press forward to discover and supply medicines that make life better for people around the world. Leveraging Our Expertise to Fight the Pandemic Given the urgent need for new medicines to prevent and treat COVID-19, we partnered with two companies to and launched important new medicines and made develop potential antibody therapies and with National progress on our productivity agenda. The number of Institutes of Health in the NIAID Adaptive COVID-19 people our medicines are helping totaled more than 40 Treatment Trial with baricitinib, our JAK inhibitor. million last year. We initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial with one of our investigational antibodies, and we are developing We continue to form partnerships within and across serological antibody tests that could prove critical in the health systems to facilitate patient access to critical next phase of the pandemic. treatments, regardless of income level or geography. Through our Lilly 30x30 commitment, we’ve set a goal Partnering with our home state of Indiana, we repurposed to improve access to quality health care in resourcespecialized labs to conduct free diagnostic testing and limited settings for 30 million people on an annual created a drive-through testing facility for healthcare basis through 2030, with a focus on pipeline, programs workers and first responders. We created opportunities and partnerships. for Lilly employees to volunteer during work hours to support our medical system. And with other life Pipeline: Scientific discoveries that don’t become sciences firms, we joined the Bill & Melinda Gates marketed medicines can still provide value. To address Foundation, national regulators and the WHO to ensure priority global diseases, Lilly researchers reviewed promising studies are quickly scaled to help people more than 350 molecules and legacy products to study around the world. mechanisms of action against known disease markers. They identified about a dozen promising candidates for Advancing Global and Local Health further study and will make recommendations in 2020 to The actions we have taken around COVID-19 augment an internal research governing committee. our employees’ excellent work in 2019, as detailed in this report. Lilly delivered solid financial results, developed Intro | Page 4 Programs: We offer more than 150 patient support of 2015 to the end of 2019, we increased the number of programs across 51 countries that reach close to two women in management globally from 41 percent to 45 million people each year. These programs support people percent. For racial and ethnic minorities and other nonwho are taking Lilly medicines, along with their caregivers majority members in the United States over that same and loved ones. People who use our insulin can access period, we increased management representation from numerous programs through our Diabetes Solutions 18 percent to 24 percent. Across all levels of our company, Center, to which we have added the Lilly Insulin Value in 2019 we saw increased representation for minorities in Program, enabling anyone with commercial insurance and the United States and women globally. those without insurance to fill their monthly prescription of Lilly insulin for $35. Together, our solutions are helping Since 2015, we have conducted research called employee up to 20,000 people each month better afford their insulin. journeys to understand the experiences of women, African In 2021, we’ll be participating in a new program that aims Americans, Asians and Latinxs at Lilly. We have used this to help seniors in Medicare Part D plans as well. information to make systemic advances that are having real, measurable impact. One example is Make It Safe to Partnerships: Through strategic global health Thrive, an education program to build cultural literacy partnerships, Lilly and the Lilly Foundation work to and strengthen teams by reducing unconscious bias and strengthen local healthcare systems and improve access microaggressions. In 2019, all employees were required to care. We use our technology and expertise to find to complete an online version of this training. sustainable and scalable solutions to pressing global health concerns, including diabetes and cancer. Managing Our Environmental Impact Contributions from Lilly and the Lilly Foundation have Our promise of making life better includes protecting helped support two new endeavors that are saving and and preserving our world through environmental strengthening lives. The first is AMPATH, a medical sustainability efforts. In 2019, Lilly scored a rating of consortium that provides medicines and quality health B on climate change and B on water from CDP, the care to people living in western Kenya. Lilly and the Lilly world’s largest repository of environmental management Foundation are supporting the expansion of the AMPATH information. We exceeded two of our 2020 environmental model to Mexico and Ghana, respectively, with the goals—15 percent reduction in phosphorous emissions potential to reach millions more people. The second is the and 20 percent improvement in waste efficiency—and we new Health Worker Training Initiative, in which Lilly joined are developing our next set of targets, to be announced forces with four other companies and the Bill & Melinda in 2020. Gates Foundation to fund 2,500 community health workers Since meeting our waste efficiency goal in 2018, we’ve providing primary health care for nearly 1.7 million people focused on achieving our recycling and waste-toin up to six African countries. landfill targets. During 2019, our facilities management team implemented innovative strategies for the Fostering Diversity and Inclusion decommissioning and demolition of a large R&D facility, We continue to set aspirational goals and measure our seeking out new approaches to recycle and repurpose progress in building a diverse workforce. From the end materials and achieving zero waste to landfill. My signature below affirms our company’s ongoing commitment and our intent to support and advance the Compact’s ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, in addition to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In these extraordinary times, we will continue to do everything in our power to aid in the global crisis, while delivering medicines to sustain the health of patients who rely on us. We’re confident that our industry and the scientific strength that it brings will ultimately rid the world of COVID-19, and we will continue to do all we can to advance that noble cause. David A. Ricks, Chairman and CEO Intro | Page 5 Lilly’s Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic The global pandemic brought on by the COVID-19 virus in early 2020 has changed the world as we know it. At Lilly, we are honored to join with our industry partners in bringing the unique scientific and medical expertise of the pharmaceutical industry to bear in this crisis. We’re working together—with partners around the world—to help affected patients and communities. Lilly continues to closely monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and its global impact. For updated information visit our COVID-19 media page on lilly.com. OUR PRIORITIES INCLUDE: Maintaining Supplies of and Access • Lilly does not source active pharmaceutical to Lilly Medicines ingredients for any of our approved medicines from China, and, as of May 2020, our insulin With the help of a large network of global manufacturing sites in the United States and Europe external manufacturing partners we have not been impacted by the coronavirus. supply medicine to nearly 125 countries. Lilly is committed to public health and does not currently • As the global situation evolves, we will continue to anticipate shortages for any of our medicines, including take the steps necessary to safeguard the reliable all forms of insulin. supply of our medicines. • We’ve taken several actions to protect our • For those affected economically, we introduced manufacturing processes, such as moving to a workour Lilly Insulin Value Program enabling people in from-home policy for everyone except those with jobs the United States on commercial insurance or no that are essential to ensuring supply of medicines. insurance at all to fill their monthly prescription for most Lilly insulins for $35. • We’re in close communication with key suppliers regarding supplies of raw materials. “Lilly is moving at top speed and using all available resources to help fight this pandemic. Developing potential therapeutic medicines for COVID-19 is part of our vital and humanitarian mission. To be successful, we must combine resources, data and expertise, with government, academia and other companies.” —Daniel Skovronsky, M.D., Ph.D., Lilly’s chief scientific officer and president of Lilly Research Laboratories Intro | Page 6 Keeping Our Employees Safe and • To keep employees informed, we created a frequently Healthy updated global resource page dedicated to COVID-19, including: frequently asked questions, resources Protecting the health and safety of our for leaders and a global virtual assistant to provide employees has been, and remains, a major responses to employee questions. priority for Lilly. The pandemic has forced all of us to work in new ways and we are committed to supporting one • To support employee well-being, we made physical another as we all adapt. We have worked to keep open and mental health resources available, including a communication with teams around the world during this global website for well-being resources featuring onchallenging time. demand webinars, live fitness classes and resiliencebuilding activities. • To maximize social distancing, we announced travel restrictions and remote working arrangements for • This year our global Week of Well-Being included those whose roles do not require on-site presence. a global keynote address on resilience, a series on mental health and a virtual 5K race. • In the field, we supported our customers and each other in new ways in this difficult time. We have • In the United States, we enhanced local benefits stopped face-to-face interactions with customers in related to health care, childcare and time off, and many countries and we’re moving rapidly to a pure expanded reimbursement for home office ergonomic digital communication platform with customers. support expenditures. Developing Treatments for COVID-19 • We entered into a study with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)—part of the As the world urgently awaits new treatments National Institutes of Health—to study baricitinib as for COVID-19, we at Lilly are working to do an anti-inflammatory treatment approach under the our part to put our expertise to work. In the NIAID Adaptive COVID-19 Treatment Trial. face of the outbreak in early 2020, we’ve redirected scientific efforts to help solve • We also have an investigational selective monoclonal critical medical issues—including potential therapeutics, antibody against Angiopoietin 2, to Phase 2 testing diagnostics and testing. in pneumonia patients hospitalized with COVID-19 who are at a higher risk of progressing to acute • Under a partnership with AbCellera Biologics, Inc. we respiratory distress syndrome. began Phase I clinical trials to develop treatments based on antibodies isolated from patients infected • With other life sciences companies, we joined with COVID-19 who have recovered. with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, national regulators and the World Health Organization to • We also entered into an agreement with ensure promising studies are quickly scaled to help Junshi Biosciences—which launched one of the people around the world. industry’s first R&D efforts aimed at discovering therapies to combat COVID-19—to co-develop therapeutic antibodies. Intro | Page 7 Supporting Communities local stakeholders to establish the Indianapolis E-Learning Fund to support Indianapolis educators, Lilly has a long history of giving back to the students and families during the transition to atcommunities where we work and live. In home distance learning. this time of global crisis, we are committed to supporting our workforce, affected • Together with the governor of Indiana, the mayor communities and people who need our medicines. We’re of Indianapolis and other community stakeholders, working together—and with partners around the world— Lilly launched the #INThisTogether community to help communities weather this storm and come back awareness campaign to provide access to helpful even stronger. tips and information and galvanize communitywide commitment to flattening the curve of • We repurposed specialized labs to conduct free COVID-19 infections. diagnostic testing in our home community of Indianapolis and created a drive-through testing • Lilly and the Lilly Foundation also provided financial facility for healthcare workers, first responders and assistance for supplies and relief efforts in China other essential workers. through our long-standing partners, Project HOPE, Direct Relief and the Red Cross. • The Lilly Foundation1 joined a coalition of community funders to launch an initial $16.5 million Central • Lilly donated personal protective equipment— Indiana COVID-19 Community Economic Relief Fund including masks, gloves and lab coats—to Project to support human services organizations in Central HOPE for distribution to hospitals and clinics in Indiana during the crisis. high-risk areas and hot spots, including New Orleans, New York, Los Angeles, the Navajo • The Lilly Foundation announced a 2:1 match for Reservation near Gallup, New Mexico and employee and retiree contributions to select Puerto Rico. COVID-19 community relief funds across the United States and in our hometown of Indianapolis. • The Lilly Foundation is matching 1:1 for employee contributions to international COVID-19 related • We announced a joint effort with Merck and Pfizer projects—including more than 150 coronavirusto enable employees who are licensed medical related projects—from relief aid distribution in China professionals to aid in the fight against COVID-19. to emergency response efforts in Italy. • As local schools were shuttered, the Lilly Foundation joined forces with the city of Indianapolis and other “The Lilly Foundation and Lilly are actively engaged with community partners to address new and complex challenges arising from the coronavirus—including the need for meaningful access to e-learning. The Lilly Foundation is privileged to join others to support the Indianapolis E-Learning Fund to ensure kids in Indianapolis—regardless of household income—have access to the e-learning tools and support they need to succeed.” —Tiffany Benjamin, senior director, corporate responsibility, global health and president, Lilly Foundation 1 The Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Inc, a separate nonprofit organization, is commonly referred to as the Lilly Foundation. Intro | Page 8 2019 Responsibility Highlights Beyond the impact of our medicines, Lilly has a long history of strengthening communities. We collaborate with organizations that have proven track records of social impact and we create meaningful opportunities for our employees to give and volunteer. United Way During our 100-year relationship with United Way, CONTRIBUTIONS AT A GLANCE contributions from Lilly employees and retirees—plus matching gifts from the Lilly Foundation—have totaled TOTAL COMMITTED TO $315 million. Together, we work to address complex societal challenges and create lasting change in the areas $90M GLOBAL HEALTH EFFORTS THROUGH 2022 of health, education and financial stability. During its annual campaign, the Lilly Foundation worked with United Way of Central Indiana to develop new corporate partners by matching employee contributions dollar-for-dollar. $1.3B 2019 TOTAL PRODUCT DONATIONS1 Global Day of Service $32.6M 2019 TOTAL CASH DONATIONS *including $24.3M from the Lilly Foundation Every year, more than 20,000 Lilly employees volunteer worldwide to improve health, education and communities around the globe. We collaborate with local organizations in 65 countries to increase our impact. Together, we’ve completed thousands of projects—from assembling 2.1M INSULIN VIALS DONATED: 2008-2019 TO THE LIFE FOR A CHILD PROGRAM cancer care packages to teaching in classrooms to improving local community centers. 2019 TOTAL UNITED $13.4M WAY CONTRIBUTIONS *including $6.9M from the Lilly Foundation NUMBER OF EMPLOYEE 1.2M VOLUNTEER HOURS THROUGH LILLY GLOBAL DAY OF SERVICE SINCE 2008 1 All product donations in this report have been valued at wholesale acquisition cost or WAC. Intro | Page 9 Education—Investing in the Next Generation The Lilly Foundation works to improve the lives of those who lack resources, including supporting and championing efforts in our home state of Indiana to strengthen public education focusing on early childhood education, K-12 and STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering and math). The Foundation backs results-oriented programs and organizations with the proven ability to drive community impact, including: • Indianapolis Public Schools (IPS), which empowers and educates students with diverse backgrounds to think critically, creatively and responsibly to pursue their dreams with purpose. The Foundation grants support K-12 STEM subjects and ensuring equity in education; • The Mind Trust, which strives to provide every Indianapolis student access to a high-quality school that will improve the lives of the students served and create new possibilities for the communities where they are located; • Teach for America, which advances educational excellence and equity in the United States through a network of remarkable and diverse leaders working to expand opportunity and access for all children; • Starfish Initiative, which strives to make a difference in the lives of marginalized youth—one student at a time—and its newly-launched mentoring initiative focused on LGBTQ+ teens; • Center for Leadership Development, which fosters the advancement of minority youth in Central Indiana as future professional, business and community leaders by providing experiences that encourage personal development and education attainment. Intro | Page 10 Connecting Hearts Abroad: A Decade of Impact Lilly’s global employee volunteer program marks 10 years of service and social impact in 2020. Since the program began, more than 1,300 Lilly employees worldwide have volunteered across multiple communities with limited resources in 18 countries. Through hands-on, health-focused, sustainable projects, our volunteers help address health inequalities and extend Lilly’s reach and impact on society. Diabetes Care in Mexico globe, serving people and communities Since 2016, teams of skilled volunteers--including affected by cancer diabetes educators, endocrinologists and data scientists— and exploring new have served with Lilly global health partners in Mexico possibilities for their own lives. Together with volunteers to explore more efficient approaches to diabetes care, from AFC, our employees have reached more than 1,000 especially in poorer communities. community members in Peru through volunteer projects In 2016 and 2017, Lilly volunteers worked with the and support groups. Carlos Slim Foundation in Mexico City to help develop a In 2019, Lilly and AFC expanded our Connecting Hearts new screening process for women at risk of gestational Abroad collaboration to Kenya. Through this pilot diabetes. Compared with the test commonly used program, Lilly volunteers partnered with other cancer to screen for this condition, the novel protocol could advocacy specialists and local Kenyans to build grassroots generate health savings of about 65 percent in Mexico. support and leadership in cancer advocacy—including This work has captured the attention of the diabetes earlier diagnosis. Through AFC’s Global Emerging medical community, including the American Diabetes Leaders Program, Lilly volunteers are helping the Association. The new approach may offer compelling organization advance its goal to reach 32,000 Kenyans evidence for its use in both developing and developed affected by cancer by 2025. health systems. Since 2018, Lilly employees have volunteered with Supporting Holistic Care in Greece and Panama Clínicas del Azúcar (CdA), a social enterprise and the In 2019, Lilly volunteers began working with the largest private provider of affordable, specialized diabetes international nonprofit Global Brigades in Greece and care in Monterrey, Mexico. Our volunteers are helping its Panama to deliver care through mobile medical clinics. network of 16 low-cost diabetes clinics develop healthGlobal Brigades uses a holistic model to help meet a based interventions to increase patient engagement. This community’s health and economic goals collaboratively, work contributes to a three-year study under way by Lilly, building community ownership. the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and CdA. Early results are encouraging. For example, according to the In Greece, Lilly volunteers cared for more than 725 national health survey ENSANUT, on average, about 25 refugees in two weeks, helping with health screenings percent of diabetes patients in Mexico achieve glycemic and other medical services. About half of the patients control. That number jumps to 63 percent for patients screened were referred to local health centers and under the care of CdA. More than 100,000 patients have hospitals for additional care. In Panama, our volunteers benefited from the support of CdA and the enterprise attended to the health needs of more than 920 patients plans to reach one million diabetes patients within the across five diverse communities. next three years. These projects both contribute to Global Brigades’ Cancer Care and Advocacy in Peru and Kenya commitment to empower 100 rural communities to permanently rise out of global poverty through three core In 2020, Connecting Hearts Abroad celebrates five components, aligned with the United Nations Sustainable years of partnership with A Fresh Chapter (AFC), a Development Goals: health care, clean water and nonprofit that empowers people impacted by cancer to sanitation, and economic development. build resilience, navigate uncertainty and reclaim their stories. Forty Lilly employees who are cancer survivors or caregivers have volunteered with AFC in Peru, connecting with fellow survivors and caregivers from across the Intro | Page 11 As a member of the UN Global Compact, Eli Lilly supports the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and works to advance these goals within our sphere of influence. We are inspired by the global vision that the SDGs represent— and we are committed to doing our part to contribute. You can learn more about our efforts towards the SDGs in these areas of the report. LABOR ANTI-CORRUPTION HUMAN RIGHTS H E A LT H , S A F E T Y A N D E N V I R O N M E N T Intro | Page 12 Human Rights Lilly supports the UN Global Compact’s principles on respecting internationally proclaimed human rights. As a global pharmaceutical company, our activities cut across a broad range of societal issues: activities such as ensuring the safety and availability of our medicines, promoting global health and enhancing access to medicines for those who have trouble affording them. In this section, we discuss our work in the following areas related to human rights: bioethics; the availability and safety of our products; sourcing in our supply chain; the affordability of medications; and our global health initiatives. Further information on our support for labor standards can be found in the Labor section of this report. Intro | Human Rights | Labor | Health, Safety and Environment | Anti-Corruption Bioethics Lilly believes that bioethics—which focuses on the ethics of health care, biomedical research and biomedical public policy—is an integral component of corporate integrity in the pharmaceutical industry. In 1999, Lilly became one of the first pharmaceutical companies to establish a standing bioethics committee to systematically identify, evaluate and communicate bioethics issues, and in 2008, we created a bioethics program with dedicated fulltime staff. We embrace a comprehensive approach to bioethics, providing a variety of resources and educational offerings to help employees navigate ethical scenarios and apply bioethics principles in their daily work. In 2019, we continued our integration of our bioethics team into Lilly’s global ethics and compliance organization, coordinating and enhancing our communications to employees and broadening our scope to encompass all phases of research and product development—from preclinical research to commercialization once a medicine is ready for the marketplace. As part of a new focus on boosting awareness of our bioethics capability throughout Lilly’s global affiliates, we launched new internal pages on Lilly’s intranet, translating bioethics content into eight languages in addition to English. Our team participated in bioethics conferences and relaunched the Bioethics Leadership Academy, our intensive bioethics training for employees. Lilly Bioethics has a new page on LillyNow—an internal company intranet—that provides Lilly employees with information on how to request a bioethics consultation, links to the Lilly Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research and position papers on major bioethics issues, and contains information about bioethics education and training opportunities. Governance of This committee serves as a clearinghouse for the latest thinking in bioethics and provides a sounding board for Bioethics at Lilly the business, a place where internal Lilly teams can seek guidance on bioethics considerations, discuss Lilly’s bioethics team reports to the company’s chief potential alternative courses of action and receive ethics and compliance officer and is staffed by full-time recommendations on permissible and preferable paths dedicated staff with pharmaceutical industry expertise as forward. Throughout these interactions, by applying the well as specialized training in bioethics. These individuals principles contained in the Lilly Bioethics Framework, serve as valuable internal resources for the company, and bioethics plays a role in research study design, informed are responsible for program development, deliverables consent process and content, selection of countries and and oversight of Lilly’s bioethics program. A crossclinical trial sites, requests for access to investigational functional bioethics advisory committee also includes treatments outside of clinical trials, animal care and external expertise in bioethics. use, handling of special populations (e.g. pediatrics), and timing and content of research publications, just to name a few. Human Rights | Page 14 “As part of Global Ethics and Compliance, the Lilly Bioethics Program not only continues to serve the research and development organization in which it was founded, but now provides resources and advice for our preclinical research and commercialization teams. We are benefiting from integrating the bioethics lens into broader business ethics conversations and we are excited to engage in and lead broader industry efforts to increase consistency in our application of bioethics.” ­—Melissa Barnes, SVP, enterprise risk management and chief ethics and compliance officer Bioethics Leadership Academy The program focuses on building basic bioethics awareness, application of bioethics principles and The Bioethics Leadership Academy (BELA) provides experiential learning, including taking part in ongoing Lilly employees with a specialized curriculum in bioethics. bioethics activities and consultations. In 2019, we worked Employees who are selected to participate in BELA to globalize the BELA program, enrolling participants dedicate a portion of their working time to bioethics from Europe and Asia in addition to the United States. training for nine months. Protecting Research Subjects’ Rights in Clinical Trials Lilly is committed to protecting the rights and well-being of research subjects and patients who use our medicines. Lilly applies a single global standard to the conduct of medical trials involving human subjects. This standard is based on well-respected ethics guidance and other requirements including: • The World Medical Association’s Declaration of Helsinki; • The Council for International Organizations of Medical Sciences’ International Ethical Guidelines for Biomedical Research Involving Human Subjects; • The International Conference on Harmonisation’s Guideline for Good Clinical Practice (E6); • The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America’s Principles on Conduct of Clinical Trials; and • Applicable laws and regulations of the country or countries in which a study is conducted. Lilly’s commitment to protecting the rights of research subjects is articulated in two company guidance documents— Principles of Medical Research and Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research—and upheld through company policies, standards and procedures. Human Rights | Page 15 Lilly’s Principles of Medical Research research and development and it informs advice that the bioethics committee provides. Lilly has developed The Principles of Medical Research specify Lilly’s position statements on bioethics issues such as stem cell standard for conducting, funding and communicating research, pediatric medicine and multinational clinical results from its medical research. For more information trials, among others. on how Lilly shares information from clinical trials, see the Transparency section of this report. Fostering Industry Collaboration in Bioethics Lilly’s Bioethics Framework and Positions In addition to publishing Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research, Lilly was a founding Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical member and driving force behind the establishment of Research provides a bioethics foundation for the the Biopharmaceutical Industry Bioethics (BIB) Forum. company’s biomedical research so that it is aligned Founded in 2016, the BIB Forum promotes collegial, with broadly accepted ethics principles and Lilly’s core non-competitive discussions regarding the application of values. The framework consists of four basic principles bioethics concepts in the biopharmaceutical industry and and 13 essential elements for conducting ethical human sharing of best practices. In 2019, Lilly staff participated biomedical research and sits within the context of Lilly’s in five bioethics conferences, sharing our approach to broader company purpose and values. It specifies and bioethics consultations and networking with bioethics compiles Lilly’s bioethical responsibilities to multiple colleagues inside and outside the industry. stakeholders. The framework informs the development of bioethics positions on topics important to pharmaceutical Bioethics Consultations Since 1999, Lilly’s bioethics committee has offered an internal consulting service, providing a forum for employees to seek advice regarding bioethics and research ethics issues. Using the Bioethics Framework and bioethics positions, this service increases awareness about bioethics, empowers employees to raise concerns and helps them reason through challenging issues. Bioethics Consultation Service Lilly’s internal Bioethics Consultation Service handles requests for consultation about specific ethical concerns, as well as bioethics position clarification and application, document review and discussion of hypothetical or historical cases. 400 BIOETHICS CONSULTATIONS In 2019, Lilly Bioethics completed its 400th bioethics consultation. Since 2008, the department has consulted on over 60 different molecules. Human Rights | Page 16 Primary Bioethics Consultation Topics: 2008-2018 Continued Access 46 Pediatric Population 42 Informed Consent 42 Human Biological Samples 41 Patient Rights 38 Early Termination of a Clinical Trial 29 Benefits and Risks 29 Expanded Access 27 Study Design 22 Scientific Publication 17 Country/Site Selection 15 Conduct of Clinical Trial 10 Internal Company Processes 8 Clinical Use 8 Incentives 7 Vulnerable Population (Non-Pediatric) 6 Independent Ethics Review 6 Conflict of Interest 2 External Standards and Guidelines 1 Tailored Therapeutics 1 Bioethics Principles Informing Lilly’s Bioethics Framework for Human Biomedical Research BASIC BIOETHICS PRINCIPLES KEY CONCEPTS Ensures that research participants are not treated as a mere means to an end but as self-determining individuals with the right to fully exercise their autonomy, including: Respect for Persons • that those who are capable can provide voluntary informed consent and • ensuring protections are in place for those who are not capable Beneficence Requires that researchers seek to maximize benefits and minimize harms Nonmaleficence Requires that researchers avoid inflicting harm or imposing undue risk of harm Requires that research procedures be carried out fairly and equitably and that Justice there is a fair distribution of the burdens and benefits of research Human Rights | Page 17 Patient Safety and Product Availability From early discovery, through drug development and while a drug is on the market, Lilly works to ensure the safe and effective use of its medicine. We recognize that taking the right medication at the right time is critical to a person’s overall health. Therefore, ensuring our products are available wherever and whenever patients need them is one of our top priorities. Global Patient Safety Ensuring Throughout the lifecycle of a medicine from discovery Product Availability through approval to after it is marketed to the public, The mission of Lilly’s global manufacturing team is Lilly aims to characterize the benefit-risk profile of our to provide a reliable supply of high-quality medicines. medicines and communicate these to patients, healthcare Because Lilly manufactures medicines that people rely professionals and regulators. Lilly’s Global Patient Safety upon and that can be critical for health, we know that organization, consisting of more than 300 physicians, we have a responsibility to safeguard both the materials pharmacists, nurses and other professionals, is dedicated needed to manufacture these medicines and the supply to the continuous collection, monitoring, evaluation and chain logistics that help to ensure their availability. reporting of safety information. Lilly collects adverse event reports and other safety information from around Our Manufacturing Policy Committee oversees the the world in a company-specific adverse event database maintenance of Lilly’s inventory of essential raw to further evaluate the safety of our medications. New materials. Before they enter the Lilly system, our safety findings are communicated to patients, healthcare raw material and component suppliers are evaluated professionals and regulators to appropriately manage for technical competence and the ability to provide risks associated with the use of our medicines. high-quality, efficacious raw materials to Lilly. More information can be found in the Supply Chain section of this report. As an additional safeguard, we have mitigation plans in place for our drug product components, including materials critical to manufacturing finished drug products. Continuous improvement initiatives in our manufacturing, packaging and distribution capabilities help to safeguard the supply of Lilly medicines, and allow us to provide safe and effective finished drug products to patients and healthcare providers. Product serialization, first rolled out in the United States in 2018, with ongoing implementation in other countries, adds an additional level of security to our distributed products. Human Rights | Page 18 Supply Chain At Lilly, our efforts to ensure the safety and integrity of our products begin with the procurement of materials and extend throughout the production process. This includes our interactions to promote strong health, safety and environment (HSE) practices with suppliers who provide us materials for research and development, as well as with the contract manufacturers who help make our medicines and other pharmaceutical products. It extends to our work to stem the tide of counterfeit medicines and to ensure we comply with governmental efforts around conflict minerals. In addition to the topics we discuss in this section, more information on our work around HSE in our supply chain can be found in the HSE section of this report. Preventing Counterfeit Medicines Counterfeit medicines have been found in all therapeutic areas in every region of the world. Their impact is wide-reaching and potentially deadly, both due to toxic substances sometimes found in the counterfeit medicines and because they undermine a patient’s confidence in legitimate medicines and the credibility of healthcare providers. Lilly’s anti-counterfeiting strategy is composed of three key objectives: • Securing the integrity of Lilly medicines through the legitimate supply channels; • Deterring major counterfeiters of Lilly medicines through targeted investigations, internet monitoring, legal actions; and • Partnering with governments, non-governmental organizations and trade associations to raise awareness, and to strengthen, enact and enforce anti-counterfeiting laws. Working to Deter Counterfeiters Online of Boards of Pharmacy that helps patients find safe and and in the Field legal online pharmacies. Lilly cooperates with customs, police and other law enforcement officials around the Patient safety is the foundation of Lilly’s global antiworld to investigate and prosecute those who make and counterfeiting efforts, and we are engaged in efforts to distribute counterfeit Lilly medicines without regard to combat counterfeiters. We are a founder and member the law or patient safety. of the Alliance for Safe Online Pharmacies, a global coalition of stakeholders with an interest in protecting patient safety and ensuring that patients have access to Serialization safe and legitimate online pharmacies. Lilly advocates Serialization is the unique identification of individual for protections for patients from the growing number of packs of medicines to ensure the security of the illegitimate and unsafe online drug sellers. legitimate supply chain. One of Lilly’s major legislative efforts has been to advocate for the establishment of Lilly worked collaboratively with European stakeholders a uniform standard for coding, serializing and tracking on the successful implementation of the False Medicines pharmaceutical products. Lilly has made considerable Directive to help ensure counterfeit medicines do not investments in its packaging operations, distribution make it into legitimate supply chain channels. In the centers and IT infrastructure to support this initiative, United States, we actively advocated for the Drug Quality including new technology, which impacts all of our and Security Act, federal legislation that established a packaging lines around the world. These efforts help to uniform standard for coding, serialization and tracking of ensure that doctors, pharmacists and patients can be products. Lilly also supports the dedicated domain name confident in the medicines they prescribe, dispense “dot pharmacy,” an initiative of the National Association and receive. Human Rights | Page 19 Lilly believes it is imperative that legislative efforts and to create white papers and guidance documents to help policies around serialization and product traceability define recommendations for effective track and trace follow global standards. Non-standard requirements not systems. In response to the U.S. Drug Supply Chain only increase the implementation costs for manufacturers Security Act (DSCSA), which goes into effect in 2023, and trading partners, but also open the door to counterfeit we have joined the Partnership for DSCSA Governance, and illegally diverted products entering the legitimate a newly-formed, independent nonprofit organization, supply chain, increasing the potential for patient harm. created to govern efforts among industry and supply Lilly actively partners with industry groups such as The chain partners. Lilly’s involvement with the Partnership Alliance for Global Pharmaceutical Serialization (RxGPS), is extremely important in helping to achieve an effective global standards bodies such as GS1, country level groups traceability system across the industry, enabling Lilly to and think tanks, and regulators in many markets around reap the benefits of the significant investment we have the world to advocate for global standards to ensure a made in our serialization infrastructure. harmonized approach to product traceability initiatives. Lilly’s advocacy efforts have created positive and tangible Lilly works with a variety of governmental and industry outcomes that we believe enhance patient safety. We initiatives to advance reliability and effectiveness of played a leadership role in China on this issue, influencing traceability in the pharmaceutical supply chain. Our a shift from a non-standard product traceability efforts include educating on, and increasing awareness requirement to a policy that will accommodate global of, global standards and the importance of harmonizing standards. In Malaysia and India, Lilly continues to invest traceability policy by conducting training programs for in advocacy efforts to educate and inform regulatory regulators through our partnership with Asia Pacific authorities on the importance of adhering to global Economic Cooperation. Lilly also works with the standards as they evaluate upcoming legislation. International Coalition of Medical Regulatory Authorities Conflict Minerals Lilly is concerned with the variety of human rights violations that occur throughout the world. We are aware that the ongoing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and the surrounding countries is understood to be financed, in part, by the mining and trade of certain minerals, including tungsten, tantalum, tin and gold. We are committed to making every effort to ensure we understand our supply chain and the potential upstream impacts of our supply and purchasing decisions as they relate to the minerals at issue. From 2014 to 2020, Lilly filed annual reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to the conflict minerals rule. As a part of that reporting process, we examine the raw material content of all of our global commercial products and seek to identify the origin and source of these raw materials. Our goal is to develop a better understanding of the supply chain and to avoid the inadvertent support of businesses associated with human rights violations. Lilly’s expectation is that our suppliers will source their materials responsibly and abstain from procuring materials from areas or sources that might promote conflict in the DRC and that our suppliers conduct their own due diligence regarding the source of any materials they provide to us in order to ensure those materials are conflict-free. We filed our latest conflict minerals disclosure documents with the SEC in May 2020. Lilly is committed to continue to understand the origin of these materials and will take appropriate action to avoid the inadvertent support of businesses associated with human rights violations. Human Rights | Page 20 Access to Medicines, Affordability and Transparency Biopharmaceutical companies such as Lilly have a responsibility not only to develop much-needed treatments and cures but to do what we can to ensure those who need these treatments can access them. Striving to make patients’ costs affordable is critical to helping them stay on their medicines and stay healthy. We’re committed to working with stakeholders in healthcare systems to make sure patients can get the medicines they need—at reasonable out-of-pocket costs and with pricing information they can understand. This includes finding new solutions that help address the affordability of our medicines, including for people who need insulin. Innovative medicines can reduce the burden of disease, improve lives and save money. But as a larger society, we also need more innovation on how to pay for medicines and better ways to deliver them to patients. That’s why Lilly has been pursuing more value-based contracts, in which the price we receive depends on how much our medicines help patients. In the United States, 20 percent of revenue flowing through access-based contracts has a value-based component, and we have more than 300 alternative access contracts in other global markets, many of which are value-based. Our efforts to bring innovative medicines to patients may take different paths depending on the healthcare system unique to a specific region of the world. However, we work to ensure our strategy fits with the needs and expectations of a number of different stakeholders, in addition to patients. As we evaluate the various stakeholder perspectives, Lilly may take into account the following considerations: • Health system needs and constraints (e.g., advanced technology, quality metrics, budget constraints) • Patient and caregiver needs (e.g., education and support tools) • Regulatory requirements (e.g., the need for ongoing post-market safety or outcomes studies) • Public policy limitations (e.g., price controls) and enablers (e.g., additional research incentives) Pricing Around the World Lilly sells medicines in approximately 125 countries around the world. Each country values medications and innovation differently and must balance competing demands for limited resources. This includes other healthcare products and services, as well as meeting other social needs such as education or infrastructure. At Lilly, we consider country-specific conditions when pricing medicines on a market-by-market basis, to help ensure patients have affordable access to the innovative medications we develop. We support public policies to meet this same end. We strive to price our medicines to enable Human Rights | Page 21 affordable access for appropriate patients, reflecting the Lilly’s Support of Universal value provided to patients, providers, payers, caregivers, Healthcare Principles the health system, and society as a whole. We define value In September 2019, Lilly sent a representative of our in clinical, human, and economic terms, and we base our global health team to the first-ever high-level meeting assessment on the results of clinical trials, economic of the United Nations (UN) General Assembly focused analysis, projected and measured health outcomes, as exclusively on universal health coverage (UHC). Entitled well as market research. “Universal Health Coverage: Moving Together to Build a Lilly is exploring new ways to achieve the right level of Healthier World,” the meeting featured heads of state, pricing in different markets and we advocate for policy global health leaders and policymakers, who issued a changes that help increase access to medicines. Valuecollective call to elevate discussions of access to health based and outcomes-based reimbursement models are care beyond ministries of health and to address the issue examples of payment initiatives that offer the ability to in a holistic way. deliver greater economic and health value to healthcare Lilly supports the principles of UHC, and its importance in systems. When countries look at health costs and related fulfilling the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, outcomes holistically, rather than in budget silos, it is which provides a framework for member countries, the clear that medications deliver substantial benefits in both private sector and non-governmental organizations to human and economic terms. work together towards achieving peace and prosperity for As a global company, we are particularly aware of people and our planet by realizing the UN’s Sustainable the economic circumstances in many developing Development Goals. UHC means that all individuals and countries that can make access to medicines difficult. communities have access to quality healthcare services, In response, Lilly has developed alternative business where and when they need them, without risk of financial models, recognizing that the poorest nations should pay hardship. Pharmaceutical companies are part of a much less than wealthy nations. Lilly also supports efforts to larger health ecosystem comprised of public and private decrease the final price of medicines to patients, such as providers, health professionals, hospitals and clinics, minimizing taxes of all types and limiting markups applied laboratories and health insurers, and we recognize that in the supply chain. In addition, Lilly has a long-standing no single organization or sector can achieve UHC on policy of not seeking or enforcing patents for medicines its own. Lilly believes that the private sector is wellin any of the least developed countries, as defined by the positioned to contribute to UHC goals since it already United Nations. provides products and services for many millions of people across the globe. Working Together to Build a Healthier World The pharmaceutical industry has voiced its perspective that there are three key components to achieving universal health coverage (UHC). In recognition of the need to move together towards achieving UHC, Lilly is committed to partnering with others towards these goals. Upholding Access to like Lilly, play a vital role in developing and delivering Quality Primary Health Care health innovations that can support and strengthen local healthcare response. In 2019, Lilly joined with the Quality primary health care and resilient local health Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and four other health systems are the backbone of UHC. They are what companies to fund community health workers in up to six enable UHC to be truly inclusive and ensure no one African countries that are projected to reach an estimated is left behind. The full sweep of essential healthcare 1.7 million people by 2022. By tackling health challenges services— often beginning before birth and continuing at the local level, community health workers can improve through illness, injury, work, childbirth, aging and the individual health outcomes, contributing to increased end of life—are foundational to health, and they are community employment and fewer health crises, while essential in helping countries respond to public health reducing national health expenditures. disasters and emergencies. Pharmaceutical companies, Human Rights | Page 22 Invest More, and Invest Better, in Health To reduce high and impoverishing out-of-pocket healthcare expenses, sufficient, sustained, equitable and innovative funding solutions are required for UHC to become a reality. Lilly believes that new partnerships are needed that help all actors within the healthcare system ensure resources are invested more efficiently. Through investments in people, medicines and health systems, Lilly aims to reach 30 million people in resource-limited settings annually by 2030. This ambitious goal is backed by an initial $90 million investment from the company and the Lilly Foundation to fund global health programs through 2022. Improve Access to Safe, Effective and Affordable Essential Medicines and Vaccines Medical innovations, like vaccines and medicines, are not only a foundation of modern healthcare, but a critical element for achieving UHC. Safe, effective, quality and affordable medicines and vaccines can prevent, manage, or even cure disease, and ensuring they are accessible to all who need them is a key element to providing universal good health and well-being. In 2019, we turned to our asset library in search of options to address priority global health diseases. Our researchers examined more than 350 shelved assets—including small and large molecules and legacy products—alongside a list of diseases in need of better treatments. They identified about a dozen of these for further review and will make recommendations to a research governing committee in 2020. Pricing in the United States Pricing our medicines is one of the most important decisions we make as a company. We aim to strike a balance between access and affordability for patients while sustaining investments in life-changing treatments for some of today’s most serious diseases. We consider: CUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE C O M PA N Y C O N S I D E R AT I O N S The unmet needs that medicines can fulfill for The costs of research, development, manufacturing, patients and caregivers, and how people can and support services for customers; business affordably access the treatment trends and other economic factors; as well as the medicine’s potential market size, patent life, and COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE place within our larger portfolio of medicines The benefits of our medicine compared to OT H E R E X T E R N A L FACTO R S alternative medicines, where our medicine fits in treating conditions, and existing contracts between Such as health system changes and policy guidelines payers and our competitors The way that medicines are paid for in the current healthcare system can seem confusing. Here’s how it works when Lilly prices our medicines in the United States. • Lilly sets a list price for each of our medicines, taking into account the value provided to patients, affordability, the competitive landscape, costs of research, manufacturing, marketing and support services we provide, as well as other factors such as health system changes. • To ensure patient access, Lilly pays rebates and other discounts to payers, pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) and other supply chain entities, such as wholesalers and distributors. • The final dollar amount that Lilly ultimately realizes after paying these rebates and discounts is sometimes called the net price. Lilly is committed to increasing transparency around the price of our medicines. Our television advertisements direct viewers to a website, lillypricinginfo.com, that provides the list price, average out-of-pocket costs and financial assistance information for the medicine advertised. Human Rights | Page 23 Changes in Lilly’s Net Price: 2015-2019 Across our U.S. product portfolio, Lilly’s average net price after rebates and discounts—the final amount we receive— has fallen from 55 percent in 2015 to 43 percent in 2019. The rebates and discounts we pay to PBMs, insurers, the government and other supply chain entities have continued to grow over the years, not just for insulin, but for Lilly’s entire U.S. portfolio. We support the restructuring of financial incentives for the entire pharmaceutical supply chain to ensure that patients directly benefit from those rebates and discounts at the pharmacy counter. Comparison of Lilly List and Net Price Changes for U.S. Product Portfolio1 (% change versus the prior year) List Price2 Net Price3 16.3% 14.0% 9.4% 9.7% 6.0% 5.5% 2.4% 3% -0.5% -3.3% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1. U.S. Product Portfolio includes all human pharmaceutical products marketed in the U.S. for which Lilly is the holder of the new drug application (NDA). This represents approximately 94% of our total U.S. human pharmaceutical revenue. 2. List Price represents the weighted average year-over-year change in the wholesale acquisition cost (WAC). 3. Net Price represents weighted average year-overyear change in net price, which is WAC minus rebates, discounts and channel costs. Humalog List and Net Price Per Vial4 Average Lilly Net Price Humalog List Price Per Vial (As a % of List Price) After Discounts Insulin Lispro List Price Per Vial Humalog/Insulin Lispro Net Price Per Vial Across the U.S. Product Portfolio5 $268 $275 $275 $246 $216 55% 50% $137 49% 46% 43% $70 $59 $61 $62 $60 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The last list price increase for Humalog vial was May 2017. The net price in the chart represents the revenue Lilly realized per Humalog and Insulin Lispro vial after rebates and discounts. Increases in list prices do not always create increases in net prices. 4. The average net price per vial, the amount Lilly receives after rebates and discounts, is calculated by dividing the total net vial sales (Humalog and Insulin Lispro vials), by the total vials sold. 5. The average net price percentage is calculated by dividing net sales, the amount Lilly receives after rebates and discounts, by the annual gross sales (total sales at list price, prior to all discounts). Human Rights | Page 24 Addressing Insulin Affordability Today Changes in the U.S. healthcare system, including an increase in high-deductible health plans and co-insurance, have contributed to greater out-of-pocket costs for many trying to afford their medications. High-deductible health plans prioritize lower monthly premium payments, but they have also shifted a greater burden of cost-sharing to consumers who need medicines. This is especially felt by those with chronic conditions—effectively causing the sick to subsidize the healthy. For people living with diabetes, insulin is an essential, life-sustaining medicine. Ensuring affordable access to it is an issue that Lilly takes seriously. We are committed to helping people with diabetes afford their insulin regardless of whether they have insurance from an employer, Medicare, or no insurance at all. About Lilly Diabetes Since pioneering the manufacturing and distribution of the first animal-based insulin in 1923 to launching the first commercially available biosynthetic form of human insulin, Lilly has been working for over 95 years to develop medicines that save and improve the lives of people with diabetes. We offer a wide range of therapies and a continued determination to provide real solutions—from medicines and technologies that can improve adherence to treatment, health outcomes and patient convenience, to ongoing diabetes research, support programs and more. Manufacturing insulin requires deep technical expertise and a significant, ongoing financial commitment. In fact, in 2018, another pharmaceutical company canceled plans to launch a biosimilar insulin product after citing the cost of manufacturing. • At Lilly, approximately 5,000 highly skilled personnel, such as engineers and other scientists, oversee our insulin manufacturing process around the world, 365 days a year. • It takes several months, start to finish, to create the insulin that people use today. • Lilly has invested more than $1.2 billion since 2012 to expand our insulin manufacturing facilities and ensure that they are state-of-the-art. Treating Diabetes: Then and Now Nearly 100 years ago, insulin was a new invention, but production was crude. To produce a vial of insulin, pancreases from livestock were ground up to extract the life-saving substance—leading to purity and quality concerns. In addition, the initial insulins did not closely mimic the way a healthy body regulates insulin. They did not fit into the lives of those living with diabetes, making it difficult to stay compliant with treatment. Before the discovery of insulin, a child diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes at age 10 typically died less than three years after being diagnosed. Insulin was literally life-saving. Today, insulin extends life expectancy for people with Type 1 diabetes into their early 60s and 70s. That’s good, but still less than the average American. At Lilly, we’re not just treating diabetes, we’re trying to stop it. Lilly scientists are developing non-insulin drugs and therapies that, if successful, could put diabetes in remission or even cure it for some. We are also pursuing advances to make insulin treatment more effective, such as our “connected care” strategy—featuring an advanced insulin pen and insulin pump—and our partnership with Sigilon Therapeutics to develop cell therapies. Human Rights | Page 25 Across the United States, a growing number of patients—including those who rely on Lilly insulin—are exposed to the full retail price of their medicine at the pharmacy. This is one reason why we’ve focused our affordability solutions on people living with diabetes. To fill gaps in the current healthcare system, Lilly offers several insulin affordability programs for people who are most likely to be paying higher out-of-pocket costs. This includes those in high-deductible insurance plans, the uninsured, and seniors enrolled in Medicare Part D. Here are some of the solutions we’ve implemented: • Automatic Savings*: Lilly offers automatic savings directly to people with commercial insurance by limiting their out-ofpocket costs at retail pharmacies. • Non-Branded Insulins: Since 2019, Lilly has made three lower list-priced insulin products available. These unbranded versions allow Lilly to provide lower-priced insulins more quickly without disrupting access to branded Humalog—which thousands of insured patients depend on and which will remain available for people who want to continue accessing it through their current insurance plans. • Lilly Diabetes Solution Center: People who use Lilly insulin can learn about all options that may reduce their out-ofpocket costs by calling the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center, a patient-focused hotline staffed by medical professionals that connects people living with diabetes to various solutions based on their individual circumstances. • Insulin Donations: Lilly also donates medicines to charitable organizations that provide free medicine, including insulin, to patients meeting program eligibility requirements. In the last five years, Lilly has donated more than 7 million insulin vials and pens to U.S. charitable organizations, including Americares, Direct Relief, Dispensary of Hope and the Lilly Cares Foundation. See more details on this work in the Global Health section of this report. Our programs are helping up to 20,000 people each month better afford their insulin. The average out-of-pocket costs for people with diabetes on Humalog using one of our solutions dropped 67 percent in 2019. About 95 percent of prescriptions at the retail pharmacy for Humalog cost consumers less than $95, 90 percent cost less than $50 and 43 percent cost nothing at all. *Pharmacies must participate, and uninsured patients must enroll; offer invalid for patients whose prescription claims are eligible to be reimbursed by any governmental program; some limitations apply. Average Cost of Humalog Prescriptions Filled at Retail Pharmacies1 (2017 data) $0 $1 95 $96+ 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% 1 Humalog is the most broadly used Lilly insulin product. “Our goal is to ensure that people paying high out-of-pocket costs for Lilly insulins are matched with the best solution available to reduce their financial burden and help ensure they receive the treatment they need.” —Mike Mason, senior vice president and president, Lilly Diabetes Human Rights | Page 26 Other Long-Term Insulin Pricing Policy Solutions At Lilly, we feel that broader systemic change is needed to increase affordable access to insulin. In recent years, we have begun to see meaningful answers for people who live with diabetes. Payers in the healthcare system, including insurance companies, for instance, are finding ways to pass rebates on to patients and lower co-pays for insulin. These actions ease the burdens for most people in these coverage gap areas, but longer-term solutions are still needed. We’re actively working with other stakeholders throughout the healthcare system to seek policy solutions to address gaps in our current healthcare system. Some of these include: • Rebate Pass Through: We continue to advocate for insurers to pass through our negotiated rebates directly to consumers at the pharmacy counter. • First Dollar Coverage: We’re supportive of efforts to exempt certain healthcare services for chronic conditions—including medicines such as insulin—from an insurance plan’s deductible. • Medicare Part D Out-of-Pocket Caps: We’re supportive of legislation to cap out-of-pocket costs for Medicare Part D patients. We believe a cap would provide a critical financial safeguard for patients. Preventive Care Benefits Include Insulin One welcome sign of cost relief came in 2019, in the form of recent guidance from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, which confirms that “insulins and glucose lowering agents” are preventive care medicines that may be exempted from patients’ deductibles in high-deductible health plans. In so doing, this guidance can help people with diabetes save money immediately when refilling their prescriptions. This guidance is also credited with helping ensure that people who use pre-tax health savings accounts can use these funds to help pay for their insulin without worrying about violating IRS rules. And, in turn, it’s hoped that the guidance will translate into more patients adhering to the regimen prescribed by their doctors, preventing the development of costly complications. Value vs. Volume: An Alternative Way to We believe that innovative value-based arrangements Think About Medicines (VBAs) could be an important part of the solution. VBAs are one potential solution that allows Lilly to stand behind When a patient seeks medical care, the healthcare the health outcomes we expect our medicines to deliver, system’s top goal should be improving the patient’s when used appropriately. Such arrangements link the cost health—and medical interventions, including medicines, of our medicine more directly to patient outcomes. should be evaluated based on how well the patient’s health improves. This seems obvious—but it’s not how our A VBA includes predefined patient health outcomes current payment system works. and/or associated performance metrics based on the observed impact of a particular medicine on the person Under the existing fee-for-service model common in taking it. Such metrics can include favorable test results, the United States, payments are based on the number reducing re-hospitalization rates, or improving medication of treatments or services provided, not upon whether a adherence. This approach can transform the healthcare patient actually sees improvements in his or her health. system to one that is about value—versus the volume of However, as healthcare costs and rates of chronic disease medicines purchased. continue to rise, there has been increased urgency to deliver care that brings greater value to both the patient and the healthcare system as a whole. Human Rights | Page 27 In the United States, 20 percent of revenue flowing We believe VBAs have the potential to improve patient through access-based contracts has a value-based outcomes while lowering costs for the entire healthcare component, and we have more than 300 alternative system, but it will require increased collaboration access contracts in other global markets, many of which between payers, health systems, patients and industry to are value-based. Each VBA we participate in becomes make it happen. Moving to a system that is value-based an opportunity to get better at predicting the kind of can help ensure payers win with improved outcomes meaningful real-world data we need to make these and associated savings. Patients can win too, with better arrangements as effective as possible in outcomes and, hopefully, better access to the medicine improving health. they need. At Lilly, we continue to advocate for legislative and regulatory changes that support this transition and In many cases, VBAs improve access to a medicine we think this is one of the most important long-term for eligible patients. And given medicines in these changes we can make as an industry. arrangements are generally made available based on how well they work in specific sub-populations, patients can also get care that is more personalized. Over the long term, the results from these arrangements can help inform and improve future research and development efforts. “The benefit of value-based arrangements isn’t just to give access to medicines. They also allow us to learn about real world results and gather data so we can continue to improve outcomes.” —Erin Huntington, senior director, pricing, reimbursement and access strategy Human Rights | Page 28 Making Health Care More Affordable • We exempt preventive and chronic disease for Lilly Employees and All Employees medications from our health plan deductibles. That means Lilly employees, retirees and their families Beginning in 2020, Lilly’s health plan cut patients’ costs pay 10 percent to 20 percent of those medicines’ on all insulins to a new low: zero. This is our latest step to prices, but not the full retail price. reduce out-of-pocket costs for medicines. We’ve found it helps both our people and our health plan to save money. • For all medicines, Lilly’s health plan has lowered costs by passing through rebates to patients at the In 2019, we shared our experience in a report on health point of sale. In just one year, sharing these rebates benefits innovation. We believe it’s time for employers— helped more than 11,000 of our members, who saved who cover more than half of all Americans—to help drive $265 on average—or nearly $3 million collectively. the healthcare and insurance systems to do a better job caring for people with chronic diseases. • Employees and their eligible family members with diabetes can receive a free connected glucose meter Employers are spending more than ever to provide health and related supplies, along with real-time support benefits to their workers—more than $20,000 for family from trained diabetes educators. coverage. Yet two out of every five workers say their employers could do better. Many, especially those with As we’ve expanded these cost-saving policies, premiums chronic illnesses, say they struggle with affordability and for our plan (both company-paid and employee-paid) have access to the care they need. grown an average of just three percent annually—half as fast as the trend among all employers. If more employers—especially large employers—reduce cost-sharing for high-value therapies, they can change Of course, not everyone in the United States has access the insurance market in ways that improve health and to employer-based health coverage. Yet for the millions productivity while constraining costs. of Americans who do rely on their employers for their healthcare coverage, we believe employers can lead Like all employers, Lilly works every year to minimize the way to making health care work better for their the rising costs of health care. For more than a decade, employees. Even among the largest U.S. employers, just we’ve offered exclusively high-deductible plans to our one-third today offer reduced or no cost arrangements for employees. But we take certain steps to make sure our medicines treating chronic diseases. high deductibles don’t lead our people to skip or ration the care they need: C-suite leadership at companies across the United States can make the long-term decisions and trade-offs needed • We fund our employees’ health savings accounts to do health benefits more effectively. Working together, all at once in January. Whether someone gets sick employers can move good ideas forward and show a around New Year’s Day or Thanksgiving Day, they better way to make U.S. health care and health insurance should have money to help cover their costs. work for all Americans. Human Rights | Page 29 Improving Global Health Our purpose at Lilly is to unite caring with discovery to create medicines that make life better for people. For more than 140 years, we have worked to develop and deliver trusted treatments that meet real needs. Yet we know that all around the world, the most vulnerable among us often don’t have access to the medicines and care they need. Today, we’re working to do our part to change that. We are committed to expanding access to Lilly medicines to more people and to partnering with leading experts and organizations to help tackle complex global health challenges. We use a mix of philanthropy and shared value-based approaches and concentrate on diseases where we have deep technical expertise, including diabetes and cancer. Lilly 30x30 Through investments in people, medicines and health systems, Lilly aims to reach 30 million people in resource-limited settings annually by 2030. We call this global effort Lilly 30x30. To achieve our goal, we have structured Lilly 30x30 as a companywide effort, in strategic collaboration with valued external partners. Measuring Patient Reach 30x30 Governance To track our 30x30 progress, Lilly developed a To embed accountability throughout the company, Lilly measurement framework that allows us to estimate 30x30 is governed by a steering committee comprised of the number of people we reach through our full 30x30 five executive committee members as well as the head portfolio. In 2019, we reached an estimated 7.2 million of corporate responsibility and global health. These people through Lilly 30x30, an increase of about 2.2 senior executives from Lilly—including Lilly Research million over 2015. Based on new initiatives with broad Laboratories, finance, corporate affairs, Lilly’s internal reach and strategic plans to identify and pursue additional operations as well as ethics and compliance—all take part opportunities, particularly in the pipeline space, we to oversee management of key priorities and operational anticipate achieving our 30x30 goal. milestones, ensure strategic alignment to the overall goal and measure progress. Lilly’s chairman and CEO, David A. Ricks, also provides direct strategic input and receives periodic updates from the 30x30 team. Growing Numbers Reached through Lilly 30x30 2015 5M 2019 7.2M Human Rights | Page 30 30x30 Impact Areas to the next phase of study. The four candidates were then picked up by Chorus—a full-service, autonomous R&D Lilly 30x30 initiatives include activities across three areas unit within Lilly that specializes in drug development of impact: pipeline, programs and partnerships. In each from candidate selection to clinical proof of concept. of these three key areas, we are leading cross-functional The Chorus team assessed the target assets and teams to develop, pilot and measure high-impact, presented two finalist proposals to Lilly’s internal scalable projects: scientific committee for further review and consideration. • Pipeline – Discovering new medicines and repurposing internal assets and legacy products for COVID-19 Antibody Research diseases that disproportionately affect people living The Lilly 30x30 drug repurposing efforts brought forth in resource-limited settings a shelved antibody, previously studied in cancer, for evaluation against new disease targets. Early in 2020, • Programs – Strengthening and creating new in response to the coronavirus pandemic, the team programs that help improve access to Lilly medicines identified the potential and Lilly announced that we would • Partnerships – Building partnerships that strengthen advance this asset, LY3127804, an investigational selective health systems, increase access to medicines and monoclonal antibody against Angiopoietin 2 (Ang2), to improve care Phase 2 testing in pneumonia patients hospitalized with COVID-19 who are at a higher risk of progressing to acute Pipeline respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Ang2 is known to be elevated in ARDS patients and Lilly is testing whether Through our 30x30 pipeline efforts, Lilly is working to inhibiting the effects of Ang2 with a monoclonal antibody discover new medicines for diseases prevalent in settings can reduce the progression to ARDS or reduce the need with limited resources where viable treatment options are for mechanical ventilation in COVID-19 patients. The trial not readily available. We are also exploring our current began in late April 2020. portfolio and shelved assets to see if any of them might offer new treatment possibilities for conditions that Gates Foundation COVID-19 Collaboration currently lack good treatment options and we are working to identify and explore potential external partnerships and In March 2020, Lilly joined a cross-industry collaboration business development models that further support the with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to accelerate development of our Lilly 30x30 pipeline. the development, manufacturing and delivery of vaccines, diagnostics and treatments for COVID-19. This consortium Drug Re-Purposing of life sciences companies was convened to work collectively with national regulators and the World Health Not every scientific discovery that Lilly makes will go Organization to ensure promising studies are quickly on to become a marketed medicine—but some may scaled to help people around the world. Along with our still yield value in other ways. In 2019, we turned to our peer companies, Lilly agreed to share our proprietary internal asset library in search of those with the potential library of molecular compounds for which we have to provide possible treatments for priority global health appropriate threshold safety and efficacy data. Lilly is diseases. In this work, our 30x30 pipeline team followed also committing human capital as well, by engaging the the same process that we use to identify assets in our president of Lilly Research Labs and the company’s top commercial business. scientists in this effort. In all, more than 30 Lilly researchers examined over 350 Read more about Lilly’s response to the coronavirus shelved assets—including small and large molecules and pandemic that emerged in early 2020 at the beginning of legacy products—and identified about a dozen candidates this report and on lilly.com. for further investigation in 30x30 research workshops over the course of six months. Of those, four were advanced Human Rights | Page 31 Programs Shared Value Workshops Medicines play an important role in making life better We conducted 30x30 shared value workshops with Lilly for people. When used appropriately, medications can teams in Egypt and South Africa in 2019 to explore novel help us live longer and healthier, slow the progression ideas to expand access to Lilly products. The learnings of disease, improve management of chronic conditions, from these workshops have led to the development of a enhance our quality of life, prevent or minimize shared value playbook, a toolkit for Lilly affiliates around complications and side effects of disease, or even the world to run similar workshops independently. eliminate the need for costly or painful hospitalizations and surgeries. But medicines can often be out of reach 30x30 Fellow financially for those who need them the most. Ensuring In 2019, we created a Lilly 30x30 Fellow program in Lilly’s access to medicines is an important component of international operations. Initial work is focused on South investing in community health and well-being. and East Asia, Middle East and Africa (SAMETA) region. Through Lilly 30x30, we are strengthening our existing The goal of the project is to find ways to increase access programs—and developing new approaches—that help to Lilly’s medicines in those SAMETA countries where Lilly people in resource limited settings get greater access to has limited or no presence. valuable Lilly products and services. These efforts include exploring and expanding alternative business models, U.S. Insulin Affordability access strategies, patient support programs and We know that some people struggle to pay for their product donations. medicines—especially after the stress on the U.S. economy brought by the COVID-19 pandemic. To fill gaps Patient Support Programs in the healthcare system, Lilly has introduced several Lilly offers more than 150 patient support programs insulin affordability programs for people who are most across 50 countries that reach nearly 2 million people likely to pay higher out-of-pocket costs. We have options annually. These programs, including new insulin that cover a variety of personal circumstances, including affordability efforts in the United States, support people for those whose income is limited or has gone away who are taking Lilly medicines as well as their caregivers completely. People who use Lilly insulin can learn about and loved ones. all available options that may reduce their out-of-pocket costs by calling the Lilly Diabetes Solution Center, which Our patient support programs fall into three categories: connects people to a suite of affordability solutions. These answering questions related to living with disease and solutions are helping up to 20,000 people each month managing health; providing information on Lilly medicines better afford their insulin. In 2019, the average out-ofand training on Lilly devices; and supporting patients pocket spend among people using our savings programs through reimbursement and product access issues. decreased more than 65 percent. See more details on this To help expand access to our medicines, Lilly designs work in the Pricing section of this report. support programs that take into consideration a patient’s income level and ability to pay. Human Rights | Page 32 Partnering with Relief Agencies to Increase Access to Insulin As part of Lilly’s commitment to identify gaps in the healthcare system and find solutions that help people with diabetes live healthier lives, we announced in early 2020 that we would donate at least 200,000 KwikPens® to three relief organizations— Americares, Direct Relief and Dispensary of Hope—to stock insulin at nearly 200 U.S. free clinics through 2022. These donations will directly support people with limited resources living with diabetes who qualify for free clinic services. Separately, Lilly is providing $2 million to fund grants available through two relief organizations: Direct Relief and Americares. These agencies will distribute grant funds to a wide range of eligible free clinics. In the United States, there are many ways that people with limited resources can access insulin but sorting through the various options can be frustrating and time consuming. These grants will establish programs at free clinics to help people with diabetes served by these clinics to better understand and access resources that can help them—including: • medicine and supplies • educational resources • medical care • access to community programs • insurance coverage • help choosing and applying for insurance coverage or patient assistance programs In helping to expand healthcare access and improve quality of care for people with diabetes across the United States, we hope these grants will eliminate some of the frustration that comes with navigating the various resources available. Clinics can learn more about the program requirements and apply for the Lilly-funded grants through Direct Relief or Americares. Partnerships where we have deep technical expertise. One area where we have a focus is non-communicable diseases (NCDs), Through strategic partnerships, Lilly and the Eli Lilly which disproportionately affect people living in settings and Company Foundation, Inc., a separate nonprofit with limited resources. More than three quarters of NCD organization, work to advance government priorities, deaths—32 million—occur in lowand middle-income strengthen local healthcare systems and improve countries. Even in the United States, NCDs have greater access to care. Lilly uses its technology and expertise in impact on underserved communities. It’s not uncommon collaboration with other organizations to find innovative, for someone in a community with limited resources to live sustainable and scalable solutions to pressing global 10 to 15 years less than someone just 10 miles away in a health concerns, including diabetes and cancer. more affluent community. We work to establish cross-industry collaborations and develop and test models of care to reach as many people We share the data and lessons learned to help inform as possible. policy and advocate for the scale-up and replication of proven, cost-effective solutions. Our commitment to tackle complex global health challenges takes many forms. We work to develop and scale sustainable solutions while focusing on diseases FOCUS Health System Strengthening Diabetes Cancer AREAS GEOGRAPHICAL India Mexico Sub-Saharan United States AREAS Africa Human Rights | Page 33 Collaborations to Advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals Lilly participates in Access Accelerated, a first-of-its-kind, multi-stakeholder collaboration focused on improving noncommunicable disease (NCD) care. NCDs include cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases, diabetes and mental illness. Lilly is also a member of the NCD Alliance, global thought leader on policy and practice related to NCDs. Lilly is a member of the Shared Value Initiative, a global community of organizations committed to driving the adoption and implementation of shared value strategies among leading companies, civil society and government organizations. “Dispensary of Hope is excited to expand the ongoing effort with Lilly’s insulin donation program. Insulin saves lives, and the addition of donated Humalog and Basaglar KwikPens® is important for the nation’s uninsured, low-income community.” —Chris Palombo, Dispensary of Hope CEO Notable Cross-Industry Collaborations Lilly Joins Africa Health Worker Training Initiative As part of our 30x30 commitment, Lilly joined four other health companies and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in early 2020 to announce a new fund to increase access to community-based primary healthcare for nearly 1.7 million people by 2022 in up to six African countries. The partnership is a response to the growing call to action globally to advance universal health coverage and work toward the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals around good health and well-being. Led by nonprofit partners Last Mile Health and Living Goods, the initiative will employ 2,500 community health workers equipped with digital tools. Each of the six investors will contribute $1.5 million total over the next three years. This funding will be matched by The Audacious Project through an existing $50 million matching commitment, resulting in a total $18 million total investment. In addition to financial contributions, industry partners will contribute disease-specific expertise and experience in the discovery and development of new tools. Living Goods and Last Mile Health have pioneered an effective community health worker model and are continually exploring novel approaches to training and retaining community health workers. Investing in community health workers produces some of the best returns in health—and can yield a 10:1 return on investment. In addition, community health workers can meet up to 90 percent of a population’s health needs—one of the most efficient and effective ways to achieve universal health coverage. Not only will this partnership allow community health workers to reach more patients, but the curricula and tools developed through the investment will support improved community health training for years to come. Human Rights | Page 34 The initiative encompasses three specific areas: • Contributing expertise and staff to a new Kenya Performance Lab to develop mobile-based tech • Training and deployment of 2,500 digitallyinnovations to improve community health worker empowered community health workers in productivity and supply chains. Innovations will Liberia, Kenya, Uganda, Malawi and up to two be introduced in Kenya and then scaled to additional countries. other countries. • Supporting Last Mile Health’s Community Health Academy, an open source, digital learning platform for community health workers and health systems leaders. To date, over 11,000 learners have been enrolled in the Community Health Academy’s courses worldwide. “Focused investment in community health workers can accelerate progress to make universal health coverage a reality. Public-private collaboration is critical to help governments lower barriers to quality care and innovative medicines that save and improve people’s lives.” —David A. Ricks, Lilly Chairman and CEO Lilly Helps to Expand Successful AMPATH Model Building on 30 years of success in western Kenya, Lilly and the Lilly Foundation’s longtime partner AMPATH—also known as Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare—is establishing new partnership sites in Puebla, Mexico and Tamale, Ghana, with the potential to reach more than 7 million people by 2030. Over the years, as AMPATH has grown and evolved its approach, so too has Lilly and the Lilly Foundation’s partnership with the organization, which now includes nearly $150 million in product donations, support of oncology programming and employee volunteerism. With the support of Lilly and the Lilly Foundation, this latest effort has the potential to expand AMPATH’s vital work providing medicines and healthcare services to millions more people—many who live on less than $1 a day. AMPATH was established in 1989 when four Indiana University (IU) School of Medicine physicians joined with the new Moi University School of Medicine in Eldoret, Kenya. The healthcare partnership that emerged grew to support one of Africa’s most successful models for HIV/AIDS care and control. Today, AMPATH’s work is evolving again, this time to support a comprehensive health model inclusive of economic empowerment, an integrated care system and universal health insurance. The newest rounds of funding to the organization are supporting AMPATH’s expansion to Mexico and Ghana to help validate its healthcare model as a scalable one that can be replicated in new settings, as well as efforts to ensure the scalability of the AMPATH model around the world. Human Rights | Page 35 Other Global Health Partnership Highlights Diabetes Impact Project in Indianapolis Neighborhoods (DIP-IN) Lilly and the Richard M. Fairbanks School of Public Health are collaborating on a five-year pilot—featuring newly-hired community health workers to help identify people with—or at risk of developing—diabetes and connect them with quality care. To reduce barriers to health, community health workers are also assisting residents in addressing other life challenges, including depression, substance abuse and domestic violence. Community members are full partners and leaders in the effort. They are identifying and proposing solutions to barriers that increase the risk for diabetes, such as the lack of healthy food options and public spaces for exercise. The pilot has the potential for adoption by the Eskenazi Health system in Indiana and other communities across the United States, and the data generated is expected to help scale the program and reach more than 380,000 patients by 2030. “Our global health partnerships focus on investment in key areas and working with organizations that have demonstrated the ability to find innovative solutions to complex problems. Our past relationship with AMPATH in Kenya makes us confident that this model holds the promise to do that in other locations around the world.” —Tiffany Benjamin, senior director, corporate responsibility, global health and president, Lilly Foundation Diabetes and Pregnant Women in Mexico Mexico, like many other low and medium-income countries, faces an epidemic of NCDs. Diabetes is an especially pressing issue, since it is estimated that approximately half of Mexicans are unaware of their disease status. Diabetes affects all aspects of health, however, can have particularly detrimental effects on pregnant women. Lilly is collaborating with the Carlos Slim Foundation to test a new, less expensive screening process for pregnant women who may be at risk of Type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes. In addition, the children born from this group of women will be followed for 24 months, to study the effects of gestational diabetes on children. The data will increase the understanding of both diseases within the Mexican population and inform future public policy. If fully scaled across the country, the program could reach 1.2 million women and children by 2030. Product Donations From natural disasters to helping people with limited resources, Lilly donates medicines to vulnerable people and communities worldwide. We work with leading partners to identify when Lilly products are needed and to ensure our medicines can reach the greatest number of people who need them. Life for A Child Since 2008, Lilly has donated 2.1 million vials of insulin to the Life for a Child partnership. The program provides access to care, education and life-saving medicines and supplies to children with diabetes in developing countries. In 2019, our donations helped 19,000 young people in 31 countries with limited resources. Life for a Child efforts have encouraged governments to prioritize diabetes on national health agendas and move toward sustainable care. Human Rights | Page 36 Brandon Mariscal Life for A Child Insulin Recipient BRANDON MARISCAL As a 5-year-old in Bolivia, Brandon Velarde Mariscal was Life for A Child fighting for his life. Insulin Recipient “My son was dying. He didn’t eat. He couldn’t walk,” said his mother. After more than a year, Brandon was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes. Even then, he was given too little insulin and he continued to lose weight. Finally, Brandon’s mother found a doctor who stabilized his condition and connected them with a program to get him the insulin he needed—Life for a Child. Lilly has supplied more than 2 million vials of insulin to the program, which helps young people with diabetes in developing countries. Last year, Lilly insulin helped 19,000 young people in 31 countries. Now 24, Brandon recently graduated as a dentist and helps improve health for others. “I want to prove that diabetes hasn’t been an impediment for me. People with diabetes, we can do it.” Learn more about Brandon’s story. Patient Assistance Programs It is important to us to ensure that those who can benefit from our medicines have access to them. One way we do this is through our support of programs designed to help patients access the medicines they need. United States: Eli Lilly and Company donates its medications to the Lilly Cares® Foundation, a separate nonprofit organization. Lilly Cares operates the Lilly Cares Foundation Patient Assistance Program which assists qualifying patients in the United States obtain certain Lilly medications at no cost. In 2019, Lilly Cares helped more than 140,000 people with a significant financial need obtain prescribed medications in the areas of mental health, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, men’s health, osteoporosis, arthritis, cancer, psoriasis, migraine and growth hormone disorders. China: Lilly offers three patient assistance programs, two for oncology and one for osteoporosis patients. Products are donated to China Primary Health Care Foundation through which eligible patients qualify and receive their medicine. In 2019, more than 6,000 new patients were registered and more than 9,000 patients were helped through these three programs launched in 2014, 2015 and 2019 respectively. Human Rights | Page 37 Disaster Relief Disasters—whether natural or manmade—can change lives in an instant. That’s why Lilly works with leading partners to prepare for the worst and respond with our collective best. We do this through disaster preparedness efforts, providing medicines when requested by our partners and helping people and communities recover. Disaster Readiness While it is impossible to prepare for every situation, the impact of a disaster can be lessened by being ready before it happens. Since 2009, Lilly has worked with Direct Relief, a global nonprofit organization, to supply insulin and other medicines as part of its Hurricane Prep Packs. Developed with experts from frontline clinics and health centers following Hurricane Katrina and refined in the decade since, the prep packs contain basic supplies and medications which are pre-positioned in health centers located in hurricane zones within the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In 2019, Lilly donated just over $700,000 in product to this critical program. Each mobile, waterproof pack supports care for up to 100 people for approximately three to five days and contains: insulin diabetes supplies wound care chronic disease antibiotics (including test strips) supplies medications and more Lilly also donates vials and pens of insulin to Direct In 2019, Lilly provided $225,000 to expand Healthcare Relief’s Disaster Response Inventory initiative, which Ready’s Rx Open, an online, interactive map of open provides medical items that are urgently needed following pharmacies during times of disaster, and Rx on the Run, disasters—including wildfires, tornadoes, typhoons, which helps people document and share prescriptions earthquakes, floods and hurricanes. These supplies and provider information in advance of, or during, a offer immediate assistance while longer-term needs are disaster. In addition, funding from Lilly helped Healthcare assessed. In 2019, Lilly donated $2.7 million in supplies. Ready create a web-based repository of patient education and preparedness resources to allow people to search for We are also supporting Healthcare Ready and its efforts to targeted information based on their own situation, such help people get access to the information and medicines as medical condition, type of disaster and geography they need in times of disaster. A nonprofit that helps to (e.g., diabetes, hurricane, New Orleans). strengthen healthcare supply chains, Healthcare Ready collaborates with the public health and private sectors by addressing pressing issues before, during and after disasters, as well as helping to advance best practices around overall healthcare preparedness and response. Human Rights | Page 38 Helping People in Times of Disaster Together, our goal is to provide The best way for people to access Lilly medicines during a crisis is through their normal pharmacy, if possible. the right medicines Sometimes, conditions force some pharmacies to close. to the right people That’s why Lilly helped to expand Healthcare Ready’s Rx Open, which shows open pharmacies across the at the right time. United States. If insulin or other medicines have been damaged or destroyed by a disaster, patients can talk to their pharmacy about getting a new 30-day supply. Many insurance plans have disaster overrides that allow for replacement of destroyed medicine for the cost of In 2018, Lilly created the Diabetes Solutions Center to a co-pay. help people with immediate needs, which has expanded to Lilly often activates its own disaster response process to include those impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. ensure people have access to the medicines they need. This process helps people who don’t have a disaster override or who have a high-deductible plan that normally requires them to pay full price for their treatment. In these cases, Lilly will provide a new 30-day supply at no charge. Lilly is also a charter member of the Partnership for Quality Medical Donations, which brings together international medicalproduct companies and humanitarian organizations to advance the quality of product donations. The partnership helps ensure high levels of coordination before the next disaster strikes—and facilitate an effective, efficient response when it does. “During times of disaster, people need access to the essentials—shelter, food, water and, most certainly, health information and critical medicines. Our work with Healthcare Ready and Direct Relief expand our ongoing efforts to help people in times of disaster. It’s one more way that we’re working to help ensure people can access Lilly insulin and other medicines when they need them.” —David A. Ricks, Lilly Chairman and CEO Disaster Response In times of great need, Lilly and the Lilly Foundation respond. We donate medicines and supplies that are specifically requested by relief agencies, including Direct Relief, Americares and Project HOPE. These agencies work closely with clinics and hospitals on the ground to quickly assess and prioritize needs. Human Rights | Page 39 The Lilly Foundation provides strategic cash donations to relief organizations such as the American Red Cross and GlobalGiving and matches employee contributions dollar for dollar. These donations help support immediate needs during a crisis and, in cases of severe disasters, rebuilding efforts over time. In collaboration with these organizations, the Lilly Foundation responded to Australia’s wildfires and the earthquakes in Puerto Rico earlier this year. In early 2020, Lilly responded to the global coronavirus pandemic, creating specialized labs for local testing, opportunities for Lilly employees to volunteer and partnering with government and other life sciences companies to advance and study potential treatments for COVID-19. The Lilly Foundation also responded with strategic cash donations. Disaster Relief in 2019 In September 2019, Lilly responded to Hurricane Dorian, which affected Florida and the Bahamas, contributing more than 5,000 total insulin vials and pens that were distributed as part of Direct Relief’s Disaster Response Inventory. Lilly employees across the globe also contributed to relief efforts through Lilly Global Giving. Personal donations of $25 or more were matched by the Lilly Foundation. Read more about Lilly’s response to the coronavirus pandemic that emerged in early 2020 at the beginning of this report. Connecting Hearts Abroad Volunteers Work to • In Indianapolis, the Diabetes Impact Project Improve Health (DIP-IN) is Lilly’s first U.S. global health partnership. Volunteers work alongside local partners and More than 1,300 Lilly employees have volunteered through community members in three urban communities Connecting Hearts Abroad, Lilly’s global service program. where rates of diabetes are double the global rate. Most work on health-related projects in communities Projects completed support the broader DIP-IN with limited resources, working alongside local partners, initiative designed to build resources and connections gaining first-hand experience with complex global health within communities with the goal of preventing challenges and Lilly’s role in addressing them, including: diabetes or better managing it so that people can live • At displacement camps in Greece, where in 2019 long and healthy lives. ambassadors cared for more than 725 refugees, • In Kenya, where volunteers worked with A Fresh helping with health and vision screenings and other Chapter (AFC), a non-profit whose mission is to heal medical services. About half of the patients screened the emotional scars of cancer through volunteerism, were referred to local health centers and hospitals meaningful travel, and programs designed to for additional care. reframe adversity and redefine what is possible, • In Panama, where volunteers attended to the health as well as Lilly’s long-standing partner AMPATH to needs of more than 920 patients across several improve advocacy and care for people with cancer. diverse communities. Serving these communities is Through the partnership, AFC plans to reach 32,000 part of a uniquely holistic model to meet community’s Kenyans by 2025. health and economic goals, collaboratively, building To respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, Lilly is community ownership. collaborating with partners to explore virtual volunteer opportunities for 2020. Human Rights | Page 40 Labor To solve the toughest challenges in medicine, Lilly is committed to attracting and retaining a diverse, agile workforce of top talent from around the world. Everything we do requires fully engaged people. Our company’s values—integrity, excellence and respect for people—shape our approach to attracting and developing a highly skilled and ethical workforce. We are committed to fairness and nondiscrimination in our employment practices, and we value diverse backgrounds, skills and global perspectives. Lilly is a place where employees can enjoy meaningful work, build successful careers and be part of a caring, inclusive team working with shared purpose to make life better for people around the world. We support a culture of well-being by providing competitive pay, comprehensive employee benefit programs, robust training and development, and opportunities for employees to volunteer in their communities and around the world. In this section, we discuss our efforts to provide employees with a safe, supportive and rewarding work environment, and to offer fair compensation, training and career development. We highlight our commitment to maintain a workplace that upholds all applicable labor standards and is free from coercion, discrimination and retaliation. And we underscore our efforts to promote diversity and inclusion within our company, as a reflection of our values and a key driver of business success and growth. Intro | Human Rights | Labor | Health, Safety and Environment | Anti-Corruption Our Culture and Values As the pace of change accelerates across our global industry, our culture and values provide a solid foundation from which we work to fulfill our company’s purpose. From a global enterprise view, we seek to create a highperformance team culture, improve experiences for customers and employees, and deliver results by making life better for people around the world. To accomplish this, we have developed a comprehensive strategic framework that prioritizes people. We embrace progressive workplace approaches driven by research and employee feedback, and we focus on hiring, developing and retaining top talent with a wide range of experiences and perspectives. Our long-standing values of integrity, excellence and A vital element of our company culture is diversity and respect for people reflect our concern for our many inclusion (D&I). We have taken a rigorous, research-based stakeholders, including patients, customers, employees, approach, clearly highlighting its importance and benefits. shareholders, partners, suppliers and communities. To Our efforts have yielded results and recognition, as we embody our values in our daily work, everyone at Lilly were proud to be one of four companies to receive the is expected to include, innovate, accelerate and deliver. prestigious global Catalyst Award in 2019. Consistently modeling these behaviors is critical to our business goals, enabling us to speed the delivery of lifeRead more about our diversity and inclusion initiatives changing medicines, grow revenue and create long-term later in this section. value. On an individual level, embracing this approach helps employees be free to speak up, share ideas and be fully engaged in our important work every day. We invest in employees’ growth by providing resources for career and leadership development. Labor | Page 42 Lilly’s Support of Labor Standards The UN Global Compact’s principles state, in part, that both adults and children should be free from compulsory or coerced labor, and that people should have the right to associate freely and bargain collectively. Lilly fully supports these standards that are upheld in U.S. law. Freedom of Association Forced and Child Labor and Right to Collective Lilly maintains a long-standing practice of complying with Bargaining local minimum-age laws and requirements and does not employ child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, in any Lilly recognizes the importance of freedom of association of our facilities globally. In 2011, Lilly revised our global in the workplace and respects the right of our employees standards and procedures to include specific language to join associations of their own choosing. We interact about human rights, including our expectation that with works councils and unions in several countries; we vendors to Lilly abide by Lilly’s human rights standards as support these bodies and work productively with them. one component of our Supplier Code of Conduct. The vast majority of our workers globally are not covered under traditional collective-bargaining agreements. In some countries where we operate, governments mandate working conditions, such as salary increases, minimum wages, bonuses, number of weekly working hours, vacation time and overtime rates. These vary by country, and we follow these mandates wherever they are required. Several of our affiliates have employee councils that meet regularly with management to discuss workforcerelated issues that directly impact them, such as company policies and organizational changes. As laws and guidelines change wherever we operate, we will continue to work with employees, advocacy groups and governing bodies to maintain compliance and respect the right of free association. Labor | Page 43 Pay and Benefits Our pay and benefits programs are designed to attract and retain diverse, highly motivated employees while reinforcing our care for employees and our shared purpose to make life better. In 2019, to unite Lilly employees globally and strengthen the connection to our core purpose, Lilly issued a special equity grant, Lilly Shares, to more than 29,000 eligible employees around the world, ensuring an ownership opportunity for nearly every employee. Lilly’s compensation programs reward and recognize employee contributions and overall business success, while our benefit programs provide the flexibility to meet employees where they are in life and support overall well-being. We strive to deliver our total rewards with a global mindset, distinguishing programs only where local business needs or markets necessitate. Lilly is committed to ensuring pay equity for all employees. • Medical well-being time allotment in Italy for a We comply with local legislative analyses and reporting medical check-up day; and requirements globally, and for many years, we have regularly conducted pay-equity studies in the United States. • Financial well-being offerings expanded in China, In 2017, we included the U.K. in this study, and in 2018 we Italy and the U.K. for long-term financial planning. broadened these efforts to include Lilly employees in Brazil, While our company’s programs vary around the globe, China, Ireland, Italy, Spain and the U.K. In the 2019 U.S. pay we take a holistic approach to employee benefits. equity analyses, as in previous years, overall results were These may include flexible work arrangements; on-site positive with a small percentage of employees receiving an conveniences, such as cafes, fitness centers and child adjustment. development centers; competitive time-off programs; Employee insights are key to shaping total rewards offerings retirement benefits; and health and disability programs at Lilly. In 2019, employees in various locations received that are available to eligible employees when they enhanced employee benefits based on insights they shared need support. in the previous year’s reward preferences survey. Employees Lilly offers the Inspire employee recognition program in six of Lilly’s larger geographies were invited to participate to reward and recognize employees at Lilly locations in the survey, and nearly 75 percent (more than 18,000 globally. The program includes supervisor-to-employee, employees) responded to express their reward preferences. peer-to-peer and years-of-service recognition. Employees Their insights provide us with important input as we design can recognize colleagues and congratulate and support reward programs that help our employees be at their best. coworkers’ successes through the companywide A sampling of 2019 rewards enhancements included: recognition feed, providing a consistent and meaningful recognition experience for employees around the world. • Enhanced summer holiday benefits in China and the United States, and employee choice for additional leave time in the U.K.; • Expanded leave benefits, including extended personal and family member illness leaves in China and expanded parental leave benefits for mothers, fathers and partners, as well as adoptive and foster parents in the United States; Labor | Page 44 Well-Being at Lilly We want our company to be a place where our employees enjoy meaningful work, build successful careers and make important contributions to society. We strive to foster a healthy, vibrant work environment, while also supporting our people in the important time that they spend at home, with their families and in their communities. We believe this holistic focus helps us to all be at our best—more collaborative, more creative and more engaged—which in turn helps our employees deliver on our company purpose. Lilly’s Global Well-Being Framework A healthy workplace Physical wellness is one where employees promotes proper care and managers collaborate of your body for optimal on processes to protect and health and functioning. promote the health, safety and well-being of everyone. Social connectedness Behavioral health refers to the relationships focuses on preventing integral to well-being. or intervening in mental Your social network can illness, like depression offer support, happiness, or anxiety, as well as contentment, a sense of substance abuse or belonging and can help other addictions. during difficult times. Financial literacy refers to the skill and knowledge that help you make informed and effective decisions with all of your financial resources. Labor | Page 45 At Lilly, we take a broad view of well-being that Other efforts to support our employees’ physical and emphasizes multiple dimensions of each employee’s life. emotional health in the United States include access to a We focus on creating a healthy workplace, promoting dietitian, frequent fitness challenges, such as the popular physical wellness and behavioral health, improving “Maintain Not Gain” holiday team competition, and a financial literacy, and maintaining social connectedness. comprehensive employee assistance program. Across While local cultures, regulations and market dynamics the United States since 2011, we have designated all influence offerings in each country, our employee wellsites smoke-free. New adoptive, foster and birth parents being strategy is global. and their partners are eligible for generous parental leave, two on-site child development centers at corporate In the United States, Lilly’s myBestLife program offers headquarters, back-up care options and parenting a set of tools and resources to help employees better education opportunities. New mothers receive maternitymanage their health, as well as support them in living leave benefits and access to lactation rooms. We promote a healthier and more active life. Lilly offers health plan financial well-being through a variety of online financial coverage to employees and their eligible dependents, tools and financial advisory programs, and we offer and our coverage for preventive health services goes individual financial counseling on-site or by phone at no well beyond the requirements established under federal cost to employees. Many of the benefit offerings also are healthcare reform. available to spouses, domestic partners and qualified dependents to promote well-being for the entire family. At our Indianapolis headquarters, two medical clinics allow employees to have annual preventive screenings Lilly affiliate sites around the world offer extensive and routine lab work on-site. We have several fitness wellness programs, aimed at providing a holistic approach centers available as well, offering individual and group to employee health, safety and well-being. These exercise. When employees travel, we provide access to integrated programs feature safety culture messages a national network of more than 10,000 fitness centers and initiatives, and at some sites, integrate diversity and located across the United States. We partner with our inclusion programs as well. The Lilly global well-being food-service vendors to offer a wide range of healthier framework is intended to guide companywide efforts and dining choices and snacks, some of which are subsidized investments by focusing on five global domains identified by Lilly. We provide showers and bike racks for the for supporting personal well-being, each with distinct Indianapolis employees who commute to work by bicycle. areas of focus. Employee Safety Keeping our people safe and healthy, whether at home or at work, is one of our highest priorities and aligns directly with our company values. We realize that the journey toward safety excellence never ends and we are constantly evaluating approaches to improve our programs and to integrate injury prevention into everyday work. At Lilly, employee safety is managed by our health, safety and environment (HSE) team. For more information, see our discussion in Employee Safety.. Labor | Page 46 Learning and Development Another important way Lilly invests in employees is through learning and development (L&D). Continuing to learn and grow is essential for people to stay engaged in their work, develop their careers and make meaningful contributions that help our company fulfill its purpose. We offer the training our employees need to do their jobs Strong leadership is a critically important part of a in the highly regulated pharmaceutical industry. We also thriving organization. We’re expanding our investment provide training about corporate policies, such as those in leadership development, offering continuous L&D contained in our code of business conduct, The Red Book. opportunities for leaders at all levels of the company, And we work to cultivate a culture of lifelong learning by in all parts of the world. The aim is to help supervisors encouraging employees to seek ongoing education and develop skills and apply strategies to ensure inclusive growth experiences, helping them build careers that are teams that collaborate and perform effectively. In addition rewarding both personally and professionally. to an online learning platform, available on demand in multiple languages, in 2019 we expanded our classroom Because Lilly’s work encompasses business areas and offerings to target leadership development and skillfunctions across the entire breadth of our industry’s building. We also offered a series of in-depth workshops value cycle—discovery, development, manufacturing and to provide opportunities for more experienced leaders marketing—a single career might include opportunities to deepen their skills as well. Furthermore, we created in several areas of interest or in several different live forums to connect our top 1,100 leaders globally to geographies. To help our employees navigate these ensure alignment around leadership expectations and opportunities, we offer access to L&D programs that can provide ongoing opportunities for their assist them in acquiring the new skills needed to pursue professional development. their career objectives. The universally accessible, online programming we In 2019, we introduced Explore Your Career, a new global have introduced makes it easier for everyone to partake framework and suite of resources designed to help in Lilly’s L&D offerings. We have also modified design employees grow and lead every day. Explore Your Career standards for global training courses to improve contains tools and guidance for employees and their accessibility for people with disabilities and other managers to assess career interests, map career plans unique needs. Examples include ensuring that courses and develop skills. Also included is an online course are compatible with assistive technologies such as platform with thousands of courses that cover business, screen readers for employees with visual impairments technical and creative skills. and providing transcripts for individuals with hearing impairments. Across Lilly, we are intentionally designing learning experiences to be more inclusive and effective for everyone. Labor | Page 47 Diversity and Inclusion: Our Differences Make a Difference At Lilly, diversity and inclusion (D&I) are core to how we do business. We take a holistic approach because we’re a stronger company when we have a workforce of top talent from different backgrounds—people who are respected, valued, welcomed and heard. To fulfill our purpose, we must look at challenges from multiple viewpoints and understand the diverse experiences of the patients who depend on us. In short, our differences make a difference—to patients and to our business. D&I at Lilly Includes High-Level Governance, Intentional Corporate Culture and Ongoing Data Analysis. Leadership commitment: Our CEO and Executive Committee consistently state expectations for inclusive leadership and hold leaders accountable for building diverse and inclusive teams. Lilly’s senior vice president for human resources and diversity reports directly to our chairman and CEO. Our chief diversity and inclusion officer is a vice president who reports to the senior vice president. Clarity of purpose and expectations for everyone: The Red Book, our code of business conduct, summarizes our approach to creating an inclusive, nondiscriminatory environment. Data to inform and measure: We began setting aspirational goals in 2017 as part of our commitment to increase the number of women, minority group members and other diverse populations in leadership roles. Once goals are set, we monitor our progress over time to inform our approach. To help achieve our D&I goals, we help make sure everyone can contribute fully as their authentic, professional selves so they can grow in their careers. We approach D&I with the same rigor as other business-critical challenges. Because fostering D&I begins with understanding, we have conducted in-depth employee research—Employee Journeys—that have yielded important insights about the experience of women, African Americans, Latinxs and Asians at Lilly. This research has helped to illuminate common themes and challenges these employees face in their lives and in their career paths. Similar in-depth research is in progress for LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer/questioning) employees. Powerful insights from this research have led to companywide changes that are improving the culture for everyone. Labor | Page 48 In recognition of this work, Lilly received the 2019 Catalyst Award, a prestigious global honor that evaluates companies’ recruitment, development and advancement initiatives with a focus on proven, measurable results that benefit employees across a range of dimensions, including race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, nationality and disability. In 2019, we also launched D&I initiatives focused on people with disabilities and veterans. We’re working to improve accessibility to workplace facilities and technology for employees with visible and invisible disabilities through a multifaceted global initiative across several functions. We’ve also expanded efforts for hiring and supporting veterans, who bring valuable skills to our business. In concert with these efforts, our employee resource groups for people with disabilities and for veterans have added new programming and extended community-outreach efforts. Turning Understanding and Empathy Into Action The Employee Journey work was modeled after the patient journey process we conduct for our medicines. This process helps us more fully understand the experiences of particular groups, including ways in which their experiences might be similar to, or different from, those of other groups. We’re using the results of this research to help improve the experience of all employees as they progress in their careers, and to further diversify Lilly’s leadership ranks. After researching the journeys of women, African Americans, Asians and Latinxs, we launched similar research in 2019 to understand the lived experiences of LGBTQ employees. We have shared the results of the first four Journeys with the entire company and will do so with the LGTBQ results in 2020. These learnings provide a common language to help colleagues more easily relate to and empathize with people of other cultures. This research has resulted in growing energy around diversity and inclusion, with a companywide network of D&I champions, initiatives and teams in every business area—and an expanding appreciation of the value of different perspectives. We recognize that there is more work to do, but these initiatives are improving our culture. In our 2019 employee feedback survey, we saw improvements of two percent to three percent over last year on key questions related to inclusion. Specific D&I Activities Here are some highlights: and Results Measuring Progress on D&I Building a more inclusive culture requires sustained • We continue to set aspirational goals and measure focus and action, and the holistic integration of D&I into our progress in diversity. From the end of 2015 our entire business. Leaders and managers at Lilly are to the end of 2019, we increased the number of expected to lead more inclusively by valuing differences, women in management globally from 41 percent recognizing and overcoming bias and fostering a “speakto 45 percent. For racial and ethnic minorities and up” culture—where all colleagues feel their ideas other non-majority members in the United States and contributions will be valued. Our performance over that same period, we increased management management process, Pulse employee survey and directrepresentation from 18 percent to 24 percent. Across report surveys are ways we gauge employee feedback all levels of our workforce, in 2019 we saw increased and hold leaders accountable. Our commitment to D&I is representation for minorities in the United States and a core component of how we do business—and there are women globally. many examples that this work is making a real difference. • Six of 14 members (43 percent) of the Executive Committee, which reports directly to the CEO, are women, including one woman of color. Our 13-member board of directors includes four women (31 percent) and five members of underrepresented groups (38 percent). Labor | Page 49 Understanding and Supporting Diverse Employees • We continued our Employee Journey research and engagement. The training also focuses on how analysis to understand the diverse experiences of leaders should address such situations when they our employees, with a focus in 2019 and 2020 on the arise at work. In late 2019, we also launched online experiences of LGBTQ employees in the United States Make it Safe to Thrive training that is required for all and the U.K. employees. We continue to offer resources related to this program to ensure continued focus. • We introduced Explore Your Career, a new global framework of tools and resources, to improve our • We continue to offer a conscious inclusion program talent programs and processes. Explore Your Career at Lilly, developed to help employees identify and ensures broader access and greater transparency overcome unconscious biases. This program is about career development and advancement. instructor-led and available on request. More than 3,000 people have participated over the past several • Lilly is committed to supporting employees who work years. and live with disabilities around the world. In 2019, we established a global disability council that so • We have also introduced several signature leadership far has focused its efforts on accessibility. We now development programs. have task forces and detailed action plans in priority areas such as facilities, learning and development, » Emerge is a program in its third year, designed information and digital solutions, and making to develop minority talent at Lilly. The internal communications and externally facing three-day program, led by CEO David Ricks, websites more accessible. combines relationship-building and leadership development featuring case studies of tough • In response to insights from our Employee Journey decisions from Ricks’ own career. Mentioned research, we developed Make it Safe to Thrive, in an article about Lilly in The Wall Street an education and awareness program created Journal, Emerge focuses on top talent from to help build cultural literacy and understanding diverse backgrounds. First-year participants in about conditions needed for employees to feel 2018 were African American women; year two psychologically safe at work. We emphasize that all participants in 2019 were Latinas and Asian people, whether from majority or minority groups, women, and year three participants in 2020 can fully share their diverse ideas, experiences, include a mix of men and women from several knowledge and insights only when they feel safe minority groups. from bias and stereotypes. More than 3,000 leaders globally have participated in required live training, » In addition, we have a number of leadership using real-life scenarios, to gain greater awareness development programs for various levels of of how unconscious bias and microaggressions leaders, and all of them include significant can harm team cohesiveness and hurt employee participation from minority-group members. Mentorship, Sponsorship and Fostering Employee Connections • Senior leaders have long sponsored employees who have the aspiration and ability to become future business leaders at Lilly. In 2019, we expanded focus on a sponsorship initiative that requires senior executives to guide and support the careers of diverse employees with higher potential. The number of formal sponsors grew from under 50 to about 125. • In 2019, we unveiled a new initiative, Ask Me About My Journey, where employees are encouraged to sit down with peers who are different from themselves to learn about one another’s lives and career journeys. We provide conversation starters, and the rest is up to them. Labor | Page 50 Recruiting, Hiring and Talent Pipeline • Since 2018, we have required hiring managers to field a diverse pool of candidates and a diverse panel of interviewers for every open position at Lilly. Hiring in this way helps ensure that people from all backgrounds have equal opportunities to further their careers. It also helps ensure that leaders look beyond their own comfort zone for the most qualified candidate available for each open role. • Our commitment to diversity and inclusion reaches beyond our current employees. To recruit a diverse workforce, we partner with a wide range of professional associations, along with top colleges and universities. We focus on top talent from all backgrounds, with special attention to Latinxs, African Americans, Asians, veterans, individuals with disabilities, and early career professionals in the United States, as well as women globally. • To help develop our future talent pipeline, each summer we invite firstand second-year college students from underrepresented groups to participate in a summer work experience at our headquarters as part of a Lilly team. This experience provides students an excellent introduction to the pharmaceutical industry, to Lilly and to a corporate environment. The work experience prepares students for our corporate internship program later in their college careers. We also attract top talent through an extensive global MBA internship program. U.S. WORKFORCE ETHNIC DIVERSITY as of year-end 2019 27% MINORITY EMPLOYEES 10% 10% 5% 2% ASIAN A F R I CA N A M E R I CA N L AT I N X OT H E R G E N D E R D I V E R S I T Y AT L I L LY I N 2 0 1 9 31% FOUR OF THIRTEEN MEMBERS MANAGEMENT POSITIONS ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 45% 55% WOMEN MEN ARE WOMEN 20.4% 1 IS THE AVERAGE FOR GLOBAL WORKFORCE 50% 50% RUSSELL 3000 COMPANIES WOMEN MEN LILLY ALSO HAS SIX WOMEN ON ITS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 43% U.S. WORKFORCE WOMEN MEN 50% 50% 1. 2020 Women on Boards Gender Diversity Index Labor | Page 51 Employee Resource Groups at Lilly Membership in Lilly’s employee resource groups (ERGs) continues to grow, with an estimated 15,000 people participating worldwide. We have several corporate international ERGs representing women, LGBTQ people, early career professionals and people with disabilities. Many geographies also have local organizations. In the United States, most of our 11 corporate ERGs based at headquarters in Indianapolis also have associated field-based organizations. Ally organizations within Lilly are especially active in supporting women and LGBTQ employees at our company. Anyone from any background can join any ERG or ally group. Their efforts are designed to improve the employee experience for everyone and to be a voice for their unique perspectives to improve our business. Here are the U.S.-based corporate ERGs and highlights of their work in the past year: African American Network (AAN) Early Career Professionals (ECP) This dynamic organization is Lilly’s oldest ERG, dating ECP is one of our fastest-growing ERGs, with more back to 1984. It has a cohesive strategy for helping Lilly than 2,000 members. The group is quite diverse, so it become the employer of choice in biotech for African exemplifies intersectionality across cultures from a Americans and Latinxs by engaging African American generational perspective. ECP has worked with other employees to help recruit and retain top talent. AAN ERGs on multiple programs to build connections both efforts include Black History Month activities and the within Lilly and in communities where we operate through African American-Latino Forum, which in total include volunteer activities, as well as playing a key role in more than 2,000 employees. Membership in AAN attracting and engaging top talent. increased 25 percent from 2018 to 2019. Lilly India Network (LIN) Africa, Middle East and Central Asia LIN is an active organization, providing a network for Network (AMECA) employees whose heritage is Indian or who come to Members of AMECA focus on interfaith education and Lilly from India or South Asia. The organization has built cross-cultural understanding. A broad cross-section of connections with external groups, including a strategic Lilly people has learned and grown from AMECA activities partnership with the American Association of Physicians such as panel discussions on the hijab, world religions of Indian Origin (AAPI), the largest ethnic medical and immigration issues. association in the United States. LIN also works with Lilly sales representatives and medical liaisons to help them Chinese Culture Network (CCN) develop greater cultural literacy for their interactions with South Asian healthcare providers. A Diwali celebration at Lilly’s Chinese population is the largest minority group in headquarters is a highlight each year for Lilly people of our research and development organization and includes all backgrounds. It showcases Indian food, dance, art and some of our most accomplished scientists who are culture—in addition to beautiful brightly colored clothing widely recognized in their fields. CCN focuses on talent and decorations. development through mentorship to help people with strong technical skills also strengthen their leadership skills. A program called Expert to Leader invites internal Japan International Leadership Network (JILN) and external leaders and speakers to share information Japan is Lilly’s second-largest affiliate, after the United and experiences. CCN has also developed a reverseStates, and many Japanese employees spend most of mentorship program to pair senior leaders at Lilly with their careers in Japan. JILN members in the United States more junior team members of Chinese descent to build focus on building cultural awareness among current cultural awareness. Priorities for CCN and Lilly include and emerging leaders at Lilly and on communicating the attracting and developing Asian talent across all parts of unique features of Japan’s business environment as well our business. as the importance of Japan to Lilly’s business. Labor | Page 52 Organization of Latinx at Lilly (OLA) to live and work. The ERG also created an associated organization for veterans who work in U.S. locations Latinxs form the largest ethnic group in the United States, outside Indianapolis, launching a field mentorship representing about 17 percent of the U.S. workforce and program this year. The VLN is focused on showcasing 18 percent of the U.S. population, with a buying power unique talents and skills learned in the military and how in 2020 projected at $1.7 trillion. Lilly has made it a they can be a competitive advantage for Lilly. priority to improve the number of Latinx employees and leaders in our workforce. OLA has launched an internal campaign, “Our People, Our Business/Nuestra Gente, Women’s Initiative for Leading at Lilly (WILL) Nuestro Negocio” to emphasize the growing business WILL increased its membership by 40 percent in 2019 opportunity that Latinx represent. Recruiting Latinxs and to 2,400 members, reflecting companywide interest helping them connect to other Latinx colleagues and in women’s leadership. Because women make most the broader Lilly community is OLA’s top priority. Other healthcare decisions around the world, they represent priorities include facilitating mentorship and sponsorship an important priority group for Lilly. WILL delivered opportunities and building awareness with other crossseveral high-impact events focused on gender equity and functional groups on the importance of engaging with the career experiences of all women, including women Latinx people in the United States. of color and LGBTQ women. Its signature event in 2019 drew more than 1,000 employees and many top leaders Pride for a dynamic day of learning about gender bias and equity. WILL continued its successful partnerships with Lilly’s Pride ERG includes international, corporate and the national Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association, field organizations. The ERG also includes large U.S. and winning HBA’s coveted ACE Award in 2019. The Men as international ally organizations—people who work to learn Allies organization at Lilly is growing quickly as well, about LGBTQ colleagues’ experiences and to support supporting the goals and members of WILL and educating them. In 2019, the Pride ERG engaged 27 senior leaders its members on gender equity advocacy. in reverse mentoring, where senior leaders at Lilly pair with colleagues who identify as LGBTQ. The Pride ERG partnered with human resources and other ERGs to enAbleUS influence Lilly’s expanded parental-leave policy, and has EnAbleUS and its sister international organization enAble partnered with human resources in recruiting efforts. The represent the largest minority group in the world—people Global Ally Coach program now counts more than 1,400 with disabilities. This ERG focuses on removing barriers LGBTQ allies who volunteer to answer questions from for people with disabilities and partners with community non-LGBTQ people about LGBTQ inclusion. groups, including with the Joseph Maley Foundation in Indianapolis for Lilly’s Take Your Child to Work Day. Veterans Leadership Network (VLN) enAbleUS also works with Lilly’s health and safety staff as well as workplace facilities and technology teams around In 2019, VLN launched a mentorship program to help the world to advocate for greater accessibility. The group new employees who have served in the armed forces with held its first signature event in 2019 featuring powerful their transition to the corporate environment at Lilly. Lilly personal stories from people with both apparent and became a founding member of Circle City Vets to help invisible disabilities. make Indianapolis a more attractive place for veterans EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS IN 2019 E M P LO Y E E R E S O U R C E G R O U P S A R E C R I T I C A L LY I M P O R TA N T T O O U R 15 14,600 75 E M P LO Y E E MEMBERS S AT E L L I T E C O M PA N Y ’ S B U S I N E S S S T R AT E G Y. RESOURCE GROUPS GROUPS G LO B A L LY Labor | Page 53 2019-2020 Recognition At Lilly we strive to be leaders in diversity and inclusion and workplace benefits, and we’re honored when we receive recognition for our efforts. Here are some of our accolades for 2019 and early 2020: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR CATALYST: ETHISPHERE: FEMALE EXECUTIVES: For Our Employee Journeys, World’s Most Ethical Companies Top 10 Companies for Executive People Strategy 2017 2020 Women, 2019 and 2020 WORKING MOTHER: DIVERSITYINC: SCIENCE MAGAZINE: 100 Best Companies for Working Top 50 Companies of Diversity: #3 Top Employers: #9 Mothers, Quarter-Century Club JUST CAPITAL: FORBES: Win-Win of Just Jobs and Top 100 INDEED: America’s Best Large Employers: #3, U.S. Companies Supporting Healthy Top-Rated Workplaces, No. 14 and Best Employer for Diversity Communities and Families HUMAN RIGHTS NATIONAL ORGANIZATION BLACK ENTERPRISE: CAMPAIGN FOUNDATION: ON DISABILITY: 50 Best Companies for Diversity Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Leading Disability Employers Equality, Perfect Score 2019-2020 Labor | Page 54 Supplier Diversity We believe that doing business with a diverse set of suppliers helps the company accelerate innovation and deliver strong results. By actively seeking out the fresh perspectives and insights of ethnically diverse, womenowned and small businesses to meet our wide range of internal and external needs, we strengthen both our own company and firms across our supply chain. A supplier is considered diverse when at least 51 percent ownership and control are held by an ethnic minority, a woman or someone who is LGBTQ. Small suppliers are defined by the U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA’s) small business size standards. Given the importance of advancing supplier diversity, we have developed a comprehensive strategy comprising three key elements: compliance with government goals, commitment to seeking out and working with small and diverse suppliers and community engagement. We met or exceeded our approved targets for each of the six government categories in 2019. We continued to mentor small and diverse suppliers by expanding support programs with the aim of helping our suppliers build stronger business practices. We also hosted our fourth annual Lilly Supplier Day, an event that connects relevant and qualified suppliers with our procurement professionals and facilitates partnership with advocacy groups. In 2019, we spent $555 million with 523 suppliers classified as diverse, woman-owned and/or LGBTQ-owned, as well as more than $546 million with 1,433 suppliers classified as small businesses. During its most recent audit in 2016, the U.S. Small Business Administration recognized Lilly’s efforts to promote and maintain supplier diversity as “outstanding”—the highest possible rating. In 2019, the company ranked ninth for supplier diversity in DiversityInc’s Top 50 Companies for Diversity awards. The supplier diversity category assesses the use of best practices in achieving higher levels of procurement from diverse vendors. 2019 SUPPLIER DIVERSIT Y IMPACT Eli Lilly and Company is committed to providing opportunities to minority, women, veteran, LGBTQ and small businesses through its supplier diversity program. SM A LL A ND H L I L LY ’ S S O UG UP I N CO M E DIV ER SE SPEND HR P $752M T T LI ER $535M O N O M I C I M PA Earnings by people in the Spending with minority, DIV $1.4B jobs in Lilly’s supply chain women, veteran, LGBTQ ERSITY PR and their communities C and small businesses EC OG 19 JOBS SUPPORT ED 0 RA TAX E S 2 M 9,277 $398M Total jobs supported Federal, state and local through Lilly’s supplier personal and corporate diversity spending taxes generated due to the economic activity Labor | Page 55 Health, Safety and Environment Making medicines that make life better for people around the world requires the use of valuable resources, such as energy, water and raw materials. At Lilly, we believe that promoting a healthy environment, maintaining a safe workplace, and operating responsibly and in an environmentally sustainable manner are linked to our business and supported by our purpose and values. As a result, Lilly manages health, safety and the environment (HSE) under a unified governance structure. We strive to understand and systematically address the human behaviors and choices that can improve HSE performance. We encourage responsible action at every point in our value chain: from the researchers who explore complicated chemical reactions, to the manufacturers who may work with hazardous substances, to the administrators who manage complex regulatory responsibilities. This section covers the broad range of our HSE activities, from our approach and management systems, to our work addressing environmental and safety considerations across our value chain, to performance data and examples demonstrating our progress. Intro | Human Rights | Labor | Health, Safety and Environment | Anti-Corruption HSE Governance Structure HSE management at Lilly is integrated through a formal, companywide structure, including the following groups, individuals and programs: • Vice President responsible for corporate engineering and global HSE, a member of the global HSE committee who works closely with HSE and other functional leaders to ensure an appropriate and thoughtful response to HSE risks and opportunities, monitor emerging and evolving issues, approve appropriate metrics and goals, and oversee compliance with all HSE regulations, policies, procedures and standards worldwide; • Global HSE committee, which includes senior executives from key areas of the business, ensures G O V E R N I N G H S E AT L I L LY proper oversight, and plays a central role in monitoring corporate HSE strategy, compliance and performance against goals, as well as BOARD OF DIRECTORS continuous improvement; • Manufacturing HSE committee, which supports EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE these efforts and drives ongoing improvement throughout manufacturing; • Lilly Research Laboratories HSE Lead Team, which GLOBAL HSE COMMITTEE promotes health, safety and environmental aspects across research and development labs; DIVISIONAL HSE COMMITTEES • HSEDirections, which is the governing program for all global affiliates and global business solutions centers and is administered under the direction of the Global HSE committee, with HSE representatives leading compliance at each affiliate; and • Executives and lead teams in each of our business groups, manufacturing, Lilly Research Laboratories and general and administrative functions, who ensure good governance and oversee performance for HSE in those areas. Lilly’s Global Policy on Protecting People, the Environment and Our Assets We strive to maintain a secure workplace and to protect people and the communities in which we operate and serve. We are focused on continuously improving our health and safety practices to promote the well-being of our people. We are committed to conducting business in a responsible and environmentally sustainable manner. We are committed to a robust security culture to protect our people and brand from harm, and our assets from loss, theft or damage. Each of us is responsible for implementing our security practices and applying them in our daily activities. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 57 Lilly’s HSE Policy • Global Engineering Standards: Establish requirements for the design and operation of Statements, Procedures facilities and equipment, to ensure compliance with and Standards internal and external requirements, and responsibly manage environmental aspects of operations. Lilly has brief, principle-based policy statements that are • Product Stewardship Standard: Provides a implemented in two ways: through our global procedures, systematic approach to managing product and which describe basic principles and general expectations; process risks throughout the product life cycle, and through our global standards, which provide from research and discovery to product end-of-life. auditable, detailed requirements. These key governance Management Systems documents, and our related management systems, together detail Lilly’s HSE management and performance expectations. All business areas, including manufacturing, research Lilly’s global policy statements, procedures and standards and development, affiliate locations and general clearly articulate our commitments and guide our efforts. administrative offices, are required to operate with an HSE They include the following: management system that adheres to the requirements of the Lilly HSE standard. The basic elements of the • Protecting People, the Environment and Our Assets Lilly HSE Management System standard are consistent – Policy Statements: Sets companywide expectations with third-party standards such as the International for conducting business in a responsible and Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001, ISO 45001 environmentally sustainable manner, promoting and the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care the well-being of employees and protecting the Management System (RCMS®) standards. Our global communities in which we operate. HSE management system is periodically reviewed by an independent, accredited auditor to ensure it conforms • Health, Safety and the Environment – Global to the RCMS. Procedure: Outlines basic principles and sets general requirements in the areas of employee responsibility, management responsibilities, Audits business continuity planning and reporting of We conduct audits of Lilly sites following protocols for HSE incidents. each of our global HSE standards as well as regulatory requirements. Our five-year audit plan is updated annually • Management System Standard: Defines and identifies which sites to audit each year based on requirements to ensure a robust process is in place risk, with sites associated with high-risk operations being within each part of the organization to effectively audited more frequently. This approach results in audits of manage compliance with Lilly HSE standards, approximately 20 to 30 percent of our sites globally each applicable regulatory requirements and other year. In 2019, we audited 19 sites. All audit results are external HSE standards to which we commit. shared with senior management, and sites are required to • Environmental Standard: Establishes requirements respond to all audit observations and track action plans. to identify and manage the environmental and We also hosted 63 HSE-related external regulatory agency energy-related aspects of our operations. visits in 2019 which resulted in no critical observations. • Health and Safety and Process Safety Standards: Provide requirements for identifying and evaluating workplace hazards and establishing control measures to eliminate or reduce the risk of injuries and illnesses. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 58 L I L LY ’ S 2 0 2 0 E N V I R O N M E N TA L A N D S A F E T Y G O A L S ENVIRONMENT 20% 20% 10% 20% Reduction in Improvement in Reduction of Improvement in greenhouse gas energy efficiency 2 phosphorus emissions waste efficiency5 emissions 1,2,3 (baseline 2012) in wastewater 4 while increasing recycling rate (baseline 2012) (baseline 2018) above 70% and decreasing waste to landfill below 10% of total waste (baseline 2012) PROGRESS THROUGH 2019 9% 0% 11% 9% Reduction Improvement Reduction Improvement recycling rate increased to 78%, waste-to-landfill decreased to 9% SAFETY LILLY’S SAFETY PROGRESS AND PERFORMANCE In 2013, we established new goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, lost-time injuries and motor vehicle collision rate. These goals were developed to reduce our injury rates across a seven-year period: 2014–2020. 0.70 0.25 12% Total recordable Lost-time Motor vehicle injury rate injury rate collision rate 6 R E C O R D A B L E I N J U RY A N D MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION LO S T-T I M E I N J U RY R AT E RECORDABLE LOST-TIME YEAR YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE 6 INJURY RATE INJURY RATE 2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25 2020 GOAL 12% 2019 0.71 0.26 2019 12% 2018 0.84 0.29 2018 15% 2017 0.83 0.29 2017 15% 2016 0.93 0.32 2016 16% 2015 0.89 0.26 2015 16% 2007 1.44 0.60 2007 25% 1 Following World Resources Institute guidance, progress toward the greenhouse gas reduction goal is reported on an adjusted basis accounting for mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, as appropriate, to ensure comparability, unless stated otherwise. 2 Per square foot of site space. 3 This goal covers Lilly’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions related to on-site fuel combustion and site-purchased energy (e.g., electricity, steam and chilled water). 4 In absolute terms. 5 Per unit of production or site-relevant index. Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “beneficially reused” without extensive processing. 6 A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions was established in 2015. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 59 Environmental Management Our promise of making life better includes protecting and preserving the world we live in through our environmental sustainability efforts. As our product portfolio evolves, we search for new and better ways to minimize our environmental footprint. Green Chemistry and • Advancing the underlying green chemistry of medicine development and making production both safer and Engineering in Research more environmentally friendly through a commitment and Development to continuous process improvement; and • Implementing new manufacturing technologies that The research and development phase significantly minimize environmental impact, including continuous influences the environmental footprint of pharmaceutical flow processes, which Lilly has worked to advance in manufacturing. At Lilly, we strive to embed environmental the pharmaceutical industry. innovation early in the product development lifecycle through our focus on green chemistry and end-product engineering. Our green chemistry initiatives include When we are developing a new medicine at Lilly, green developing manufacturing processes that use lesschemistry considerations are a complement to other toxic chemical alternatives where feasible. We explore criteria such as quality, cost and speed to market. innovations that can lessen or eliminate potential In fact, in most cases green chemistry improvements are negative environmental outputs, which can result from directly proportional to reduced product costs as these production of a medicine. improvements typically deliver higher product quality and yield. From the selection of candidate molecules, Green chemistry and engineering have been a focus through the identification of manufacturing processes, area at Lilly for many years. We engage in a variety of our established business practices hold our development activities, including: teams accountable for process efficiency, the type and quantity of materials used and safety. At major milestones, • Eliminating or reducing the hazardous materials used we evaluate success and share feedback with development to make a product; teams. We share guidelines, such as the Lilly solvent selection guide and safety information, with our external • Focusing specifically on removal of substances of very partners to ensure consistent objectives, processes high concern, classified as potentially carcinogenic, and outcomes. mutagenic or toxic for reproduction by the European Chemicals Agency; Employing green chemistry and engineering, we have • Shrinking the waste profiles of certain molecules been able to enhance the safety profile of manufacturing through reduced solvent and water use; processes by significantly reducing the risk scale of the most hazardous manufacturing steps. We are also focused • Increasing the overall efficiency of material use; on the adoption of greener and safer solvents where possible. For example, we have replaced several hazardous solvents with safer alternatives, including significant efforts to limit the use of dichloromethane (a hazardous air pollutant and suspected carcinogen). Health, Safety and Environment | Page 60 Global Chemical Management Governments around the world and across many of the Lilly Moves Ahead regions where we operate have developed chemical management legislation—such as the REACH regulation with Horseshoe Crab in the European Union—that requires companies to Reagent Alternative collect and register information about the chemicals they manufacture or use, unless those chemicals are exempt. In 2018, Lilly worked to validate an alternative These regulations may require replacing chemicals method of endotoxin testing—a necessary step identified as hazardous with safer alternatives, for all medicines—that does not require sourcing when available. To address these concerns, Lilly has from horseshoe crabs. Several species of crabs implemented a formal program and screening process to are under threat or endangered from habitat loss evaluate designated “chemicals of concern” throughout and overharvesting. the pharmaceutical research and development process. As of the end of 2019, five of our eight Our process also addresses mitigation steps where new manufacturing labs had converted to the nonrestrictions may impact our existing operations. This crab sourced alternative rFC test reagent, with allows us to ensure that our facilities and supply chain the remaining three on track for conversion by remain in compliance with chemical management laws. the end of 2020. During the scale-up of medicine production to Lilly’s industry-leading effort helped influence manufacturing levels in our pharmaceutical business, changes in the European pharmacopoeia which we use an Environmental Development Review process will result in a new endotoxin test chapter in July to evaluate other potential environmental issues and 2020—with draft changes proposed in the United opportunities. This process identifies and addresses States pharmacopoeia in 2020—to facilitate potential impacts arising from manufacturing, suggests broader industry adoption and conversion to process improvements and facilitates learning as endotoxin testing alternatives that do not require new medicines transition from the laboratory to the the capture and bleeding of vast quantities of manufacturing facility. horseshoe crabs. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 61 M A N A G I N G E N V I R O N M E N TA L P E R F O R M A N C E A C R O S S THE PRODUCT LIFE CYCLE Research and Development Materials and Natural Resources Manufacturing We consider environmental factors Our stakeholders, including Our HSE committee oversees from the earliest stages of design and customers, governments and sustainability performance and development. We use the 12 principles suppliers worldwide, are increasingly compliance with applicable HSE of green chemistry, environmental risk focused on the materials and regulations, policies, procedures and assessments, packaging manufacturing chemicals used to make products. standards while ensuring we continually reviews and an Environmental We have a chemical management measure, report and reduce Lilly’s Development Review process to program and work to reduce our use environmental impacts associated evaluate potential environmental of materials, water and other natural with our own as well as contract impacts during the scale-up of human resources when possible. manufacturing organizations. health pharmaceutical production to manufacturing levels. Sales and Marketing Product Transport and Packaging Product Use At many Lilly sales and marketing We consider many factors in Lilly is committed to understanding offices worldwide, we manage projects selecting product packaging, the potential effects of pharmaceutical to improve environmental performance including sustainability aspects such products in the environment. We while increasing employee awareness as materials use and recyclability. support using science-based and action. Lilly continually works to We seek to optimize shipment evaluations to assess and reduce improve the fuel efficiency of our volumes and transportation modes to the environmental risks of our sales force fleet through vehicle reduce GHG emissions. pharmaceutical products. Through choice and optimization of driving and collaborations with industry partners, work practices. These efforts also academic researchers and regulatory reduce associated greenhouse gas agencies, we continually work to further (GHG) emissions. understand and proactively address any potential impacts from our products. Product End-of-Life We are working with stakeholders to ensure cost-effective approaches are available for product end-of-life disposal that balance environmental protection, patient privacy, legal compliance and security. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 62 External Collaborations • Research Grants: Through the ACS Pharmaceutical Roundtable, Lilly is active in selecting and funding Lilly actively pursues wider industry collaborations to researchers who are advancing the field of green help advance green chemistry, through a combination of chemistry. Since 2005, the Pharmaceutical dialogue and leadership with peer companies, scientific Roundtable has provided more than $2.3 million in partnerships and sponsorship of research. In 2019, we research grants. In 2019, seven researchers were were involved in the following collaborations: funded, including two for green peptide chemistry • American Chemical Society (ACS) Pharmaceutical and one for non-precious metal catalysis. Roundtable: Lilly co-chaired this important group in 2019, which has grown from three companies in Lilly Research 2005 to 37 today. In 2019, Lilly led the peptide and During 2019, Lilly made significant advancements in oligonucleotide group focused on “greener” peptide green chemistry through its own research, several of development and manufacture. Over the past decade, which were published in scientific journals. Highlights peptides have shown great potential as therapeutic include the following: targets, but their manufacture routinely involves hazardous reagents, produces high waste-to-mass • Development of a more efficient and greener process ratios and requires solvent-intensive purification for synthesis of a material used to produce the systems. In fact, as compared to the development metastatic breast cancer drug abemaciclib (trade of small molecules, peptides generate up to 100 name Verzenio®). The revised process reduces the times the amount of waste. To address this issue and volume and hazard profile of the waste generated promote innovation, in 2019 the ACS Pharmaceutical and it improves the purity of the intermediate itself. Roundtable peptide team published Sustainability Challenges in Synthetic Peptide Synthesis and • Advancement of Lilly’s position in flow chemistry Purification: From R&D to Production. The article through the development of a customized small was one of the most widely read articles featured volume continuous manufacturing process for a Lilly in The Journal of Organic Chemistry over the 2019 investigational drug, that reduces the manufacturing calendar year. footprint, using less energy and fewer resources, as well as generates less waste. • IQ Consortium: Lilly continues to work with the IQ Green Chemistry Working Group to promote the • Development of a continuous aerobic oxidation Green Aspiration Level (GAL) tool. Until now, the use reaction, replacing heavy metals with oxygen, the of green chemistry metrics among pharmaceutical greenest of all oxidants. companies has been hampered by the lack of • Co-authoring a study on the use of copper as a an agreed-upon standard. The GAL tool makes replacement for less desirable oxidants in catalyzed the development of objective goals, like process aerobic oxidation reactions. efficiency and mass intensity, easier. It uses industry benchmarks to create a unified scoring system for green chemistry formulations and introduces a new green scorecard for use across the supply chain. Manufacturing During the manufacture of medicines, we aim to minimize our environmental impact. We measure and manage these impacts as they relate to energy and water use, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and the generation of waste and wastewater throughout the manufacturing process. Lilly launched an initial public offering (IPO) of Elanco Animal Health Incorporated in September 2018, and divested our remaining interest in Elanco in March 2019, making it an independent, publicly traded company. For 2019, Lilly adjusted our environmental performance data baseline calculations to reflect the Elanco divestiture. Lilly recognizes the potential impacts associated with climate change and the risks of severe weather events. Lilly operates several combined heat and power systems which improve our resiliency to severe weather events and our environmental performance. See Promoting Cogeneration for more on our newest cogeneration system in Puerto Rico. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 63 Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Lilly set aggressive targets for improving energy intensity and thereby reducing our GHG emissions. We have an established global energy management program to Lilly India Installs ensure continuous improvement and advance progress New Solar Plant towards our goals. The following are part of our multifaceted approach: In 2019, Lilly India began operating a rooftop solar array on its building in Gurugram (Gurgaon) • Designing for energy efficiency in new or updated near New Delhi. The 40 kW capacity solar panels, processes and facilities; installed on an open terrace, will help reduce Lilly’s carbon footprint in the city – a big priority • Operating our facilities and equipment efficiently; in New Delhi due to rising pollution levels. The new solar panels are projected to supply 10 • Facilitating the use of advanced energy monitoring percent of the site’s energy needs. and control solutions; • Measuring and internally and externally reporting energy use and related GHG emissions; • Conducting and acting on energy assessments and implementing recommended projects to improve Goals and Trends in 2019 energy efficiency; Lilly’s 2020 goal is to improve both our energy intensity and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity, measured • Evaluating and incorporating alternative energy per unit of site space, by 20 percent as compared to our sources, new technologies and best practices for 2012 baseline. Through 2019, we decreased our emissions energy use and GHG emission reductions; and intensity by nine percent compared to our 2012 baseline. • Participating in local, regional and national forums Total energy consumption was up by 0.7 percent compared to understand and integrate energy management to 2012, while our energy intensity was essentially flat best practice and to support responsible and costcompared to 2012. Six of our eight largest manufacturing effective decision-making and policy development. sites, accounting for over 50 percent of our energy consumption, have increased production rates since 2012. To help identify and assess energy management and Four of those sites also increased total energy consumption, technology best practice, Lilly is an active participant resulting in higher energy intensity. While production in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s increases present challenges to our performance against (EPA’s) ENERGY STAR Focus on Energy Efficiency in our goals, we encourage and reward process energy Pharmaceutical Manufacturing partnership. In addition to intensity improvements. We also have made progress in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions reduction efforts, our Indianapolis administrative and laboratory facilities by we monitor several categories of Scope 3 GHG emissions improving energy intensity over 15 percent, primarily due to and are committed to expanding the scope and quality improvements in our chilled water and HVAC systems. of related data and disclosures. In 2019, CDP recognized our efforts with a score of B, which is considered Recent energy initiatives include the following: “management” level and is average for the biotech • Global Engineering – Lilly’s global engineering and pharmaceutical industry sector. organization developed a new global energy monitoring system for implementation at Lilly’s largest energy consuming sites. This system provides energy managers with a tool that centralizes energy data, provides analytics and allows for identification of energy saving opportunities. This system was largely implemented in 2019 at our largest sites, including Lilly’s main corporate headquarters, the Lilly Technology Center and larger global manufacturing sites. Lilly saved at least 64,000 megawatt hours of energy in 2019 as a result of this system. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 64 • Puerto Rico and Alcobendas Manufacturing Sites and Lilly Aviation Facility in Indianapolis – These sites each completed major LED lighting renovations totaling more than $1.6 million. • Puerto Rico – Both of Lilly’s sites in Puerto Rico completed facility energy assessments known as “treasure hunts.” These three-day events task a group of employees to identify ways to improve energy efficiency on site. In 2019, these events identified more than 6,900 megawatt hours of energy reduction opportunities. Promoting Cogeneration Cogeneration, which uses combustion to generate electricity on-site while also recovering usable heat, presents another opportunity to reduce GHG emissions in our operations. In 2017, we began the design process for a new nine-megawatt combined heat and power system at our Puerto Rico facility. By the end of 2019, the new engine, generator and heat recovery boiler were installed, and we began construction on the building structure that will house the system. Construction is expected to last through 2020. The project is expected to result in roughly $6 to 7 million of energy savings annually and approximately 15 to 20 percent reduction in GHG emissions for our Puerto Rico facility. We also operate combined heat and power systems at Lilly sites in Kinsale, Ireland, and Sesto, Italy. Renewable Energy In 2019, our efforts received a B rating from CDP’s water program, the average for the biotech and pharmaceutical We will continue to evaluate further use of renewable industry sector. Our Engineering Technology Center energy to diversify our energy sources, decrease our helps Lilly sites around the world identify water-saving GHG emissions and lessen our energy use intensity over technologies and Lilly sites can apply for capital project time. In 2019, energy from renewable sources accounted funding through Lilly’s dedicated Energy, Waste and Water for approximately 50,000 MWh. We are a member of the Reduction Fund. Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance and are currently evaluating the feasibility of incorporating more renewable energy sources. Goals and Trends in 2019 In 2013, we introduced a goal to reduce absolute Water Use and Wastewater phosphorus emissions in our wastewater discharge by 15 percent by 2020, as compared to our 2014 baseline. Manufacturing operations account for the majority of This goal addresses an issue that is increasingly the water used by Lilly. Our manufacturing locations important to communities, regulators and investors. that produce injectable medicines require exceptionally In 2018, we surpassed our 2020 total wastewater high-quality water, while our utility operations use water phosphorus emission reduction goal. Production cleaning for cooling and to support steam boilers. Some sites have changes and other manufacturing changes decreased the updated equipment to use waterless cooling systems and amount of phosphorus discharged at several large sites, others reclaim water for this purpose. To a lesser extent, thus positively impacting our overall progress on this goal. we consume water for domestic use in our offices. Lilly has assessed our water risks, and while we generally Because we successfully surpassed our original operate in locations where water scarcity and quality risk 15 percent phosphorus emission reduction goal by the is low, we will continue our focus on conserving water, end of 2018, we set a stretch goal to reduce an additional reducing our intake and improving water quality. Potential 10 percent of phosphorus emissions by 2020 using 2018 future regional water risk, unpredictable costs and as the new baseline year. As of the end of 2019, we met climate change concerns have further strengthened our that goal by decreasing our phosphorus emissions 11 commitment to use this resource wisely. percent compared to 2018. We have additional source reduction projects planned for 2020, including phasing out and replacing selected cleaning agents with nonphosphorus-based alternatives. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 65 Waste Lilly generates both nonhazardous and hazardous waste Building 110 from its manufacturing processes. Examples include buffer solution from resin regeneration in biosynthetic Demolition Achieves insulin production and waste solvent from the extraction Zero Waste to Landfill processes used in the manufacture of small molecule pharmaceuticals. Lilly uses the following hierarchy of After a building in Lilly’s technology center approaches to disposition of waste generated across was targeted for demolition, a crossour operations: functional team of HSE, facilities management • Eliminate or reduce the amount of waste produced. and utilities engineering developed a comprehensive process to ensure minimal • Reuse materials when possible (including closed environmental impact would result. Despite loop recycling). an accelerated schedule, the team was able to develop a process to decontaminate the • Recycle spent materials to make new products. building’s hazardous waste collection system before demolition, and then identify a vendor • Recover energy from waste (through combustion), to recycle all construction and demolition where possible. debris that would have otherwise been • Treat waste to reduce toxicity and volume. destined for the landfill. In all, more than 3,000 tons of material was recycled. • Send waste to landfill (as a disposal method of last resort, or when legally required). Our Environmental Performance in 2019 In 2019, Lilly scored a rating of B on climate change and a B on water from CDP, the world’s largest repository of environmental management information. For CDP, a score of B is considered “management” level. Goals and Trends in 2019 In 2013, we introduced a goal to achieve a 20 percent improvement in waste efficiency by 2020, as compared to our 2012 baseline. We also aim to increase our recycling rate above 70 percent and decrease our waste to landfill below 10 percent of our total waste generated. For purposes of tracking progress toward our waste goals, “total waste” does not include material that is directly reused for other purposes, because the bulk of the “wastes” we generate is directly reused. Lilly generated 140,000 metric tonnes of waste (including material directly reused) in 2019. We were able to designate 84,000 tonnes of this waste for reuse, much of it as fertilizer. After reuse, 56,000 metric tonnes of waste remained. With regards to progress against our goal, in 2018, we successfully surpassed our 20 percent waste efficiency improvement target, as our waste efficiency improved by 34 percent between 2012 and the end of 2018. In 2019, we achieved our 2020 recycling and waste-to-landfill goals. Our recycling rate increased to 78 percent, exceeding our goal of 70 percent, and waste sent to landfills declined to nine percent. Our waste efficiency metric was impacted by demolition projects at two sites in 2019. Excluding these one-time events, our waste efficiency was above 40 percent. In 2020, we are focusing on additional improvements. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 66 Reducing Our Waste Encouraging Eco-Efficiency Across Our Operations Impact by Focusing We established the Energy, Waste and Water Reduction on Plastics Fund in 2006 to encourage projects that reduce our overall environmental impacts. The fund supports projects that demonstrate the greatest potential for Plastic Reuse and reductions in emissions and energy use, and that are not covered by local capital budgets. Since 2006, Lilly has Recycling at Indianapolis invested more than $47.6 million in this fund, enabling Device Assembly & the implementation of 183 projects. These projects collectively save more than one trillion BTUs of energy Packaging annually, avoiding nearly 124,000 metric tonnes of GHG emissions each year, measured as carbon dioxide Lilly optimizes plastic use at our device equivalents. manufacturing facility in Indianapolis through a reuse and recycling program. As part of this We actively recognize innovation and excellence in HSE program, in 2019, nearly three million pounds of management by granting annual HSE awards. Nomination plastic pallets and component trays were continually for these awards represents a significant accomplishment reused throughout the manufacturing process, on behalf of project teams, and we seek to reward teams and 2.6 million pounds of packaging material for that have shown an exemplary commitment to helping incoming device components were sent to our Lilly achieve energy and GHG emissions reduction goals. recycling partner. The diverted plastics are able to In addition to criteria such as a project’s energy and GHG be used as feedstocks for other products such as reductions, we consider the potential to replicate the composite decking and carpet padding. Reusing approach in other locations. plastic pallets instead of wood also saved the approximate equivalent of 7,500 trees. Lilly Cafeteria Eliminates Use of Expanded Polystyrene Products To minimize ephemeral plastics from our waste streams, in early 2020 all Indianapolis-based cafeterias began phasing out polystyrene foam products and plastic straws. Other Lilly European sites, including our Alcobendas, Spain location, have taken similar steps, including eliminating plastic waste from cafeterias and coffee stations. Lilly Catering Discontinues Use of Plastic Water Bottles During 2019, Lilly’s internal catering service at the Indianapolis headquarters began supplying filtered water in place of plastic water bottles, resulting in the elimination of an estimated 750,000 plastic bottles from Lilly’s waste stream annually. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 67 L I L L Y ’ S E N V I R O N M E N T A L P E R F O R M A N C E , 2 0 1 5 2 0 1 9 1,2 Baseline Year 13 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) 972,000 927,000 876,000 864,000 856,000 864,000 (metric tonnes CO2e) Scope 1 220,000 214,000 216,000 228,000 201,000 193,000 Scope 2 752,000 713,000 660,000 636,000 654,000 671,000 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity (related to goal) 41.5 39.2 37.0 36.5 37.3 37.5 (metric tonnes CO2e/1,000 square feet)3 Scope 3 Emissions (not included in metric 278,000 237,000 248,000 232,000 265,000 240,000 tonnes above) (metric tonnes CO2e)4 ENERGY USE Energy Consumption (million BTUs)5 6,650,000 6,730,000 6,600,000 6,650,000 6,790,000 6,700,000 Energy Intensity (million BTUs/1,000 square feet) 3 327 327 324 327 335 328 Direct Energy Consumption (million BTUs)6 1,590,000 1,620,000 1,660,000 1,790,000 1,730,000 1,670,000 Indirect Energy Consumption (million BTUs)7 5,060,000 5,110,000 4,950,000 4,860,000 5,060,000 5,030,000 WATER USE Water Intake (billion liters)8,14 6.88 6.70 6.59 6.78 6.27 Phosphorus emissions to wastewater (metric tonnes) 15 72.6 72.6 64.6 WASTE Total Waste Generation (metric tonnes) 170,000 120,000 150,000 160,000 120,000 140,000 Total Waste Generation not Including Reuse 52,000 48,000 44,000 41,000 39,000 56,000 (for recycling goal) (metric tonnes)9 WASTE DISPOSITION Recycled (includes combustion with energy recovery) 31,000 18,000 22,000 26,000 25,000 44,000 (metric tonnes) Treated (includes combustion without energy 14,000 19,000 15,000 10,000 9,100 7,100 recovery) (metric tonnes) Landfilled (metric tonnes) 7,700 10,000 6,800 4,400 4,800 5,000 Waste Recycling Rate 59 38 50 65 64 78 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 14 Reportable Permit-Limit Exceedances10 0 3 2 0 1 Number of Significant Spills11 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental Fines Paid (USD) 12 $0 $0 $0 $0 $48,375 ENERGY, WASTE AND WATER REDUCTION FUND Expenditures (million USD) 14 $1.7 $0.9 $3.3 $3.2 $2.1 1 Data may be revised compared to prior reports due to changes in calculation methodology and other factors. Some segments do not add up to totals due to rounding. 2 In 2019, Lilly adjusted its environmental performance data baseline calculations and subsequent years’ performance data for all categories except the Energy, Waste and Water Reduction Fund to reflect the late 2018 divestiture of Lilly’s former subsidiary Elanco Animal Health. In order to facilitate year-over-year comparisons, this adjustment included the Environmental Compliance data. 3 Data includes GHG emissions and energy use related to manufacturing facilities and other entities with more than $50,000 annual energy spend. Data for other locations is estimated based on square footage. 4 Data included in Scope 3 emissions disclosure contain assumptions and estimation as described here: Employee business travel (personal and rental cars, taxi, rail and air travel) uses WRI GHG Protocol Cross-Sector Tool averages for fuel types, vehicle types, aircraft types and aircraft travel distances; employee commuting uses EPA average for fuel types, vehicle types and commuting distances; contracted product transportation and distribution is based on Lilly’s U.S. distribution footprint and extrapolated for distribution outside the United States; waste generated in operations uses Lilly-specific waste carbon content estimates for waste incineration and EPA’s WARM version 12 emission factors for landfilled and land-applied waste, and assumes transportation related emissions only for certain land-applied organic waste types. Scope 3 data does not include emissions from sales force travel using company vehicles, use of Lilly owned aircraft, on-site waste incineration or product distribution with Lilly owned vehicles, as these are included in the Scope 1 data above. 5 Energy consumption is the total of direct energy consumption and indirect energy consumption, as defined in these footnotes, and does not include mobile sources. 6 Data includes energy from combustion of coal, fuel oil, natural gas and liquid propane. 7 Data includes energy from purchased electricity, steam and chilled water. 8 “Water intake” is the total amount of water coming into a site, including water pumped from bodies of surface water and groundwater, as well as water provided by a utility. It includes water used in processes, utilities and other ancillary operations, such as irrigation. The term does not include groundwater pumped solely for treatment to satisfy regulatory actions or requirements (e.g., remediation activities where the water is not used for another purpose). Values do not include the water extracted from wells solely for the purpose of lowering the groundwater table(s) to maintain the physical and structural integrity of building foundations. Totals include a small amount of rainwater intake not included in other water intake subcategories. Lilly does not generally collect water data from small locations that house primarily administrative activities such as sales and marketing offices unless they are co-located at a Lilly manufacturing or research facility. 9 Lilly’s waste goals do not include materials that are deemed “reused” without extensive processing. Examples include urea reused for fertilizer and materials such as soil and concrete reused as clean fill. 10 Lilly classifies an event as a reportable permit-limit exceedance if it involves an exceedance of a numeric permit or license limit that must be reported to the regulatory authority. The reporting may be immediate (e.g., within 24 hours) or in a routine compliance report. These exceedances do not necessarily result in harm to people or the environment. 11 “Significant spill” in this report refers to any unexpected, unintended, abnormal or unapproved dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge or other loss of a substance that resulted in damage to the environment (i.e., human health, aquatic life or wildlife) or a material event requiring reporting to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Damage means the actual or imminent alteration of the environment so as to render the environment harmful, detrimental or injurious. 12 In November 2017, Lilly personnel discovered an equipment malfunction at our Indianapolis active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing site in Indianapolis that resulted in a permit limit exceedance. The malfunction was immediately fixed upon discovery and reported to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM). IDEM issued a notice of violation to Lilly in 2018, and the matter was resolved in 2019 with Lilly paying a fine of $45,000. We do not believe this impacted our surrounding community as it immediately dissipated into the air. Additionally, Lilly paid of fine of $3,375 in 2019 for an alleged violation of sharps handling requirements at its Branchburg, New Jersey, manufacturing facility during 2018. 13 The baseline year is 2012 for energy, GHG and waste data. For phosphorus emissions to wastewater, the original baseline year was 2014. Because Lilly achieved its 2020 phosphorus goal in 2018, we set an additional 2020 goal with 2018 as the new baseline year. 14 Because currently Lilly does not have goals related to water intake, environmental compliance or Energy, Waste and Water Reduction Fund expenditures, there are no baseline years for these metrics. 15 In 2018, Lilly met its 2020 goal of reducing phosphorus emissions to wastewater by 15% compared to the baseline year of 2014. We then set an additional 10% reduction goal using 2018 as the new baseline year and adjusted 2018 data for the divestiture of Lilly’s former subsidiary Elanco Animal Health in late 2018. Because the initial goal was achieved, data for years prior to 2018 was not adjusted to reflect subsequent events and therefore is not comparable to data for the new goal period. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 68 Supply Chain Business Conduct. Standard contract language also requires that manufacturing suppliers agree to submit, We rely on our suppliers—including those who supply if requested, to audits that assess compliance with the us with materials for research and development, active principles. Lilly has a formal process for targeting those pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and other contract suppliers that we believe represent the greatest potential manufacturers—to ensure the availability of our HSE risk for this additional scrutiny. We intervene quickly medicines. As we have broadened our manufacturing when we become aware of serious HSE issues. HSE base and integrated new acquisitions into our operations, considerations are integrated into Lilly’s formal process we have taken significant steps to reduce our exposure for evaluating manufacturing suppliers. to the risks inherent in managing a global supply chain. Lilly continues to strengthen our ongoing efforts to Assessing Contract Manufacturers and monitor our supply chain for HSE events and risks. Research Laboratories We have also taken steps to educate and engage our For more than a decade, Lilly HSE professionals suppliers more directly on HSE issues, and we have have worked to assess and strengthen performance taken a more active role in helping our suppliers build at the external research laboratories and contract expertise around HSE topics. This includes our ongoing manufacturing organizations (CMOs) with which we do work as part of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative business. We use a standard auditing methodology and (PSCI), a non-profit business membership organization reporting framework for addressing risk, and a summary founded in 2006, which counts Lilly as one of its inaugural of results is included in the quarterly reports received members. In 2019, Lilly HSE professionals led two by the board of directors’ public policy and compliance PSCI supplier capability-building sub-committees committee. We designate suppliers that are critical to and served on three of PSCI’s supplier capabilityour business as “suppliers of focus,” and take a special building committees. interest in their capabilities and performance. Governance of Supply Chain at Lilly Other Supplier Education and Engagement PSCI, with its member companies, created and maintain Lilly is an active PSCI member and our HSE professionals the Pharmaceutical Industry Principles for Responsible have led or participated in a number of PSCI Supply Chain Management (the PSCI Principles). The sponsored webinars and in-country events. In 2019, PSCI Principles provide our industry with consistent Lilly professionals developed and delivered a webinar supplier performance standards in the areas of ethics, on appropriate wastewater stewardship and in 2018, labor, health and safety, the environment and related supported supplier capability training in China and India. management systems. At Lilly, we have aligned several codes, policies and procedures with the PSCI Principles, Sales and Marketing including the following: • Lilly’s Global Product Stewardship Standard, which details our approach to managing risk across the Our sales and marketing affiliates around the world value chain and directly addresses our supply chain develop goals and implement improvement strategies due diligence and supplier HSE risk assessment and as part of our GREENDirections program, which focuses management practices; on fleet fuel economy and GHG emissions, office energy conservation and waste reduction. Each year, our affiliates • Lilly Supplier Code of Business Conduct, applicable look for opportunities to enhance their environmental to all suppliers; performance by identifying and implementing new projects and setting targets. • Relevant procurement standards; and On the road, Lilly optimizes the fuel efficiency of our • Standard contract language applicable to providers sales force fleet by choosing vehicles with better fuel of contract manufacturing services. economy, and we promote driving and work practices that emphasize safety and fuel savings. We have begun Lilly manufacturing procurement contracts ask that introducing hybrid or electric fleet vehicles in several suppliers support the PSCI Principles and conform to geographies where infrastructure is available. the HSE expectations outlined in our Supplier Code of Health, Safety and Environment | Page 69 For example, Lilly’s fleet in Japan consists of 75 percent We are actively involved in the Pharmaceutical Product hybrid vehicles, and Australia’s fleet is currently 20 Stewardship Work Group, a U.S.-based membership percent hybrid. These efforts, in turn, also reduce the GHG association of manufacturers of prescription and overemissions associated with our sales fleet. Lilly centrally the-counter medicines that supports compliance with U.S. manages vehicle selection across the European Union, household disposal regulations for unused medicines and Japan and across the United States, which improves sharps. We also engage with other industry stakeholders efficiency while enabling us to implement strong safety in the European Union, such as European Federation of and environmental standards. Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), as well as in Canada (Health Products Stewardship Association). Packaging and Transportation Pharmaceuticals in the We consider many factors in selecting product packaging, Environment including sustainability considerations, such as materials use and recyclability. Pharmaceutical packaging must After they are used to improve human health, medicines meet stringent regulatory and internal standards. In some enter our natural environment through the normal cases, this prevents us from using recycled content in biological processes of waste elimination. They may also packaging, as is the case with containers that come into enter the environment from improper disposal of unused direct contact with our products, where we require virgin products or through manufacturing discharges. Residues materials be used to deter counterfeiting. We continually of these medicines may pass through waste and sewage seek to improve packaging design to reduce the amount treatment facilities and enter rivers, streams or lakes. of packaging used, include lower-impact materials and While reported concentrations of pharmaceuticals in ensure recyclability. Our Product Stewardship Standard the environment (PiE) are usually extremely low, their helps set expectations for these efforts. presence and biological potency raise questions about potential risks to humans and the environment. Product End of Life Reports such as the World Health Organization’s Pharmaceuticals in Drinking Water (2012) and the multiple publications following an extensive, threeUnlike many consumer products that can be recycled, year joint study by the U.S. Environmental Protection or are composed of materials that can be reclaimed at Agency and U.S. Geological Survey on the presence of the end of their usefulness, medicines are by nature contaminants in drinking water and surface water have different. Public health regulations often prohibit the use concluded that the concentrations of pharmaceuticals of recovered materials from pharmaceutical products like in drinking water are unlikely to have a direct impact on those produced by Lilly. human health and aquatic life. However, some health Lilly continues to work with customers, industry partners advocates and researchers are concerned that low and public health officials to address these product concentrations of antibiotics in the environment comprise end-of-life issues. Our Product Stewardship Governance an indirect threat to human health by promoting the Committee meets quarterly and regularly engages with development of antimicrobial resistant genes in bacteria. our leadership to better integrate product stewardship Questions have also been raised about the impact of efforts into our business. We promote policy decisions the pharmaceutical supply chain, especially when those that are efficient, effective and that protect both human suppliers are located in countries that may lack rigorous health and the environment. We also support educating environmental protection standards. patients and caregivers on proper disposal of medicines, Lilly is committed to ensuring that the active as well as disposal of syringes, needles and other sharps pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) used in our products do used in home settings. We communicate this information not have a negative impact on the environment whether to patients through product user manuals, and through exposure is associated with end use or manufacturing. The Lilly Answers Center, a hotline that answers We are committed to understanding the public’s questions frequently asked questions. and concerns related to PiE. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 70 Governance of PiE at Lilly Environmental Impact Study of Manufacturing Due to the importance of PiE issues to Lilly and our To study the overall impact on the local environment, stakeholders, we have established a PiE governance our manufacturing site in Kinsale, Ireland, initiated committee that reports to our executive-level global a continuous evaluation of aquatic habitat quality in HSE committee. The PiE governance committee sets 1978. The Kinsale Harbour Study is maintained by the strategic direction related to PiE and provides longNational University of Ireland Galway and is one of the range oversight for the program that controls active longest studies of marine coastline conducted anywhere pharmaceutical discharges from manufacturing sites, in the world. The evaluation has shown no evidence of our Lilly Aquatic Exposure Guideline (LAEG) program. The an adverse impact from the Lilly wastewater discharge LAEG program determines treatment and containment point on any aspect of habitat quality in the study area. capabilities needed at our manufacturing sites to protect Results have been published in peer-reviewed scientific environmental species living in downstream surface publications and several project reports. This project waters in addition to humans and wildlife using those continues to support academic research for surface waters. This program has been in place for many university students. years for Lilly facilities. For outsourced segments of our manufacturing processes, we have begun to implement our LAEG program with contract manufacturers (third party suppliers) of targeted products and active pharmaceutical ingredients. Environmental Data and Risk Assessments for Lilly APIs We assess our medicines for potential environmental impacts, ensuring that they meet regulatory requirements and internal standards before introducing our products to markets. We use procedures recommended by U.S., Canadian and European regulatory agencies for identifying and minimizing risks from residues of our products in the environment, and for determining predicted no-effect concentration values for our medicines. We also make information on the environmental hazards and impacts of our pharmaceutical products available through product safety data sheets and through the FASS product database published by the Swedish Pharmaceutical Trade Association. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 71 External Collaborations We continue to partner with industry, academia and Improved Methodologies governments to improve both our understanding of, and our response to, PiE. Among ongoing efforts in 2019, Lilly for Assessing scientists and technical experts have engaged as follows: Environmental Risks • Supported the Eco-Pharmaco-Stewardship plan in collaboration with EFPIA and the Inter-Association Lilly participated in the Intelligence-led Initiative on PiE, including a proposal for extended Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the environmental risk assessment evaluations, Environment project (iPiE project) a program and a model for wastewater control limits for supported by the Innovative Medicines Initiative pharmaceutical residues at manufacturing facilities; (IMI), a public-private partnership coordinated by the European Commission and the industry • Reviewed articles in scientific journals, presented group EFPIA, in collaboration with universities at conferences and workshops and participated in and other research organizations, public bodies meetings concerning the safety of pharmaceutical and nonprofit groups. The iPiE project developed residues in water, in collaboration with the U.S. EPA frameworks, methods, databases and software and the Society of Environmental Toxicology and tools to support environmental testing for new Chemistry; pharmaceuticals and prioritized the testing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that • Served on technical committees addressing topics were approved for use before 2006 and that related to PiE for industry trade associations such remain in use today. The frameworks draw upon as EFPIA; existing data on the environmental impact of APIs, toxicological studies and computer models. Lilly • Co-led a Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative plans to participate in a second IMI collaborative team developing training for external manufacturing study on PiE scheduled to begin in late 2020. partners on risk-based approaches to managing APIs in manufacturing effluents, including coordination of a one day “deep dive” session on the topic of PiE where presentations were given by industry leaders at an on-location capability training session for partners in India; • Led the development of a calculator tool for PSCI to provide its members and suppliers to help them better understand how to calculate control targets for their facilities; and • Conducted health, safety and environment assessments of its supply chain partners, including evaluation of PiE, as part of Lilly’s membership in PSCI. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 72 Employee Safety Lilly focuses on creating a companywide culture where best-in-class safety practices are intuitively and consistently followed. To do this, we assess and continuously strive to improve our safety performance across our entire enterprise. We believe this ongoing commitment promotes the well-being of our employees and helps safeguard communities where we operate. At Lilly, we measure both leading and lagging indicators when assessing our overall safety performance. We have found that tracking leading—or predictive—indicators, such as ergonomic risk, safety culture surveys and serious injury and fatality precursors, contributes greatly to our company safety culture. Using these indicators in conjunction with measures of lagging indicators—such as our recordable and lost-time injury rates—we are able to paint a comprehensive picture of the areas that most influence employee safety across Lilly. This approach allows us to both influence change where needed and track our safety progress in concrete ways over time. Since we introduced our global safety goals in 2007, our total recordable injury and illness rate has declined by nearly 50 percent, equivalent to the prevention of hundreds of injuries and illnesses to Lilly employees across the globe. In 2013, we established new goals for the three occupational safety metrics we track: recordable injuries, lost-time injuries and motor vehicle collision rate. These goals were developed to help reduce our injury rates across a seven-year period, 2014 through 2020. At the end of 2019, our motor vehicle collision rate met our 2020 goal of 12 percent. In 2017, Lilly established new leading indicators focused on office ergonomic risk and motor vehicle safety designed to influence behavior change and reduce company injury and illness rates. These metrics are shared with the executive committee quarterly, emphasizing the importance of maintaining an employee safety culture and minimizing risk. Promoting a Culture of • Partnered with DuPont Sustainable Solutions to complete a safety perception survey across the Safety at Lilly research and development and global quality organizations; We know that to reach our goals for safety performance, Lilly must continue to instill and promote a best-in-class • Created a cross-functional manufacturing team to safety culture. We use a well-known model—the DuPont™ improve HSE leadership development; Bradley Curve™—to measure our progress, and we will continue to use this model in the foreseeable future. In • Initiated a project to integrate safety into our 2019, to continue improving our performance in this area, implementation of lean manufacturing across all we completed the following key initiatives: global manufacturing sites; • Developed and released safety culture requirements • Expanded our global HSE metrics reported to the as part of our global health, safety and environment senior executive team to include safety culture (HSE) standards that apply across Lilly; focus; and • Developed a training course on safety management • Extended existing behavioral-based safety efforts fundamentals targeting new leaders and completed and tools that focus on reducing human error and train-the-trainer sessions; further engagement of employees and leadership to new areas. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 73 Achievements of the team in 2019 included the following: • Conducted SIF workshops for identifying and All Ireland mitigating risks with the highest severity while Occupational Safety reinforcing the key concepts of Lilly’s SIF prevention strategy; Award for Kinsale • Standardized SIF data procedures across the Manufacturing Plant manufacturing organization to facilitate risk reduction through generation of more comprehensive At the 28th All Ireland Occupational Safety and complete data; Awards, held in fall 2019, Lilly’s Kinsale, Ireland manufacturing plant was awarded • Approved the implementation of new metrics for our the chemical / pharmaceutical industry executive committee focusing on SIF events and SIF sector award. The All Ireland Occupational near miss rates; Safety Awards were established in 1992 with 20 entries and have since grown to become • Implemented forklift anti-collision technology at our Ireland’s premier safety awards. Sesto, Italy, manufacturing site in order to proactively reduce risk resulting from an increase in both pallet Lilly’s award recognizes the organization movement and the number of employees; that made an outstanding contribution to occupational safety, health and welfare during • Upgraded and standardized truck restraint systems 2018 and that has demonstrated proactive at docks globally to minimize the risk of SIFs by safety and occupational health programs. controlling the interface between all truck trailers, forklift operators and dock equipment; and • Initiated a global program for assessment of electrical safety standards and performance at every Reducing the Potential for manufacturing site. Serious Injury Lilly also participates regularly with peer companies in event sharing and benchmarking discussions. These While the most common work-related injuries are opportunities enable Lilly to continuously identify covered by our safety programs, we also have committed opportunities to reduce SIF risks as well as help peer to systematically address infrequent but severe events, companies learn from near-miss events at Lilly. where the consequences can be potentially life-altering or fatal. To prevent such serious injuries and fatalities (SIFs), we subscribe to the following model: Managing Our Process • Train employees at all levels on the SIF prevention model and key SIF definitions; Safety Risks Some pharmaceutical manufacturing processes use • Measure SIF events and SIF “near misses” across the hazardous chemicals that are subject to process entire company; safety management standards established by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, U.S. • Identify and mitigate SIF precursors; and Environmental Protection Agency and EU directives and • Integrate SIF prevention into existing regulations. Over two decades ago, Lilly developed a business processes. globally integrated process safety management (GIPSM) program to manage process safety risks that goes well beyond regulatory expectations to include chemicals not governed by these standards. By maintaining a sustained focus on process safety programs and improvement Health, Safety and Environment | Page 74 initiatives, Lilly has significantly reduced the risk posed • Improved our overall process for chemical by the most serious potential process safety events. Lilly piping inspection at all of our high-risk GIPSM launched the following key improvement initiatives in program sites; 2019 to continue to advance our process safety management program: • Implemented an improved global chemical hazards training program for manufacturing operations • Improved the process to transfer critical chemical technical support personnel; and process safety information from drug development to manufacturing; • Completed an organizational capability assessment leading to the establishment of internal technical • Completed efforts to enhance identification of critical experts to focus on key global aspects of the Lilly safe operating limits for GIPSM processes and convey GIPSM program, including process hazard reviews, them to manufacturing site operators; facility siting, and mechanical integrity tests and inspections, as well as to work with manufacturing • Identified and executed an improved strategy to site resources to strengthen their respective process test safety devices that detect or control chemical safety approaches and performance. process parameters; L I L LY ’ S S A F E T Y P R O G R E S S A N D P E R F O R M A N C E 8% 12% 8% 10% TOTAL LOS T-T IM E 18% 23% Struck by / Caught between1 R ECO R DABL E INJU RIES Ergonomic Risk2 I NJ U R I ES BY BY ACC ID ENT ACC I D ENT Motor Vehicle Collisions3 41% Slip / Trip/ Fall CAT EGORY CATEGO RY 2019 2019 Other 11% 46% 23% RECORDABLE LOST-TIME YEAR INJURY AND INJURY AND YEAR MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION RATE 3 ILLNESS RATE ILLNESS RATE 2020 GOAL 0.70 0.25 2020 GOAL 12% 2019 0.71 0.26 2019 12% 2018 0.84 0.29 2018 15% 2017 0.83 0.29 2017 15% 2016 0.93 0.32 2016 16% 2015 0.89 0.26 2015 16% 2007 1.44 0.60 2007 25% 1 Refers to non-motor vehicle injuries resulting in abrasion, contusion and laceration. 2 Refers to ergonomic risks (posture and/or force, repetition, duration of tasks) which increase the likelihood of a sprain or strain. 3 A new goal for measuring motor vehicle collisions was established in 2015. Note: Reporting data is fluid and dynamic, and slight discrepancies from year-to-year are the result of minor updates or recharacterizations of previously-recorded data. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 75 Sales and Marketing Safety Collision Rate At Lilly, sales and marketing employees represent approximately 35 percent of our global workforce. Improves After Sales Their jobs require them to spend significant time Fleet Investments driving, exposing them to the risk of accidents which are challenging to mitigate. In 2009, we launched a motor vehicle safety program, HSEDirections, designed In 2019, Lilly sharpened our focus on motor specifically for the thousands of Lilly employees who vehicle safety for our sales and marketing are on the road every day, visiting physicians, hospitals, fleet around the globe, increasing safe driving clinics and other customers. Our HSEDirections discussions, offering enhanced driver training, investment has resulted in a decrease over time in as well as introducing cell phone technology motor vehicle collisions, and, consequently, a significant designed to help alleviate distracted driving reduction in motor vehicle-related injuries. In 2019, our by preventing text messages and calls while vehicle collision rate declined approximately 20 percent a car is in motion. Lilly’s global collision rate relative to 2018 and met our 2020 goal of 12 percent. As percentage improved from 15 to 12 percent. part of ongoing efforts to improve driver safety, in 2019 we took the following actions: • Continued to monitor our motor vehicle collision rate year-over-year, which has shown a 50 percent decrease since 2010; and • Integrated more vehicles with new safety and collision-avoidance technologies in the European Union, Japan and the United States fleets. Employee Well-Being at Lilly At Lilly, we take a broad view of well-being across numerous dimensions of an employee’s life, including physical health, financial literacy and social connectedness. Our policies are designed to support employees and their families, to contribute to the health and productivity of Lilly, and ultimately, to ensure we can be the best for the clients we serve. Read more about Well-Being at Lilly in the Labor section of this report. Health, Safety and Environment | Page 76 AntiCorruption For more than 140 years, Lilly people have approached our company’s business with a deep sense of responsibility to all our stakeholders. Our actions, now as then, are grounded in our core company values of integrity, excellence and respect for people. Recognizing our efforts to operate responsibly—including our strong ethics and compliance program—the Ethisphere Institute has honored Lilly as one of the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” four years in a row, 2017—2020. We train all our employees in ethical business practices and have systems in place to detect violations of laws, regulations and company policies, including those related to anticorruption. We have developed—and we continue to refine and improve—an anti-corruption program designed to promote ethical conduct and instill a culture of integrity. Our program meets external requirements, including codes issued by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations. In this section, we discuss our commitment to work against corruption in all its forms. We provide details about our code of business conduct, our compliance management systems and our training programs—all of which reinforce ethical behavior and help avoid corruption and other unacceptable activities. This section also highlights our efforts to be more transparent about our operations, including our clinical trials, educational grants and payments we make to physicians. Intro | Human Rights | Labor | Health, Safety and Environment | Anti-Corruption Ethics, Compliance and Governance at Lilly At Lilly, our policies, our code of business conduct (which we call The Red Book), our compliance management systems, our HR performance and promotion systems, our training programs and our communications work together to reinforce ethical behavior. We have implemented programs designed to promote ethical conduct and foster a culture of trust and integrity, which we continue to nurture and improve. We train all our employees in ethical business practices and have systems in place to detect potential violations of the law and company policies as well as to correct processes to avoid errors going forward. Our ethics and compliance program includes deliberate Our people are a key part of our program, and we focus on assessment of risks, training and communications developing leaders throughout Lilly’s operations who are designed to prevent issues from arising, as well as committed to integrity. We regularly provide high-potential reporting, auditing and monitoring to detect potential employees with developmental assignments within the compliance gaps. We have a robust investigation process, Ethics and Compliance function. These employees not and we develop corrective and preventive action plans only help improve our program by providing valuable to address issues we identify. We have aligned our insights from the business, but they also receive a rich bioethics work with our ethics and compliance program developmental experience and return to business roles to reflect our evolving business as well as the external with a renewed commitment to integrity. Currently, more environment in which we operate. And, we have expanded than a dozen senior leaders serving in critical business and centralized our anti-corruption due-diligence work to leadership positions around the world have this ethics and focus on greater consistency across the globe. compliance experience. We continually work to improve our program and help leaders assess, in real time, the risks they face. As part of this effort, we are continuing our work to connect our data sources into a centralized hub of information and identify potential risk categories to track. We also are building a team to analyze this information, develop insights based on what we learn and highlight key findings for appropriate follow-up. Anti-Corruption | Page 78 Ethics and Compliance Program Oversight The ethics and compliance organization is headed by the senior vice president of enterprise risk management, who is also Lilly’s chief ethics and compliance officer. This position reports to the CEO and has direct access to the board of directors’ Public Policy and Compliance Committee. Code of Conduct, Policies and Procedures Reporting, Monitoring and Auditing Our ethics and compliance program includes policies and To detect possible compliance violations, we maintain an procedures. We communicate our key compliance-related internal disclosure system that includes a mechanism expectations through the following channels: for anonymous reporting, where permitted by local law. We also review business actions through a system of • The Red Book: We regularly update and disseminate monitoring and audits. our Code of Business Conduct, The Red Book. Available in 21 languages, this document and • Internal Reporting: Lilly employees are required associated training support a judgment-based to report to the company any known or suspected approach and emphasize the company’s values violations of the law, The Red Book, company and the importance of ethical decision-making, policies, or official orders or decrees applicable to summarize key principles from global company our business. Employees are also encouraged to policies and provide examples for employees to report any other ethical concerns or issues. Our practice applying these principles to their decisions toll-free ethics and compliance hotline is staffed by and actions. The foundational principles of The Red an independent firm, 24 hours a day, seven days a Book are designed to help our employees navigate an week. Due to differences in local law, local reporting increasingly complex global business environment. processes can vary. • Policies, Procedures and Simplified Principles• Monitoring: Lilly maintains a risk-based ethics and based Materials: Our policies, procedures and compliance monitoring program that includes a other materials provide additional details and are global monitoring strategy, a risk assessment and available to employees on the company’s intranet. monitoring plan with standard tools and a process These documents govern Lilly’s actions with for reporting metrics to business leaders and key respect to specific areas, including our ethical company stakeholders. The purpose of the program foundation, preventing corruption, respecting privacy, is to assess whether: communicating honestly, speaking up, protecting information assets and many other topics. » Ethics and compliance policies and procedures are implemented and followed; » Employees receive training on the policies and procedures; and » Managers provide sufficient oversight of business processes and related results to support compliance with company policies, procedures, as well as government laws and regulations. • Corporate Auditing: Our internal corporate auditing function conducts both financial and nonfinancial audits of all Lilly affiliates globally to evaluate compliance with various company policies and procedures. These audits include reviews of our anti-corruption program and the policies that govern ethical interactions. Anti-Corruption | Page 79 Understanding Culture and Human Nature to Improve Ethics and Compliance Culture is a key consideration for any ethics and compliance program. At Lilly, we are focused on the impact of human behavior on culture, and we are using what we learn to improve our program. Behavioral economics research shows that pressure can lead people to rationalize decisions in the short term that might not be the best in the long term. At Lilly, we have been sharing this research with our team, our leaders and our employees so we can acknowledge that we all possess this vulnerability and understand that we need to act to protect Lilly from these rationalizations. To illustrate this point, we opened a painful chapter in our past by sharing the story of how pressures led Lilly employees to rationalize bad decisions years ago and the consequences of these decisions. We brought an expert to Lilly in 2019 to speak with executives and employees, and we developed a course for leaders and supervisors to gain a deeper understanding of how they might affect our culture—for better or for worse—and the actions they can take to mitigate against the risk of rationalization. Training and Communications All employees play a role in the success of our ethics and compliance program. Therefore, we consider training and communications an essential component of promoting and nurturing ethical behavior and a culture of trust and integrity throughout our business. Some of the strategies we use to further strengthen our culture include sharing real stories of mistakes we have made as an organization and their consequences and helping leaders understand their vital role in creating an environment that encourages ethical behavior. Our commitment to training and communications is visible through many of our activities, including the following: • Each year, all Lilly employees (and certain company • In the spirit of learning, we share stories with contractors) must complete training on The Red Book employees of how we have made mistakes and and certify that they have received, read, understand times when we have made the right decisions under and will abide by its requirements. In the last three pressure. We do this to help employees learn years, 100 percent of employees have completed this from these experiences so they can replicate best training during the annual training period. practices as well as not repeat the same mistakes. Our executives use these examples to reinforce their • Employees receive targeted ethics and compliance expectations that all employees speak up to ask training related to their specific job responsibilities. questions or raise concerns, listen to each other and the outside world, and hold one another accountable • New employees in the ethics and compliance for these behaviors and for doing the right thing. organization participate in a comprehensive training and education curriculum that helps them • In the last two years, we have intensified our understand and implement the elements of an conversations with our ethics and compliance team, effective ethics and compliance program globally. our leaders and our employees about the important role of human behavior in ethical decision-making • Our leaders communicate regularly with employees as well as their role in fostering an environment to ensure they understand that Lilly holds each that encourages all employees to speak up, ask employee responsible for making decisions and questions, voice concerns and share ideas. As we taking actions that reflect our company’s values of have these discussions in workshops and team integrity, excellence and respect for people. meetings around the globe, we are sparking conversations about how actions and words can influence behavior. Anti-Corruption | Page 80 Investigations and Corrective Actions We take all reports of known or suspected violations of company policies and procedures seriously, and we appropriately investigate all claims of potential wrongdoing that are brought to our attention. We seek to address inappropriate conduct as early as possible and to prevent future recurrences. To accomplish this, a global investigation process conducts timely, thorough, and professional investigations. All investigators are trained to understand and follow this process and to meet local procedural and privacy requirements. We share information with our employees to help them understand the investigations process as well as the overall results of investigations. Anti-Corruption Due Diligence We strive to earn and maintain the trust of people we serve by acting with integrity in all that we do everywhere we operate around the world. We recognize that bribery, fraud and other acts of dishonesty are a betrayal of that trust, so we do not offer, provide, authorize or accept anything of value—or give the appearance that we do—to inappropriately influence a decision or gain an unfair advantage. Our commitment to operating with high ethical standards extends to all business relationships, dealings and activities around the world. Our centralized team of anti-corruption, due-diligence experts works to drive consistency of approach around the world as well as partner with our colleagues in the business to achieve results. Lilly uses a risk-based anti-corruption due diligence process to assess the appropriateness of interactions with certain external parties, including the following: • Individuals who may be authorized by Lilly to interact with government officials on the company’s behalf; • Prospective recipients of grants and donations; and • Prospective business development partners. Lilly also uses an institutional notification process to mitigate risk relating to healthcare providers whom Lilly pays for services, including clinical trial research, or to whom Lilly provides other items of value, such as educational opportunities. “We are committed to nurturing a culture where every Lilly employee is empowered to speak up with questions and concerns, to listen to others when they speak up, and to follow up and hold one another accountable for doing the right thing.” — Melissa Barnes, SVP, enterprise risk management and chief ethics and compliance officer Anti-Corruption | Page 81 Transparency and Disclosure at Lilly Being transparent about the nature and extent of our relationships with external groups makes it possible for Lilly to build trust and respect for how we work with these groups to benefit patients. Lilly supports various transparency initiatives on a global basis. Our guideposts for these initiatives include being respectful of local laws related to intellectual property, trade secrets, competition and privacy; ensuring any information that is disclosed does not undermine our ability to compete effectively; and confirming that information is communicated with appropriate context in an easily understood manner. Payments to Physicians and In the United States, Lilly follows disclosure requirements at the local, state and federal levels. Lilly adheres to Healthcare Organizations the requirements set forth by the federal law known as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act (also called “Open We believe openly reporting financial interactions Payments”), which is part of the broader U.S. Affordable with healthcare professionals (HCPs) and healthcare Care Act. It requires the biopharmaceutical and medical organizations (HCOs) helps to build trust with patients, device manufacturing industry to report certain financial caregivers and other key stakeholders. interactions to a defined group of “Physicians” and “Teaching Hospitals.” Interactions include items such as Lilly collaborates with both HCPs and HCOs, focusing on payments for services provided for research, or food and a single goal: improving the health and quality of patients’ beverage provided during an educational program. lives. Being transparent about the nature and extent of our relationships makes it possible to build trust about Lilly reports these financial interactions to the Centers how we work to benefit patients. for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). On an annual basis, CMS makes all reported industry financial We believe HCPs should be compensated at a fair market interactions public in a searchable Open Payments rate for their time and expertise whether they are Database. On the site, you can view whether a physician scientists helping to research a potential new treatment, or a particular teaching hospital has had financial HCPs advising us on medical and scientific matters, or interactions with a biopharmaceutical company, physicians conducting an educational program for Lilly including Lilly. with their peers. By disclosing our financial relationships with both HCPs and HCOs, patients, caregivers and Outside the United States, in addition to adhering to other key stakeholders can better see and understand applicable local and national legislated requirements the collaborations and interactions their own medical for countries in which we operate, Lilly participates professionals have with Lilly. in voluntary disclosure codes led by local or regional trade associations. One such example is the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), which has established the EFPIA HCP/HCO Disclosure Code as well as the EFPIA Patient Organization Disclosure Code. Lilly views our commitment to transparency and disclosure as an opportunity to ensure that patients, HCPs, HCOs and business partners feel Anti-Corruption | Page 82 confident when engaging with Lilly. The EFPIA website has additional information on the HCP/HCO and Patient Organization Codes. You can also view more on Lilly’s commitment to HCP/HCO transparency in Europe, or view our EFPIA Patient Organization Disclosure. • Learn more about Lilly’s commitment to transparency at lilly.com. • Lilly engages in dialogue directly with members of the healthcare system and other interested parties about ethical interactions through our EthicsPoint hotline (1-877-237-8197), the Lilly EthicsPoint website, or through means provided by disclosure code administrators such as governments and trade associations. • Learn more about Lilly sharing the results of our clinical trials in the Clinical Trials Data Transparency section of this report. Clinical Trials Data a global privacy program in place for many years. That program is continually refreshed in response to the everTransparency changing privacy landscape, including the introduction of—or anticipated introduction of—new regulatory Lilly is committed to the transparency of our clinical requirements and ethical considerations around data studies and we recognize that responsible sharing of privacy. clinical study data has the ability to enhance public health. Currently, Lilly registers and posts results of In the past two years new privacy laws have gone into all clinical trials on clinicaltrials.gov in addition to any effect (e.g., the European Union’s General Data Protection legally required clinical trial registries. For Phase 2 and Regulation, the California Consumer Protection Act) or Phase 3 trials that complete in 2019 and beyond, Lilly were passed for implementation in the near future (e.g., submits results one year after the completion of the trial Brazil’s General Data Privacy law). By passing such laws, regardless of the medicine’s approval status. regulators have sent a strong and powerful message underscoring the critical importance of protecting Lilly makes patient-level data available from Lillypersonal information. These expectations are consistent sponsored trials on marketed drugs for approved uses with Lilly’s commitment to the ethical management of all following acceptance for publication. Lilly is one of several personal information that is entrusted to us, whether it is companies that provide this access through the website that of a customer, an employee, or any other individual. vivli.org. Qualified researchers can submit research proposals and request anonymized data to test At its core, our privacy program reflects our commitment new hypotheses. to being open and honest about how we collect, manage, use and disclose personal information, and to being In 2013, Lilly begun conducting pilot projects creating intentional about protecting it. It also reflects our goal summaries of Phase 2 and 3 clinical trial results in to only share personal information with those who are patient friendly language using simple, everyday terms. authorized—and have a legitimate business need—to see In 2020, Lilly will continue creating plain language it. Our program is overseen by our chief privacy officer summaries of Phase 2-4 clinical trial results and who is supported by an international team of dedicated making English versions available to study sites. Lilly is privacy professionals, along with an extensive network developing a translation process to enable the posting of of ethics and compliance professionals worldwide. Key plain language summaries to the European Union Portal components of our program include a principles-based and Database. For EU portal posting, the summaries will policy supported by an infrastructure of procedures, be translated into the local language(s) where the studies job aids, training and other materials governing the took place. collection and use of personal information. Our goal at Lilly is to always deliver on the promises that we make Respecting Privacy to individuals—in every business operation, in every location around the world—regarding the ethical use and Global concerns about data privacy have exploded in management of the personal information that we collect recent years, as the world becomes more networked and and use. interconnected than ever before. Lilly has had a longstanding commitment to data privacy and we have had Anti-Corruption | Page 83 Political Engagement When engaging in lobbying efforts or making political contributions, we comply with the laws that govern such FINANCIAL SUPPORT activities. All financial support and lobbying activities are overseen at the board level by the Public Policy and AND LOBBYING ACTIVITY Compliance Committee, which is composed entirely of I N 2019, L I L LY S P E N T T H E outside directors. All decisions are made without regard F O L LO W I N G A M O U N T S O N for the private, personal preferences of the company’s D I R E CT P O L I T I C A L A CT I V I T Y 1 : officers and executives. All of our employees must also comply with our global $1,217,000 policies, core values and legal obligations, which are outlined in our written Code of Business Conduct, IN POLITICAL FINANCIAL SUPPORT The Red Book. Our annual report of Political Financial IN THE UNITED STATES Support provides details of our company’s U.S. political contributions; our memberships in organizations that report lobbying activity to the U.S. government, and to $244,000 which we contribute $50,000 a year or more; and the to state candidates activities of our Political Action Committee, the LillyPAC, 20% in corporate which is funded solely by U.S. employee contributions. contributions; and In the United States, we are committed to backing candidates of any party who support public policies that $973,000 contribute to pharmaceutical innovation and the health through the Lilly needs of patients. When reviewing U.S. candidates for 80% Political Action support, we consider a number of factors, including Committee (LillyPAC). these examples: • Has the candidate historically voted or announced positions on issues of importance to Lilly, such as $6,910,000 pharmaceutical innovation and health care? ON FEDERAL LOBBYING ACTIVITIES • Has the candidate demonstrated leadership on key IN THE UNITED STATES committees of importance to our business? This information is reported to the U.S. • Does the candidate demonstrate potential for Congress in accordance with the Lobbying legislative leadership? Disclosure Act of 1995. • Is the candidate dedicated to improving 1 Rounded to the nearest thousand the relationship between business and government? Anti-Corruption | Page 84 E L I L I L LY A N D C O M PA N Y Lilly Corporate Center Indianapolis, Indiana 46285 USA 317.276.2000 | Lilly.com
