01 MAY 2020 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PROPOSED TO: May 01, 2020H. E. Antönio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations, New York, NY L0017 USA RE: STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Max Capital Management Holding Ltd (149,613) is a private limited company by shares with principally involved in the provision of a diverse range of services under Project Management Consultancy with aims to be the all in one solution to deliver the top-notch service to meet the industry’s demand, particularly in real estate industry. Since its foundation on 28th October 2014, we have been keen in the development and/or assistance to social activities for the community benefit. We are honoured to confirm that Max Capital Management Holding Ltd remains completely committed to the UN Global Compact and reaffirms its support to its ten principles on: Human Rights; Labour; Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our action to continually committed ensuring these principles are a part of our business culture particularly in the business which provide project management consultancy services to the global market. Similarly, we commit to advance the Sustainable Development Goals, all of which we see as necessary to establish a fairer society and a sustainable environment. Accordingly, we support the Sustainable Development Goals No. 4 – Quality Education, No. 5 – Gender Equality and No. 8 – Good Jobs and Economic Growth. Unconscious thoughts As the company dedicated to uphold the moral and social values, we pledge to can sometimes bring to engage actively in practices and projects that will further the goals. We will be, at all times, transparent and open to the public on our commitment and actions as socially responsible the fore ideas one might organization demonstrating all involvements in a voluntary initiative. easily dismiss as unrealistic. Respectfully, Adj. Prof. Maxshangkar Chief Executive Officer 1 MAY 01, 2020 HUMAN RIGHT PRINCIPLE MCM developed a mutual-respect culture that seeks to develop respect and attention to the human rights among our employees, clients, members and service providers in the ecosystem. In many ways, effective communication always comes with a combination of mutual respects, inspire and influence others to do their best and treat others how they would like to be treated. MCM is advocating under a policy which covers the clients and/or project owner by encouraging them to comply to the 10 principles of UNCG. With the establishment of this policy, we are confident that it shall set for long-term culture cultivation that enhance the quality of life and increases overall well-being for both individual and community. MCM have always practice Trust and Integrity principles at work policy and committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. Thereby, we practise a transparent communication and encourage the employee to speak freely and respectful of other perspective with the right way to receive constructive criticism that will develop more improvements. Far-seeing plan for the upcoming year, we will work with our strategic partners to identify if they are signatories to the Global Compact and actively encourage them to support and join the UN Global Compact if they have yet to make any movement. IMPLEMENTATION MCM carry strict grievance procedures in place and offers mediation and/or counselling to staff at work as a first stage resolution to any problems experienced in the workplace. Extensive consultation is executed when there are significant changes to ensure staff’s involvement along the process. Alongside, we are supported with a range of Human Resources policies and Standard Operating Procedures that reflect MCM pro-active stance on human rights including our Trust and Integrity at Work Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy and Flexible Working Policy. Unconscious thoughts As much as we believe in Equal Opportunities Policy, we take step ahead to fill the gender can sometimes bring to gap and we believe in achieving gender equality and empower all girls and women. Gender equality is a fundamental in human right and we empower all. Yet despite progress, most of the fore ideas one might the women and girls around the world do not fully experience equal rights and their easily dismiss as potential remains untapped. They are under-represented in power and decision-making roles. They receive unequal pay for equal work and continue to be targets of physical and unrealistic. sexual abuse. Empowering women eventually will help to expand the economic growth, promote social development and establish more stable and just societies. Therefore, more than 70% of our work force at MCM are women and supporting Women’s Institute of Management (WIM) as we believe with this, we able to give equal opportunity and benefits to them. We help to improve their living in this society as others. 2 MAY 01, 2020 MCM International Women's Day celebration therein every powerful woman was cherished with a bouquet of appreciation surprise. 3 MAY 01, 2020 MCM Computer Lab in Women’s Institute of Management (WIM) headquarters We believe in order to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Unconscious thoughts opportunities for all, investing in education is essential to develop a skilled workforce for the future and improve economic growth. Constrained educational resources and poverty often limit access to can sometimes bring to education. This contributes to unemployment and deprives businesses of the talent they need and that will drive broader economic growth. With the above said, MCM have been organising FREE educational the fore ideas one might seminars and workshops to public to learn more about latest market trends, legal and tax, wealth management from the respective industry experts. easily dismiss as unrealistic. 4 MAY 01, 2020 Since its launch, MCM has managed more than 100 events yearly. That means approximately an event in every 3 days! With experience managing over 300 Global Investment Seminars (GIS) in over 30 cities around the world, our education events provide access to the best of education for your investing needs. These range from education workshops to site visits, and much more. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Human resource department served as primary communication for employees to address issues relating to human right violation. In the past year, MCM has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. We hold management meeting on weekly basis to review our labour policies based on all issues highlighted. 5 MAY 01, 2020 L A B O U R P R I N C I P L E All MCM employees are issued with a contract for service which clearly states their terms and conditions including salary package, bonus, and medical benefits. All employees are issued with a Company Handbook inclusive of all information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. MCM believes in equal employment opportunity where our HR ensures such that workplace rules, policies, practices and behavior are fair and do not prejudice the employees potential. All the workers, regardless their gender, are valued and respected that entitle them for an opportunity to develop full potential. Our recruitment, selection practices are opening competitive and based on merit and performance basis. IMPLEMENTATION MCM actively communicate employees on a continuous basis where each year we hold a company review day that gather everyone and our Chief Executive Officer would deliver a recap for the past year journey, appraising staff over their achievements and thanking individuals who have contributed significantly for the growth of the company. Each year, MCM organise Appreciation Dinner to extend our gratitude to the staff for their continuous support and contribution to the company. MCM promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. As COVID19 pandemic may cause economic recession that may affect both the quantity and quality of jobs around the world. Hence, job availability is the key not only to economic growth, but also to more equal wealth distribution. Economic prosperity and opportunities for gainful employment are critical for safe and stable societies. Starting the business back in 2012, MCM has now expanded to 5 branches and targeting to achieve 10 branches by the end of 2021/22. With this, we hope we can create and provide vast job opportunities to the unemployed and will continue to employ further as MCM grow, alongside creating part-time income to our relationship executives for serving and maintaining the CRM with our clients and members. MCM put a great emphasize on employees’ welfare and established several welfare policies both in Unconscious thoughts the employees’ handbook and supported with best-fit practise in terms of labour including nondiscrimination equal opportunities policy, appraisal procedure and flexible working policy. Weekly can sometimes bring to management meetings are held to ensure human resource related matters and other concerns are being handled appropriately. the fore ideas one might MEASUREMENT easily dismiss OF OUTCOMES as Management unrealistic. carried our quarterly review to abide the performance evaluation. Employees are given a direct access to HR department to resolve any matters relating to human resource and capital. The channel of communication is greatly diverse both formal and informal for them to address their concerns. Our employees are satisfied and contented to fully maximise their full potential and likewise the management is giving a full support to help the employees to pursue their passion at work. 6 MAY 01, 2020 Welcoming New Year and Christmas festival appreciation dinner by thanking everyone for the journey and their utmost contribution to the organization. 7 MAY 01, 2020 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLE ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MCM goals towards sustainability involve beyond of the promotion for the internal initiative, but also the inclusion of events, products and communication actions for clients with a main focus in the environment. We have developed an environment policy which clearly specifies that we do not engaged in any activity involving harmful or negative impact on the environment. MCM is committed for a continuous improvements in protecting the environment and the prevention with the reduction of pollution, waste, carbon dioxide emissions and the use of paper and other non-reusable equipment. IMPLEMENTATION Following are the examples of MCM environmental principle practice that has been implemented: 1. Turn off the lights before leaving office and/room by utilizing natural light whenever they can. 2. Minimise color print and paper usage and print in draft mode whenever possible, and to print on both sides or use back side of recycled paper or drafts. 3. Filtered drinking water is provided to reduce the plastic bottle usage. 4. Better work preference with clients and suppliers who develop, produce and sell products which have minimum environmental impact. 5. The usage of non-toxic cleaning products in office, especially for the washroom. 6. The offices are brightening up with plants to improve indoor air quality. 7. The furniture, carpet and paint furnished with that are low volatile organic compound. 8. The waste paper bins place beside printer to provide a clean and healthy working environment. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Hygienic and green environment along with comfortable working atmosphere increased employee’s efficiency to maximize their performance and reduce further disruptions. Unconscious thoughts can sometimes bring to the fore ideas one might easily dismiss as unrealistic. 8 MAY 01, 2020 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MCM do not accept any corruption and we have built SOP making sure that none of our staff can collect any money from our clients and/or members in any way. To maintain MCM’s mission of being a socially responsible business, we manage our business liaison with transparency, dignity and integrity and shall not tolerate any act of bribery for any purposes of obtaining favor and further improper advantages. IMPLEMENTATION MCM believe the basic needs of the employees should be well-taken care to prevent any misconduct as such the management pay close attention to the well-fare of all employees. All expenses claim will be screened through various levels before and/or after submission to promote accountability in anticorruption commitment. The company's CEO and staffs are fully committed to following the principles of ethics in business and the principles that guide the Global Compact. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES All financial transactions, due to law requirements and to avoid biased reporting, are checked by external accountants and auditors. Thus, there have been no incidents involving misconduct of attempted bribery, or conflict of interest and no disciplinary action taken to our employees. Unconscious thoughts can sometimes bring to the fore ideas one might easily dismiss as unrealistic. 9
