Communication on Progress 2019-2020 Clean World 2 914 911 | www.cleanworld.ge | 89/24 A g m a s h e n e b e l i Avenue . CEO Statement on Continued Support At Clean World, we support our customers’ purpose by delivering great service moments. Our strategy is to provide bespoke solutions that make facilities run smoothly, whether they belong to key account or specialized services customers. Customer satisfaction serves as a key indicator of our strategy’s success and we regularly measure their engagement and loyalty. We take great pride in being a socially responsible company – for our people, our customers and the communities in which we operate. A safe working environment is a key part of our value proposition to our people and customers, and central to our corporate responsibility strategy. We remain committed in our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We continuously align our strategy and operations with the ten principles of the UN framework. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Apolon Goletiani Managing Partner/CEO Clean World – Communication on Progress About Clean World Clean World has been providing services for over 700 governmental and non-governmental organizations since 2005. Demand on professional cleaning services is growing at a rapid rate nowadays. Modern architecture styles with various glass constructions and an abundance of bright colors require specific cleaning methods. Our company accommodates these methods without a problem. We satisfy individual needs for each of our clients, and the quality of our work defines the unconstrained leadership that our company holds in its field. Each costumer is assigned a separate manager who controls the quality of services provided. Based on this field, Clean World owns the International Organization of Standardization (ISO) Certificate (the certificate was issued by a member of the IQNet organization). What makes us different:  Years of experience and the highest quality of service;  Variety of services (e.g. same-day services available along with contractual services);  Flexible schedules, individually chosen prices and payment methods;  Providing services promptly, in the shortest span of time;  A well-mannered, professional, experienced and responsible staff;  Well-organized and customer-oriented management;  The capacity to take on a job of any size and difficulty; Our goal is to maintain long-term partnerships with our clients. Each customer organization later becomes our partner. Our individual approach to clients is largely defined by our qualified employees that never cease to improve. Innovating and adapting to new techniques serves as a crucial motivational element for our staff’s improvement. The company’s workforce is ready and able to provide cleaning services for our clients at any time. 3 Our business model is based on creating value for our customers by allowing them to focus on their core business. We service and maintain their facilities, helping to create workplaces that are pleasant, safe and nurturing for their employees and visitors. Our Services We provide various cleaning services and offer both one-time cleaning and a permanent form of service.  Everyday cleaning  General cleaning  Complex cleaning  Maid service  Post-construction/post-maintenance cleaning  Cleaning during maintenance  Washing and chemical cleaning of the facades  Cleaning of various types of soft or solid floor surfaces  Chemical cleaning of soft surface furniture  Cleaning and polishing windows and other glass surfaces  Chemical cleaning of cars (sedans, SUVs)  Cleaning with organic solutions and steam  Mattress cleaning Clean World – Communication on Progress CSR Corporate social responsibility is the primary direction of our company. In a country with a severe lack of job opportunities, our company employs 1200 people. The management is trying to carefully choose staff members and employ people who are most in need of the job in particular. We employ handicapped and refugees as well, and our company pays special attention to them. We also employ students of vocational schools who come in as trainees at first. We teach them, train them and subsequently provide them with jobs in administration. Taking care of the environment is very important for us, it’s right there in the name. We cooperate with environment protection organizations and have some serious projects planned in this aspect for the future. Sustainability Policy It is the policy of Clean World to ensure that all its activities contribute to the social and economic welfare of its stakeholders through efficient use of labor, land and capital without harm to our natural environment which we hold in trust for future generations. Building our business based on ethical, moral principles, respecting our employees and seeking to understand and support the interests of the communities whose resources we share. We demonstrate our commitment to this policy by implementing the following:  Building sustainable value added relationships with our employees, suppliers and customers  Striving to ensure that our actions as a corporate entity have no or minimal impact on our planet  Contributing to economic growth by maximizing the resources of our society and planet  Incorporate sustainability principles into the selection and use of cleaning equipment and tools  Reducing the usage of chemical cleaning solutions  Communicating our corporate social responsibility and sustainability performance to all stakeholders. 5 Our Chief Executive Officer has the ultimate responsibility for developing the strategic vision, placing ethical, socially responsible values and sustainability at the heart our business. Description of Actions Human Rights As one of the leading and the largest cleaning organizations operating in all regions of Georgia our people have numerous interactions every day. This tests our ability to respect human rights. We recognize that certain individuals and groups require increased awareness and attention to protect against potential abuse. Our policy on safe-guarding vulnerable people is being implemented via a thorough programme. It is part of our onboarding programme, training of top management and leaders. Reporting is an essential element of the human rights monitoring cycle. It constitutes a strategic tool to record and analyse information, present findings of monitoring and fact-finding activities, express concern about a human rights problem, engage in dialogue with duty bearers, advocate positive change and propose recommendations for corrective action. Internal reports are used to communicate information within the organization. Typically, they are:  Interview reports to record the results of individual interviews with victims, witnesses, alleged perpetrators or other sources of information;  Incident or investigation reports;  Flash or emergency reports to alert managers to an emerging situation and the need for action. Labour Our policy is to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in any part of our business. People who become part of slavery or human trafficking usually do not know their rights. They are victims of a cruel business exploiting vulnerable humans. Apart from the human costs, the negative societal and economic consequences are significant. Clean World is committed to help eradicate slavery and human trafficking; hence we have a Clean World – Communication on Progress systematic and proactive approach to ensure this. We conduct regular monitoring procedures to verify our standards to manage these risks. Management of working conditions are becoming more important as compliance with international standards grows. As we operate a company with about 900 employees and managing a vast number of sub-contractors and suppliers every year, we directly or indirectly impact labour rights for a significant number of people. Working with private sector partners as well as civil society and labour organizations, we seek to promote labour rights locally. We support UN Global Compact 10 fundamental principles and we manage labour rights on the foundation of these shared goals. Environment Reducing our environmental footprint is a clear ambition in Clean World. We manage two different risk categories: our own operations and our customers. As for our own operations, consistent reporting and coordinated initiatives remain a challenge. In relation to our customers, it is a challenge to pursue the highest standards on their behalf. With our global reach, improving resource productivity will have a significant impact on the environment by decreasing the use of water, energy and materials. When we transport our standards to customers’ businesses, the impact will grow accordingly. Based on a systematic approach we aim to achieve continuous improvement in quality and performance. We set standards and targets for improvement, and measure and report on our performance. Credible and effective management of environmental and climate-related risks are part of our value proposition to our customers. Anti-Corruption Given the large and increasing number of employees around the country, complying with anticorruption rules may pose a risk. Our standards are part of the training for all Clean World 7 employees. Company management works actively to implement the standards. We monitor and ensure that each case of non-compliance gets escalated and treated seriously.
