2019 Corporate Social Responsibility Report By their very nature, bridges Between a digital divide and an connect us. They lift us. They take inclusive future, there’s a bridge. us to places we’ve only imagined. And they prevent people from Learn more about the bridges being left behind. we’re building in our 2019 CSR Report. What awaits us on the other side? A story that’s still unfolding. Cisco envisions an inclusive future where technology gives everyone the tools to thrive. Our people, solutions, and investments are making this a reality. This report charts Cisco’s progress against our CSR goals and programs in Fiscal Year 2019. We open the report with Our Story, which chronicles some of our top accomplishments from the past year. The second portion of the report is The Details, which includes in-depth discussions of all Cisco’s CSR initiatives, including key metrics. partners working to end global hunger to nonprofits addressing homelessness in Silicon Valley. Within our own company, we continue Our Story A message to transform our culture—driving diversity and inclusion throughout our entire organization and from Chuck implementing sustainable business practices to reduce our environmental impact. We also CEO Message encourage and accelerate our employees’ passion The Details Robbins to do good in the world by providing time off to volunteer and a matching donations program. Cisco has long understood that social responsibility must be an integrated piece of our overall business strategy and that there is Governance & a clear connection between a healthy business Responsibility For the last 35 years, Cisco has defined We see massive opportunities for our and a healthy community. They are not mutually innovation, reimagined connections, and innovation, expertise, and culture to play a role exclusive, and now it’s more important than ever pushed the limits of what’s possible. We helped in finding solutions to some of society’s biggest that we all realize this and collectively come People build the Internet, and the Internet changed challenges. That takes shape in a variety of together to shape inclusive economies and everything. Now anything and anyone can be ways, including partnering with governments cultures and extend opportunities for all. Society connected, creating infinite possibilities for to accelerate digitization goals, advocating for Sincerely, creative collaboration, smart cities, education, data security and privacy, and empowering the healthcare, and more. In these last few next-generation workforce. We see incredible Planet decades, we’ve seen technology do amazing power in collaborating with passionate people things, transform experiences, and improve and sharing our technology and expertise with Chuck Robbins, the lives of millions. those who need it most, from social investment Chairman and Chief Executive Officer However, even with this progress and prosperity, many still struggle, and the inequality gap continues to widen. Nearly 10 percent of the • With 2.15 million students in 180 countries participating in Cisco Networking world’s population lives on less than $2 a day. Academy in FY19, we exceeded our goal of reaching 2 million students per These individuals are challenged to meet even year through this program by 2020 the most basic needs, let alone benefit from • 469 million people were positively impacted by our cash grant investments the digital revolution. This type of inequality is and signature programs solvable, but it’s going to take governments, • 51 percent of employees donated or volunteered in fiscal 2019 APPX community organizations, and the private sector • We made progress toward our FY22 goals of reducing our GHG emissions, all coming together to make a meaningful and increasing our use of electricity from renewable sources, and improving GRI lasting impact. product energy efficiency At Cisco, we want to build a future where • You can learn more about the actions we’re taking—and how we hold UN SDGs technology helps people everywhere reach their ourselves accountable to the universal principles embodied in the United Nations Global Compact—throughout this report potential and creates a better world for all. 3 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-14 the dots between actions and impact for our stakeholders, and to inspire them and Our Story others to help solve global problems. A blueprint for Cisco has made significant CEO Message bridge building progress towards our ambitious goal of positively impacting 1 billion people with digital solutions by The Details Tae Yoo, Cisco’s Senior Vice President, 2025. Cisco takes measurement Corporate Affairs, leads the company’s seriously and in FY19, reassessed social investments and stewards CSR how we’re evaluating our progress. ongoing business strategy and long-range Governance & and social impact. Here, she shares her Can you share what’s changed Responsibility planning, focused on the programs and perspective on Cisco’s CSR philosophy, this year? partnerships with the greatest potential journey, and accomplishments in FY19. for impact. With more data available and People accessible to both our partners and Cisco, we advanced and refined CSR has emerged as a top our reporting methodology to a more priority for many organizations conservative approach. For consistency Society and their stakeholders. How has this in reporting, we have recast the prioraffected Cisco’s CSR and social period numbers to conform to the How would you describe impact strategy and programs? revised methodology. Under the revised Planet Cisco’s CSR and social The good news is that for Cisco, it methodology, the number of people impact philosophy? doesn’t change much. We’ve always positively impacted for FY16, FY17, and It all goes back to our purpose: to been about doing good and driving FY18 are 118 million, 100 million, and build bridges between hope and impact. It’s part of our culture and woven 123 million, respectively. In addition, we possibility. Creating new possibilities for into all we do. In 1997 we launched Cisco are pursuing an external limited assurance people, society, and the planet requires Networking Academy, the world’s largest of the cumulative-to-date number. Through Cisco to take a holistic approach where and longest-running CSR education these efforts, we aim to provide our CSR and social impact are integrated program, and we set our first GHG stakeholders with an even deeper level of across the business. We use the power emissions reduction goal in 2006. We’ve transparency of the impact we’re making of our technology and the expertise of learned and evolved over the years, through our partnerships. Today, we APPX our employees to accelerate global including in how we communicate. are excited to report that we impacted problem solving and advance social and There’s more interest in our CSR and 128 million people in FY19, for a cumulative GRI environmental benefits. Some CSR social impact work now—from investors, impact of 469 million (47 percent of our priorities are owned by various business customers, current and prospective 2025 goal), with great anticipation that UN functions; others are championed by employees, and beyond. Today, we’re we will achieve—and hopefully exceed— SDGs Corporate Affairs. All are integrated into using data and storytelling to connect our 1 billion goal. 4 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Making progress Clear objectives keep us focused on what’s most important. In FY19, we were proud to reach multiple goals ahead of schedule, and are already at work on new goals that set Our Story toward our goals our sights even higher. We also regularly assess our goals to make sure that we’re achieving what we intend to. As a result, we adjusted how we’ll track progress toward a few CEO Message goals going forward. The Details Goal: Goal: Reach 2 million Cisco Networking Avoid 1 million metric tonnes of GHG Academy students per year by 2020. emissions in our supply chain from 2.15M Governance & FY12 to FY20. students reached 115% Responsibility Achieved in 2019 New partnerships and expansion into new of goal achieved People Smart supply chain decisions across the countries helped us extend our reach. organization helped us achieve and exceed this goal ahead of the FY20 target date. Society Goal: Goal: Planet Achieve 80 percent community impact Positively impact 1 billion people through participation, as measured by employees’ our social impact grants and signature actions, including advocating for causes they programs by 2025. people have been 469M care deeply about, volunteering, donating, positively impacted Evolving and participating in programs that positively impact communities by 2020. as of FY19 51% Access to additional data provided us with of employees are the opportunity to advance and refine our engaged as of FY19 methodology for reporting impact. Learn Employees were giving back in ways that what’s changed. weren’t fully captured by this goal, so we have APPX adjusted our approach. Learn more here. GRI With our 2020 supply chain GHG goal complete, we UN set a new goal to reduce Cisco supply chain-related New SDGs Scope 3 GHG emissions by 30 percent absolute by FY30 (FY19 base year). Learn more here. 5 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback The bridge to inclusive cultures Within Cisco, we’re breaking down social barriers, developing diverse talent, and creating an ethical place to work. Beyond our walls, we’re Let’s demonstrate empathy. Let’s be kind to one supporting inclusive actions and another. Let’s have curiosity. partnerships to create opportunities Let’s continue to learn. And most for people around the world. The importantly, let’s take action. In a Conscious Culture, that’s result is a Conscious Culture that our job. We take action if we starts with our employees—and experience something or if we benefits all. see something. And in doing so, we change the culture for all.” Francine Katsoudas, Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer 6 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Taking our culture to the next level CEO Message A company’s culture can be its culture is “conscious”—aware and greatest asset. Unfortunately, accountable for what’s working, The Details you don’t have to look far to find what’s not, and how we can improve. companies where culture isn’t When we see or experience working. Places with problems like something, like harassment by a unethical behavior, discrimination, manager or a violation of our Code Governance & and harassment. And employees of Conduct, we say something. Responsibility who are afraid to speak their mind. Employees can protect our culture Cisco aims to help set a new by sharing concerns with our People standard, reinforcing the values Ethics Office. As part of Conscious and behaviors that make this a Culture’s debut, we shared metrics great place to work. In FY19, we internally regarding concerns Society built upon our solid foundation and our employees reported—issues started defining culture using a new like bullying and other negative framework. We call it “Conscious behavior. We’ll continue to do so Planet Culture.” It has three components: every six months, as well as sharing how concerns are handled. • Environment. An inclusive, diverse environment that positively impacts But Conscious Culture is more than people, society, and the planet. addressing concerns. It affects every • Characteristics. The typical traits aspect of how our people work and of our culture, such as our unique interact. Now, business functions beliefs, behaviors, and Principles. across Cisco are determining • Experience. The everyday how to apply Conscious Culture interactions people have with their to their practices. As this journey leaders and colleagues. progresses, the result will be better employee engagement. And in turn, Learn more about how we’re applying APPX Many companies focus on only one better experiences for our customers a Conscious Culture across Cisco. of these three aspects of culture. and communities. GRI Bringing all three pieces together is what sets Cisco apart. And this UN SDGs 7 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story No shame, no stigma CEO Message Over the past year, Cisco has made it a priority to not only end the taboo against talking about mental health, The Details but encourage people to ask for help. It all started with an email. In 2018, in the face of growing concerns about mental health in society, Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins sent an email to all Cisco employees. In it, he expressed Governance & Cisco’s concern for those who are struggling, sharing Responsibility that no one needs to go it alone. The response was overwhelming. Robbins received People more than 100 replies from employees saying thanks and sharing stories of themselves and their loved ones. Since then, even more people have courageously spoken Mental health initiatives: Society about personal struggles in company blog posts and • Improving access to care in the Cisco Beat. our largest U.S. medical plans. Employees will now pay the Planet This response has awakened us to an issue that wasn’t same coinsurance, whether being addressed. Consider the statistics: about one in they go in or out of network five U.S. adults lives with a mental health condition. Yet Increasing awareness: for mental health treatment. many people are still uncomfortable talking about these • The Safe to Talk community •O  ffering confidential 24/7 visits issues. Cisco is breaking the silence. We want everyone on Cisco’s intranet includes with counselors as part of our to know that it’s okay to not be okay. By decreasing videos, links to internal and global Employee Assistance the stigma and broadening the resources we offer, we external resources, and Program, and in-person visits hope to encourage people to get the help they need. employee stories. in our LifeConnections health centers. We increased the And change the conversation about mental health •On Leader Day, we trained number of free visits to 10 in across our industry. leaders across Cisco on the U.S. to align with what we how to recognize signs of offer globally. mental illness and support APPX their teams. •C  ontinuing our support •Our CEO has written, as founder of Connected spoken, and tweeted North, which uses Cisco GRI publicly about the collaboration technology importance of this issue. to deliver mental wellness UN programming to remote, SDGs •In the U.K., mental health underserved communities “first aiders” help fellow in Canada. 8 2019 CSR Report employees access csr.cisco.com | feedback resources. Bridge building Our Story CEO Message brought to life Bridges between hope and possibility The Details are everywhere if you know where to look. With our new Bridge Awards When one of Vanessa During the refugee crisis of Russell’s students became a competition, we are seeking to identify 2015, more than 1 million victim of human trafficking, employees who embody our purpose— people fled to Germany. she called a community Governance & Claus Schaale, wanted meeting. And founded a Responsibility those who truly exemplify what it to help. He has invested nonprofit that she now runs hundreds of hours teaching full-time, which has housed means to “be the bridge.” refugees digital skills and dozens of women and children helping them find jobs. and rescued hundreds of trafficking victims. People More than 300 nominees showed up and inspired us with their actions. They come from different places and teams, but they share one quality: Society a passion and desire to make a positive impact. Planet These incredible Cisco employees are living and breathing the bridge to possible. Meet a few of our inaugural Bridge Award winners. And learn more about the competition on page 65. Daud Yamin’s family started a health clinic and school in rural Pakistan, which now enrolls nearly = Click icons to watch video 800 children. His next goal? Establish a Cisco APPX Networking Academy to help kids achieve a future in technology. GRI UN SDGs 9 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story A place to call home Every night in America, more than half a million people go to sleep homeless. An even greater number are at risk of becoming homeless— just a missed paycheck or unexpected medical bill away from a night CEO Message on the street. Sal and Elaine Sanchez were among those at risk. Sal once ran a successful plumbing business in Silicon Valley. Then, he got hurt and a downward spiral began. The couple ultimately experienced The Details homelessness for eight long years. Cisco has moved to address this serious and growing crisis of inequality in our backyard. In 2018, we committed to donate $50 million over five Governance & Responsibility years to help Destination: Home catalyze public funding and launch the Supportive Housing & Innovation Fund. The fund will help build supportive housing, which combines housing with other social services, and expand People programs that prevent people from becoming homeless in Santa Clara County, California. Among the new residents of San Jose’s very first supportive housing development were Sal and Elaine. Society See how Destination: Home is helping We’re extending this commitment to help people like Sal and Elaine in people like Sal and Elaine. other communities. In FY19, Cisco announced a commitment of $1 million over four years to support a housing-first pilot in Rome, Italy, Planet where homelessness is on the rise. The Cisco team in Italy will work closely with our two implementation partners, Comunità di Sant’Egidio and fio.PSD, to supply the technology they need to support and scale their operations. We’re proud to report the following progress from the first year of the Destination: Home partnership: APPX 1,200+ 841 71% 95% housing units will be families and of participants in of families remained GRI constructed through individuals helped by prevention programs stably housed support to housing Destination: Home and received financial while receiving UN developers its partners through aid within 72 hours prevention services SDGs their Homelessness of application Prevention program 10 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback The bridge to inclusive technology Cisco laid the foundation on which the Internet is built. As we enter an era where everything and everyone is connected, As data becomes we’re once again shaping the more accessible and network’s future. In the process, meaningful, we must ensure that availability does not come at we’re applying the lessons we’ve the expense of privacy. In FY19, learned over more than 30 years CEO Chuck Robbins called for and building technologies that comprehensive laws that respect privacy as a fundamental human are secure, accessible, and right. Learn more about how Cisco that bring people together. protects human rights and data privacy. 11 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback How Cisco technology Amazing things happen when you connect the unconnected. Cisco should know. We pioneered the Our Story technology that connects everything. And in doing is building an inclusive so, unlocked the potential to solve some of our most pressing challenges. Here are just a few ways that CEO Message future Cisco products are making the world smaller—and the possibilities a whole lot bigger. The Details Accessible tech Solutions that help people with vision, hearing, and mobility challenges Governance & Responsibility communicate and collaborate. The Cisco IP Phone 8800 series is the first enterprise desk phone with built-in text-to-speech functionality. Secure data The product received the Chairman’s Award for Advancement in Our suite of cybersecurity Accessibility from the Federal Communications Commission. solutions reduces Disaster relief People customers’ vulnerability Cisco Meraki to harmful and costly cloud-controlled cyberattacks. networking connects Society the unconnected when disaster strikes. Planet Healthcare anywhere APPX Telehealth applications allow people to get the care they need, no Reduced emissions Smart cities GRI matter where they are. Remote collaboration IoT solutions use sensors Protected wildlife technologies like Webex and advanced data The Open Conservation UN create a virtual work processing to help partnership uses IoT SDGs experience that limits the cities and businesses to track and protect need for physical travel. grow sustainably. endangered species. 12 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback = Click icons to watch video Connecting the Our Story CEO Message dots from skills “It’s not just reading a book. It’s The Details to careers actually setting up things with your hands and running into situations that you’re going to face in the real world. That’s what helped me Access to opportunity can change lives and change prepare for a career.” Governance & communities. Cisco Networking Academy partners with Responsibility educators, governments, and employers to bring global and Megan Chapman, an IT professional in North Carolina who was inspired by Networking inclusive access to digital skills to millions of people. Because Academy to empower women in IT the workforce of the future will look different. Large-scale People growth is predicted based on the adoption of new technologies bringing upwards of 133 million new job roles by 20221. So Networking Academy couldn’t be timelier and more relevant. Society In partnership with thousands of traditional and nontraditional learning organizations, such as universities, community colleges, and prisons, we’re helping to bridge the shift from conventional Planet jobs to in-demand IT-savvy jobs. By providing best-in-class curriculum to these education partners free of charge, we’re bringing greater career possibilities to people everywhere. Learn more about the life-changing potential of Networking Academy from those who have lived it: “Because of my background, I never dreamed I could have a career in IT. Cisco Networking Academy APPX changed all of that.” Sergio Sales, whose parents “There was a time when I said, ‘maybe immigrated to the U.S. GRI it’s not the right career for me’...but from Mexico something told me that it was possible.” UN SDGs Sara Martínez, a student of indigenous background in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, who learned Spanish in order to earn a degree 1 Future of Jobs Report 2018, World Economic Forum 13 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Seeing the source Ore extracted from a mine has value because it can be sold, CEO Message smelted, and made into new products. But what’s also valuable about the ore is the data behind its origin: Where was it mined? Who mined it? Between the mine, smelter, and factory, where The Details did it travel? These are important questions for companies like Cisco, as we use minerals like tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold in many of our Governance & Responsibility products. We continually conduct due diligence on minerals in our supply chain to ensure their mining and sale is not benefiting armed groups or actors that commit human rights violations. But until now, precise data about the origin of minerals has been People lacking. Without this data, it’s much harder for us to address human rights and other issues at their source: the mine. Society The Transparensee Project aims to change that. The idea was first hatched as a system for combining innovative tagging technologies with a blockchain network to track ore from mine Planet sites to downstream companies like Cisco. From this concept, we began building prototypes, which we took to mine sites in Rwanda, where we gathered feedback from governments, NGOs, and miners themselves. The field study taught us the importance of designing a solution in collaboration with all stakeholders, including the mine workers. We’re applying these lessons as we Learn more about continue developing this platform, seeking the right balance between data transparency how Cisco ensures and security. Pilots in other countries will responsible sourcing APPX give us further insights as we see this of minerals used in technology in action. Learn more about our products. GRI how we’re using blockchain as a traceability tool in the minerals supply chain in a recent UN Cisco white paper. SDGs 14 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Providing for Our Story those who provide CEO Message for others Smallholder farmers produce more than 80 percent of the The Details world’s food. But they also make up 80 percent of the world’s poorest people, which means they often lack the resources to grow their businesses. Digital Green, a Cisco social investment partner, is using technology to change Governance & Responsibility this equation. The nonprofit began in 2008 with a vision of helping smallholder farmers improve agricultural practices and People boost their incomes. They began by sharing information with farmers on how to increase their yields, producing thousands of locally relevant videos in more than 50 languages. Society But they realized that more needed to be done to boost farmer incomes. Just as important as growing food is having a place to sell it. That’s why Planet Digital Green built the Loop app, which helps farmers aggregate their produce and get it to markets. It uses a learning algorithm to optimize vehicle routing so farmers get the best prices for their produce. With Loop, farmers can: Book a delivery Have produce Receive payment 17% increase in gross service to pick up delivered to markets on their mobile APPX their produce on an optimized route devices farmer income as a result of using Loop Investment from Cisco makes this possible. Cisco was the first donor GRI to provide dedicated funding to support Loop. Our latest grant will help Loop spin off into a separate social enterprise. Through the collective UN power of technology and grassroots-level partnerships, Digital Green Read more SDGs and Cisco are helping farmers lift themselves out of poverty. about Cisco’s strategic social 15 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback investments. The bridge to inclusive economies Inclusivity means recognizing that the world belongs to all of us. And letting this knowledge guide our actions. We make Cisco is aware of mindful use of our natural and how our actions shape financial resources. We identify demand for resources in those whom the digital economy the broader economy. In India, where water is scarce, we’re has left behind. Then, we work exploring ways to better manage with partners to leverage the water use. We’re also committed to helping scale renewable energy by power of the Internet to create investing in a combination of solar, new paths to economic wind, and battery storage, as well as prioritizing projects that add prosperity for all. capacity to the grid. 16 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Transforming economies through technology CEO Message One outcome of increased We begin a partnership by meeting connectivity is increased with a country or state leader and competition. Advances in data finding where Cisco’s capabilities The Details and technology have the potential and a population’s needs align. to create a new kind of economic Then, we provide technology, and divide, one separating those with just as important, knowledge. We digital capabilities from those without. help communities educate the next Governance & Responsibility generation of tech professionals Cisco wants to help more countries through: and states get ahead. We’re People doing so with our Country Digital • Cisco Networking Academy. Acceleration (CDA) program, which Equipping students with real-world acts upon research insights from our skills and career connections in Digital Readiness Index. Through fast-growing IT fields. Society CDA, we partner with governments, • Innovation Centers. Spaces industry, and academia to create where local innovation ecosystems jobs and innovate with technology. can flourish and innovators can Planet To date, we have 370 projects exchange ideas. active or completed in the areas • University Investments. of transportation, smart cities, Sponsorships that allow Cisco to healthcare, cybersecurity, not only foster innovation, but also and education. get access to new ideas. How the program promotes environmental sustainability As countries grow and develop, they generally pollute more. By APPX applying digitization and IoT solutions to cities, Cisco, along with partners, can begin to break this cycle. For example: • Smart parking solutions in Paris have reduced congestion by GRI 30 percent • Las Vegas is exploring the use of sensors to route autonomous UN SDGs shuttles to public transit stops based on demand • Bucharest, Romania, achieved 75 percent energy savings with 17 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback smart lighting, including LEDs and motion sensors Our Story Powering the movement CEO Message to end poverty As a technology company, we have a powerful opportunity to create an inclusive future by sharing our skills and capabilities The Details with others. Through a new partnership with international antipoverty organization Global Citizen, we’re equipping young people with the tools to make a difference. Governance & Responsibility Global Citizen encourages people to make positive changes in the world, including working to end extreme poverty. The organization has always been fueled by technology, using People an app to log petitions signed, tweets shared, and leaders contacted. Users have taken more than 24.8 million actions to date. Cisco’s technology and expertise will help this platform scale even further. For the next three years, Cisco Society will provide the Wi-Fi technology, content, and storytelling platforms at Global Citizen’s festivals and other events. We’ll also provide collaboration tools to fuel their business, Planet including connecting Global Citizen with key donors, partners, ambassadors, and festival curators. Together, we’ve launched an awards program to get even more people engaged. At the Global Citizen Festival in South Africa in December 2018, Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins presented the Global Citizen Prize: Cisco Youth Leadership Award, which recognizes a Having Cisco as a person between the ages of 18 and 30 technology partner truly who is advancing one or more of the UN powers our movement, Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, transforming our capacity APPX winners of Cisco’s first annual Bridge Awards earned entry to the festival. as an organization to GRI change the world.” UN Hugh Evans, Global Citizen SDGs Co-Founder and CEO 18 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Stepping up our work on circularity Our Story The circular economy is a natural extension of Cisco’s own With cross-functional engagement among teams across business transformation. As a company, we are moving from Cisco and members of our supplier community, we have product upgrade cycles to recurring cloud computing and a many projects underway to help us achieve these goals. software-subscription model. With this same mindset, we aim These include: CEO Message to harness technology to limit the unintended consequences of •N o Paint Project. The “No Paint Project” eliminated oil-based one-way consumption. wet paints on plastic bezels used in our Catalyst 9200 and 9300L products. This design change enabled significant cost savings, The Details Cisco is accelerating the adoption of circularity with the goal facilitated recyclability, reduced GHG emissions, and eliminated of decoupling business growth from the consumption of finite hazardous volatile organic compounds. resources, designing waste out of the system, and transitioning •R ecycled plastic. In FY19, Cisco avoided the use of more than to renewable energy. Governance & 456 metric tons of virgin plastic by producing 2.72 million 7800 IP Responsibility phones with 35 percent recycled content plastic. •R eusable pallet wraps. We are also combating plastic waste by rethinking the way we package shipping pallets. We replaced People disposable wraps with reusable wraps on pallets. This reduced costs, avoided carbon emissions, and prevented 79,000 pounds of plastic stretch-wrap form reaching landfills in FY19. Society To learn more about how Cisco is driving circular advantage, please visit our website. Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 19 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Research Triangle Park: Update on our progress CEO Message The Details See Energy and GHG In 2018, we announced goals to achieve 100 percent emissions renewable energy, water neutrality, and zero waste for more Governance & by FY20 at Cisco’s campus in Research Triangle Park Responsibility information. (RTP), North Carolina. The campus’s proximity to leading research universities makes it an ideal testing ground for sustainable improvements within our real estate People operations. Here’s how we made progress in FY19: Energy Society Cisco’s U.S. facilities are already 100 percent powered by renewable electricity. At RTP, we’ve taken this a step further by using renewable energy generated locally, from Planet on-campus solar to participation in Duke Energy’s Green Source Rider Program. We’re exploring ways to purchase even more local renewable energy as we grow. Focused on the future Water We’re also working to decrease our We’re managing our water footprint through conservation environmental impact more broadly. projects that decrease the amount of water we use. And Cisco’s GHG emissions goals include: restoration projects that restore local fresh water watersheds in North Carolina and the Southeast. Through these efforts, 60% reduction in global Scope 1 and we expect to achieve water neutrality in FY20. 2 GHG emissions by FY22 (FY07 baseline) Waste APPX 85% The campus has reduced plastic waste with biodegradable of energy for global electricity demand to-go boxes and reusable cups and mugs. Since April purchased from renewable sources by GRI 2019, we’ve avoided sending over 10,000 plastic FY22 (FY07 baseline) items to landfill each week. That’s 3 tons 30% UN of plastic saved. Throughout the year, we reduction in Cisco supply chainSDGs diverted 68 percent of our waste. related Scope 3 GHG emissions by FY30 (FY19 baseline) 20 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback absolute The Details Between aspiration and action there’s a bridge. As you have just read in Our Story, Cisco is putting our people, technology, and resources to work in service of an inclusive future. In The Details, you can learn even more about the strides we made during FY19. This section of the report is organized according to our CSR priorities and delves deep into the programs and strategies that are helping us reach our goals. Our Story Table of contents Society CEO Message 78-133 The Details Building digital skills & entrepreneurship 80 Strategic social investments 92 Technology & human rights 102 Governance & Responsibility Data privacy & security 108 Responsible sourcing & Governance & manufacturing 113 People responsibility Planet About this report Society 24-34 134-209 We use our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report to share how we are managing and Environmental sustainability measuring progress against our CSR goals, as approach 137 well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder People Planet expectations and inquiries we receive throughout Supplier environmental the year. performance 150 35-77 Energy & GHG emissions 156 Product & packaging materials 182 This report covers fiscal year results for the period ended July 27, 2019. Data includes all our operations around the world, unless Inclusion & collaboration 38 Other topics 197 otherwise stated. Some data have been rounded. Employee community impact 51 Monetary figures are in U.S. dollars unless Team development 58 Appendix otherwise noted. The data in the Planet chapter are subject to internal and external audits in line Health & wellness 69 with our Environmental Management System Ethics & integrity 74 210-218 and ISO14001 requirements. Data that support public commitments, such as our goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, are subject to APPX external assurance. GRI GRI Content Index In addition, the Cisco Foundation, which provides 219-230 cash grants to our nonprofit partners, is audited annually. For more information on Cisco’s CSR UN activities, visit csr.cisco.com. SDGs 22 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-45, 102-56 CSCO Figure 1. stock symbol Our Story Corporate profile NASDAQ 75,762+ Cisco is a worldwide technology leader that has been employees making the Internet work since 1984. Our people, products, CEO Message and partners help society securely connect and seize The Details tomorrow’s digital opportunity today. Today, more than 80 percent of the world’s web traffic travels securely 460+ 97 office locations countries across Cisco connections. Governance & 1984 60+25+15 58+25+1151 Responsibility Revenue by Revenue by product or geographical segment service category year founded People Society $51.9B* FY19 revenue *Non-GAAP Planet Americas 60% Infrastructure platforms 58% Europe, Middle East, Services 25% and Africa (EMEA) 25% Applications 11% Asia Pacific, Japan, Security 5% and China (APJC) 15% Other 1% Products and solutions Networking Mobility and wireless Data center APPX Software Security Cloud GRI Internet of Things Collaboration Analytics UN SDGs 23 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-7 Governance & responsibility Aligning our business priorities with pressing global challenges Corporate social responsibility at Cisco 25 • Stakeholder engagement 27 • Materiality 28 • UN SDGs 29 Public policy 34 Political support 34 GRI 102-18 24 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Corporate social • Conducting socio-economic research and developing data driven insights and implement against our commitments. In some cases, CSR goals and objectives may be linked to responsibility at Cisco • Assessing and monitoring CSR priority issues performance factors and compensation for CSR owners. For example, Supplier Code of Conduct • Producing our annual CSR Report performance may be considered when assessing the CEO Message Cisco pioneered the technology that connects • Coordinating and ensuring cross-functional performance of key supply chain leaders. everything. We believe that connections have the ESG alignment We believe that risk is inherent in innovation and the The Details potential to create opportunity for everyone and to Business functions own CSR priorities. Teams integrate pursuit of long-term growth opportunities. Cisco’s solve some of the world’s most pressing challenges. priorities into their business strategy by setting goals, management is responsible for day-to-day risk Leveraging our expertise, technology, and a strong implementing plans, and measuring performance. management activities. The Board of Directors, network of partners, we’re focused on building Some priorities touch multiple functions. In these acting directly and through its committees, is Governance & Responsibility bridges to a more inclusive future. cases, we establish cross-functional teams to align responsible for the oversight of risk management. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is core to our purpose, our culture, and how we invest. We focus Figure 1. People on People, Society, and Planet—issues that align with our business strategy and where we can have the CSR business process greatest potential for impact. Our success is built on Society a Conscious Culture, where trustworthiness and ethical conduct are expected and supported among our employees, suppliers, and business partners. Planet How we manage CSR Corporate Affairs, as part of the Human Resources Performance CSR reporting measurement organization, champions Cisco’s strategic approach to CSR, including social investment programs and Cisco’s CSR business process environmental sustainability. The organization also Stakeholder (Figure 1) is based on strong stewards our commitments to CSR performance Implementation Business Corporate functions affairs engagement and analysis stakeholder engagement and transparency. and an annual materiality The Corporate Affairs team is responsible for: Prioritization, Stakeholder assessment. goal setting, feedback to • Defining and managing our social investment and initiatives the business APPX strategy and programs • Driving CSR governance processes GRI • Collaborating with a broad range of stakeholders UN SDGs 25 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-18 Cisco’s management has implemented an enterprise The Audit Committee, which oversees our financial The Nomination and Governance Committee of Our Story risk management (ERM) program, managed by and risk management policies, including data the Board reviews Cisco’s policies and programs Cisco’s internal audit function, that is designed to protection (comprising both privacy and security), concerning corporate social responsibility, including work across the business to identify, assess, govern, receives regular reports on ERM from the chair of the environmental, social, and governance matters and manage risks and Cisco’s response to those risks. ERM operating committee, as well as regular reports (Figure 2). CSR and environmental sustainability are CEO Message Cisco’s internal audit function performs an annual on cybersecurity from Cisco’s Chief Security and represented through Tae Yoo, Senior Vice President of risk assessment that is utilized by the ERM program. Trust Officer. Other Board committees oversee Corporate Affairs, and Francine Katsoudas, Executive The Details certain categories of risk associated with their Vice President and Chief People Officer. respective areas of responsibility. Figure 2. Governance & Responsibility CSR governance and management Board of Directors For our efforts to succeed, People Other Board Committees we need stakeholders’ trust. Nomination and Governance Committee • Acquisition • Compensation and Management A commitment to ethical • Audit • Finance Development conduct and good Society governance structures helps us walk the talk. Corporate CSR Business functions & Governance, risk & control Learn more about Planet cross-functional groups Champion Cisco’s company-wide Conduct due diligence and implement Champion enterprise risk corporate governance commitment to CSR performance management (ERM) efforts across and transparency policies and programs for specific the business to identify, assess, and risk management CSR focus areas and manage risks at Cisco in our 2019 Annual Report. Employee training Employee wellness Ethics & integrity Inclusion & diversity Energy & GHG & development & benefits Products & IT solutions for Data security Digital rights packaging materials the environment & privacy & inclusion Global social impact – Global social impact – Socially responsible Local community IT digital skills and Critical human needs & Economic inequality supply chain impact APPX digital readiness disaster relief Employees Supply chain & partners GRI Certification of Code of Business Conduct Ongoing enforcement of Supplier Code of Conduct UN SDGs 26 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-18 Stakeholder Figure 3. groups Engaging with stakeholders Stakeholder engagement Building bridges of understanding with key Our Story stakeholders (Figure 3) helps us maximize impact Stakeholder and informs our materiality process. Through regular Insights dialogue, we can better align our business to social External engagement Internal engagement Stakeholder groups forums forums and environmental needs. • Communities • Industry leaders CEO Message We partner with a wide range of global and local • CSR opinion leaders • Investors organizations to shape and extend the reach of our • Customers • Nonprofits CSR programs, including governments, nonprofits, • Employees • Sales channel partners The Details multilateral organizations, and peers. We have been • Governments and • Suppliers a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum regulators (WEF) since 2002. Our engagement with the WEF Governance & provides us with world leader insights, influences Responsibility our CSR strategy, and enables us to learn from others and share best practices. Other partnerships and memberships include: Business for Social Engagement forums (external) People Responsibility (BSR); the Conference Board’s • Annual customer satisfaction surveys • Industry working groups and Sustainability Council II on Innovation and Growth; • Annual shareholder meeting and standards bodies the CEF (formerly the Corporate Eco Forum); and company reporting • One-to-one investor meetings the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the • Business for Social Responsibility • Partner community forums Society EICC or Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition). • Cisco CEO Leadership Council • Partner Education Connection • Cisco CIO Exchange • Partner Summit In addition to the formal materiality assessment, • Cisco Foundation • Public Policy Engagement Website Planet Cisco’s environment team independently gathers • Cisco Networking Academy Advisory Boards • Social media feedback on emerging issues, the quality of our • Cisco Networking Academy Conferences • World Economic Forum reporting, and our sustainability performance from • Cisco Platform blog • Cisco support forums sources including stakeholder inquiries and key • Cisco Live Conferences rankings and ratings. “Stakeholder inquiries” is the • Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy umbrella term we use for questions we receive from • Financial Analyst Conference a variety of sources, including: • Global Customer Advisory Board • High Tech Policy blog • Customers and partners. The visibility of environmental sustainability continues to increase in customer and partner requests for proposal (RFP), supplier qualification, and contract processes. Engagement forums APPX • Employees (internal) • Financial and industry analysts • EthicsLine • SustainX • Functional all-hands • Team Listening: GRI • Shareholders and investors • Leader Day » Engagement Pulse • Leadership Quarterly » Real Deal survey • Sustainability data aggregators, which includes UN • Monthly “Cisco Beat” » Team Space SDGs companies like Ecovadis that collect sustainability company meeting » Voice of the Employee GRI 102-12, 102-13, 102-42, 27 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 102-40; 102-43 Figure 4. Materiality matrix Our Story information for our customers and partners. It also includes a range of organizations that collect and package sustainability information for resale or for Ethics & integrity HIGH their own analysis. Energy & GHGs CEO Message • Environmental advocacy groups • Academia, including researchers and students Socially Data security & privacy Increasing importance to stakeholders responsible Employee training & The Details supply chain • Media development Environment-related topics form the vast majority of IT solutions for Material use stakeholder inquiries that Cisco receives. These the environment & waste Diversity & inclusion Local community impact Digital rights (workforce) Governance & inquiries provide continuous, real-time insight into & inclusion Responsibility the environmental issues of interest to different Employee wellness & benefits Global social categories of stakeholders. In FY19, we continued to impact—IT skills & see increasing customer and investor interest in Global social impact—Critical digital readiness human needs & disaster relief People environmental sustainability, as reflected in customer requests for proposals, customer and environmental advocacy surveys, and other inquiries. Economic inequality Society Materiality: Determining what matters most Planet An important input to report content and CSR strategy Tier 3 Tier 2 Tier 1 is a materiality assessment. The assessment helps LOW us understand what issues are most important to stakeholders inside and outside Cisco. We conduct a HIGH LOW full assessment every two years. In years that we do not conduct a full assessment, we do an internal Increasing importance to business materiality refresh. This helps us validate priorities People Society Planet relative to business risks and opportunities. Each year, we provide results to the Cisco Governance, Risk, and Controls team, which feeds into Cisco’s • Interviewing external stakeholders We reframed several of our priority topics compared ERM program. to the previous assessment. For example, a new • Surveying employees topic, economic inequality, refers to our efforts to APPX Our latest assessment, completed by an independent • Benchmarking against other companies address inequities globally and locally. Participants consultant in FY19, evaluated 14 topics. We validated The assessment helps us prioritize investments, also showed increased interest in Cisco’s local these topics in a variety of ways, including: GRI executive sponsorship, risk management, and community impact. • Reviewing CSR inquiries from customers, partners, stakeholder engagement. The issues evaluated in The scope of our environmental impact includes our UN and investors FY19—and their resulting rankings—are pictured in SDGs operations, extended operations (supply chain), and • Conducting social media listening Figure 4. 28 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-44, 102-46 products and services. The review confirmed that However, it recognizes a wider uncertainty band and why we’ve committed to positively impacting our environment-related priorities remain: compared to Tiers 1 and 2. 1 billion people by 2025. In much the same way, the Our Story UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) require • Energy and GHG emissions from our operations In addition to our materiality assessment, we consider global cooperation and ambitious commitment. The and those of our suppliers, as well as from use of stakeholder input to rank environmental topics. In 17 SDGs set forth a framework to build a better our products FY18, Cisco invited approximately 5,000 customers world for people and our planet by 2030 and are across all regions and market segments to complete CEO Message • Product and packaging materials focusing on designed to be applied by governments and an online survey on environmental sustainability. material resource efficiency, waste from our organizations worldwide. Feedback from this FY18 survey matched the results operations, and extended operations (supply chain) The Details of the FY19 sustainability materiality assessment. More Cisco’s targeted CSR efforts align with many of the We address these top two priorities through than five years of materiality assessments performed SDGs, and we share the UN’s vision for a peaceful, initiatives with dedicated funding and program using various methodologies confirm the prioritization inclusive future. Given that our CSR priorities are structure. And we motivate and measure progress shown in Table 2 of the Planet section of this report. aligned with our corporate CSR risks and opportunities, through publicly announced goals. We address our we leverage Cisco’s unique capabilities, expertise, Governance & Responsibility remaining environmental issues through normal and resources to maximize impact within the context operational due diligence by the responsible UN Sustainable Development Goals of Cisco’s enterprisewide goals to benefit people, business functions. The order of environmental society, and the planet. Table 1 outlines our material We know that the actions we take can have ripple People issues within Tier 3 also indicates a prioritization. priorities and the SDGs where we believe Cisco’s effects across the globe. It’s why we’ve been giving back to global communities for more than 30 years CSR programs are having a positive impact. Table 1. Material risks, opportunities, and the SDGs Society Supporting Strategies Priority Topic Materiality Definition Related SDG and Programs Cisco Public Goal Planet Ethical and transparent conduct by Cisco in its business dealings, • Code of Business Conduct Ensure that 100 percent of employees and among employees, suppliers, and business partners. This Cisco Aligned • Supplier Code of Conduct annually certify compliance with the Ethics & integrity includes regulatory compliance; anticorruption and antibribery; Target: 8.5 •S upplier Ethics Policy Code of Business Conduct fair business, marketing, and competition; nonretaliation; and • Concerns reporting process transparent participation in elections and policy. Growing and expanding the skills of the current workforce and • Conscious Culture providing our employees with professional development • Our People Deal opportunities through training and continuous education. • Degreed Employee • Leadership programs training & development Cisco Aligned Target: 8.5 People Promoting diversity, inclusion, and equal opportunity at all levels • Conscious Culture Achieve 80 percent employee of the organization. This issue is inclusive of gender, generation, Cisco Aligned • Diverse Talent Accelerators engagement by 2020 race, ethnicity, orientation, ability, nationality, religion, veteran Target: 5.5.2 • Next Generation Leaders Diversity & status, background, culture, experience, strengths, and • DARE APPX inclusion perspectives; unconscious bias education and developing • JUMP (workforce) a Conscious Culture; fair and equitable pay. Cisco Aligned • Inclusion & Collaboration Target: 8.5 Community GRI Ensuring a safe and healthy workplace and providing employees •C omprehensive benefits Employee with the benefits, resources, and flexibility to maintain and Cisco Aligned package UN wellness & improve their wellness, care for others, and integrate work and Target: 8.8 • Emergency Time Off SDGs benefits home life. Providing fair compensation, benefits, and recognition. • Flexible work arrangements Engaging employees and listening to their concerns. 29 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Table 1. Material risks, opportunities, and the SDGs (continued) Supporting Strategies Priority Topic Materiality Definition Related SDG and Programs Cisco Public Goal Our Story Ensuring, designing, and adapting network security as it relates • Call for privacy as a to personal privacy and mitigating online threats, including Cisco Aligned human right Data security & cybercrime, economic espionage, military espionage, and Target: 9.1 • Cisco Secure Development privacy cyber warfare. Lifecycle • Transparency Report • Trust Center CEO Message Fostering the positive use of information and communications •B usiness and Human Rights technology to promote freedom of expression and products and Cisco Aligned at Cisco Digital rights & services that enable access by all people regardless of age, Targets: 10.2, •H uman Rights Working Group 10.4 inclusion language, ability, cultural group, gender, or income. • Digital Readiness Index The Details •P rivacy Data Sheets and Data Maps Ensuring ethical, fair, and responsible sourcing and supplier Cisco Aligned • Supplier Code of Conduct • Avoid 1 million metric tonnes GHG conduct. Includes social and environmental compliance by Targets: 12.2, • Supplier Ethics Policy emissions in our supply chain from suppliers; fair working conditions; fair wages; human rights 12.4, 12.5, • Supply Chain Human Rights FY12 to FY20 Governance & throughout the supply chain; ethical sourcing of raw materials 12.6.1, 12.7 • Governance Committee • Decrease use of virgin plastic Responsibility (e.g., conflict minerals, rare earths); supplier diversity; and efforts • Circular Economy program by 20 percent by FY25 to improve livelihoods and the well-being of local communities. • Capital Equipment Pledge (FY18 baseline) • Industry engagement • 80 percent of Cisco component, Socially manufacturing, and logistics suppliers by spend will have a public, absolute People responsible GHG emissions reduction target supply chain by FY25 • 70 percent of Cisco component and manufacturing suppliers by spend will achieve a zero waste diversion rate at Society one or more sites by FY25 Society • Reduce Cisco supply chain-related Scope 3 GHG emissions by 30 percent absolute by FY30 (FY19 base year) Employing Cisco resources, technologies, and external • Cisco Networking Academy • Reach 2 million Cisco Networking Planet partnerships to promote IT-related education and skills-toCisco Aligned • Veterans Program Academy students per year jobs to help people thrive in the digital economy and Targets: 4.1, •G  lobal Problem Solvers by 2020 Global social accelerate economic and social development. 4.4 (GPS) Challenge, • Positively impact 1 billion people impact—IT skills GPS: The Series through our social impact grants and & digital Cisco Aligned • Reskilling/upskilling programs signature programs by 2025 readiness Targets: 8.3, for the future of work 8.8 • Strategic social investment portfolio Employing Cisco resources, technologies, and external •S trategic social Positively impact 1 billion people through nonprofit partnerships to: support human needs such as Cisco Aligned investment portfolio our social impact grants and signature affordable housing, basic education, food security, and Targets: 1.1, •D estination: Home programs by 2025 clean drinking water, and to assist in humanitarian and 1.2 investment disaster preparedness and response efforts. • Disaster response Cisco Aligned • TacOps Targets: 2.1, Global social 2.3, 2.3.2, impact—Critical 2.4 APPX human needs & disaster relief Cisco Aligned Targets: 6.1, GRI 6a, 6b Cisco Aligned UN Target: 11.5 SDGs 30 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Table 1. Material risks, opportunities, and the SDGs (continued) Supporting Strategies Priority Topic Materiality Definition Related SDG and Programs Cisco Public Goal Our Story Employing Cisco resources and employee contributions to • Destination: Home investment Positively impact 1 billion people through manage Cisco’s negative impacts and effect positive change Cisco Aligned • Bay Area Community Impact our social impact grants and signature within local communities, including corporate and employee Target: 1.2 grants program programs by 2025 Local community donations and volunteering with local nonprofits and NGOs. • Habitat for Humanity Grant impact Program CEO Message Cisco Aligned Target: 2.1 Addressing economic inequality globally and in local communities, • Strategic social investments Positively impact 1 billion people through The Details Society including homelessness and shortages in affordable housing • Destination: Home investment our social impact grants and signature resulting in part from the technology economy. programs by 2025 Cisco Aligned Economic Targets: 10.2, Governance & inequality 10.4 Responsibility Cisco Aligned Target: 11.1 People Innovate new solutions and promote existing products and • Smart and Connected services to provide environmental benefits, including energy Communities efficiency, e.g., enabling connected cities and industries, and • IT enabling effect IT solutions for intelligent energy and transportation networks. • Connected Goods Showcase the environment • E-flex Society • Container 42 • Open Conservation Efforts to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions • Energy efficiency in offices, labs, •R  educe Total Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG Planet across the value chain, including product use, our own Cisco Aligned and data centers emissions worldwide by 60 percent by operations, and those of our suppliers. Includes product Targets: 7.2, • Renewable energy purchases FY22 (FY07 baseline) efficiency, operational energy efficiency and conservation, and 7.3 • Product energy efficiency •U  se electricity generated from renewable energy. renewable sources for at least 85 Cisco Aligned percent of our global electricity by FY22 Energy & GHGs Targets: • Improve large rack-mounted-equipment 13.2.1, 13.3 system power efficiency—as measured Planet from the input power from the facility to Cisco Aligned the boardmounted ASICs, memory, Targets: 15.5, and other chip devices from 77 percent 15.7 to 87 percent by 2022 (FY16 baseline) Reducing material use and waste from our products and Cisco Aligned • Circular Economy program •D  ecrease use of virgin plastic by packaging, operations, and supply chain. Includes the reuse, Targets: 12.2, • Product end-of-life programs 20 percent by FY25 (FY18 baseline) remanufacturing, and recycling of products and packaging; 12.4, 12.5, • Use of recyclable and • Reduce all foam used in Cisco product product and packaging design for recyclability and reuse; 12.6.1, 12.7 nonhazardous materials packaging by 75 percent measured by sourcing of recyclable and sustainable materials; phasing out weight, by FY25 (FY19 baseline) Material use & substances of concern; and landfill avoidance for operational solid • Increase product packaging efficiency APPX waste waste from Cisco and by 50 percent by FY25, as measured by supplier facilities. package volume per weight of product (FY19 baseline) • Design all new products using circular GRI design principles by 2025 UN SDGs 31 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story ESG disclosure, rankings & ratings Table 2. Ratings & rankings performance Cisco’s CSR reporting is in accordance with the Key Benchmark 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): RobecoSAM DJSI (Dow Jones North World & North World & North World & North World & North Sustainability Index) America Only America America America America Core Application. As appropriate, we align with CEO Message Corporate Knights Global 100 #69 #57 #3 #7 #14 frameworks beyond GRI. For example, we are FTSE4Good On index On index On index On index On index working to follow the guidance of the Committee CDP (formally Carbon Disclosure Project) A List A List A List A List A List The Details of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway MSCI AA AA A A A Commission (COSO) and the Task Force on Corporate Information Transparency — April, #15 April, #10 June, #9; July, #3; Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Index (CITI) by Institute of Public and Nov., #6 Oct, #2 Environmental Affairs (IPE) (IT Sector Cisco relies on six key rankings to gain insight into scores) * Governance & how ESG topics are prioritized and to evaluate our Responsibility Barron’s U.S. Most Sustainable Company — — — #1 #2 sustainability reporting and performance. We have WSJ Management Top 250 — — #9 #13 (U.S.) #5 chosen these rankings based on their public visibility, Forbes: Just 100 — — #7 #10 #11 the transparency of the scoring methodology, and People *CITI index is a real-time index. Numerical data presented is that which was collected by Cisco at the time. our ability to engage consistently with analysts to discuss their priority topics and our areas for reporting and/or performance improvement. Society Except for Barron’s and the WSJ, which have only reported rankings the last two years, we have maintained this set of benchmarks for more than five Planet years. For example, we’ve reported to CDP since its inception and to RobecoSAM (DJSI) since at least 2005. Information on these and other recognition is available on the awards page of our website. Cisco maintained our position on both the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World and North American Indices in September 2019 based on information submitted to RobecoSAM in June 2019. The DJSI indices, a globally recognized benchmark, rate companies based on economic, environmental, and social dimensions. We have been on the World APPX Index for 13 of the last 14 years. And we’ve been on the North American Index every year since its inception in 2006. GRI The A List replaced the CPLI in CDP 2015, and both the CPLI and CDLI in CDP 2016. UN SDGs 32 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Table 3. History of Cisco’s CDP scores Our Story Cisco CDP Score Disclosure/ CDP CDP CDP CDP Year/Cisco FY Performance A List CDLI CPLI differing criteria defining “green.” The most 2005 (CDP1) / FY04 Responded – comprehensive methodology is provided by CEO Message 2006 (CDP2) / FY05 70 – Corporate Knights, which uses the following definition for clean/green revenue: “Clean revenue 2007 (CDP3) / FY06 70 – The Details measures a company’s revenue from all goods 2008 (CDP4) / FY07 96 √ and services which have clear environmental 2009 (CDP5) / FY08 88 √ and, in a limited number of well-defined cases, 2010 (CDP6) / FY09 92 / A √ √ social benefits. This includes revenue from clean Governance & Responsibility 2011 / FY10 98 / A √ √ transition, low-carbon economy and circular economy revenue segments.” 2012 / FY11 96 / B √ – 2013 / FY12 100 / A √ √ Revenue included in our green revenue People calculation includes: 2014 / FY13 100 / A √ √ 2015 / FY14 100 / A √ √ # • Products that meet ENERGY STAR or 2016 / FY15 A √ EPEAT requirements Society 2017 / FY16 A √ • Collaboration products such as Cisco Webex, 2018 / FY17 A √ Cisco TelePresence, Cisco Virtual Office, and 2019 / FY18 TBD1 TBD1 Planet Cisco OfficeExtend Notes • Products sold into various social-good sectors √: on index –: not on index #: CPLI transitioned to the A List in 2015; CDLI followed in 2016 such as healthcare, utilities, and education CDLI: Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CPLI: Carbon Performance Leadership Index. Performance scoring and the CPLI began with CDP 2010. • Security products that promote data privacy 1 C  DP is not expected to release its 2019 scores until early 2020; this information will be updated in early 2020 when scores have been announced. Based on this taxonomy, we determined that 64 percent of our FY19 revenue can be considered green/clean. However, we believe The CDP Climate A List includes companies from • Supplier Climate A List: 2017 (This list only that stakeholders should use caution in around the world that have been identified as existed as part of the 2017 CDP reporting cycle) comparing companies with a self-reported leaders in their reporting and actions to reduce GHG green/clean revenue number. There is not a emissions. Although we weren’t on the CDLI until APPX Green revenue public standard for such reporting, and this the 2008 CDP cycle, Cisco now has received more reporting is difficult to verify. Due to competitive awards than any other company worldwide. Additional More and more, stakeholders ask us to quantify the GRI recognition from CDP includes: considerations, the categories that make up percent of our yearly revenue that is considered clean/green revenue are often not aligned with • Supplier Engagement Leader Board: 2016–2018 “clean” or “green.” Different stakeholders provide UN current public financial reporting. SDGs (based on CDP SER score) 33 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility • Protecting innovation. We need a strong, balanced patent system to foster innovation and reduce incentives for harmful litigation. People • Promoting investment. National tax policies should encourage job creation and incentivize innovation. Policies must also be consistent Society Public policy • Protecting free trade. Cisco supports policies that open markets for technology products and with existing global approaches. • Securely connecting the future. Emerging services, lower prices, increase choice, and technologies like machine learning and AI can Planet Cisco’s Government Affairs team develops and promote innovation. Trade agreements make protect against cyberattacks. We can harness advocates for pro-technology policies and regulations. this possible. these technologies for positive impact. We engage with governments at all levels, focusing • Investing in people and knowledge. on public policies that impact Cisco, our partners, Reforming the U.S. immigration system will Political support and our customers. The team comprises former enable businesses to better compete on a elected and appointed public officials, as well as government affairs experts. global stage. We support immigration policies that create a highly skilled workforce. Learn more about this team on our Government Cisco does not make corporate contributions to Affairs website and about our policy priorities • Building next-gen wireless networks. As candidates for elected office, political parties, or on our High Tech Policy blog. Current policy consumer demand for data increases, networks election committees in the United States. We priorities include: must keep up. We encourage governments to occasionally make contributions in support of local APPX make radio spectrum available for growth and and state ballot measures that affect our business. • Advancing smart cybersecurity policies. new technology. We disclose these contributions quarterly. Our Strong risk-management policies are foundational GRI Government Affairs team and the Board of Directors’ to secure connections. As threats evolve, • Preserving an open Internet. Cisco has Nomination and Governance Committee regularly 21st-century policies are essential to protect always supported an open Internet. Regulations UN review contributions. SDGs innovation and economic growth. that incentivize network investment are essential. 34 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback People Empowering our people and teams to thrive in a digital workforce We are committed to: Inclusion & collaboration 38 Employee community impact 51 Team development 58 Health & wellness 69 Ethics & integrity 75 35 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Figure 1. Our Story 2019 People dashboard Goal: Achieve 80 percent community impact CEO Message participation, as measured by employees’ actions, including advocating for causes they The Details care deeply about, volunteering, donating, and participating in programs that positively impact communities by 2020. Governance & Our progress: 100% 62% Responsibility Creating a positive impact in communities and creating positive communities are integral parts of our Conscious Culture and our commitment to benefiting people, the planet, and society. We drive hundreds of thousands of People ● actions every year that amount to significant change. of employees completed of Cisco’s Executive Leadership Inclusion & This year, we have innovated our approach to creating Code of Business Conduct Team is diverse in terms of collaboration community impact by expanding the portfolio of programs through which our employees can take action. certification gender and/or ethnicity Employee community impact Team development 2018 47% Health & wellness 16 years Ethics & integrity 2019 51% of perfect scores on the Human Rights Campaign’s Society Corporate Equality Index Planet APPX #1 93% World’s Best Workplaces of employees say GRI 2019, according to the Cisco is a great Great Place to Work place to work UN SDGs Institute® 36 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 205-2 Throughout this Our Story Introducing Conscious Culture chapter, you’ll see how Conscious Culture informs every aspect of life at Cisco, At Cisco, each person is unique, but we bring our talents together to work as a team and from how we engage with CEO Message make a difference. When we do, great things happen. In FY19, we began defining the communities to how we culture we have and hope for at Cisco in a more precise way. The result is Conscious work in teams. You can also learn more in The Details Culture, a set of expectations, principles, and measures that we believe best define Cisco’s Our Story. values, beliefs, and ethos. Conscious Culture means being aware of the environment we’re part of, and feeling accountable, empowered, and expected to contribute to a culture where we feel safe and can thrive. Governance & Figure 3. Responsibility Conscious Culture has three components: Figure 2. People ● Conscious Culture—Our approach Inclusion & Environment collaboration Employee Customers Communities An inclusive, diverse community impact Best of Us Best for All environment that positively impacts people, society, and Team development the planet is the foundation Health & wellness of a thriving culture We build the bridge between Ethics & integrity hope and possibility. Characteristics Leaders Employees Best of We Best of Me Cultures are modeled by a company’s beliefs, Society Our Principles behaviors, rituals, and Our Our People People Deal Deal principles Full Spectrum Diversity & Inclusion Planet Experience APPX Culture is experienced through your work, your GRI leader, and your teams UN SDGs 37 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-16 Our Story CEO Message Inclusion & The Details collaboration Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People ● Inclusion & collaboration A  n inclusive, diverse environment that positively impacts people, society, and the planet is the foundation of a Employee community impact thriving culture. Team development A  t Cisco, we are committed to full-spectrum diversity Health & wellness inclusive of gender, ethnicity, race, orientation, age, Ethics & integrity ability, veteran status, religion, culture, background, experience, strengths, and perspectives. Diversity, inclusion, collaboration, and technology are fundamental to who we are, how we create the Society best teams, and how we will succeed in this age of digital transformation. Our work is focused on achieving four key business Planet outcomes: Diverse leadership and workforce, APPX inclusive and collaborative culture, community engagement and impact, and inclusion and collaboration industry leadership. GRI W  e are the most diverse Cisco since we began tracking UN our diversity in 1998. SDGs 38 382019 2019CSRCSRReport Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1,2,3 Our Story The foundation of a responsibility for fostering an inclusive, collaborative, and respectful environment. Our definition of diversity and inclusion is expansive, intersectional, and continually evolving. Conscious Culture Cisco welcomes all people into life and work. Our culture sets us apart, starting at the top Our commitment has two components: with our diverse Executive Leadership Team CEO Message •F  ull-spectrum diversity. Inclusive of gender, (ELT). We’re proud to say that women make We view inclusion and collaboration as the ethnicity, race, orientation, age, ability, veteran up 46 percent of our ELT. And 62 percent is bridge to connect diverse perspectives. Spark The Details status, religion, culture, background, experience, diverse in terms of gender and/or ethnicity, new ideas. Imagine new possibilities. Challenge strengths, and perspectives. making us an industry leader in this area. the status quo. Inspire innovation. And unleash the full power and potential of our people. • Inclusive culture. A place where people feel Governance & welcomed, valued, respected, accepted, and Cisco sees diversity differently Responsibility This is the heart of our approach to creating heard, and are enabled by our technology to fully a Conscious Culture where everyone takes We’ve made big shifts in how we approach participate in the business. diversity. Years ago, our discipline focused on Figure 4. People government compliance. Later, we worked to ● Inclusion & Cisco’s Executive create a workplace where all people could Leadership collaboration belong and thrive. Today, we’re reaching new heights, welcoming people into work by using Team Employee community impact our collaboration technology and enabling them Team development to fully participate in our business. Health & wellness We created the Office of Inclusion & Collaboration Ethics & integrity in 2014, choosing a name that encompasses our one-of-a-kind approach. Our technologies are central to our work, allowing everyone to have a seat at the table, even if they’re not sitting in the same room. Today, the office helps Cisco’s Society business in four main ways: Workforce. Helping us find and Planet keep diverse people at every level. APPX Culture. Promoting a Conscious Culture where everyone can contribute. GRI UN SDGs 39 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1, 2, 3 Our Story Community. Making positive impact a habit with an inclusive approach. Inclusive futures • Smart Start, a solution by Textio that helps us write job postings that mitigate bias Leadership. Sharing our inclusive • Smart Tracker, which helps us identify the best At Cisco, we believe our Conscious Culture places to find diverse talent programs and practices across CEO Message leads to inclusive futures. Cisco strives to be a our industry. • Smart Select, which enables hiring managers place of opportunity and possibility for all inside to assemble diverse interviewer panels to help The Details and outside the walls of the company and in mitigate bias and increase the odds of hiring Others notice the difference every dimension where we do business. diverse talent Cisco earned the following distinctions in 2019: To date, more than 14,000 Cisco leaders and Governance & • World’s Best Workplaces 2019 Great Place to Using technology to HR employees have been enabled with DTA to Responsibility Work® (#1) drive inclusive futures make smarter hiring decisions. • LinkedIn Top Companies 2019 (#12) As a technology company looking to drive inclusive futures for all, it makes sense that innovation is People • Fortune Great Places to Work for Diversity (#7) Accelerating diverse representation ● woven into every aspect of our business. Our Inclusion & • Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality collaboration People and Communities Organization is no DTA is delivering results. Cisco achieved record Index (100%) exception. Technology is a critical success factor levels of representation of women, African Employee community impact • Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion in moving the needle on full-spectrum diversity, American/Black, and Hispanic/Latino employees Team development Disability Equality Index (100%) making it easier to architect for fairness, equity, and due to record levels of hiring. In FY19, a record accountability in our talent strategy and ensure 31 percent of new hires were women, a Health & wellness • Fortune’s 100 Best Companies to Work for inclusive futures for all. In FY19, we introduced 2 percentage point increase from FY18. We List (#6) Ethics & integrity Inclusive Workforce Planning. This new strategy also saw a 4.8 percent increase in women in • Forbes Just 100 (#10) is based on our aspiration to mirror the markets director and manager roles. All organizations are • Military Friendly Employer (Gold Award) where we do business for skill, knowledge, hiring above baseline share for women in both experience, and diversity for every job family, in technical and nontechnical roles. Baseline Share • One of only 11 other companies to have every function and at every level of our organization. is the portion of the global talent market that Society been recognized on Great Place to Work’s One hundred percent of our ELT members created has the skills and experience levels for the job Legends List Inclusive Workforce Action Plans. They built these families Cisco targets. We also increased • Disability Matters CEO of the Year representation for African American/Black Planet plans using our Diverse Talent Accelerators (DTA). (Chuck Robbins) employees to 3.8 percent and Hispanic/Latino DTA is a digital suite of solutions that leverages APPX intelligence at the point of decision making to help employees to 5.6 percent. Representation of us find, attract, select, and accelerate diverse top African American/Black employees and Hispanic/ talent. These digital solutions include: Latino employees has increased every year since GRI 2016. The improvement in representation for • Smart Insights, which enables us to benchmark these ethnicities has been broad-based and is UN and optimize diversity opportunities SDGs being driven by record-level hiring, with African 40 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1, 2, 3 Our Story American/Black hiring at 5.1 percent and Building our leadership pipeline Hispanic/Latino hiring at 6.7 percent. While we We are committed and focused on building have had record levels of hiring, we know that extraordinary leaders at Cisco across the full we still have work to do. We will continue to The biggest gain from spectrum of diversity in every function and in CEO Message drive efforts outlined in our Inclusive Workforce every region. We want future generations of this entire set of training Plans and look forward to sharing continued was the group of women leaders to be even more diverse than those progress in future CSR reports. The Details today. Cisco has several learning and development that I am now connected We’ve improved diverse hiring in our Engineering opportunities to help us build the pipeline of to. They are amazing function by using blind hiring to reduce bias. extraordinary talent: and have expanded my In FY19, blind hiring resulted in an increase Governance & •N  ext Generation Leaders (NGL). NGL is an network, my confidence, Responsibility in gender-diverse hires from 21 percent to important program for African American/Black and 40 percent for these roles. In addition, a pilot in and my way of thinking Hispanic/Latino midto senior-level employees India used HackerRank, a coding and recruiting who want to develop their leadership skills through and looking at challenges.” People platform used to assess technical capabilities to FY19 JUMP Participant the lens of diversity. NGL capitalizes on the hire based on skill, to further promote blind hiring. ● Inclusion & strengths inherent in the diversity of our teams. collaboration We’re also increasing hiring of diverse talent More than that, it demonstrates how to inspire Employee community impact through targeted programs like Diverse Abilities others to fully experience their colleagues’ variety of assessment tools, networking activities, at Cisco, the next phase of our Cisco LifeChanger diverse perspectives. Together, managers and self-reflection exercises, and unique interactive Team development program. Through this program, we are creating their employees embark on a six-month journey theater activities, mid-level employees learn Health & wellness the best experience for people with disabilities to embrace differences, remove barriers to how to think strategically, lead inclusively, and Ethics & integrity and the teams and leaders who support them. brilliance, unlock talent, and foster disruptive reach their career goals. Supplier employees who work at our sites make thinking. The group participates in honest and These programs don’t just impart skills—they get up an extended workforce that is more than courageous conversations that forge a stronger results. Individuals who participate in NGL are 50,000 people strong. We track not only diversity culture of inclusion. Participants emerge as twice as likely to receive a promotion as those who in ownership, but also the diversity of these confident, clear leaders who know the exponential do not. Managers, who initially attend to support Society suppliers’ employees. We request these metrics value their diverse teams bring to Cisco. their team member, emerge as more thoughtful, from preferred suppliers who have more than • DARE. An array of exercises, activities, and intentional leaders who understand how they are 50 individuals at Cisco in the U.S. This reporting tools designed to help women just starting out responsible for creating an inclusive culture. Planet is part of a supplier’s scorecard. In FY19, in their careers articulate their unique value to Likewise, women who participate in DARE or APPX 35 preferred suppliers shared diversity metrics. the business, build a community of support and JUMP are more likely to move up the ranks. From this data, we learned that the number of influence, empower each other to create bold DARE participants are 1.3 times more likely women in our contingent workforce increased career visions, and make a plan for getting there. GRI to get promoted than nonparticipants. JUMP by 2 percent. The overall representation of • JUMP. Consists of three multiday instructor-led participants are more than 2.6 times more women, minorities, and veterans is flat from UN workshops within a six-month period. Using a likely to get promoted. SDGs FY18 at 30.2 percent of contingent workers. 41 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1, 2, 3 Our Story Creating more inclusive teams • Embedding bias mitigation strategies into ICC Networks, I&C Ambassadors, and Cisco enterprise solutions Citizen Networks. This year, the I&C Community We want to create an inclusive and conscious sharpened its focus on intersectionality, bringing culture by mitigating bias in our people, leaders, • Expanding offerings to create new ways to different groups together for events and processes, and employee experiences. Cisco is learn and grow using innovative technologies CEO Message conversations that more fully represent the expanding our approach from unconscious bias Part of creating a Conscious Culture is moving complexity and wholeness of what it means training to an overarching and integrated bias past debate and discussion to creating meaningful to be diverse in today’s workforce. The Details mitigation strategy. This strategy will cut across dialogue across and within difference. people, leaders, processes, and employee These employee groups host flagship experiences experiences. Its goal: create lasting behavior to drive advancement and development of talent change in service of a Conscious Culture. Our Employee communities—a place for all across the full spectrum of diversity inside and Governance & Responsibility new bias mitigation strategy has four focus areas: outside the company. For example, our Women Cisco’s Inclusion and Collaboration (I&C) of Impact Conference (WOI) focuses on the • Creating a common language and understanding Community (ICC) provides a platform for development and advancement of professional of unconscious bias that builds inclusive muscle diverse groups to connect, build powerful new People women. More than 15,000 people attended memory with digital learning offerings relationships, explore their unique passions and ● worldwide in FY19. It included nearly 24 hours of Inclusion & talents, innovate, and excel. The ICC includes collaboration • Using in-person events and experiences to global broadcast content and in-person sessions our Employee Resource Organizations (EROs), Employee grow skills collectively in over 100 sites and 51 countries worldwide. This community impact year, the event hosted its first-ever, all-women Team development Executive Leadership Team panel. We invite all Health & wellness customers, partners, and global employees to WOI. And we open our WOI Facebook and Ethics & integrity Cisco.com broadcasts to the public. Again using technology to build community, our ICC Connect portal, available on our global intranet, enables our communities to connect, Society collaborate, and innovate with team members around the world who share their interests and passions. The platform provides data and Planet insights on the value that these communities are creating for their members (development, APPX promotion, and retention) and the impact they are having on the world. GRI UN SDGs 42 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1, 2, 3; 405-2 Figure 5. Thriving employee communities 243 73 29,000+ Our Story Over 29,000 active members participate in the I&C Community and benefit from programs like: • Mentoring. The PRIDE employee resource CEO Message organization launched the Proud Mentoring chapters countries active members program in FY19. They also hosted a global broadcast on intersectionality. A global platform for diverse groups to connect, innovate, and excel. The Details • Retention. Connected Black Professionals launched Elevate, a monthly webinar series led by African American/Black senior leaders. Employee resource organizations Governance & Their goal: retain top African American/Black Responsibility talent at Cisco. • Education. The Women In Technology (WIT) Professional Development Series launched People ● this year by our Women in Science and Inclusion & collaboration Engineering (WISE) ERO, providing a monthly forum for connecting and advancing women Employee community impact in technology. Team development • Community support. Our VETS ERO is helping Health & wellness to train other veterans for tech careers. Working with Corporate Affairs and CyberVetsUSA, the Ethics & integrity Cisco Veterans Cyber Scholarship program I&C community networks provides free online cybersecurity certification to vets and spouses. Society Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 43 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1, 2, 3; 405-2 Our Story Narrowing the pay gap While analyses show our pay structure is healthy salaries on market data, candidate experience overall, there’s always room to improve. In FY19, and expectations, and the level and location of To be our best, and to achieve the goal of equity we found minor disparities in about 1 percent of the role. embodied in our Conscious Culture, it’s essential our global employee population. We gave pay We’ve also started offering deeper insight into that we pay everyone fairly. Across the globe, we CEO Message adjustments to make it right. market pay rates to our leaders as part of rewards regularly test for pay parity based on gender, and inclusive of ethnicity in the United States. If we find To further pay parity for new hires, we no longer planning. This information helps managers to The Details gaps, we fix them for all. This commitment to pay ask U.S. job candidates how much they made at make better decisions around compensation. And parity isn’t a one-time event. It’s part of our their last job. The ban on salary history questions it leads to more transparent conversations with ongoing process to make sure people are paid is a new legal requirement in some states, but employees about how their pay compares to equitably for similar work in the same location. Cisco opted to make it broader. We’re basing our similar jobs in the same location. Better insights Governance & Responsibility result in better rewards decisions, more fair pay overall, and a more satisfied workforce. Cisco has also signed on to industry People commitments, such as: ● Inclusion & collaboration • White House Equal Pay Pledge Employee • Parity.org Pledge community impact • Employers for Pay Equity Consortium Team development • CA Pay Equity Pledge Health & wellness Ethics & integrity Society Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 44 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1,2,3; 405-2 women and minorities are significantly less likely The pledge isn’t limited to Cisco. We’ve opened Our Story to have a sponsor. it up to anyone who wants to sign, and leaders from over 300 companies across industries have Cisco believes in the power of sponsorship. We are We need to continue to joined in. Those who sign get access to our doubling down on building leadership capability in CEO Message advocate and advance our this area because we know sponsorship works. The online sponsorship guide. Now, we’re using talent at all levels, and The Multiplier Effect Pledge is helping to accelerate technology to track just how effective these Multiplier Effect does a great sponsorships are. In FY20, we’ll further weave The Details full-spectrum diversity for individuals who have sponsorship into our processes and culture and job in helping leaders understand traditionally been left out. That’s why we founded help other companies do the same. the sponsorship gaps and ways The Multiplier Effect pledge. And why our CEO, they can get involved to bring Chuck Robbins, was the first to sign up. Governance & Responsibility diverse talent to the forefront. Those who join pledge to change the equation Partnering for success for diversity. By signing the pledge, leaders We partner with more than 20 organizations Mike Solomita Vice President, Customer Experience make a promise to help a diverse professional which help us attract, retain, and develop People Americas US Public Sector advance in their career. And they pledge to ● extraordinary diverse talent. Recent partnership Inclusion & encourage their peers to do the same. As of actions include: collaboration FY19, 83 percent of Cisco’s Executive Leadership Employee community impact First, our workplace. Team and 44 percent of our Vice Presidents • Participating in the Out & Equal Workplace Summit, which gave us tools to educate our had signed the pledge. Team development Next, the world employees on gender expression terminology. Health & wellness Ethics & integrity We recognize our power to influence others on topics related to inclusion. With that power comes responsibility. We’re committed to leading our industry and being a voice for positive change Society on some of today’s most pressing social issues. Leveraging the power of Planet sponsorship to move the needle APPX Anyone who has had a sponsor knows the value of having someone in your corner. Research from the Leadership Research Institute shows GRI that people who have sponsors are 23 percent more likely to advance in their careers than those UN SDGs who don’t. But there’s a gap: Compared to men, 45 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1 ,2, 3 • Hosting 220+ students for the 2018 unfold around the world, Cisco is not staying Out4Undergrad Tech conference, for which silent. We’re speaking up on issues that matter to How we make a Our Story Cisco also served as a Diamond sponsor. us and our employees. Here are a few examples: difference • Sponsoring the Lesbians Who Tech Summit, •L  GBTQ equality. We signed an amicus brief in Responding to headlines and which attracted 6,000 attendees, including support of LGBTQ workers and a joint business employee concerns, we added CEO Message 20 Cisco employees. statement supporting transgender equality. many other organizations to our list of charitable funds that qualify for • Hosting 100 African American/Black leaders and •G  un violence. As more tragic mass shootings The Details Cisco Foundation Matching Gifts in 40 Cisco executives in a two-day development took place across the U.S. and other parts of the area of social justice: academy in partnership with the Executive the world, Cisco took a stand. At the July 2019 • Kids in Need of Leadership Council. Cisco Beat, Chuck Robbins announced the Defense (KIND) Governance & • Sponsoring the Disability Matters conference, creation of the End Gun Violence Fund. Through Responsibility this fund, employees make donations that are • Sandy Hook Promise where CEO Chuck Robbins received the CEO Foundation of the Year Award. matched by Cisco. • Anti-Defamation • Immigration policy. As chair of Business People League ● Roundtable’s Immigration Committee, Inclusion & Taking a stand for social justice CEO Chuck Robbins called on the Trump • Council on Islamic collaboration Relations California Benefiting everyone starts with fairness and administration to end family separations at Employee community impact equality for all. And we mean all. We’re proud of the border. We also set up an Immigration • Human Rights Campaign Foundation Team development Cisco’s longstanding leadership in advocating for Fund so employees can help. inclusion and social justice for our people and • Public Allies Health & wellness •M  ental health. We want everyone to know those beyond our offices. As social injustices that it’s okay to not be okay. Cisco is changing Ethics & integrity the conversation about this issue within our company. Read more in Our Story. Society We’re committed to driving long-term solutions that build fairness into Planet policies, practices, and laws that break down barriers. We must protect and advocate for the equality of transgender, intersex, and gender-expansive APPX people inside and outside the workplace. Cisco is dedicated to taking a stand against any actions that threaten the equal rights, safety, and dignity GRI of all people and will continue supporting the LGBTQ+ community.” UN Francine Katsoudas, Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer SDGs 46 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-1, 2, 3 Figure 6. Our Story Workforce snapshot 1 Cisco has published workforce diversity statistics in our CSR Report since 2005. The diversity summary data below is based on FY19 data, and a total of 75,762 Cisco employees. See more at Cisco.com. In addition to CEO Message the OIC Diversity Data, the EEO-1 submission can be found online. 52+34+6+4+2+1+1 The Details Overall workforce llegations legations overall workforce overallworkforce overall overallworkforce workforce global global Global by gender US US U.S. by gender U.S. by ethnicity Governance & Responsibility ics office inquiries Ethics office Ethics inquiries allegations overall workforce Ethics allegations overall overall workforce workforce overall workforce global globalUS US People ● Inclusion & White/Caucasian 52% collaboration Asian 37% Hispanic/Latino 5.6% Employee African American/Black 3.8% community impact Two or More R aces (Not Hispanic or Latino) 1.3% Male 74% Male 72% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.2% Team development kforce force technicalworkforce workforce technical Female 26% nontechnicalworkforce nontechnical workforce 28% Female nontechnical Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander workforce nontechnicalworkforce 0.2% Health & wellnessUSUSby ethnicity byethnicity global global US USby byethnicity ethnicity 47+40+5+4+2+1+1 Ethics & integrity Technical workforce2 Nontechnical workforce2 60+20+7+5+3+2+1 verall workforce overall technical workforce workforce technical workforce technical workforce technical nontechnical workforce workforcenontechnical nontechnicalworkforce workforcenontechnical workforce S by ethnicity USglobal ethnicity byGlobal by gender global US by ethnicity US U.S. by ethnicity by ethnicity global globalUS Global bybyethnicity gender US by ethnicity U.S. by ethnicity Society Planet Asian 51% White/Caucasian 63% nts ts vicepresidents vice presidents White/Caucasian 40% Asian 22% APPX Hispanic/Latino 4.5% USUSbybyethnicity ethnicity Hispanic/Latino 7.5% African American/Black 3.3% African American/Black 5.5% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 1.0% Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 1.9% GRI Male 83% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.2% Male 58% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.3% ce presidents Female presidents presidents vicevice 17% vice vice Native presidents H awaiian/Other Pacific vice presidents presidents Islander 0.1% Female 42% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.3% obal global 1 US US US by ethnicity Some figures may not total 100% due to rounding of underlying data. US by ethnicity UN SDGs 2 Based on alignment to EEO-1 job categories. 47 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-7, 102-8, 405-1 overall workforce technical workforce technical workforce nontechnical workforce nontechnical workforce US by ethnicity global US by ethnicity global US by ethnicity Our Story Figure 6. Workforce snapshot1 (continued) Vice presidents 72+21+4+2+1+ vice presidents vice presidents vicevice presidents presidents presidents vice vice presidents global global Global by gender USUS U.S. by gender USUS ethnicity ethnicity by by U.S. by ethnicity CEO Message The Details vice presidents vice presidents vice presidents global US US by ethnicity Governance & Responsibility White/Caucasian 69% Asian 24% Hispanic/Latino 4.4% African American/Black 1.8% Male 79% Male 78% Two or More R aces (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.4% People Female 21% Female 22% ● Inclusion & executive executive leadership leadership executive executive leadership leadership collaboration global global ELTELT by by ethnicity ethnicity Employee 58+17+17+ community impact Executive Leadership Team Team development Health & wellness Global ELTleadership executive membership executiveELT leadership membership by ethnicity global by gender ELT by ethnicity Ethics & integrity Society White/Caucasian 62% Asian 23% Hispanic/Latino 15% Planet Male 54% APPX Female 46% GRI UN 1 Some figures may not total 100% due to rounding of underlying data. SDGs 48 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-7; 102-8; 405-1 Our Story Figure 6. Workforce snapshot1 (continued) 58+30+5+3+2+1+1 Leadership and people managers2 leadership/peoplemgr leadership/people mgr leadership/peoplemgr leadership/people mgr leadership/people leadership/peoplemgr mgr CEO Message gendermanagers by gender gender Global gender gender U.S. US US by gender managers US USU.S. by managers by ethnicity ethnicity byethnicity The Details leadership/people mgr leadership/people mgr leadership/people mgr Governance & gender gender US Responsibility White/CUS by ethnicity aucasian 61% Asian 31% Hispanic/Latino 4.8% African A merican/Black 2.2% Two or M ore Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.8% People hiring Male hiring 79% Male 76% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.2% ● Female 21% hiring hiringFemale 24% Inclusion & gender gender USUSby byethnicity ethnicity Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.1% collaboration Employee community impact 47+40+6+5+2+1+1 Team development Hiring Health & wellness hiring hiring gender Global by gender US by ethnicity U.S. by ethnicity Ethics & integrity cisco cisco cisco cisco Society BMBMgender gender BMBM White/ Cethnicity ethnicity aucasian 50% Asian 35% Hispanic/Latino 6.7% African American/Black 5.1% Planet Two or More R  aces (Not Hispanic or Latino) 2.2% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.2% Male 69% Native Hawaiian/Other Pacific Islander 0.2% APPX cisco Female 31% cisco BM gender BM ethnicity GRI UN 1 Some figures may not total 100% due to rounding of underlying data. SDGs 2 People managers, directors, and senior directors. 49 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-7; 102-8; 405-1 Our Story Figure 6. Workforce snapshot (continued) Cisco Board CEO Message cisco Board membership cisco Cisco Board members BM gender by gender BM ethnicity The Details Governance & Responsibility M. Michele Wesley G. Michael D. People Burns Bush Capellas ● Male 80% Inclusion & Female 20% collaboration Employee community impact 91+9 Team development Board membership Health & wellness by ethnicity Ethics & integrity Mark Dr. Kristina M. Roderick C. Chuck Garrett Johnson McGeary Robbins Society White/Caucasian 90% Asian 10% Planet APPX Arun Brenton L. Steven M. Sarin, KBE Saunders West GRI UN SDGs 50 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405-1, 413:103-1 Our Story CEO Message Employee The Details community impact Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People ● Inclusion & collaboration W  e expanded the definition of community impact to include more opportunities for employees to Employee community impact take actions that have a definable, positive value Team development for communities. Health & wellness E  mployees’ actions can include advocating for Ethics & integrity causes they care deeply about, volunteering, donating, and participating in programs that positively impact communities. T  he new approach expands our possibilities through Society new forms of digital employee engagement, analytics, and automation.  e continued to sponsor and host events that W Planet encourage underserved students, particularly girls, APPX interested in STEM education and careers. C  isco shares information and resources with GRI employees about how to live more sustainably at work and at home. UN SDGs 51 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-1, 2; 413-1 Our Story A thriving culture portfolio of programs through which our employees can take action. This creates new opportunities more than 250 new organizations have been considered for matching gifts. starts with us for our employees to contribute in the ways that • Made recreational organizations, like youth are most meaningful to them, thereby creating a sports teams, eligible for matching gifts. CEO Message collective impact across a broad range of areas. Cisco employees make a positive impact within • Updated the Bright Funds platform to make it We are also harnessing the power of behavioral communities around the world every day, from easier for people to log their donations and time. economics and digitization to create new insights The Details advocating for causes they care deeply about into the collective impact our employees are We’ll continue to match gifts of up to $10,000 to volunteering, donating, and participating in having with every action they take. Our aspiration and match up to $10 per hour to organizations programs that positively impact communities. is to make impact a habit inside and outside the where people volunteer their time. Cisco will Governance & Creating a positive impact in communities and walls of our company. As we evolve, we will also keep enabling employees to volunteer. Our Responsibility creating positive communities are integral parts Time2Give benefit offers up to five days of time continue to share our learnings and progress. of our Conscious Culture and our commitment to off per year that employees can use for We also introduced the following changes to our benefiting people, the planet, and society. Together, volunteer service however they choose. donation matching program: People we drive hundreds of thousands of actions every Going forward, we’ll take a more holistic view of • Lowered the threshold for employee donations ● Inclusion & year that amount to significant change. our impact. We will measure not only dollars and collaboration that must be made before the Cisco Foundation This year, we have updated our approach to hours, but also the number, frequency, and types Employee will provide a match. Thanks to this change, community impact creating community impact by expanding the of engagements by Cisco employees. This Team development new model will not only allow us to achieve our goal—it will help us do more for people, Health & wellness society, and the planet. Ethics & integrity Society 447,935 total hours volunteered in FY19 Planet $25.5M total donated to charities by employees or through Cisco APPX matching in FY19 GRI UN SDGs 52 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-2, 3; 413-1 Our Story Inspiring interest Students also get to use Cisco collaboration technologies to interact with other leading held a workshop on coding and IoT. Students also did a lab tour and met employees in in technology women at Cisco, as well as other girls participating technical and nontechnical roles. A half-day in office visits around the globe. event in Shanghai included a Raspberry Pi CEO Message More than 115 Cisco sites participated in Girls programming workshop. Ample opportunities exist for employees Power Tech in FY19. Each site determines what who choose to volunteer through Cisco-led The Details programs to offer. For example, our Research MESA community engagement programs. Cisco Citizen Triangle Park campus hosted 55 students and Networks plan projects in 27 countries worldwide Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement organized speed mentoring and a breakout session that build relationships at the local level, with (MESA) helps thousands of educationally introducing them to the Cisco Networking Governance & initiatives tied to the needs of each community. disadvantaged students become engineers, Responsibility Academy. An office in North Sydney, Australia, Given our focus on preparing people for the scientists, and other tech professionals. Cisco has digital economy, many employees are involved in programs that help youth explore careers People ● in technology. A few examples include: Inclusion & collaboration Figure 7. Employee Girls Power Tech community impact Girls Power Every April and May, we host Girls Power Tech in Team development alignment with the UN Girls in ICT Day, a global Tech 2019 Health & wellness event organized by the UN International Ethics & integrity Telecommunication Union. This Cisco-run initiative connects girls and young women ages 6,000 13 to 18 with Cisco mentors for a day. The program inspires students to consider STEM education and careers. Through this program, Society students we’ve shared opportunities in the tech sector with thousands of young women worldwide. Planet Cisco offices in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, and the Americas hold events including office visits, tours, and presentations by female 50 115 countries sites 1,600 APPX leaders. These employees discuss career opportunities and life in the technology field. GRI Cisco employees UN SDGs 53 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI  413:103-2, 3; 413-1 Our Story supported the MESA College Mentoring program Cristo Rey work study program benefit from access to a pipeline of diverse for the past five years. For the 2018–2019 young talent. Cisco has been a partner of Cristo Cristo Rey is a national network of collegeand program, 20 students were paired with Cisco Rey San Jose since 2014. We celebrated our career-prep schools throughout the U.S. The employees. Mentors helped students focus their first graduating class of four interns in 2018 and network has a work study program through which CEO Message interest in STEM and guide them toward careers. our second in 2019. Now, we’re scaling the students complete internships with companies in And since Cisco’s partnership with MESA began, program and have 20 interns in Cisco offices. In their communities. The program helps students The Details we have reached over 132 students, six of whom future years, Cisco will accept even more interns offset the cost of their tuition and provides are now full-time Cisco employees. in Silicon Valley. Other Cisco sites are exploring valuable connections and skills. In return, we partnerships with their local Cristo Rey schools. Governance & Responsibility People ● Inclusion & collaboration Employee community impact Team development Health & wellness Ethics & integrity Society Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 54 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-2, 3; 413-1 Our Story Doing our part for the environment CEO Message We encourage employees to be global problem solvers related to environmental sustainability. The Details The actions they choose to take often depend on their experiences, their location, their expertise, and issues they care about. Through digital tools, Governance & educational activities, and volunteer opportunities, Responsibility Cisco helps make employees aware of the many ways to get involved. For more information about Cisco’s approach to environmental sustainability, People ● see Planet. Inclusion & collaboration Christine Liu hosts the Green Team Network booth at an employee event at Cisco’s San Jose headquarters campus. Employee Education and awareness community impact Cisco employees receive many hours of Team development education and awareness per year. One hour of The Cisco Green Team Network (GTN) is a Since Cisco GTN was established, the team has: Health & wellness New Employee Orientation (NEO) is dedicated to global employee-led team with 11 local • Eliminated paper cups from select Cisco Ethics & integrity sharing information about Cisco’s CSR program. chapters and hundreds of members. Cisco GTN buildings in India, Europe, and the U.S. We also help employees incorporate environmental envisions a more environmentally sustainable design principles into our products, packaging, • Established a community garden in business and world. It’s made up of people and solutions. San Jose, California passionate about educating their fellow To further embed environmental practices into our employees and making change. Chapters raise • Developed an urban farm at our Diegem, Society business operations, we offer employee training awareness of environmental issues, share how Belgium, site on our business management system. This to make changes at work and at home, and • Designed and installed shadow boxes above training covers our Environment Management connect employees with local resources—all the landfill, recycling, and composting Planet System (EMS) and environmental policies. We while having fun. GTN-sponsored discussions receptacles in San Jose and RTP cafeterias to APPX also provide ad hoc training to employees on and activities could include the benefits of a help employees quickly and easily sort waste topics such as correct waste sorting on campus. plant-based diet, how to plant trees, or a tour • Received Cisco’s Excellence in Environmental of a municipal recycling facility. GRI Stewardship award (December 2017) UN SDGs 55 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story In addition, Cisco hosts events for employees to learn more about sustainability programs and current opportunities to get involved, such as Open Conservation and SustainX (see sidebar), CEO Message part of our annual Earth Aware campaign. Other learning opportunities include: The Details •C  isco Green. This is a hub on our internal social media site that enables employees to learn about Cisco’s environmental sustainability activities. It provides links to programs, information, and Governance & Responsibility other tools. • Cisco GreenHouse. In 2016, we launched an interactive sustainability web platform hosted Toni Hayden discusses Cisco product sustainability People by WeSpire for employees. Cisco GreenHouse with Cisco Fellows Rakesh Chopra and Joel Georgen ● at SustainX 2019. Inclusion & connects passionate employees with likecollaboration minded peers all over the world who want to Employee find ways to lead more sustainable lives. By community impact the end of FY19, more than 2,800 employees Team development had joined the site and taken 20,000 actions SustainX Health & wellness to learn about or be more sustainable. Cisco hosted SustainX, our fourth annual thought leadership forum, in May 2019 at our San Jose headquarters. Speakers shared the Ethics & integrity • Circular economy newsletter and learning diverse work being done across Cisco and the tech industry in the series. To grow awareness and inspire areas of sustainability, the circular economy, and conservation. This employees to see how they can contribute year, 700 employees from around the world spent the day learning: to Cisco’s circular economy transformation, • How Terracycle, an innovative company, is turning hard-towe launched a newsletter and a learning series recycle items into valuable goods Society in FY19. Both are delivered quarterly and • How Cisco implements circular economy solutions highlight projects and successes driven by •T  he business value of Environmental, Social, and Governance multiple teams across the company. They also (ESG) scores Planet SustainX also featured a hands-on activity: employees sorted provide resources such as training and videos categories of waste gathered from our buildings and learned APPX for those who want to learn more. We will about hard-to-recycle waste. expand our efforts to engage employees on the circular economy in FY20. GRI UN SDGs 56 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Activities and volunteering Beyond educating about environmental issues and connecting them with others, Cisco offers a number of sustainability-related activities for CEO Message employees. These include: • Annual shutdown. Cisco requires employees The Details in North America, and encourages other employees worldwide, to take time off at the end of December. The shutdown gives us Governance & an opportunity to power down facilities and Responsibility unused equipment during a time when much of our workforce is already taking time off. Over the 10-day shutdown beginning in Cisco employees from our Bangalore, India, People campus participate in a Zero Emissions Ride. ● December 2018, Cisco avoided approximately Inclusion & $570,000 in energy costs and 3,500 metric collaboration tonnes CO2e of emissions. Employees working Employee • Earth Aware. While Earth Day is just one day, managing communications for the Open community impact in buildings in India, Hong Kong, Germany, and Cisco extends the celebration with a twoConservation program, calculating sustainable Ireland reduced their electricity consumption Team development month employee volunteerism and awareness solutions for our customers, and circular by at least 40 percent during the shutdown. Health & wellness campaign, Earth Aware. During Earth Aware, economy projects focused on removing As the locations avoiding the most emissions, we invite employees to practice sustainable plastic bags from our product packaging. Ethics & integrity these employees were rewarded with an ice behaviors like biking to work and properly cream social or catered lunch. • Bike to Work Day. As part of the Earth Aware sorting waste in cafeterias. We also host • Recycle IT Day. Employees love Recycle IT campaign, Cisco sponsors Bike to Work Day activities like on-campus farmer’s markets and Day. Many collect their used electronics activities. While it is a global opportunity, Cisco information sessions about Cisco’s species year-round and bring them to their local Cisco employees and contractors in San Jose come Society conservation efforts. Earth Aware sparks new office on Earth Day in April. Cisco responsibly out in large numbers. They visit Cisco’s ideas and renews dedication to live in more recycles the equipment using the same energizer station, grab bagels and fruit, get environmentally responsible ways. vendors we use to recycle Cisco products. free chair massages, use the repair station, Planet • Stretch assignments. Cisco groups post and visit with fellow cyclists. In partnership In FY19, Cisco collected 422,108 pounds stretch assignments for employees to get with the Silicon Valley Bike Coalition, Cisco APPX (191 metric tonnes) of electronic waste from involved in sustainability-related initiatives. helps remove thousands of cars from the over 160 sites around the world. Examples of stretch assignments include roads in the Bay Area through this event. Also GRI in the month of May, employees in Bangalore take part in the Zero Emissions Ride. See UN SDGs photo above. 57 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message Team The Details development Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People ● Inclusion & collaboration  e introduced a set of Cisco principles that guide our W behaviors and beliefs. Employee community impact  e assemble diverse interviewer panels and strive to W Team development interview a diverse slate of candidates for every position. Health & wellness  e believe in listening to employees—formally and W Ethics & integrity informally—to identify areas for improvement. E  mployees who regularly respond to surveys and use our collaboration tools are more engaged, and therefore more likely to stay at Cisco. Society T  raining programs for employees at all career stages allow them to explore new skills and choose their own Planet development paths. APPX GRI UN SDGs 58 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 401:103-1, 2 Our Story Our People Deal and Principles CEO Message Working for Cisco means committing to “Our People Deal.” We call it a “deal” because culture The Details is a two-way street, a relationship of give and take. In FY19, we built upon Our People Deal by introducing Conscious Culture. The Governance & “characteristics” component of Conscious Responsibility Culture includes our Principles, which articulate how employees can live our culture. These principles are: People ● Give your best. Show a desire to be Inclusion & collaboration at your best and connect with others Employee to share quickly with whomever needs have a backbone. Make your point, Take a bold step. Whatever your community impact it. Open your mind to ideas from then commit to what’s been agreed position, show leadership and courage Team development everywhere and anywhere. And use and deliver it with agility and grace. when it comes to innovating and those ideas to build on the possibilities disrupting. If it doesn’t feel safe, be Health & wellness Take difference to heart. We become to pour a little drop of love into our secure in the knowledge that shooting Ethics & integrity bigger as individuals and more powerful customers’ worlds. for the stars will always be a part of as a collective when we respect and Take accountability. Whatever value what makes us so special: our who we are. Together we can comes your way, understand it and be unique, personal differences. Inclusion figure out how to get there, so let’s personally accountable for its success. will always beat exclusion. dream big. Society Assume the answer is “yes” and that you Give something of yourself. A simple don’t need to wait in line for permission. smile or “hi” every day is worth its Loving the simple and Check the data, but don’t let that slow weight in gold, so don’t hide it away. Planet down taking responsibility. And deliver. clear principles! They Show care and consideration to your Give your ego the day off. It’s the colleagues, our customers, our beautifully capture APPX best solution our customers need, not communities, our partners, and the who we are and how GRI the best-protected Cisco turf, so world we all share. Be worthy of trust. we show up.” support that solution, whatever the Be an inspiration. Be delightful to Cisco employee after our background of the person or team who everyone—even if you don’t like them. principles were unveiled in 2018 UN SDGs came up with it. Have the debate and 59 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-16; 401: 103-1, 26 Our Story In FY20, we launched the Living Cisco program, which was created by the first cohort of ambassadors. They were tasked with finding a CEO Message way to embed Cisco’s Principles across each organization so that our people embrace, The Details internalize, and live them every day. The team developed a relay game through which employees can show appreciation for colleagues Governance & who exhibit each of our Principles. Virtual tokens Responsibility of appreciation are passed from person to person, and as tokens pass, money is raised for charity. Employees can also discover ways to make our People culture stronger by taking quizzes or reading ● Inclusion & stories. In the first two months of the program collaboration launch, we’ve passed almost 3,000 tokens, Employee raising $3,000 for charities. community impact Team development Health & wellness Our People Deal Movement and how employees experience it. These Ethics & integrity ambassadors are the cultural role models who Defining our culture isn’t enough. We also represent the rest of us. In 2019, we selected need to act on it. a new cohort of ambassadors. This thought was behind the launch of Our People Sponsored by Francine Katsoudas, Executive Deal movement, a community of employees who Society Vice President and Chief People Officer, and think about and act on culture. It began with a few David Goeckeler, Executive Vice President and employees who came together in 2016 and General Manager, Networking and Security started to spot other employees with a similar Planet Business, ambassadors make recommendations mindset. Today, there are over 200 employees on how to continue to improve our culture, based who meet every six weeks to learn from each APPX on what people on the front lines actually think and other and share ways to drive our cause. feel. For example, the new Conscious Culture Out of this group, 15 ambassadors were framework and Leader Day program evolved GRI chosen in 2018 to help close the gap between from ambassadors’ input. senior leaders’ perception of Cisco’s culture UN SDGs 60 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback A voice for all employees Our Story In 2018, Cisco chose 15 employees to be ambassadors for Our People Deal Movement and spread excitement about our culture worldwide (read more on p. 59). We sat down with Nish CEO Message Parkar, an ambassador from London, U.K., to learn about her experiences as a culture champion. The Details Nish Parkar Communications Manager Governance & Responsibility Q: How did you become a People Deal Ambassador? Q: What sorts of projects have you taken on? People A: Our leadership team selected ambassadors from A: Our Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer, ● throughout the company. A good ambassador is Francine Katsoudas, approached the ambassadors with Inclusion & collaboration someone who has a passion for sharing Cisco’s culture. a challenge: find a way to bring Cisco’s Principles to It’s also someone with guts. One of our responsibilities life. One of my fellow ambassadors had an idea to turn Employee is to provide constructive feedback—with no filter—to them into a game. From there, we created the Living Cisco community impact Cisco’s Executive Leadership Team. program, where ambassadors pass tokens of appreciation Team development to employees living Our Principles. We also capture stories Health & wellness Q: What other responsibilities do ambassadors have? of people doing amazing things and donate to selected charities every time a token is passed. It’s been amazing to Ethics & integrity A: Our purpose is to be the voice of all Cisco hear all of the stories that have been shared from around employees. Just as important as being up on stage in the world. front of our executives is being a role model through small, everyday activities. On a regular basis, we give Q: What’s your favorite thing about being a People feedback and drive change through internal events, Deal Ambassador? Society long-term projects, and role-modeling on the change we want to see at Cisco and in our communities. A: Getting to know my fellow ambassadors. This experience has bonded 15 strangers—based all around the world and from all parts of the business—into one Planet family. Each ambassador has taught me so much, and the experience has opened my eyes to the wider APPX world. I know we’re going to do amazing things. GRI UN SDGs 61 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Talent recruitment and retention We set ourselves apart by putting our technology position at the Vice President level and above, we to work. We use Cisco collaboration technologies interview at least one qualified woman. Another component of a Conscious Culture is like Webex Teams and Telepresence to We also assemble diverse interviewer panels, the experiences we have with our manager, communicate with candidates throughout the as research shows they are more effective team, and the work we do every day. Along with CEO Message interview process. Digital engagement through for hiring candidates across the full spectrum Our Principles, these daily experiences influence our cisco.com/careers site, @WeAreCisco social of diversity. The Talent Acquisition Diversity why people choose to join or stay. media profiles, the Life at Cisco blog, and video Communication Guide helps direct our efforts. The Details Building winning teams begins with recruiting content shows prospects we are a business that the best talent. We face steep competition for We also reach new hires in informal ways, such lives and breathes innovation. Technology also the same technology pool as other major tech as through diverse Cisco alumni and special helps us behind the scenes. Tools such as data companies. Today, we’re seeking people with events. Key recruiting events include the Grace Governance & analytics and automation are helping us map Responsibility Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, skills in new areas like artificial intelligence, global talent flows and customize our strategies. machine learning, and cloud engineering. What the Society for Hispanic Professional Engineers, Diversity is an important part of our approach. and the National Society for Black Professionals. we offer them: the chance to work on fast-paced People In every candidate search, we interview a diverse projects shaping the future of business, to work ● selection of candidates and write job postings Inclusion & flexibly, and to be part of a team-oriented culture. collaboration that neutralize bias. For example, for every open #WeAreCisco Employee What’s the best way to learn what it’s like to work community impact at a new company? If you’re like many people, Team development you might start by talking to a current employee. Health & wellness With 75,762 team members worldwide, and an Ethics & integrity additional extended workforce of 62,000, Cisco employees aren’t hard to find. But for people who do not know one of us personally and want to know what working here is like, social media is the next best thing. Society Prospective employees can get the inside scoop they seek by following the @WeAreCisco social media accounts or browsing the #WeAreCisco Planet hashtag on Instagram, Twitter, or LinkedIn. APPX Social media brings us together as a global employee tribe and allows us to connect, exchange ideas, and talk about why we love GRI where we work. UN SDGs 62 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 401:103-1, 2 Our Story Social media also helps our talent brand team engage and retain current employees. Each year, this team runs a contest using two hashtags: #WeAreCisco and #LoveWhereYouWork. CEO Message Employees create posts using these hashtags on their own social accounts for a chance to win prizes, like coffee with a Cisco executive. The Details Governance & Listening to employees Responsibility Making the voice of our people heard is vital to fostering a Conscious Culture. We believe in People ● listening harder and smarter to understand what’s Inclusion & going on at the company level and what’s 1.65M collaboration happening within individual teams. Here are a few Employee community impact of the ways we listen. They also give managers a It has two key features: weekly Check-Ins sense of where team members Team development submitted in FY19 •T he StandOut need coaching and how to help Health & wellness Team Space Assessment. This tool them develop their strengths. Ethics & integrity An essential part of Conscious Culture is helps team members With Team Space now in empowering people to speak openly about understand and reveal their 73% use for three years, more their roles, likes, and dislikes, and to raise strengths to others—and play employees are joining in. questions about Cisco’s outlook and future. to those strengths every day. of employees submit Between Q4 FY18 and When our employees feel comfortable raising Employees and managers can glean Society Check-Ins at least Q4 FY19, the percentage issues, sharing new ideas, and exploring ways insights into their teammates’ abilities occasionally of employees who to work harder, Cisco can harness their shared and understand how best to work submitted a Check-In insights into actionable change. together. By the end of FY19, 93 percent Planet every week increased from of Cisco employees had completed a Many of these insights are captured on Team 20 percent to 34 percent. StandOut Assessment. APPX Space, a collaboration and development Use of Team Space also helps us track platform that blends technology and human •W eekly Check-Ins. These allow employees engagement. Employees who chat weekly with touch. On Team Space, employees highlight to share their priorities for the coming week GRI their leaders about near-term work, challenges, their unique qualities and skills, track weekly ups and talk with their managers about what they and priorities, have the highest engagement and downs, and let teammates and their leaders loved—and loathed—about the previous week. UN levels and biggest increase, up to 3 percent, in SDGs know how to best work with and manage them. Weekly Check-Ins enable leaders to guide their teams to work on what’s most important. 63 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 401:103-3 their engagement over time. Meanwhile, Engagement Pulse encourages employees to Our Story employees who do not check in at all have speak openly—and leaders to listen. the lowest engagement levels, and their The surveys produce an assessment of team engagement drops by as much as 13 percent “health” at Cisco. Healthy teams at Cisco have CEO Message over time. Engagement, in turn, predicts higher most of their members highly invested in all three performance and lower attrition rates. Employees components of engagement: company, team, I am enthusiastic about the who are in the bottom 10 percent in terms of mission of my company. The Details and individual. Unhealthy teams demonstrate a SUBMIT engagement are 2.7 times more likely to leave deficiency in one or more of the three. 39% Cisco than employees in the top 10 percent. Leaders then share the results of Engagement We continue to enhance the Team Space platform Governance & Pulse surveys with their teams. By openly Responsibility and experience. In 2019, we rolled out a Longof Cisco leaders launched discussing survey results, leaders can better Engagement Pulse surveys Term Priorities feature, where team members can understand what drives feelings of engagement. in Q4 FY19 inform leaders of priorities that span many weeks. Based on this input, they can preserve what’s 15% People We also extended Team Space access to working and find areas for improvement. After ● temporary contingent workers. Plus, we’re rolling Inclusion & each Engagement Pulse, teams identify actions collaboration out a new Team Space mobile app that will increase over prior year they can take in the coming quarter, with the Employee enhance and simplify the user experience for community impact goal of seeing improvement in the next survey. on-the-go employees. In FY20, we plan to launch Team development Team Space Extended, which will allow us to Our findings related to Check-Ins also apply to quickly prototype and experiment with new data Engagement Pulse: employees who respond to Health & wellness interfaces, visualizations, and features—so we can these surveys more frequently tend to be more Ethics & integrity make the platform even more useful and usable. engaged. Greater participation in these surveys allows for greater insights. When Engagement Pulse launch rates remain high over multiple Engagement Pulse quarters, we can perform deeper research that Another way for people to share their experiences allows organization leaders to understand how Society of working with their leaders is Engagement engaged their employees are and how to Pulse, an eight-question, on-demand survey support increased engagement. We plan to launched by team leaders within Team Space. share additional data about organizations that Planet Covering topics such as “I am enthusiastic about are the most frequent users of Engagement APPX the mission of my company” and “In my team I Pulse in FY20. am surrounded by people who share my values,” GRI UN SDGs 64 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Real Deal survey Cisco Beat employees to get important company information at the same time as all others. Another way we listen is through the Real Deal We are always looking for new and clever ways to survey. Formerly a standardized 16-question empower Cisco employees to share their thoughts In 2018, we launched our Bridge Award contest survey, the Real Deal survey was updated in and opinions. Our monthly, all-hands meeting, during a Cisco Beat. Ten Cisco employees who CEO Message FY19 with unique questions each quarter. Each Cisco Beat, continues to be a vital communication are giving back to the world in a huge way were survey focuses on a new research topic that channel through its TV talk-show format. At the selected as award winners and were granted a The Details Cisco is interested in learning more about. Beat, every employee hears company news paid trip to the Global Citizen Festival in South first-hand and has an opportunity to voice Africa. Learn more about this year’s winners in Cisco invites 25 percent of employees to questions and concerns directly to leadership. Our Story. participate in the survey each quarter, giving every Governance & employee the chance to weigh in once a year. We We’ve listened to and acted on feedback from Another Cisco Beat announcement was our Responsibility partnership with Global Citizen to help fight typically require a minimum of 1,500 responses to many employees who are deaf or hard of hearing. form a representative sample, but often receive They wanted to watch Cisco Beat live instead extreme poverty. Employees were enthusiastic far more. We share the results of the Real Deal of waiting for the closed-captioned, video-onabout this new commitment and eager to get People survey with all employees every quarter through demand recording. In 2019, we launched a involved. We are working with the Global Citizen ● Inclusion & an online infographic. And we present data to our separate broadcast stream that includes a live team to create Cisco’s own Global Citizen site, collaboration Executive Leadership Team and functional leaders ASL interpreter. This was an important step which will allow employees to take action globally Employee of organizations with 1,000 or more employees. toward inclusion, allowing hearing-impaired on topics like education and environmental issues. community impact Table 1 summarizes FY19 Real Deal survey Team development research topics and their key findings. The overall Health & wellness takeaway: healthy communication leads to Ethics & integrity engagement. And engagement decreases Table 1. Real Deal survey topics and results turnover and increases success. Quarter Topic Responses Findings Q1 Leader capability 5,008 Live conversations are 4.6x more powerful than online interaction in creating connections between leaders and team members. Society Q2 Conscious Culture 3,841 >80% of employees report positive experiences on their teams. Q3 Attrition 4,201 Employees who are more highly engaged are less likely to see themselves leaving Cisco. Planet Q4 Performance 2,885 Employees who have frequent conversations with their team leader feel better about our approach to lifting performance. APPX GRI UN SDGs 65 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story We rolled out Degreed to all Cisco employees in late 2018, and since then, nearly half of our employees have become active users. Popular learning pathways include: CEO Message • Leadership@Cisco • The Art of Influencing The Details • Interrupting Unconscious Bias to Build Inclusion • Communicating for Impact Governance & Given their focus on interacting with others, these Responsibility trainings support the creation of a Conscious Culture. Compared to other companies who use Degreed, Cisco’s users are highly engaged. They People are also consuming a variety of types of content. ● Inclusion & This suggests they are seeking out the forms of collaboration learning that best suit them. Employee community impact Helping our people Degreed Rather than telling employees what to do based Team development learn and lead on their jobs, we encourage them to be curious Health & wellness and choose their own path. We call this “learning Ethics & integrity New technologies and business models are at the edge.” Degreed, a learning experience Degreed platform, makes this possible by uniting internal 34,696 disrupting our organization and industry, learnings with external materials like TED Talks shortening the lifespan of skill sets. As a result, and LinkedIn learning courses. The program uses it is essential for our employees to be lifelong participating employees machine learning to provide personalized content 471,169 Society learners. We help them do so through a large recommendations, allowing users to select from suite of professional courses that increase skills Cisco-endorsed curricula or create their own and teach the inner workings of Cisco and our completed items development plans. It is a place where Cisco Planet industry. Our goal: build a culture of constant employees can discover, consume, organize, learning and thoughtfulness around career paths share, and track all relevant learnings, no matter APPX and ensure our people bring the most engaged, where they take place. Degreed allows us to highest performing, and valuable versions of develop the core skills needed in our business GRI themselves to work every day. today and tomorrow based on how we know job families, functions, and roles are evolving. It also UN SDGs provides insight into employees’ evolving skills and interests. 66 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 404:103-1,2,3; 404-2 Our Story Talent Marketplace Coaching The Power of Teams An ongoing goal is to make sure we have the Cisco’s Career Advisory services allow We’ve put the power of communication and right people, with the right skills, on the right employees to meet one-on-one with trained growth into the hands of our teams. The Power teams. It’s easier to achieve this goal when Career Advisors to receive personalized career of Teams is a guided, discussion-based, team CEO Message employees know they have room to explore development support. Working together, learning experience for teams who are ready career paths. Some employees may want to employees and Career Advisors assess an to take their performance to the next level. The Details simply test the waters in another department, or individual’s strengths, skills, experience, and Consisting of self-led or facilitator-led options, they may want to work with a different team on goals. They then create an Action Plan to help this learning experience challenges teams to an interesting or innovative project. The Talent the employee meet their goals, which may build better engagement. By understanding Marketplace enables employees to test-drive a include specific development opportunities. and practicing how the best teams at Cisco Governance & Responsibility specific role through a “stretch assignment.” succeed, the program helps identify where These assignments allow people to work with each team can grow. other teams, have fresh experiences, and develop People new skills, without having to completely change ● Inclusion & jobs. Using the Talent Marketplace, employees can collaboration apply for assignments with other teams, as well as Employee community impact trying job or time swaps. People might work on a one-time project or take on a stretch assignment Team development lasting for five months. Or they might offer their Health & wellness special knowledge or talents to another team for Ethics & integrity eight hours a week for a year. Anyone at Cisco can post an assignment or apply to an open assignment on Talent Marketplace. Moving forward, we will integrate the consistent skill baseline we use to populate employee Degreed Society profiles with Talent Marketplace. Specific skills noted on each assignment will help employees find opportunities that match the skills they are Planet seeking to develop. APPX GRI UN 383 stretch assignments created in SDGs Talent Marketplace during FY19 GRI 401-2; 404:103-1,2,3; 67 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 404-2 Programs for leaders Rewarding great work employee can say “thank you” to an individual or Our Story team with a monetary award. In FY19, our people Leaders are crucial not only to their teams’ Cisco people share in our mutual success. gave 209,685 Connected Recognition awards, growth but to Cisco’s growth as a whole. We provide compensation, benefits, and longwith 80 percent of employees receiving an Knowing this, we have set up programs to help term savings packages that are competitive, award. Employees can give their peers awards CEO Message leaders actively engage and continue to enhance differentiated (as appropriate), and personalized. of up to $50 without approval and can give their skills to become the best leaders they can be. In FY19, our total compensation included rewards with higher value—up to $2,000—with a salaries, benefits, bonuses, commissions, The Details Programs and experiences target all levels of manager’s approval. In addition, employees stock awards, and retirement benefits. leadership, from new to more seasoned. They gave 89,498 “bravos,” or nonmonetary include simulations, virtual sessions, one-on-ones, A culture of recognition is central to the congratulations in FY19. and more. employee experience and to Cisco’s success. Governance & Our Connected Recognition program means any Responsibility People Table 2. Cisco leadership programs ● Inclusion & collaboration Employee community impact Experienced Leader Senior Leader Program New Leader Program Team Leader Experience Aspiring Leader Journey Leader Day What is it? Program (SLP) Team development Health & wellness Cisco leaders with two or Individuals who have been Ethics & integrity Newly promoted team Who is it more years of experience leading for five or more years, Experienced, new, and Current Cisco leaders and new-to-Cisco Potential team leaders for? in people leader roles or senior technical leaders, and aspiring leaders leaders leaders technical leaders enterprise leaders How long Eight weeks, held in One day, consisting of three Self-paced content designed Four days, in person Two days, in person One day does it last? two stages rounds of increasing difficulty to last eight weeks Society Understanding the Building superior talent, Facilitating transitions into Developing strategic challenges Cisco leaders Planet What is fostering innovation, and Becoming innovators, leadership roles, clarifying decision-making skills face, identifying what leaders Discussing priorities catalysts for change, and strategies for covered? developing successful what Cisco expects of around real-life leadership pay attention to, and learning and stewards of talent the year ahead business models leaders challenges how effective leaders handle APPX difficult situations GRI UN SDGs GRI 401-2; 404:103-1,2,3; 68 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 404-2 Our Story CEO Message The Details Health & wellness Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People ● Inclusion & collaboration  ur health and wellness benefits honor all types of O families and life circumstances. This approach aligns Employee community impact with our Conscious Culture. Team development  e’re taking bold steps to make Cisco a safe place to W Health & wellness talk about mental health with new online resources and Ethics & integrity open conversations during events like Cisco Beat. U  .S. employees can access free elective testing to identify changes in specific genes associated with breast and ovarian cancers. We believe we’re the first Society to offer this preventive service within U.S. medical plans. D  igital technology is helping make wellness accessible to employees and their families anytime, anywhere. Planet S  upport for parents and caregivers, combined with APPX flexible work arrangements, shows respect for the many roles our employees play. GRI UN SDGs 69 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 401-2; 403:103-1,2,3 Our Story Benefits that benefit Conscious Culture brings us together and inspires us to care deeply for one another. package includes medical, dental, and vision plans; disability coverage; and life insurance to everyone Our approach is not “one size fits all,” but rather help employees stay healthy and secure their families’ well-being. “one size fits one.” We want to support our CEO Message employees and their loved ones during life’s Caring for one’s health can also mean having Our people come from different backgrounds someone to talk to who can offer advice and triumphs and challenges, and we design our global and perspectives. At Cisco, we welcome and support. Our global Expert Medical Opinion The Details benefits to do just that. When we enable people honor the things that make us unique. That’s program offers peace of mind in the face of a to feel and be their best, they bring their best why we offer a range of health and wellness major medical diagnosis or treatment decision, selves to work. In turn, this empowers our teams solutions that address diverse needs and including those related to mental health. A simple and helps us have a positive impact on the world. Governance & individual stories. Whether those stories include phone call connects employees and eligible family Responsibility caring for loved ones or plans to start a family. members, including parents and in-laws, to a Saving for a dream house or planning for Plans for every family leading physician in the specialty they need for retirement. Managing depression or struggling an expert second opinion at no cost to them. People Cisco’s global benefits are designed to support with stress or anxiety. We all experience employees and their loved ones through all ● Inclusion & Similarly, our global Employee Assistance Program different things at different times, but our collaboration stages of life. Our comprehensive benefits helps employees and families better manage family Employee issues, relationship struggles, financial issues, community impact anxiety, stress, and more. Visits are free and Team development confidential. As of October 2019, we increased Health & wellness the number of covered visits in the U.S. from Ethics & integrity eight to 10 sessions per concern, in alignment with what is available globally. Employees pay the same coinsurance for inor out-of-network mental health treatment, should they need additional care, through our largest medical plans. In addition to Society Ending stigmas around mental health Planet Mental health is health. But for too long, too many APPX people have been afraid to ask for support. Learn how Cisco is changing the conversation around GRI mental health in Our Story. UN SDGs 70 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 401-2, 403-6 Our Story financial support offered by the Employee affirming or transition-related care. In FY19, we it easy to prioritize health and wellness with both Assistance Program, U.S. employees have globally expanded coverage to include additional in-person and digital solutions. access to certified Money Coaches. procedures as recommended by the World Our LifeConnections Health Centers on campus For the first time in FY19, we began offering Professional Association for Transgender Health in San Jose, California; Research Triangle Park, CEO Message testing in the U.S. to identify changes in specific (WPATH) and removed the lifetime maximum North Carolina; and Bangalore, India, offer genes associated with an increased risk of breast for this coverage. We also offer training for high-quality, integrated healthcare including: and/or ovarian cancer (BRCA1 and BRCA2). managers and colleagues of employees The Details • Primary and urgent care Testing is already covered when medically undergoing transition, if the employee wishes, so that teammates can better provide support. • Nutrition and lifestyle coaching necessary, but this allows people to request tests simply for their peace of mind. Why? We hope the • Physical therapy Governance & Responsibility more people know about their health, the better Ways to get and stay well • Behavioral health counseling decisions they’ll make. But those decisions are Total wellness is much broader than having a • Lab and X-ray services best made with the input of a healthcare provider. doctor to call when something is wrong. Even • Pediatrics People Another example of our one-size-fits-one ● more important is forming healthy habits to Inclusion & approach is our enhancement of gender• Travel medicine collaboration prevent problems in the first place. Cisco makes • Immunizations Employee community impact In FY19, we opened two Occupational Health Team development Service offices in Mexico City. Services include Health & wellness preventive health screenings, care for minor injury and illness, and travel medicine Ethics & integrity consultations. Our LifeConnections Fitness Centers at seven locations worldwide help employees fit a workout into their work day. Employees and spouses/domestic partners can Society attend group classes and work with a personal trainer. They can personalize their workouts by linking to favorite training programs, apps, and Planet websites—all enabled by Cisco’s network. We regularly organize Health + Savings events APPX at our largest U.S. campuses where employees can learn more about how to secure their physical, GRI mental, and financial health. During FY19, we hosted 13 of these events. UN SDGs GRI 401-3; 403:103-1,2,3; 71 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 403-6 Our Story Vida’s Diabetes Prevention Program. Coaches create tailored plans for those at risk for developing diabetes. Fitbit tracking devices help participants stay on track. And to help those with CEO Message diabetes live healthier, we introduced Livongo in the U.S. Livongo combines advanced technology, unlimited strips and lancets, and expert coaching The Details to help members manage their condition. We offer Cisco Mind Set to U.S. employees. This mindfulness program teaches simple Governance & Responsibility cognitive strategies to help people optimize their performance at work. The innovative fivesession course is designed to enhance People concentration, resiliency, and creative thinking. ● Inclusion & To date, more than 2,000 employees have collaboration participated in the program. Many tell us they’ve Employee seen improvements in their ability to focus and community impact manage stress. Team development Health & wellness Around the globe, we’re expanding our reach to encourages participants to create an individual Supporting those who care for others Ethics & integrity encourage employees to focus on their health action plan specific to their challenges and goals. and well-being. We teamed up with well-being There are many ways to become a family. We Cisco Pavelka has provided support and expert Jessie Pavelka on a program that aim to offer support that includes and celebrates inspiration to several internal groups, including encompasses the four elements of health: food, families of all backgrounds. For example: the Cisco Disability Awareness Network, Cancer exercise, mindfulness, and connection to others. Awareness Network, Early Career Network, Safe • Flexible child bonding leave. The time an Society In FY19, we expanded the Pavelka initiative employee receives to care for a newly born To Talk community, Connected Women, and outside of Europe, Middle East, Africa, and LGBTQ+ group. or adopted child is now based on the role Russia (EMEAR) region with well-being tours they will play as caregiver, rather than gender. Employees can also use technology to stay Planet in Singapore, India, Mexico, and Canada. More Moms and dads who are primary caregivers in healthy on their own time. The Vida Health app than 5,000 employees joined the online many countries receive 13 weeks of paid leave APPX connects users to a personal health coach they community in FY19, and 6,000 employees (in addition to disability leave for birth moms). can check in with at any time. Since its launch in attended monthly webinars. The Pavelka Supporting caregivers receive four weeks off. March 2018, more than 2,800 U.S. employees GRI philosophy focuses on small, sustainable, healthy In addition, employees can take three days off and family members have engaged with a changes that can have a big impact, and to welcome and celebrate a new grandchild. UN personal coach. New this year, users can access SDGs GRI 401-3; 403:103-1,2,3; 72 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI XXX-X, XXX-X, XXX-X 403-6 Our Story • Fertility services. In FY19, we introduced a new •A  dult care. In the U.S., CareLinx helps Flexibility at work and away benefit for family planning—a reimbursement employees locate in-home caregivers for adult We do our best at work when we take the up to $50,000 for the harvesting and storing family members. When regular arrangements occasional time away. Cisco provides annual paid of eggs, sperm, or embryos for reasons not fall through, we also offer backup care for time off so employees can travel, take care of life CEO Message related to medical necessity for anyone enrolled children and adults. matters, volunteer, recover from illness, or simply in a Cisco medical plan. This includes services •M  ore support for parents. Parents of relax and recharge. Employees also receive five The Details that facilitate pregnancy such as in vitro children with autism, Down Syndrome, ADHD, days of paid time off through the Time2Give fertilization. All Cisco medical plans offer and other developmental disabilities may benefit, which they can use to volunteer with an this coverage for medical necessity as well. require extra help. The Rethink online global organization they care about. As an added treat, • Adoption and surrogacy assistance. In platform is available to all employees around the every employee gets their birthday off. Governance & Responsibility FY19, we doubled the amounts available for globe and provides evidence-based education adoption and surrogacy reimbursement in the and up to seven hours per year of coaching U.S. from $10,000 to $20,000. This covers with a specialist over phone or video. People many legal and administrative costs, plus certain surrogate medical costs. ● Inclusion & collaboration • Resources for new parents. We help Employee community impact families start off on the right foot with free resources like healthy pregnancy programs, Team development breastfeeding support and spaces for new Health & wellness mothers, and webinars and workshops on Ethics & integrity parenting topics. Cisco continues to help employees put their families first as their children grow, and as other family members age. Ongoing offerings include: Society • Childcare. Employees in San Jose, Bangalore, and the U.K. don’t have to look far for quality childcare. State-of-the-art learning and care Planet centers run by globally recognized partners are located right on campus. U.S. employees are APPX also eligible for discounts and priority access at partner childcare centers nationwide. GRI UN SDGs 73 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 401-3, 403-6 Our Story We also have our employees’ backs when the Safety on the job Incident Management Drills keep all employees unexpected happens. The last thing we want prepared. If a disaster occurs, we inform A basic condition for wellness is a safe people to worry about is work when a death, employees and others through our intranet. workplace. Our occupational health and safety illness, or a natural disaster occurs. We offer Individuals in some countries can also sign up for programs are based on global and industrywide CEO Message emergency time off (ETO) that allows employees our Emergency Notification System, where they standards that help manage the most common to deal with sudden circumstances that require can indicate whether they are safe or need help. risks employees face. Cisco holds OHSAS their immediate attention, without having to dip into A tool introduced one year ago has simplified The Details 18001 certification in Australia for compliance their regular vacation or paid time off. how we collect safety data. The tool improves with these standards. And we create awareness Even when not taking time off, flexibility matters. of our safety programs through ongoing training incident reporting, risk assessment, compliance We give people the choice over how, where, and and promotions. For country-specific health and auditing, and other activities. As a result, we Governance & Responsibility when they work. Cisco’s own technologies safety policy information, please contact health_ saw an increase of 0.07 injuries per 100 fullmake this possible. Our products, including safety@external.cisco.com. time employees. We view this as a sign that high-speed wireless access, TelePresence® employees are using the tool, and not necessarily An important component of safety is emergency People video devices, and social software platforms, a sign of decreased safety. Many reports made preparedness. 2,164 employees are part of support flexible work. For employees recovering using the tool describe very minor or nonmedical ● Inclusion & 128 Emergency Response Teams worldwide. collaboration from an illness or injury but ready to get back to issues. As our internal education and awareness Teams are trained to give first aid, help evacuate Employee work, we offer the Connected Touch program. campaign for incident reporting ramps up in FY20, community impact buildings, and provide other support. Annual This program provides workers with a DX80 we expect reports to continue to increase. Team development collaboration unit, allowing them to work Health & wellness remotely using desktop video. Ethics & integrity Table 3. Health and safety performance FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Total incident rate, per 100 full-time 0.28 0.31 0.28 0.24 0.24 Society equivalent (FTE) employees Lost work days, per 100 FTE 2.85 1.96 1.34 0.95 2.39 employees All injuries, globally 0.41 0.23 0.27 0.23 0.30 Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 74 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 403:103-1,2,3; 403-9 Our Story CEO Message The Details Ethics & integrity Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People ● Inclusion & collaboration We aim to create a culture where employees can Employee community impact speak up with concerns, without fear of retaliation. Team development In line with our Conscious Culture, we share employee Health & wellness relations-related ethics concerns with employees Ethics & integrity every six months. Each year, employees certify compliance with our Code of Business Conduct. Employees also complete training on topics like Society antibribery, anticorruption, and conflicts of interest. We recently began using predictive analytics Planet technology to identify compliance risks. APPX GRI UN SDGs 75 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 205:103-1, 2 Our Story Conscious of ourselves and others CEO Message Our success is built on a Conscious Culture, where trustworthiness and ethical conduct are The Details a given. Among employees. Suppliers. Business partners. It’s a culture where everyone acts ethically. And where people know they can Governance & speak up when they see something amiss. Responsibility Our values and expectations are laid out in our Code of Business Conduct. The Code is People available in 16 languages and helps employees ● Inclusion & make decisions. It includes: collaboration • An ethics decision tree Employee community impact • Videos Team development • Frequently asked questions Other trainings throughout the year focus work through industry coalitions to give supplier Health & wellness • Links to additional policies and resources on priorities specific to a region or function. employees a way to raise concerns. Learn more Ethics & integrity Every employee must certify compliance with We share training materials in multiple formats about how we manage ethics and standards the code each year. The Conscious Culture to promote accessibility. And we reinforce in our supply chain here. framework, introduced in FY19, informs all campaigns with other resources such as Increasingly, technology helps us spot ethics of our interactions with one another. In FY20, discussion forums, videos, websites, and violations. For example, we use predictive we began updating the Code with Conscious feature stories on our intranet. Society data analytics to pinpoint hidden patterns, Culture content. We expect our suppliers and their employees detect fraudulent behavior, identify policy Besides the Code of Conduct, employees to do the same. The Supplier Code of Conduct noncompliance, and monitor compliance Planet complete other compliance and ethics trainings requires our suppliers to allow workers to file, operations. Once we flag a risk, we route on topics like: track, and resolve formal complaints. We also it to the appropriate team for investigation APPX • Anticorruption and remediation. • Antibribery GRI • Conflicts of interest UN SDGs GRI 102-16; 205:103-1,2; 76 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 205-2 Our Story Listening to concerns • By calling our global EthicsLine (available 24 hours a day in over 150 languages) Conscious Culture compels us to strive for radical transparency. That’s why we started sharing • By mail (addressed to Cisco Audit employee relations-related allegations, such as Conscious Culture gives everyone at Cisco a voice. Committee: 105 Serra Way, PMB#112, those related to bullying and other negative CEO Message This includes empowering them to speak up with Milpitas, CA, 95035) behavior, with our employees every six months. ethics concerns. We aim to be a place where We also share how allegations have been resolved. • Contact Cisco’s General Counsel or the employees and others can report concerns about Once we began sharing this information, the The Details Audit Committee of the Board of Directors suspected unethical behavior safely, promptly, and number of employee relations reports increased. confidentially, subject to applicable law. We take all inquiries seriously. We handle We view this as a sign of greater trust that them promptly and investigate to the extent concerns will be taken seriously. We provide several ways for employees to share Governance & necessary, including taking disciplinary action. Responsibility their concerns or ask questions: Our Ethics Office reports all cases to: Employees should never fear speaking up. • Speak directly to their manager, their Human Retaliation against those who raise concerns • The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors Resources representative, or a member of is not allowed at Cisco. • The Executive Compliance Committee People the Legal team ● In FY19, the Ethics Office received 1,338 • Independent auditors Inclusion & • Contact the Ethics Office: inquiries (see Figure 8). We believe this level collaboration • The U.S. Securities and Exchange • By email at ethics@cisco.com of engagement demonstrates that our ethics Employee Commission (for violations that could community impact training programs and policies are working. • Through our web form affect our business or finances) Team development Cisco employees know how to raise concerns, and they feel comfortable doing so. Health & wellness Ethics & integrity Figure 8. Ethics FigureEthics 9.officeoffice inquiries inquiries Ethics allegations Ethics allegations Figure 10. workforce workforce overall overall overall o Inquiries made to Ethics Office Ethics Office inquiries Ethics allegations globalglobal US U Society 2017 951 2018 1,240 Planet 2019 1,338 APPX Conflict of interest disclosures 47% Employee relations 52% overall Allegations of overall workforce workforce 31%technical misconduct workforce workforce technical Policy issues technical technical 25% workforce workforcenontechnical nontechnical workfow GRI QuestionsUS by USethnicity by ethnicity 22%global global Conflicts of interest US by US by ethnicity ethnicity 9% global global Brand protection 7% UN Gift policy violations 4% SDGs Other concerns 3% 0 300 600 900 1200 1500 77 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 205:103-3 Society Scaling inclusive social and economic impact in countries around the world We are committed to: Building digital skills & entrepreneurship 80 Strategic social investments 92 Technology & human rights 102 Data privacy & security 108 Responsible sourcing & manufacturing 113 78 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Figure 1. Our Story 2019 society dashboard Goal: Positively impact 1 billion people CEO Message through our social impact grants and signature programs by 2025 87% The Details of employees have Our progress: The life-changing work of new and established completed Keep Cisco partners is helping us make rapid progress. Safe data security training 469M Governance & 10.9M $408.8M Responsibility people impacted* People students have participated in in cash and in-kind *This total does not include all of our CSR investments. For example, our cash Networking Academy courses contributions by Cisco and and in-kind support for most natural disasters, product grant investments, some cash grant investments, and volunteer engagement are not included. since 1997 the Cisco Foundation A readiness review is underway for external limited assurance of this Society ● cumulative to-date number. 94,000 U.S. military personnel Building digital skills have participated since 1998 & entrepreneurship Strategic social Goal: 1.9M investments Technology & Reach 2 million Cisco Networking students who have completed CCNA Routing human rights Academy students per year by 2020 and Switching courses have found a new job Data privacy & security Our progress: since 2005 Responsible sourcing With the help of our education partners, we & manufacturing reached our goal one year early. 300+ 224,000 (students enrolled per year, millions) Planet 2017 1.33 APPX 2018 1.87 teams competed in supply chain workers the Cisco Global covered by Responsible 2019 2.15 GRI Problem Solver Business Alliance audits Challenge 2019 goal achieved UN SDGs 79 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message Building The Details digital skills & entrepreneurship Governance & Responsibility Key takeways People Technology is in our company’s DNA. We prepare people for a digital future with our signature program, Society ● Cisco Networking Academy. Building digital skills & entrepreneurship T  o encourage instructors to support students Strategic social of all abilities, we created Networking Academy investments accessibility online resources. Technology & human rights  e evolved our course offerings to address W Data privacy & security emerging topics and stay more relevant than ever. Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Cisco’s Veterans Program helps service members and their spouses find jobs in the IT industry. The Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge recognizes Planet students whose ideas use technology to solve social and environmental problems. APPX GRI UN SDGs 80 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-1, 2, 3; 413-1 Our Story A bridge to career inclusive access for anyone, anywhere to participate in the evolving digital landscape. The benefits employers by increasing the number of job-ready and qualified candidates. possibilities for program is available to those as young as 13 years Cisco Networking Academy isn’t your average old, those pursuing higher education and college, CEO Message people everywhere and those seeking a new career path. It’s delivered digital training program, but a true skills-tojobs program. Its best-in-class curriculum through public and private partnerships—so prepares students and professionals for the The Details learners and educators keep up and keep most in-demand IT jobs in areas such as A top priority for Cisco is to empower people moving forward. networking, cybersecurity, and IoT. everywhere through opportunity. More specifically, to transform the lives of learners, educators, Throughout the program, students from various • Comprehensive. An end-to-end learning and communities through education and career socioeconomic backgrounds are empowered. They experience where students work in teams and Governance & Responsibility possibilities. Based on a growing skills gap know they’re learning the very latest in technology— develop skills they’ll use in the workplace. globally and the fact that every kind of business and gaining the digital and entrepreneurial skills • Accessible. Content is available online at in today’s economy requires digital skills, this to thrive. Career possibilities open up and lives netacad.com and through in-person courses People priority couldn’t be timelier. Through Cisco transform for the better. Beyond creating where students learn from expert instructors. Networking Academy, we’re providing global and opportunities for individuals, the program also It’s also localized in 25 languages worldwide. Society • Future-focused. Students can access career ● resources and connect to potential employers Building digital skills & entrepreneurship through the Talent Bridge program. Strategic social • Proven. Year after year, students and instructors investments alike say that the program provides valuable Technology & skills that help them grow their careers and human rights obtain jobs. Data privacy & security We’ve been delivering impactful curriculum and Responsible sourcing & manufacturing proven learning outcomes for over 21 years. In that time, technology—and required skills needed to deploy it—have changed greatly. Not only are we adapting to the trends of today, Planet we’re anticipating those of tomorrow. APPX GRI UN SDGs 81 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-2; 413-1 Our Story Ready for the future Over 2.15 million students enrolled in Networking Academy in FY19. And we’re prepared to scale as the workplace of the future transforms. The CEO Message World Economic Forum’s Future of Jobs 2018 Report estimates that by 2022, 75 million jobs The Details may be displaced by shifting labor between humans and machines, while 133 million new roles may emerge. Roles that require new skills—skills that Networking Academy and others Governance & Responsibility are trying to help fill. Additional statistics confirm a skills gap: (ISC)2, the world’s leading cybersecurity and IT security professional People organization says the global workforce is short nearly 3 million cybersecurity professionals. And the European Parliament Briefing Report says Society there could be as many as 756,000 unfilled ● jobs in the European ICT sector by 2020. Building digital skills Courses on the cutting edge only theory, but real, hands-on experiences. Even & entrepreneurship Networks are becoming more intelligent, with this convergence, our Cisco certifications Strategic social programmable, and software-driven. The worlds are among the most in-demand in the industry, investments A platform for tomorrow’s digital training of traditional network engineers and software according to IDC. In a single year, they were Technology & The Networking Academy experience is enabled human rights developers are merging to form the IT team of requested in 1.9 million IT-related openings. by netacad.com. An upgrade to this platform, The vast majority of students who take a Cisco Data privacy & security the future. As such, Networking Academy has launched in FY19, has improved ease of use, aligned certification course from Networking Emerging Technologies Workshops, developed Responsible sourcing performance, reliability, and uptime. And now, Academy are enrolled in Cisco Certified Network & manufacturing in partnership with DevNet, Cisco’s developer it’s easier for us to scale and roll out new Associate (CCNA) curriculum. program, to support this evolution of networking features, including best-in-class security that and expose learners to new concepts with not strengthens the trust Networking Academy Planet users place in Cisco. APPX GRI UN SDGs 82 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 Our Story Accessibility for all With the support of partners, Cisco is proud to deliver Networking Academy to 12,100 schools, CEO Message community colleges, universities, and other organizations. Some of these partners support underserved and rural populations, veterans, The Details prisoners, and people with disabilities. Netacad.com follows web accessibility guidelines based on WCAG 2.0 for users with Governance & vision and hearing disabilities. We expanded Responsibility accessibility in FY19 by adding course enhancements including: People Read more • Screen readers online • Transcripts • Closed captions Society ● Networking Academy also rolled out a new IoT software, Packet Tracer, by removing its • Keyboard shortcuts Building digital skills Security course that allows students to see through dependence on Java and supporting Mac & entrepreneurship Plus, we empower instructors to support students the lens of a cyberattacker. It trains students on users directly. And we’ve brought the “gaming” Strategic social of all abilities. The program’s goal is to reach investments real-world tools like Raspberry Pi and Kali Linux. experience into the student experience to 10,000 students with disabilities, including And new cloud-based virtual labs for our CCNA keep students better engaged. Technology & physical, vision, and hearing impairments, by human rights Cybersecurity Operations course through our Hands-on learning with physical equipment has 2022. As of June 2019, we reached 8,000 Data privacy & security partner NDG allow instructors to run labs with less always set Networking Academy apart. In FY20, students with disabilities. Several of these bandwidth and virtually no on-site equipment. we’re exploring new ways to use virtual equipment Responsible sourcing students enrolled through the New York City & manufacturing and environments through augmented reality for Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities’ increased student learning. In addition, we’re ATWORK project. With this partner, we have Portfolio innovation exploring digital badging to further recognize the created the abilITy Cisco Academy. This program Planet Our course portfolio is focused on networking, skills and accomplishments of our learners for has already trained two cohorts of adult learners. cybersecurity, and programmable infrastructure potential employers. APPX with an emphasis on student engagement. We have made improvements to our simulation GRI UN SDGs 83 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 Our Story Benefiting everyone Students: Connections to For students looking for an extra edge, there’s the Instructors: Resources that make a difference career opportunities Networking Academy Dream Team. Through this Skilled and passionate instructors are essential CEO Message The benefits of Networking Academy don’t program, instructors nominate students to provide to Networking Academy’s success. We offer end when courses do. The learning portfolio’s IT support for major events like Cisco Live, Global rigorous instructor professional development hands-on design and resources from Talent Citizen Festival, and the U.S. Open. By setting up directly from netacad.com. In FY19, we launched The Details Bridge help prepare students for jobs. equipment, providing help desk support, and an exclusive Cisco Community where instructors working in teams, students gain valuable on-thecan share insights with others and interact Talent Bridge meets students on their journey, job experience. And this experience makes them directly with product teams and peer experts. whether they are just starting their studies, are Governance & highly employable. About 95 percent of Dream Responsibility mid-way through, or about to launch into the Feedback is also collected regularly from Team participants find a new job or get promoted tech workforce. It offers resources like: instructors on how we can improve. In a FY19 as a result of the program. In FY19, 110 Dream • An online job matching engine Team participants supported 19 events worldwide. survey, instructors said that the program: People • Career advice • Made them a better educator (92 percent) • An alumni network • Broadened their career (86 percent) Society • Experience-building activities like Dream Team • Had a positive impact on their life (85 percent) ● Building digital skills Over 20,000 students found a job through the & entrepreneurship resources of Talent Bridge. And they found one Strategic social investments more quickly than those who didn’t use our resources, according to the latest Networking Figure 2. Technology & human rights Academy Survey. Some of our channel partners report that many of their entry-level hires are FY19 Talent Bridge 22,000+ Data privacy & security program grads. Responsible sourcing & manufacturing matching engine students registered Planet 290 employers 15 Available in languages APPX 21,000+ 180 countries jobs posted GRI UN SDGs 84 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 Our Story Partners: Growing together Partnerships with governments, academic What’s most important is student success. We have students institutions, and nonprofits make the Networking Academy program possible. We continue to who attribute getting jobs to their participation in Networking CEO Message grow this network. We are also aligned with Academy. Jobs that have allowed them to take on challenging countries and states building digital economies career opportunities to make a difference in their communities The Details that make them economically competitive. As and in the digital economy.” part of our efforts to make access inclusive, Laura Quintana, Vice President and General Manager, Cisco Networking Academy Networking Academy is free to eligible education partners. Recent examples of Governance & Responsibility partnerships that have driven social impact include: People Table 1. Networking Academy Partnerships Society ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Country/Region Partner Idea Impact1 Strategic social investments Europe European Schoolnet Webinar series to educate instructors on Attendance by over 300 teachers from IT careers 33 European countries Technology & Italy Ministry of Education, Ministry of Justice Increase digital skills, including among 55 new academies launched and 140,000 human rights vulnerable populations students trained in three years, including 1,000 prison inmates since 2001 Data privacy & security Netherlands Brainstud Shared digital skills courses with Progress toward goal of training 57,000 Responsible sourcing on-demand platform people in digital skills within three years & manufacturing Israel See Security (funded by Ministry of Labor) Creation of new Cyber Ops course for 16 people completed course and those with high-functioning autism immediately were placed in jobs Russia Znanie, an education organization Our courses made mandatory for students Accelerated digitization efforts through pursuing new “Digital Mentor” major talent development Planet Ukraine Dept of Cyberpolice and other partners Online event on International Safer Internet 35,000 students participated across Day targeting high school students 3,000 institutions APPX Continued on next page GRI Based on data reported by Networking Academy partners. 1 UN SDGs 85 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-3,413-1 Table 1. Networking Academy Partnerships (continued) Our Story CEO Message Country/Region Partner Idea Impact1 United States Michigan Initiative for Cybersecurity Develop cybersecurity and computer Trained 100+ teachers in two years The Details Education science standards for K12 education and prepared 2,200 students for 12+ certifications United States CyberPatriot Create custom course for teams to learn 8,752 middle and high schoolers took part networking skills in FY19 (growing 130 percent since FY16) Australia SoldierOn Provide digital literacy and technology Reskilled 70+ learners Governance & education to veterans of the Australian Responsibility Defense Force Indonesia Ministry of Manpower Create a space for startup founders to work Networking Academy courses available in and learn skills the Innovation Room Incubator India Department of Technical Education, Bridge digital skills gap for students in the Announced program expansion to upskill People Directorate General of Training—Ministry of vocational sector 1 million students Skills Development & Entrepreneurship China Alliance of Emerging Engineering Education Lead curriculum reform for networking, IoT, Won AEEE’s “2018 Outstanding Company for Information Technology and IT fundamentals Contribution” award Society ● China Ministry of Education Prepare next-generation of students with 437,000 students trained since June 2017 Building digital skills digital skills & entrepreneurship Hong Kong Networking Academies Participate in Cisco Innovation Challenge 30 Cisco mentors participated and engaged 2,000 students Strategic social investments Peru Ministry of Education Digital literacy education to secondary 704,677 students trained since 2016 students Technology & Mexico Secretary of Public Education and Technical Update ICT technical education and provide 12,432 students trained; 4,549 since 2018 human rights High Schools lateral entry to the labor market Data privacy & security Ecuador Ministry of Justice, Human Rights and Cults Provide prison inmates with ICT education 214 inmates engaged; 52 since 2018 and reintegration opportunities Responsible sourcing Costa Rica Ministry of Education & Fundación Contribute to ICT curriculum update for 35,933 students trained; 8,804 since 2018 & manufacturing Omar Dengo secondary technical education Brazil School of Communications at the Center of Bridge digital skills for military and 11,245 students trained; 3,870 since 2018 Electronic Communications and War their families Planet APPX GRI Based on data reported by Networking Academy partners. 1 UN SDGs 86 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413:103-3, 413-1 Figure 3. Student impact Cisco Networking Academy 93% 2 Our Story Since 1997 used skills learned in courses in their daily lives 93% 1.9m 2 CEO Message 2 The Details 10.9M students obtained a job or educational opportunity Students who have completed any CCNA Routing and Switching course (CCNA 1-4) found a new job between FY05 and FY19 85% 3 Governance & Responsibility By 2020 83% 2M 3 learned skills that can help them in a current or future job students participated increased their People annually1. We met value in the job this goal in FY19. Society In FY19 92% Instructor impact4 180 2.15M ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship say Networking Academy helped Strategic social them become a investments countries learners better educator 12,100 28% Technology & 86% human rights Data privacy & security academies female learners say Networking Academy Responsible sourcing helped them broaden 26,500 $315M & manufacturing their career Countries with 85% instructors in-kind contributions from Cisco Planet highest female say program had a positive impact enrollment APPX on their life 45% Nigeria 1 Goal was adjusted from 2021 to 2020 during FY18. 65% Oman 2 Student Outcome Survey participants completing Cisco Certified Network Associate curriculum or higher. 51% United Arab 44% Peru FY19 Course Feedback Survey participants in Cisco Certified Network Associate curriculum. 43% 3 GRI Emirates Lebanon 4 FY19 Instructor Survey participants actively teaching. 48% Palestine 43% Myanmar (Burma) UN 47% Jordan SDGs 87 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 XXX-X, XXX-X, XXX-X Our Story Building bridges to Training • Networking Academy courses. We’ve civilian employment trained more than 94,000 active-duty military personnel since 1998 at over 70 military CEO Message installations worldwide. We support our veterans and active duty service members. Cisco’s Veterans Program, launched •F  ree training and certification. Nearly 300 The Details in 2011, helps U.S. service members and their vets received training through CyberVetsUSA spouses find jobs in the IT industry. In FY19, in FY19. Cisco helped over 10,000 military members, • Self-study. The Veteran Talent Incubation Governance & veterans, and spouses through a variety Program is a pathway to gain the skills Responsibility of programs: needed to become an entry-level Cisco Services engineer. People Connections • Talent Bridge Matching Engine. This Society Networking Academy tool connects ● veteran talent to jobs. Building digital skills & entrepreneurship • Veteran Jobs Mission. As a founding Strategic social member, Cisco collaborates with over investments 200 other companies to hire more vets. Technology & human rights • Randstad/RiseSmart. Our partnership identifies talent pipelines to better recruit Data privacy & security and retain veterans at Cisco. Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 88 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 XXX-X, XXX-X, XXX-X Our Story Awards for social entrepreneurs CEO Message Cisco Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge The Details The Cisco Global Problem Solver Challenge recognizes college students Governance & Challenge Responsibility and recent grads whose ideas use IoT and digitization to solve social and environmental problems. With visibility, funding, People and encouragement, we help entrepreneurs take their solutions to the next level. In 2019, over 300 teams competed for $300,000 USD in prizes. Society The 2019 Grand Prize winner was Oorja, which allows doctors to remotely track vital signs of impact, to Rhaeos. Their invention: a device developed a community solar pumping solution ● Building digital skills expectant mothers and their fetuses. Since resembling a small bandage for patients with & entrepreneurship for farmers in India. Today, many farmers rely on winning the challenge, CareNX has reached over hydrocephalus, a condition marked by fluid Strategic social diesel groundwater pumps to irrigate their crops. 35,000 mothers across 800 villages in India and buildup on the brain. The excess fluid is often investments But they are polluting, expensive to maintain, and was selected as a 2019 MIT Solver Team, along drained with a shunt. Rhaeos’s device monitors Technology & deliver inferior yields. Solar pumps are a better with previous GPS Challenge winner OmniVis. the shunt’s activity. Applied to the skin, it can human rights solution, but most farmers lack the resources to determine if a shunt fails. Data from the device Data privacy & security invest in them. Oorja’s community solar pumps goes to doctors via Bluetooth. Doctors use the Responsible sourcing are shared by 15 to 20 farmers. They make Rice Business Plan Competition device to reduce the need for risky surgery and & manufacturing water available as a service with no up-front At Rice University, Cisco sponsored the 2019 invasive tests. Prize funding will help the Rhaeos cost. Farmers pay for what they need with a Rice Business Plan Competition, “the world’s team refine the device and conduct clinical trials. reloadable smart card. This model allows farmers richest and largest graduate-level student In FY19, seven past Global Problem Solver Planet to reduce expenses and grow more crops that startup competition.” Hundreds apply, dozens Challenge winners, as well as two Rice Business increase their incomes. compete, and winners take home prizes totaling APPX Plan Competition winners, appeared at Cisco Live We’re still tracking the progress of past challenge more than $1 million. events. These events are a chance for founders winners, such as 2018 Grand Prize winner In 2019, we awarded the fourth annual $100,000 to gain exposure and earn more funding. GRI CareNX. CareNX developed a portable, lowCisco Global Problem Solver Prize, the largest cost and IoT-based monitoring system that cash prize and the only one focused on social UN SDGs 89 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 Cisco’s Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer Francine Our Story Global Citizen Prize: Katsoudas, accompanied by the first-ever winner of the Global Cisco Youth Leadership Award Citizen Prize: Cisco Youth Leadership Award, Wawira Njiru. As part of our collaboration with Global Citizen, we established the Global Citizen Prize: Cisco CEO Message Youth Leadership Award. The award honors individuals between ages 18 and 30 who have The Details made a significant contribution toward ending extreme poverty. The award’s first winner was Wawira Njiru, the founder and executive director of Food4Education. This organization provides Governance & Responsibility subsidized school lunches for children in Kenyan public schools. A wristband, called Tap2Eat, tracks students’ lunch money, which parents can reload People using mobile apps. Since Njiru won the $250,000 award in December 2018, her program has expanded from feeding 2,000 students to Society 10,000 students per day. In a country where ● more than half of the population is food-insecure, to solve real-world problems. The mission of Digital Economy Initiative Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Food4Education provides nutritious food that the series is to inspire students to become The tools for fostering a digital economy already accounts for 40 percent of their daily nutrients. global problem solvers: citizens ready to thrive exist in many communities. In many cases, what’s Strategic social investments in an increasingly connected and digital future missing is funding—and a catalyst for the local Technology & by innovating like technologists, thinking like ecosystem to collaborate. The Digital Economy Supporting emerging entrepreneurs, and acting as social change human rights Initiative helps provide this spark. The pilot grant Data privacy & security agents. Each episode tackles a different stage program offers grants to public universities and is Responsible sourcing & manufacturing problem solvers of social entrepreneurship, from defining a problem to marketing a product. The series, supported by Cisco-managed funds at the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. In FY18, we gave along with lesson plans for teachers, is available oneto three-year grants to six public U.S. Global Problem Solvers: The Series in English, French, Hindi, and Spanish. In universities. Schools are using grants to develop Planet It’s never too early to become a global problem partnership with Arizona State University, Cisco IoT and digital skills programs that: solver. That’s why Cisco created Global Problem provided training to 30 Phoenix-area teachers APPX who instructed over 1,500 middle school students • Align with local industries Solvers (GPS): The Series, an animated web series designed for middle school students. in the Global Problem Solvers program over the • Foster innovation and entrepreneurial skills GRI GPS: The Series features a diverse team of course of two years. • Increase diversity in their student pipeline for teens from around the globe who use technology IoT and engineering programs UN SDGs • Align curricula with local job needs 90 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 413-1 Our Story Since the grants were awarded, recipients have Harambe Entrepreneur Alliance ones, drawing on similar experiences to provide made meaningful progress. California State guidance and share knowledge and networks. Cisco understands the potential for African-led University Fullerton has developed an IoT track This network provides an ecosystem of support business, economic, and community development. within their computer science degree program. for high-impact business and social ventures. That’s why we support the Harambe CEO Message They’ve developed new curricula, including IoT Entrepreneur Alliance (Harambe). The name is What makes Harambe different is that it prototyping; increased interdisciplinary student supports African entrepreneurs who want to derived from “harambee,” Swahili for working The Details engagement; developed an ongoing IoT speaker launch ventures in Africa—transforming and together toward a common purpose. Harambe series; and started an IoT internship program for building the continent’s future from within. identifies promising young African entrepreneurs, local high school students. Collectively, Harambeans have launched known as Harambeans, and gives them access Florida International University developed a new to knowledge and training, mentors, investment businesses that have created more than 3,000 Governance & Responsibility certificate program for IoT in Hospitality for the capital, and a network of advisors and potential jobs, raised over $400 million in capital, and are cruise line industry. They created the program investors. Previous Harambeans support current valued at more than $1 billion. after researching workforce projections, IoT People trends, and anticipated skill gaps. The program is designed for both students and professionals, and launched in 2019. Georgia State University Society designed and launched the Digital Learners to ● Building digital skills Leaders (DLL) program in 2018. DLL has been & entrepreneurship recognized for its focus on developing the next Strategic social generation of digital problem solvers by providing investments students with opportunities to increase their Technology & technical experience while developing valuable human rights professional skills. It especially focuses on Data privacy & security students who are underrepresented in the Responsible sourcing technology industry. & manufacturing Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 91 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message Strategic social The Details investments Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People  isco’s socioeconomic research informs our social C investments. Recent insights include factors that reflect Society ● digital readiness and digitization jobs and skills. Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Investments focus on the full hierarchy of human Strategic social needs, from food and shelter to digital literacy and investments sustainable careers. Technology & human rights  isco and the Cisco Foundation’s social investments in C Data privacy & security nonprofit organizations support early-stage, technologyResponsible sourcing based solutions that serve underrepresented and & manufacturing vulnerable populations.  e’re committed to our focus areas of critical W human needs and disaster relief, access to Planet education, and economic empowerment, as APPX fundamental to economically self-sufficient individuals and thriving communities. GRI UN SDGs GRI 203:103-1, 2; 92 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413:103-1, 2; 413-1 Our Story A bridge to global problem solving CEO Message As a technology company, we have the good fortune of realizing the benefits that innovation The Details can bring. Improved well-being. Greater prosperity. Better business outcomes and more efficient cities. We also recognize that these innovations Governance & have left many behind, whether through Responsibility automation, obsolescence, or unequal access. We are moved to act as we see these People inequalities grow. Cisco is more than a provider of technology; we are a member of the hundreds of communities worldwide where we 469M Society work and where our products are used, and we have an important role to play. Socioeconomic ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship We believe in a world where everyone can Strategic social investments participate in the digital economy. We’re helping to make that world a reality through our research people positively impacted by Cisco’s social impact grants Technology & grantmaking and related investments, products and signature programs as human rights and solutions, signature programs, and the A key input to our social investment strategy is of FY19 Data privacy & security time and talent of our employees. Together, Cisco’s original research. This is conducted in Responsible sourcing we’re applying technology to help meet people’s partnership with leading research and advisory & manufacturing basic needs. Then, we’re training them in digital companies and world-renowned academic Our research helps heads of state, universities, skills to support the jobs of the future. Finally, institutions. We believe that our research can educators, and nonprofit leaders set the we’re giving people the tools to become global contribute to the dialogue about technology’s direction for social investments and program Planet problem solvers themselves, building businesses future impact. What we want to understand: development. For example, our research is that make use of digital skills. Combined, our what will the digital revolution bring? And how APPX designed to help stateZs and nations: efforts are building a bridge to positively impact can Cisco make strategic investments to help 1 billion people by 2025. individuals thrive? Our research also ensures • Predict the digital skills needed and the most GRI the relevance of our investment focus areas, effective ways to address skills gaps and such as Cisco Networking Academy, critical job displacement UN human needs, educational opportunity, and • Pinpoint the supply and demand of skilled labor SDGs economic empowerment. in specific regions GRI 203:103-2; 413:103-2; 93 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 • Assess their digital readiness and understand Recent research Understanding a country’s digital readiness Our Story key interventions needed to improve helps give insight to what specific investments Our current research examines what it means or interventions could help a country move • Rethink education systems and partnerships to to be digitally ready and how best to help up in their digital journey. Overall, the 2019 deliver graduates with the skills necessary for the individuals and countries thrive in the digital CEO Message findings remain consistent with the 2017 results, jobs of the future world. Key research in FY19 included the new with digital readiness scores broadly mirroring • Realize the benefits of digitization for all Cisco Global Digital Readiness Index. The original developed and emerging economies. Three The Details socioeconomic groups study was conducted in 2017. To uncover key stages of digital readiness emerged based on the insights and build our understanding of what it We have presented our findings at the World findings. “Activate” is the lowest stage of digital means for a country to be digitally ready, we Economic Forum (WEF), International Society for readiness, “Accelerate” is the middle stage, and created a holistic framework and measurement Governance & Technology in Education, Cisco Live, Networking “Amplify” is the highest. To better understand Responsibility model. In 2019, we refreshed and expanded this Academy partner conference, and other venues. country needs, the Accelerate stage was further model to include additional countries. divided into two sub-stages. People Figure 4. Digital readiness is measured using seven holistic components. Society ● Building digital skills Technology infrastructure Human capital Business & government & entrepreneurship Infrastructure available to Skilled labor force to support investment Strategic social enable digital activities and digital innovation (build and Private and public investment investments connected consumers maintain) in innovation and technology Technology & (IoT, Cloud) human rights Data privacy & security Technology adoption Basic needs Startup environment Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Demand for digital Basic human needs for Environment which fosters products/services a population to survive innovation within a community and thrive Planet APPX Ease of doing business Basic infrastructure/policies GRI needed to support business continuity UN SDGs GRI 203:103-2; 413:103-2; 94 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Figure 5. Cisco Global Digital Readiness Index Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility People Society Activate ● Building digital skills Accelerate (Low) & entrepreneurship Accelerate (High) Strategic social Amplify investments No data Technology & human rights Data privacy & security Responsible sourcing & manufacturing provinces within a country. In February 2018, Countries with higher digital readiness have Digital Readiness scores reveal which countries higher levels of GDP per capita and tend to be are most digitally ready and which are less so, the framework was applied to Australian states more productive and prosperous, as measured presenting opportunities for local government, and territories. Key government and policymakers Planet against the WEF’s Global Competitiveness Index. industry, educational institutions, and community used the results to inform investment across Countries with higher digital readiness also organizations to work together to help create an the states. The findings were shared to help APPX tend to have a healthier natural environment inclusive digital economy. maximize digital inclusion and show how Australia and vital ecosystem as measured against can move further toward becoming a more The framework to measure digital readiness can GRI Yale’s Environmental Performance Index. digitally inclusive society. also be applied to examine the level of digital readiness of states, territories, regions, and/or UN SDGs GRI 203:103-2; 413:103-2; 95 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Our Story We also made progress in FY19 on research to better understand the landscape of job Funding technology • Implement proof-of-concept pilots to validate viability of solutions opportunities resulting from digitization. The original for social impact • Improve the delivery, quality, efficiency, and study was conducted in 2014 in partnership effectiveness of their products and services CEO Message with Gartner. It focused on defining digitization Cisco’s research helps guide our grantmaking • Scale to reach more people jobs, understanding the skills and competencies needed, and sizing up the job market through and related investments to make a meaningful • Replicate to multiple geographies globally The Details 2020. The 2014 study focused on net new impact. These investments in nonprofit partners • Validate social impact IoT-related roles. The most recent study takes a enable them to use technology-based solutions to improve how they operate and reach underserved • Make progress toward financial sustainability broader view by expanding to roles driving digital Governance & transformation. As a larger proportion of communities. And they support conditions for the • Use data for better decision-making Responsibility businesses transform digitally, the number of communities they live in to thrive. We also provide our nonprofit partners with roles driving digital transformation will become a Our approach is to invest in early-stage solutions. ongoing consulting services, advisory support, larger proportion of total workers. Technologies This is the stage where funding is most needed and technical expertise in areas including: People such as AI, cloud, and IoT are enabling digital and where we can make the biggest difference. • Governance and operational structure change and impacting the future of business, Funding from Cisco and the Cisco Foundation which in turn is transitioning all organizations helps nonprofits apply technology to: • Organizational leadership capacity Society into digital and technology companies. • Business planning and strategy development • Create innovative solutions targeting individual ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship The research identified 28 digital-related job and community needs • Impact evaluation Strategic social roles, which align to five general job functions • Financial sustainability planning investments that are critical for driving digital business. Technology & The skills and competencies necessary to be human rights successful in these 28 job roles were also Figure 6. Our social investment framework Data privacy & security identified. They include broad skills such as Responsible sourcing networking, security and privacy, business & manufacturing orientation, and analytical skills. Specialized skills in the areas of networking, software development, analytics/IoT, and security will Planet also be crucial. The research found that a combination of critical workforce competencies, Stage 1: Blueprint Stage 2: Validate Stage 3: Scale Stage 4: Transition APPX broad skills, and technical skills are needed to (solution design (initial deployment, (expand and enhance) (financial build a well-rounded employee in the age of experimentation) test solution) sustainability, exit) GRI digital transformation. UN SDGs GRI 203:103-2; 413:103-2, 3; 96 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Our Story It is important to confirm that the solutions we invest in are making a difference. We work closely with the nonprofits we fund to measure their effectiveness and impact. This measurement also provides partners CEO Message with insights on how to improve. We measure both breadth (number of people reached) and depth (the The Details impact their programs are making). Depth is measured with a standard set of metrics for each of our three investment focus areas, as well as custom metrics specific to our partners’ social objectives. Governance & Responsibility We also ensure that solutions serve communities that need it most. Grantees must validate that at least 65 percent of their programs’ participants are People from underrepresented and vulnerable population groups. They also provide quarterly reports to share progress against targets that we agree upon, such Society as client satisfaction. ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Strategic social investments Opportunity’s partnership with Cisco has enabled us to How we measure impact Technology & human rights scale our life-changing work— What we measure depends on what problems we’re trying to solve. Cisco Data privacy & security building livelihoods, creating jobs, has three social investment focus areas. Here’s an example of what we and providing affordable education might measure for a project in each area: Responsible sourcing & manufacturing to millions of people who are at risk of being left behind or left out of today’s growth economy! It’s an honor to partner with a global Planet leader in technology to empower Critical human needs & Educational opportunity Economic APPX women and girls, create innovative disaster relief Number of students who empowerment digital solutions for farmers and Number of people reached proficiency in Percent of people who entrepreneurs, and ensure that our housed, or who have science, technology, obtain jobs, job retention, GRI programs are highly effective.” improved access to engineering, and math change in income Atul Tandon, CEO, Opportunity International clean drinking water (STEM) UN SDGs GRI 203:103-2; 413:103-2, 3; 97 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Our Story Social investment focus areas Critical human needs and disaster relief CEO Message In order to thrive, people first must have their basic needs met. Our Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief portfolio focuses on increasing access to essentials like The Details water, food, and housing. We also invest in technologies that help people in crisis, from delivering humanitarian aid to providing relief after natural disasters. Table 2. Social investment focus area: Critical human needs and disaster relief Governance & Responsibility People Partner Situation Investment Impact Society Destination: Home is a public-private •S  anta Clara County, California is one •$  50 million over five years • $9.7  million for construction of six new ● partnership with a simple mission: to make of the wealthiest counties in the U.S. • Our donation will help Destination: Home: housing developments with 472 units Building digital skills homelessness in Silicon Valley rare, brief • The county has among the largest • Facilitate financing for developers to • 841 households enrolled in an expanded & entrepreneurship and nonrecurring. Its goal is to create homeless population (9,700) and buy land and plan construction homelessness prevention program permanent supportive housing for people number of chronically homeless of homes • 95 percent of households Strategic social in need in Silicon Valley, and prevent people (2,500) in the U.S. • Use technology to improve services remained housed while enrolled investments individuals and families from becoming for the homeless • 92 percent of households homeless in the first place. • Implement evidence-based remain housed one year Technology & programs to prevent homelessness after assistance ended human rights Mercy Corps is an international •1  35 million people worldwide need •$  10 million over five years to use •3  .7 million people reached in 17 countries Data privacy & security development and humanitarian relief humanitarian assistance technology to deliver faster and more in FY19 NGO active in more than 40 countries. •7  0.8 million have been forcibly displaced efficient aid. Commitment includes: • 5 million people reached over two years Responsible sourcing With humanitarian needs increasing, worldwide; 25.9 million are refugees who •C  ash grants, technical expertise, • Over 1.3 million refugees reached with & manufacturing they must constantly do more with have fled their homelands in search of and advisory support critical information through Signpost less. Technology can help Mercy safety and better lives •D  onations of Cisco technology to platform in first two years Corps operate more efficiently. 100 offices in 40 countries • 69 Meraki cloud networking installations completed in 18 countries Digital Green knows that growing more •S  mallholder farmers grow over 80 percent •C  isco Foundation provided the first •2  5,000 farmers reached in first two years Planet food is only the first step to helping farmers of the world’s food dedicated funding for pilot in Bihar, • 17 percent average increase in improve their lives. They must also sell their • They also make up 80 percent of the India in 2016 farmers’ income produce quickly and at a good price. Digital world’s poor • In the last 2.5 years, program has • Operational sustainability of 65 percent APPX Green’s Loop platform allows farmers to • In resource-poor, low-income countries, expanded to other states in India, • Loop will spin off into separate social request crop pickups from their farms, have agricultural growth reduces poverty five as well as Bangladesh and Ethiopia enterprise within next year them delivered to markets for sale, and be times more than nonagricultural growth • Organizational goal to help 1.1 million paid via mobile phone. Learn more about farmers achieve a sustainable 25 percent GRI our support of Digital Green in Our Story. income increase, thereby reducing poverty and increasing food security UN SDGs GRI 203:103-2; 203-2, 413: 98 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 103-1, 2, 3; 413-1 Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility People Connected in times of crisis Society In addition to funding, Cisco benefits people in need by offering what only we can: our products ● Building digital skills and technological expertise. Our disaster response team, Tactical Operations (TacOps), deploys & entrepreneurship trained team members to restore communications—for free—in the wake of disasters and other events where first responders need support. We prioritize support for: Strategic social investments • Public safety and health Technology & • Government continuity human rights • Critical infrastructure Data privacy & security • Emergency management Responsible sourcing & manufacturing • Organizations facilitating disaster response or humanitarian relief operations TacOps is a full-time team of 12 supported by over 200 trained employee volunteers. Volunteers are given time away from their normal Cisco jobs to join TacOps deployments. We respond quickly, and put our expertise to work as soon as we hit the ground. This allows us to get communications up and Planet running within a matter of days, and transition management over to government and local providers when their systems are back up. We don’t compromise security in the process. Advanced technologies APPX such as Cisco Umbrella, Next Generation Firewall, and Meraki keep networks safe from cyberthreats. Customers affected by disasters may also request TacOps support. TacOps works with Cisco GRI account teams to design solutions that meet customers’ needs. UN SDGs GRI 203-2; 413:103-1, 2, 3; 99 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Our Story Social investment focus area Programs we fund are designed to: • Expand inclusive access to primary and secondary STEM education • Improve student attendance, behavior, and overall course outcomes Educational opportunity CEO Message • Increase student STEM career exploration and engagement Technology can help accelerate a quality education. We’re helping • Build teacher capacity and nurture quality proven practice build a digital foundation to improve education in our society, given The Details • Leverage STEM partner networks the importance of technology-related skills in today’s world. • Apply technology to improve both teaching and learning Table 3. Governance & Responsibility Social investment focus area: Educational opportunity People Partner Situation Investment Impact Society Science Buddies helps students from  8 percent of U.S. high school graduates •7 •C  ash grants and product donations to • Reached over 16 million students in FY19 ● all backgrounds learn about science and lack proficiency in STEM expand programming to teachers and • 54 percent of student users were female Building digital skills tech. Affordable online resources allow •O  nly 41 percent of K-8 science teachers low-income students • 38 percent were from underrepresented & entrepreneurship both students and teachers to explore have a STEM background •L  atest grant will help Science Buddies ethnic groups science topics. •H  alf of eighth grade students are deepen engagement with students • 49,000 teachers registered Strategic social uninterested in STEM topics and teachers • Reached students in 50 U.S. states and investments 147 countries Technovation supports education for girls, •W  omen make up only a third of STEM •C  ash and volunteering investments • In FY19,17,000+ educators reached Technology & children, and families. They help spark students in higher education support testing and instructional design • 620 instructors trained human rights interest in STEM and give students skills to •O  nly 3 percent of female college •F  unding will also help Technovation • 89 percent of students say they are more be lifelong learners. students choose to study information and improve its Curiosity Machine platform effective STEM learners Data privacy & security communication technologies (ICT) • 91 percent of participating students say •B  etween 2006 and 2014, the number they will continue to study STEM Responsible sourcing of women earning computer science • Technovation Families reached over & manufacturing degrees declined 7,500 children and adults across 13 countries who used AI to solve problems in their communities Gooru knows that education is a human •H  alf of students worldwide fail to meet •C  ash and equipment grants since 2012 • In FY19, 5 million teaching resources right. They create technology that minimum skill levels in science and math •G  rants supported development of Learning catalogued Planet helps make effective teaching practices •T  eachers struggle to find and integrate Navigator and Navigate Math. Learning • 3 million global users per year (600,000 accessible to all. standards to see how their students Navigator creates personalized lessons are teachers) APPX compare to peers and tracks student progress. Navigate • Used by 356,000 students in 110 U.S. Math is a math curriculum covering all school districts K-12 math concepts • Students in the Navigate Math program gained an average of 2.8 math grade GRI levels per year UN SDGs GRI 203-2; 413:103-3; 100 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Social investment focus area Our Story Economic empowerment Our investments in nonprofits give people tools to thrive in a digital economy. We connect people CEO Message to skills training, employment, and career development opportunities; support entrepreneurs with advisory resources, networks, and funding; and provide financial products and services to those The Details without access to traditional banking institutions. These resources help put people on the path to develop meaningful careers that provide sustainable livelihoods, facilitate economic independence and self-sufficiency, and support community-level economic growth and development. Governance & Table 4. Responsibility Social investment focus area: Economic empowerment People Partner Situation Investment Impact Society Opportunity International (OI) offers • One in three people worldwide lacks access •E  arly-stage support helped OI develop and •T  hree-year partnership resulting in ● financial products, services, and training to a bank account test mobile banking products 3 million jobs created Building digital skills to help people transform their lives and •B  ut most of these individuals have access •C  urrent support includes cash grants, •2  0 million people impacted via digital & entrepreneurship participate in local economies. OI makes to a mobile phone product donations, and expertise to help OI: financial solutions banking easy in areas where it has been •M  obile financial services allow people • Improve efficiency Strategic social out of reach. Most of their clients are poor to send and receive money with their • Reach more people investments women, farmers, and rural youth. phones. This approach allows many more • Offer new products and services people to be part of the economy • Better target specific clients Technology & • Better assess impact human rights Anudip’s mission is to equip low-income •T  echnology and the digital economy are •C  ash grant investments to develop new  2,000 low-income youth and women •2 Data privacy & security and vulnerable populations for sustainable creating employment opportunities around curriculum for students, service offerings reached in FY19 technology careers by providing digital the world for clients, and optimization of business •A  verage 75 percent employment rate and professional skills training, mentoring, •A  nudip aims to ensure that youth and operations for their organization and 300 percent family income increase Responsible sourcing and networks. marginalized populations are able to •S  upport for replication of Anudip’s model in India & manufacturing secure employment for long-term, to the U.S. via launch of operations in •2  50 people received prosthetics productive careers New Orleans, Louisiana •F  irst cohort of New Orleans students •E  arly stage support for Anudip’s 3D4D graduated program, in which Anudip is leveraging 3D printing technology to develop a financially Planet sustainable social enterprise that provides low-cost, customizable prosthetics at scale for marginalized populations in India APPX •D  onations of Cisco technology Kiva’s mission is to expand financial access •1  .7 billion people worldwide lack access •S  upport for multiple Kiva initiatives To date: to help underserved communities thrive— to a bank account •U  se of Cisco technology •$  1.36 billion in loans facilitated GRI creating opportunity and reducing poverty. •M  icroloans allow people to invest in •T  his has enabled Kiva to design, test, and •3  .4 million borrowers Kiva reshapes access to financial services their futures implement new types of loan products •7  8 countries with an online, crowdsourced, peer-to-peer •K  iva breaks down barriers to accessing •9  7 percent repayment rate lending network. financial services UN SDGs GRI 203-2; 413:103-2, 3; 101 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 413-1 Our Story CEO Message The Details Technology & human rights Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People W  e’ve created a new team to oversee our human rights strategy: Business and Human Rights at Cisco Society ● (BHR at Cisco). The team will focus on the potential Building digital skills human rights impacts of our technology. & entrepreneurship Strategic social B  HR at Cisco will also operationalize our human investments rights position statements. Technology & human rights  HR at Cisco is expanding Cisco’s thought leadership B Data privacy & security on emerging issues in human rights and technology, Responsible sourcing and has increased external engagement. & manufacturing  isco has established a position on government use C of technology to curtail freedom of expression. Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 412:103-1, 2, 3; 102 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 418:103-1, 2, 3 Our Story Technology & Cisco takes a holistic and crossfunctional approach to human rights human rights, with dedicated human rights experts leading the work. See how we’re addressing CEO Message human rights across our business: Our world is changing fast. The speed of Our human rights journey innovation and the adoption of new technologies • Business and Human Rights (BHR) The Details Cisco’s commitment to human rights comes is increasing at an exponential rate. For example, • Human Rights in the Supply Chain from the top. Our CEO, Chuck Robbins, and with the growth of 5G, the number of connected • Privacy as a Human Right other senior executives established our strategy devices worldwide will explode. Nearly 29 billion and stress its importance. This year, we created Governance & networked devices in 2022 will swell to 300 billion Responsibility a new legal function led by Mark Chandler, by 2030. In the same time period, more than Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, 3.5 billion more people will begin using the and Chief Compliance Officer, to address Internet for the first time. Cisco formally began to put policy into practice People human rights issues that arise in our business. This evolution presents great opportunities to In FY20, we will begin regularly sharing with our when we created our Human Rights Working solve pressing global problems: Improving health. Board of Directors how Cisco is responding to Group (HRWG). The group includes experts Reducing pollution. Making cities smart. But identified human rights risks. from all parts of the business, including: Society ● these same technologies can also cause harm. • Supply Chain Building digital skills To understand where we’re going, it helps to know & entrepreneurship Unfortunately, advanced data and technology where we’ve been. In 2012, Cisco’s technology • Security & Trust can be used to infringe upon human rights, such Strategic social landscape began to change. That year began our investments as when governments employ technology to • Legal transition from a business focused on networking Technology & surveil or censor individuals. • Engineering hardware to one focused on software and human rights We’re keenly aware of both the potential benefits services delivered through the cloud. • Customer Experience Data privacy & security and risks of our technology. That’s why we’re This led to the creation of our first Global Human • Office of Inclusion and Collaboration Responsible sourcing working to integrate human rights into the & manufacturing Rights Policy. This policy is aligned with the UN development, marketing, and sales process. • Government Affairs Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). Adopted by the United Nations Human • Sales & Marketing Rights Council in 2011, the UNGPs spell out the • Corporate Communications Planet corporate responsibility to respect human rights. • Investor Relations APPX • Corporate Affairs GRI UN SDGs 103 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 412:103-2, 3; 418:103-2 The purpose of the HRWG group is to: Figure 7. Our Story • Inform our human rights strategy and policy Business and human rights • Track and share our progress at Cisco: Where we focus CEO Message • Champion human rights externally and within their own functions Uphold Ensure The Details • Consider external perspectives on human rights the public commitments that human rights are In 2018, Cisco supplemented our human rights that Cisco has made to an important part of our human rights decision-making policy with six human rights position statements Governance & that describe Cisco’s approach to key emerging Responsibility human rights challenges in the technology sector. They address the following issues: • Encryption People Anticipate & address Support • Data localization and sovereignty Cisco in meeting business human rights issues raised • Surveillance by governments goals in a way that respects by our technology human rights Society ● • Internet of Things Building digital skills & entrepreneurship • Big data analytics Strategic social • Artificial intelligence investments These statements give us a central platform from Technology & human rights which to share Cisco’s basic commitments to uphold human rights. Our next goal is to translate With opportunity comes responsibility. Innovation Data privacy & security these perspectives into guidelines that will inform Responsible sourcing must advance hand in hand with thoughtful software and product development and sales. & manufacturing policies and practices, including undertaking due diligence on how new products and services may impact human rights in the future.” Planet Mark Chandler, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief APPX Compliance Officer GRI UN SDGs 104 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 418:103-2, 412:103-2, 3 Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility People Cisco’s Position on Government Use of Technology to Curtail Freedom of Expression Society ● At Cisco, we are strongly committed to an open global Internet. We We are not in a position to determine how governments and others Building digital skills build our products to promote the free flow of information, privacy, may use our products’ features day to day, and so we take these & entrepreneurship and freedom of expression. Our principles include: additional steps to promote these principles: Strategic social investments • We sell the same products globally, built to global standards, • We do not support attempts by governments to fragment the thereby enhancing the free flow of information. Internet or otherwise create a “closed” Internet. Technology & human rights •O ur networking products include basic features that are essential •W e do not support interception of telephone calls made over to allowing operators to defend against threats which could the Internet using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) except in Data privacy & security undermine the operation of the Internet and information security, response to valid court orders consistent with due process of law. Responsible sourcing recognizing that some governments may seek to use those • Consistent with Cisco’s Security Vulnerability Policy, our product & manufacturing features to interfere with the free flow of information. development practices specifically prohibit any intentional behaviors •W e strongly support the right of users to encrypt information they or product features that are designed to allow unauthorized device transmit and oppose governmental efforts to undermine encryption. or network access, exposure of sensitive device information, or a Planet bypass of security features or restrictions (including, but not limited • We do not customize or develop specialized or unique filtering to, undisclosed device access methods or “backdoors”). capabilities in order to enable different regimes to block access to APPX information with the intent of undermining these rights and freedoms. Read our full statement in Appendix I. •W e comply with laws that restrict sale of products to certain GRI regimes based on the possibility that products and features could be misused to undermine human rights. UN SDGs 105 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 418:103-2, 412:103-2, 3 Our Story encounter human rights-related challenges in the course of their work. That’s why we are diligent about educating these employees with regard to: CEO Message • How we define human rights • Why human rights are relevant to Cisco The Details • How technology can impact individual human rights • How issues might show up in their roles Governance & Responsibility • What to do if they identify a human rights concern Cisco is an influencer in the human rights space. People We regularly share our perspectives outside the company as a member of the Article One Business Roundtable on Human Rights and AI Society Weaving human rights into all we do regulatory, and policy decisions related to human ● rights impacts. BHR at Cisco will continue to and the BSR Human Rights Working Group. In Building digital skills Each of these accomplishments has helped 2019, we sponsored RightsCon for the third & entrepreneurship leverage the Human Rights Working Group for lay the groundwork for the next phase in the year in a row. RightsCon is the world’s leading insights across Cisco functions. And we’ll rely on Strategic social evolution of human rights at Cisco. In FY19, conference on human rights and technology, investments external stakeholders to support continuous and we increased our capacity to understand and bringing together thousands of stakeholders Technology & shared learning. human rights influence the human rights impacts of our from around the world. At RightsCon 2019, business with the creation of a new team: This dedicated internal team also equips us to a BHR at Cisco team member participated in Data privacy & security Business and Human Rights at Cisco (BHR at make a bigger impact. We’re shifting from a a panel on 5G and human rights and gave a Responsible sourcing Cisco). BHR at Cisco sets Cisco’s human rights reactive approach to one where we can build a presentation about how Cisco has innovated & manufacturing strategy, drives decision-making, and manages sustainable, scalable, and holistic framework to provide users with more transparency about relevant human rights issues across Cisco’s by developing and implementing policies, personal data processing through our Privacy business with a focus on the potential human procedures, and training for the long term. Data Sheets and Privacy Data Maps. Planet rights impacts of our technology. We’re also leading by calling for government APPX This team sits in our legal department and is Our latest achievements action. In FY19, Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins staffed by human rights specialists. It’s led by called for U.S. federal data protection legislation We’re putting our human rights commitments Lynn Easterling, Vice President and Deputy that recognizes privacy as a human right. Learn GRI into action by raising internal awareness of General Counsel, who reports to Executive more here about our commitments to data human rights and engaging externally. Many Vice President Mark Chandler. Creating this team security and privacy. UN Cisco employees have the potential to SDGs within the legal function allows for input on legal, GRI 412:103-2, 3; 412-2; 106 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 418:103-2, 3 Figure 8. Business and Human Rights key activities Our Story CEO Message Evaluate & address our impact. The Details Evaluate where our business and technology may Engage with others. lead to human rights risks. Then, identify priority areas and develop policies and procedures to address them, consistent with the UNGPs. The human rights landscape in the tech industry is always evolving. BHR at Cisco will continue to participate in the global conversation Governance & Responsibility on the responsibility of business to respect human rights. We’ll engage with employees, human rights organizations, academia, socially responsible investors, customers, peer companies, governments, and technology users. People Turn words into actions. Society ● Building digital skills We’ll translate Cisco’s human rights position statements & entrepreneurship into defined processes that help us ensure this outlook is integrated into the development and sale of our Strategic social technologies. investments Technology & human rights Data privacy & security Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Assess our progress. Advise the Planet business. We’ll continue to evaluate our effectiveness at addressing human rights impacts and will integrate As an internal clearinghouse for human rights matters, we what we learn as we continue to improve. Anyone APPX will answer questions, conduct due diligence to inform can raise a concern about potential human rights business decisions and product development, and train issues by emailing humanrights@cisco.com. employees who may face human rights challenges in the GRI course of their daily work. UN SDGs 107 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 412:103-2, 3; 418:103-2 XXX-X, XXX-X, XXX-X Our Story CEO Message Data privacy The Details & security Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People  onsumers have growing concerns about how their C data is used and shared. We’re establishing and Society ● enhancing trust through transparency and education. Building digital skills & entrepreneurship T  he Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle (Cisco SDL) Strategic social builds security and privacy into our products, investments solutions, and services. Technology & human rights  e have integrated privacy engineering and privacy W Data privacy & security impact assessments into Cisco SDL. Responsible sourcing & manufacturing  e’ve called for federal privacy legislation and W have demonstrated leadership on this issue because privacy is a human right. Planet In FY19, Cisco continued its security focus by acquiring Sentryo, a provider of cybersolutions for APPX industrial control systems, which are used in large industrial plants. GRI UN SDGs GRI 412:103-1; 108 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 418:103-1, 2, 3 Our Story Protection in a those who are and those who are not authorized to access and use it. Unfortunately, this has Security by design We’ve been building security into every level of changing world produced the unintended effect of a global our solutions and services for more than 10 years patchwork of inconsistent guidelines and with the Cisco Secure Development Lifecycle CEO Message requirements that can be difficult for data (Cisco SDL). Cisco SDL provides a foundation Cisco is the industry leader in creating safe handlers and users to understand and follow. for addressing evolving threats. We also follow and secure connections and applications for The Details It doesn’t have to be this way. We’re committed specifications for our Information Security processing data. And in a world with more to incorporating privacy and security into every Management System (ISMS). And our entire data, more users, and more services than phase of product development, from ideation services business is ISO 27001 certified. These ever, there’s more to protect than ever. What’s to end of life. We strive to enhance trust and verifications give customers peace of mind that Governance & more, cyberthreats are always evolving. Responsibility provide transparency for our customers with their data is safe with Cisco. In light of high-profile security breaches and our privacy and security policies and practices. We have integrated privacy engineering into privacy abuses, it’s no surprise that fear and We lead development of industry standards to the Cisco SDL. For example, a privacy impact People uncertainty abound. Standards and regulations enhance global cybersecurity. assessment is now a mandatory step prior to aim to protect against data misuse by both product release. We’ve trained our product engineers and our lawyers who counsel them Society ● on privacy engineering and put them through Building digital skills privacy requirements workshops. For data-rich & entrepreneurship products and services, the information gathered Strategic social during Cisco SDL is converted into plain language investments and published on the Cisco Trust Center as Technology & human rights Privacy Data Sheets and visualized as Privacy Data Maps. We’ve also published our Master Data privacy & security Data Protection Agreement that sets out our Responsible sourcing & manufacturing privacy and security promises (for customers) and requirements (for suppliers). These enhancements to our program provide greater transparency, fairness, and accountability in how we process Planet personal information. APPX GRI UN SDGs 109 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 418:103-2 Our Story How do we identify privacy risks? We start with threat modeling and privacy scoping workshops during ideation and design. Next, we conduct operations and user experience testing. During CEO Message these tests, we ensure appropriate controls are in place to properly manage personal data throughout its life cycle, from creation to disposition. Cisco publishes a Transparency The Details Report every six months. We continue to conduct penetration testing and This report outlines requests check for vulnerabilities even after products for customer data from law have been deployed. All of our security products Governance & enforcement and national Responsibility incorporate Talos threat intelligence, backed by security agencies worldwide. a team that reviews 1.7 million malware samples per day. Meanwhile, the Product Security Incident People Response Team (PSIRT) and Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) monitor network and attack traffic for security vulnerabilities Society and incidents in our products and corporate The European Union’s (EU) General Data • Enhanced and automated aspects of our Data ● environments, respectively. Thanks to these Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been in Subject Access Request (DSAR) management Building digital skills & entrepreneurship safeguards, we had no reportable data breaches effect for more than a year, and dozens of other process for more rapid response Strategic social in the past year. To further enhance and expand privacy laws have been enacted or are being • Created a network and practice community of investments our capabilities, we acquired two security updated around the world. We continue to mature privacy leads in regions worldwide Technology & companies in FY19. Sentryo is a provider of and improve our privacy program to align to the human rights device visibility and security solutions for industrial • Renewed our EU/Swiss-US Privacy Shield evolving landscape to ensure privacy is respected Data privacy & security control system networks. We also completed the and APEC Cross Border Privacy Rules and protected. In the past year, we: Responsible sourcing acquisition of Duo Security for unified access system certifications & manufacturing • Updated and published additional Privacy Data security and multifactor authentication. • Obtained APEC Privacy Recognition for Sheets and Data Maps to provide transparency Processors certification for our data handling practices Planet • Revised our Product Security Baseline and Security Readiness Criteria in Cisco SDL to APPX build in privacy-enhancing features and functionality in our products GRI UN SDGs GRI 416:103-2,2,3; 110 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 418:103-2; 416-1 Our Story Building bridges across our industry core principles of transparency, fairness, and Sharing our expertise accountability, because privacy is a human right. Our work doesn’t happen in a vacuum. Just as When it comes to data privacy, knowledge is Specifically, we recommended that the U.S. we connect people and businesses in global power. And sharing that knowledge is critical. develop an omnibus federal privacy law ensuring networks, we are part of a network of peers Our privacy experts regularly participate and CEO Message a consistent baseline of protection. Our working together to ensure security and privacy lead training and panels at conferences and perspective considers how today’s trends, such for all. We’re committed to respecting privacy as take part in industry events such as international as IoT, 5G, and artificial intelligence will impact The Details a human right, helping to shape new regulations Data Privacy Day in January and Cybersecurity and reshape our lives today and into the future. and industry standards to protect privacy while Awareness Month in October. New laws should drive responsible, accountable supporting data-driven innovation, and working The Trust Center is our hub for straight talk on use of data and address the complex privacy with our customers, partners, peers, and others data security and privacy. There, users can find: Governance & needs of a world where tens of billions of Responsibility to do the same. When we’re all better informed devices will soon be online. • Current Cisco security research on these critical issues and work together to develop solutions, we’re all better off. Cisco is leading the development of privacy • Alerts on the latest threat outbreaks People frameworks around the world. We’re speaking out In FY19, Cisco called for comprehensive U.S. • Infographics that break down complex concepts in support of policies that favor interoperable global federal data protection legislation anchored to • Privacy Data Sheets, which explain how Cisco standards and a safe, free, and open Internet. solutions use data Society ● Table 5. External engagement on data privacy • Privacy Data Maps, new in FY19, which use a Building digital skills & entrepreneurship subway map-inspired design to visually show Strategic social how data travels through our network Actions Collaborations investments Participating in groups • Internet Engineering Task Force • Cloud Security Alliance We highlighted the business value of good Technology & including: • Internet Governance Forum • Health Information Trust Alliance • Institute of Electrical and Electronic • National Cyber Security Alliance (NCSA) data privacy with the Cisco 2019 Data Privacy human rights Engineers (IEEE) Standards Association • Payment Card Industry (PCI) Board of Advisors Benchmark Study. The survey was completed by Data privacy & security • International Standards Organization (ISO) • Centre for Information Policy Leadership (CIPL) • National Institute of Standards • Future of Privacy Forum thousands of security professionals worldwide. and Technology (NIST) • Center for Democracy and Technology Responsible sourcing • International Telecommunications Union • International Association of Privacy It revealed the financial benefits of good data & manufacturing • World Wide Web Consortium Professionals (IAPP) privacy processes, including shorter delays in Supporting data • EU/Swiss-US • APEC Cross Border Privacy Rules sales cycles. The study was downloaded about privacy certifications • EU Binding Corporate Rules • APEC Privacy Recognition for Processors such as: 3,500 times. Planet Influencing global • APEC Member Economies • Brazil privacy law and • ASEAN • China regulatory guidance in: • European Union • Singapore APPX • United States • Japan • Canada • Vietnam Leading development of • IEEE GRI privacy standards like: • ISO • EU Cloud Code of Conduct UN SDGs GRI 1  02-12, 102-13, 416: 111 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 103-2,3; 416-1; 418:103-2 Our Story Security begins with us • Phishing Awareness information on how to stay safe in the future, • Cisco SDL Security Readiness including a link to our Phishing Awareness course. Cyberthreats are always evolving. As a company Criteria Enforcement In FY19, we sent roughly 130,000 test phishing that provides security solutions to others, it’s emails each month. important that we educate our employees and • Access controls and multifactor authentication CEO Message others who handle our data on how to stay safe Workers can also deepen their security know-how online. We include data privacy and security The Details by attending conferences and workshops, both topics in our Code of Business Conduct. And we internal and external, reading articles on our offer more than 100 hours of additional training intranet and public website, and viewing posters content for anyone who is interested or whose and digital signage throughout our facilities. job requires enhanced expertise. Cisco engineers, Governance & Brown-bag sessions on privacy topics, for Responsibility for example, are required to complete security example, reached hundreds of employees in FY19. training. However, the curriculum is available to all employees and about one in three Cisco Our people gain awareness about cybersecurity People employees are certified “Security Ninjas,” in less obvious ways, too. We routinely send meaning they’ve completed this training. simulated “phishing” emails to employees. True phishing emails can expose users to malware or We also have a robust awareness program to Society compromise their personal data. Our emails are keep hot privacy and security issues top of ● for educational purposes only, but like real phishing, Building digital skills mind. Keep Cisco Safe is a collection of & entrepreneurship they use links or attachments that aren’t what vignettes, posters, articles, blogs, and full-length Strategic social they seem. When an employee clicks on one of courses that use visualization and gamification investments our phishing test links, we follow up by sending to educate and inform. The program includes Technology & human rights instructions and simple actions employees can take to keep data safe at work, at home, and on Data privacy & security the go. The latest course offerings include: Responsible sourcing Keeping our people safe & manufacturing • 2019 Data Privacy & Security Annual Review Course We won the first-ever Cyber Safe Workplace Award from the National Cyber Security Alliance (NCSA). • Introduction to Data Security at Cisco According to NCSA: Planet • Securing Your Data Environment “Cisco has made extraordinary efforts in developing APPX • Data and Computer Security Incident Reporting workforce commitment and engagement—from the break room to the board room—and continually • Understanding Your Data fostering a culture of cybersecurity, data protection, GRI • Introduction to Privacy and privacy.” UN SDGs GRI 416:103-1, 2, 3; 416-1; 112 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 418:103-2, 3 Our Story CEO Message wwww Responsible sourcing The Details & manufacturing Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People Executives on our Supply Chain Human Rights Governance Committee oversee human rights in Society ● our supply chain to assure accountability and drive Building digital skills positive impact. & entrepreneurship Strategic social W  e use rigorous data analysis to assess our progress investments and develop targeted new initiatives to improve Technology & working conditions in our supply chain. human rights Data privacy & security W  e’re collaborating with suppliers and peers Responsible sourcing on new solutions for mineral traceability and & manufacturing responsible sourcing. B  uilding a diverse supply base helps us meet government and customer expectations. It also Planet helps us improve performance and innovation. APPX  he first cohort of our executive sponsorship program T for top U.S. diverse suppliers ended in FY19, and GRI all sponsees reported that they found the program valuable. The program will expand to include U.S., UN U.K., and India in FY20. SDGs 113 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Socially responsible improving. We also collaborate extensively with industry groups, peers, suppliers, and other supply chain stakeholders to advance responsible supply chains across our industry. The Supply Chain Read more on our CEO Message Sustainability team plays a critical role in identifying, Supply Chain Sustainability Making the world a better place with technology mitigating, and preventing risks to human rights, website. begins with how that technology is made. Cisco’s the environment, and worker health. The Details supply chain enables our business success through the reliable, sustainable, and ethical production and delivery of our products. Cisco’s Figure 9. Governance & Responsibility manufacturing operations are entirely outsourced Supply chain sustainability awards to a global network of hundreds of suppliers and partners. These suppliers: WHO WHAT RECOGNIZED FOR People • Provide the parts that go into our products Commitment to the circular • Assemble and test finished products Top 25 Global Gartner economy, security, and Supply Chains • Provide logistical services building a resilient workforce Society ● • Collect, refurbish, and recycle products at the Building digital skills & entrepreneurship end of their useful life Decisive climate action in As an extension of our operations, we hold our Supplier Engagement measuring, verifying, and Strategic social investments CDP Leader, 2019 Supplier managing the carbon footprint suppliers—and their suppliers—to the same high Climate A-List of our direct operations and Technology & standards we practice. These include standards supply chain human rights for ethics, labor practices, health and safety, and Data privacy & security the environment. This is not only the right thing Responsible sourcing to do, it directly benefits our business and our Center for Climate Commitment to addressing & manufacturing and Energy Solutions 2019 Climate Leadership supply chain partners. High standards ensure climate change—from the (C2ES) and the Awards for Supply Chain resiliency in our operations, as expected by our Leadership facilities we manage to the Climate Registry customers, shareholders, communities, and (TCR) suppliers who partner with us Planet other stakeholders. APPX Sustainability and risk management are embedded in our business strategy and functions. Our #3 in the IT industry (up from #7) approach is focused on assessing risk and Institute of Public on the Corporate Information Targeted work with suppliers GRI & Environmental Transparency Index, #2 in the to address pollution and opportunity, targeting risk areas, and continuously Affairs (IPE) IT industry on the Supply Chain climate with a focus on China Climate Transparency Index UN SDGs GRI 205:103-1; 308:103-1; 114 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 414:103-1; 414-2 Figure 10. Cisco supply chain Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility logistics hubs manufacturing sites People global repair sites Society ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Component suppliers Strategic social A large group of suppliers that provide investments parts to our manufacturing partners 138,600+ 40,700+ according to our specifications Technology & human rights Manufacturing partners 14 Data privacy & security components orderable items A select group of suppliers that produce finished Cisco products Responsible sourcing 2,300+ 424,000+ & manufacturing Logistics service providers Suppliers who transport components and orders daily items shipped daily finished products Planet countries Software suppliers 1,077,500+ 600+ Suppliers who support non-hardware-oriented APPX products and services as Cisco’s business model evolves units repaired suppliers GRI Repair partners Suppliers who operate repair sites and UN View the Cisco Supplier List here. complete service repairs SDGs GRI 102-9, 308:103-1; 115 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 414:103-1 Our Story What we expect of suppliers CEO Message Cisco was a founding member of the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), formerly known as the The Details Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and has contributed to the development of the RBA Code of Conduct. By adopting the RBA Code as Governance & our own Cisco Supplier Code of Conduct, we’ve Responsibility set standards and expectations for labor, health and safety, environment, ethics, and management systems that are consistent across the electronics People industry supply chain. Adopting the Code is central to our commitment to Society the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Our Supplier Ethics Policy requires suppliers ● Rights (UNGPs). It also reflects our longstanding and their employees to conduct themselves with Building digital skills & entrepreneurship pledge to uphold and respect human rights for honesty, fairness, and integrity. As part of the all people, including those who work in our supply supplier qualification process, suppliers must Strategic social investments chain. See Cisco Global Human Rights Policy for affirm that they will follow the Supplier Ethics Technology & more detail about our human rights commitments. Policy and acknowledge that any subcontractors human rights The Code aligns with key international human or other parties they engage will do the same. As a full member of the RBA, Cisco has adopted Data privacy & security rights standards, including: the RBA’s accountability and assessment tools. We hold suppliers accountable throughout Responsible sourcing • The ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles Cisco also participates in RBA’s Responsible the supplier engagement process. During & manufacturing and Rights at Work Minerals Initiative (RMI) and Responsible Labor supplier qualification and onboarding, • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights Initiative (RLI). We also contribute to working suppliers must acknowledge: groups on Environmental Sustainability (ESWG) Planet • Other standards, such as ISO 14001 and • Cisco Supplier Code of Conduct and Validated Assessment Program (VAP). This OHSAS 18001 • Supplier Ethics Policy allows us to monitor and influence outcomes APPX at the industry level. Our involvement helps • Responsible Minerals Policy shape the continual development of RBA • Controlled Substances Specification GRI standards and programs as business and social responsibilities evolve. • Other supply chain-related policies UN SDGs 116 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-2; 414:103-2 Our Story Suppliers must re-acknowledge the Supplier Code of Conduct every time it is updated. This To learn more about our happens every three years. In addition, suppliers work with suppliers on the must cascade the Supplier Code of Conduct environment, see Supplier CEO Message to their next-tier major suppliers. They must environmental performance. then ensure that those suppliers also meet its To learn more about business The Details requirements. Cisco’s policies are embedded in continuity and security, visit standard master purchasing agreements. When Data privacy and security. a supplier consistently fails to meet our policies, we may discontinue the relationship. Governance & Responsibility People Society Cisco expectations of suppliers ● Building digital skills In FY19, Cisco issued the “Cisco Supplier Guide: Sustainability, Risk and & entrepreneurship Security.” It includes the following expectations: Strategic social • Uphold Cisco’s Supplier Code of Conduct and cascade responsible investments business practices into your own supply chain Technology & Cisco Supplier Guide: Sustainability, • Support Cisco’s policy and due diligence to achieve a conflict-free human rights Risk and Security supply chain Ma\ 2019 Data privacy & security • Meet materials compliance requirements as detailed in the Cisco Controlled Substances Specification Responsible sourcing & manufacturing • Support Cisco’s circular economy objectives and circular design principles © 2019 Cisco Public. All rights reserved. • Publicly report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and reduction targets to CDP annually Planet • Uphold environmental responsibility standards and local laws and mitigate impacts in the geographies in which you operate APPX • Comply with Cisco’s Business Continuity Policy and respond to related questionnaires and data requests related to manufacturing site locations GRI • Comply with the applicable security requirements specified in the Master Security Specification UN SDGs 117 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-2; 414:103-2 Our Story How we engage Figure11. The supplier engagement process is essential CEO Message to drive improvement within our own supply Supplier engagement process chain and across our industry. We believe it is The Details imperative to continually evaluate our suppliers for a more resilient and responsible and help them improve through leadership, supply chain support, and education. The engagement process includes four main phases: Governance & Responsibility • Risk assessment • Supplier self-assessments and audits 1 2 People • Corrective Action Plans Risk assessment Self-assessment • Capability-building We evaluate the supply base on and audits social and environmental risk We audit high-risk suppliers based factors, Cisco’s exposure to on RBA’s Validated Assessment those risks, and the inherent Program to assess their risks from operations Society and production. conformance to our ● Risk assessment Scorecards Code of Conduct. Building digital skills We use scorecards & entrepreneurship Cisco evaluates our supply base for social and to drive accountability throughout the environmental risk factors, inherent risks from 4 engagement Strategic social investments process. 3 operations and production, and exposure to Technology & those risks. We rely on reputable sources to Capability building Corrective human rights We offer training and action plans assess vulnerabilities and protections in the encourage continuous We review and approve improvement to help Data privacy & security geographies where suppliers operate. These suppliers better align supplier corrective action plans and monitor their with our values. Responsible sourcing data sources include: progress until closure. & manufacturing • The UN Human Development Index • World Bank Governance Indicators Planet • Other indicators for environmental performance and the presence of forced labor Data analytics APPX We continually improve how we use data to inform our strategy and supplier capability-building. GRI UN SDGs GRI 205:103-2, 3; 308:103-2; 118 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 401: 103-2; 414:103-2 Figure 12. Our Story Risk assessment process CEO Message We also look at risk factors such as suppliers’ past audit performance and workforce composition, and The Details the nature of Cisco’s relationship to the supplier. During FY19, Cisco updated the assessment Geographic Supply chain risk factors risks Exposure risk methodology. It now accounts for the presence of vulnerable workers such as foreign migrant workers, • Human development • Past social environmental • Cisco’s strategic Governance & and governance performance relationship with Responsibility young workers, and student workers. The results of indicators • Workforce composition supplier this assessment help us develop strategy and • Forced labor and human priorities for due diligence, audits and assessments, trafficking indicators People and further supplier engagement. • Environmental performance indicators Society ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Strategic social investments Awards for suppliers Technology & human rights At our annual Supplier Appreciation Data privacy & security Event, we recognize a supply partner Responsible sourcing that has distinguished themselves as & manufacturing visionaries and collaborators in the social and environmental sustainability space. In 2019, the winner of the Excellence in Sustainability Supplier Award was Flex. Flex has been a top collaborator with Planet Cisco in implementing environmental sustainability projects across its operations. Over the last two APPX years, they have embedded best practices in IoT and Energy Management into their Flex Zhuhai and GRI Flex Guadalajara sites. UN SDGs GRI 205:103-2; 205-2; 308:103-2; 401:103-2; 119 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 414:103-2 Our Story Self-assessment and audits Cisco has adopted the RBA’s accountability Table 7. Audits conducted by supplier type and assessment tools. These include SelfAssessment Questionnaires (SAQs) and the FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 CEO Message Validated Assessment Program (VAP). SAQs Manufacturing partner facilities 22 12 17 18 4 13 8 engage suppliers to assess their conformance Component supplier facilities 30 22 29 37 49 47 67 The Details to the RBA Code of Conduct and identify any Total 52 34 46 55 53 60 75 gaps. They give suppliers insight into their own performance. And they help Cisco develop leading indicators for risks that can be addressed during Governance & Responsibility an audit or another due diligence initiative. In FY17, we completed a Human Rights Cisco’s comprehensive supplier auditing program Working hours, emergency preparedness, Impact Assessment. In accordance with its helps suppliers build capability and improve their and occupational safety remained the largest People recommendations, we expanded our scope performance. We make this easier for them by percentage of our audit findings in FY19. We of assessments to include logistics suppliers using RBA’s industry-standard protocol. This also observed multiple findings for new Code during FY19. All of our strategic logistics reduces the number of audits that suppliers have requirements. These include accommodations Society suppliers completed SAQs. They will continue to perform and makes expectations consistent. for pregnant and nursing mothers, which were Third-party auditors who are trained in social and implemented with the latest RBA Code update ● Building digital skills to be part of Cisco’s supplier engagement & entrepreneurship process in FY20. environmental auditing and RBA’s VAP protocols to 6.0 in January 2018. In FY20, we plan to Strategic social conduct audits on site. Auditors walk through proactively address prioritized risks outside of investments production areas, dormitories, and canteens; the audit program. Read more about these Technology & interview workers and management; and review issues here. human rights Table 6. Self-assessment questionnaire policy and procedure documentation. More In FY19, we began working with a small set of Data privacy & security coverage by supplier type information about VAP standard protocols can component suppliers to better understand our Responsible sourcing FY19 be found on the RBA website. next-tier supply base. These component suppliers & manufacturing Manufacturing partners 100% Suppliers share their audit results with Cisco conducted RBA audits of their major suppliers Components suppliers (by spend) 80% through the RBA-ONLINE platform. We require and collaborated with Cisco to monitor supplier Logistics suppliers 100% regular audits of manufacturing partners every two improvement. Through this work, Cisco aims to Planet years. And each year, we audit 25 percent of promote conformance to the RBA Code in lower APPX component supplier facilities that are deemed high tiers of the supply chain where there is greater risk according to our risk assessment process. In risk to workers and the environment. FY19, 75 Cisco supplier facilities conducted RBA GRI initial audits. We estimate these audits covered more than 224,000 workers1 in our supply chain. UN SDGs 1 Includes our Manufacturing and Components suppliers only. GRI 205:103-3; 308:103-3; 120 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 401:103-2, 3; 414:103-3 Table 8. Number of RBA audit findings by category for all audits in FY19 Our Story Total Component Total Contract Supplier Findings Manufacturer Findings Findings Identified as Priority Findings Identified as Major Findings Identified as Minor Labor 207 43 20 142 88 Freely chosen employment 29 4 4 17 12 CEO Message Young workers 4 1 0 2 3 Working hours 127 27 16 87 51 The Details Wages and benefits 28 8 0 24 12 Humane treatment 2 0 0 1 1 Nondiscrimination 13 1 0 8 6 Freedom of association 4 2 0 3 3 Governance & Health and Safety 192 23 8 145 62 Responsibility Occupational safety 52 6 0 49 9 Emergency preparedness 75 7 6 52 24 Occupational injury and illness 24 3 1 16 10 People Industrial hygiene 8 1 0 6 3 Physically demanding work 3 0 0 3 0 Machine safeguarding 2 1 0 2 1 Society Food, sanitation, and housing 20 3 1 13 9 ● Building digital skills Health and safety 8 2 0 4 6 & entrepreneurship communication Environmental 55 8 0 45 18 Strategic social investments Environmental permits 3 1 0 4 0 and reporting Technology & Pollution prevention and 1 1 0 2 0 human rights resource reduction Data privacy & security Hazardous substances 23 3 0 21 5 Solid waste 3 0 0 2 1 Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Air emissions 10 2 0 9 3 Materials restrictions 2 0 0 1 1 Water management 8 1 0 5 4 Energy consumption and 5 0 0 1 4 Planet greenhouse gas emissions APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 205:103-2; 308:103-3; 121 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 308-2; 414:103-3; 414-2 Table 8. Number of RBA audit findings by category for all audits in FY19 (continued) Our Story Total Component Total Contract Supplier Findings Manufacturer Findings Findings Identified as Priority Findings Identified as Major Findings Identified as Minor Ethics 26 2 0 8 20 Business integrity 2 0 0 0 2 CEO Message No improper advantage 9 1 0 2 8 Disclosure of information 3 0 0 2 1 The Details Intellectual property 1 0 0 0 1 Fair business, advertising, and 3 0 0 1 2 competition Protection of identity and 3 0 0 0 3 nonretaliation Governance & Responsibility Responsible sourcing of 3 0 0 3 0 minerals Privacy 2 1 0 0 3 Management Systems 82 12 0 61 33 People Company commitment 0 0 0 0 0 Management accountability 5 0 0 4 1 and responsibility Society Legal and customer 11 2 0 7 6 requirements ● Building digital skills Risk assessment and 6 0 0 5 1 & entrepreneurship risk management Improvement objectives 3 1 0 3 1 Strategic social investments Training 4 0 0 2 2 Communication 5 2 0 5 2 Technology & human rights Worker feedback, participation, 8 1 0 1 8 and grievance Data privacy & security Audits and assessments 7 1 0 4 4 Responsible sourcing Corrective action process 2 0 0 2 0 & manufacturing Documentation and records 3 0 0 3 0 Supplier responsibility 28 5 0 25 8 Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 205:103-2; 308:103-3; 122 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 308-2; 414:103-3; 414-2 Table 9. Audit findings by country Our Story Location/Category Labor H&S Environment Ethics Management Systems Total # Initial Audit # Closure Audit China 185 144 45 12 54 440 44 20 Costa Rica 0 1 1 0 0 2 1 0 CEO Message Czech Republic 4 5 1 1 0 11 1 0 Japan 1 1 0 0 0 2 1 0 Malaysia 26 26 11 6 21 90 8 5 The Details Mexico 5 7 0 1 1 14 3 0 Philippines 5 3 2 0 0 10 3 1 Russia 1 1 0 1 5 8 1 0 South Korea 8 14 2 7 7 38 2 2 Governance & Responsibility Taiwan 2 4 1 0 1 8 5 2 Thailand 8 0 0 0 1 9 0 4 United States 5 9 0 0 4 18 5 2 People Vietnam 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Total 250 215 63 28 94 650 75 36 Society ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Strategic social investments Technology & human rights Data privacy & security Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 205:103-2; 308: 103-3; 123 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 308-2; 414:103-3 Our Story Corrective Action Plans Fish-Bone mapping. This work drives lasting how we define closure rate. Before, if a previous positive change by addressing the root cause finding was still open at the time of an audit, it We aim to help suppliers build their capabilities rather than implementing short-term fixes. was closed and reflected as a new finding in the and adhere to our Code of Conduct. When an Supplier CAPs must adhere to Cisco deadlines. new audit. This essentially restarted the time audit identifies nonconformances, suppliers must CEO Message These are informed by the RBA Validated suppliers had to resolve it. Now, we’ve revised develop Corrective Action Plans (CAPs). In this Assessment Program (VAP) Protocol. Suppliers our definition to account for repeat findings in process, suppliers identify the root cause for the The Details must close findings within a time frame between successive audits. This new approach more nonconformance and develop an action plan with 30 days to nine months. The time frame depends accurately reflects persistent issues. We’ll report proposed changes to policies, procedures, on the severity of the finding. We consider findings our findings in this way going forward. worker training, or communications. They also propose key performance indicators to measure closed after we review revised policies and Counting these repeat findings as still open, our Governance & Responsibility the effectiveness of their actions. Plans are procedures and evidence confirming they have on-time closure rate in FY19 was 92 percent.1 submitted to Cisco and approved only if they been implemented successfully. As needed by Overall, we closed 94 percent1 of priority and major meet our requirements. the RBA VAP protocol, we conduct closure audits. findings scheduled for closure in FY19. Many of People Third-party auditors conduct these audits on site. the findings that we did not close involved specific If a CAP does not meet our requirements, Cisco In FY19, we assessed the effectiveness of our permits awaiting government approval, but whose coaches them in root cause analysis using best CAP management. We found an inconsistency in related activities did not pose particular risk. practice frameworks, such as the 5 Whys or Society ● Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Figure 13. Strategic social investments Helping suppliers improve Technology & human rights Data privacy & security Responsible sourcing & manufacturing 30 Cisco uses audits Suppliers produce Suppliers must address For issues such as the Cisco works closely Planet to identify potential Corrective Action Plans priority issues within monitoring of working with suppliers until problems. and evidence that they 30 days and all other hours, suppliers provide performance improves. APPX have implemented findings within long-term improvement We conduct follow-up their plans. 180 days. plans. audits if needed. GRI UN 1 Excluding working hours and social insurance. See “Working hours and days of rest” for more information. SDGs 124 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-2; 414:103-2 Figure 14. Key audit findings and actions taken across the globe Here are some of the most common priority audit findings in FY19, including findings for issues that are persistent and challenging. Our Story United States Japan South Korea CEO Message China The Details Thailand Emergency preparedness Philippines (emergency exit doors) Malaysia Governance & Finding Action plan Context Responsibility Exit discharge and exit route • Install correct exit doors, signs, Facilities didn’t know doors did not meet legal/RBA and lights about updated RBA Code requirements. Facilities were • Develop and implement requirements, which specify also missing emergency exit procedures for routine that emergency discharge lighting and directional signs. inspections doors must be opened by People • Update and train workers in single motion. new emergency procedures Working hours and days of rest Society Finding Action plan Context ● Building digital skills More than 60 hours were •E  stablish limits and procedures Working hours, workers’ & entrepreneurship worked in a workweek, with for approving overtime needs, variable production overtime exceeding local law. •R  ecruit and cross-train cycles, and lead times can Strategic social In addition, workers did not more workers be complex to balance. Read investments receive at least one day off •S  trengthen shift and more here. every seven days. production planning • Improve production efficiency Technology & Wages and benefits and automation human rights (social insurance) Data privacy & security Finding Action plan Context Responsible sourcing Dispatch workers were not •E  nroll all workers in social Chinese social insurance & manufacturing enrolled in social insurance insurance programs standards and exemptions programs, and social insurance • Ensure wage deductions for differed across local coverage did not meet local social insurance programs jurisdictions. In 2019, China requirements. are calculated in line with centralized authority to the local law national tax bureau and • Communicate changes standardized contribution Planet and efforts to meet legal calculations. We expect to requirements to workers see the trend shift as this Freely chosen employment law takes effect. APPX Finding Action plan Context Suppliers did not have policies •R  eimburse affected workers The majority of issues regarding GRI or procedures to mitigate risk • Create policies and fees involved one-time fees of forced or bonded labor. procedures to prohibit forced paid by a large portion of the Some workers paid fees labor and fees for work workforce for health checkups. UN ranging from 5 percent to • Ensure labor agents follow These amounted to less than SDGs more than 150 percent of RBA’s Definition of Fees 5 percent of monthly gross salary. gross monthly wages to obtain employment. 125 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 414-2 XXX-X, XXX-X, XXX-X Our Story Capability building for completing required activities. These human rights risks and opportunities within the include conflict minerals reporting, audits, CAP supply chain. It also allows us to integrate human Training and building the capabilities of management, pollution prevention activities, rights policies and priorities into business our suppliers is necessary to make lasting and CDP and waste reporting. They also operations. The committee convenes our Senior improvement to working conditions. Some CEO Message receive points for strong audit performance, Vice President of Supply Chain Operations with other suppliers require more coaching and monitoring closing findings on time, and having a high executives representing Global Manufacturing than others. This depends on the maturity of The Details percentage of Responsible Materials Asurance Operations, Global Supplier Management, their programs and the complexity or severity Process (RMAP)-conformant smelters in their Technology & Quality, Supply Chain Transformation, of issues discovered in audits. supply chain. Having sustainability metrics and Legal. Cisco may coach suppliers or assign e-learning alongside cost, quality, and service delivery Supply chain employees, such as operations Governance & courses delivered through RBA’s e-Learning allows managers to make informed decisions Responsibility managers and sourcing and procurement Academy. We assign courses according to the when awarding business to suppliers. specialists, have the potential to encounter supplier’s audit findings to help them gain Multiple teams collaborate to hold suppliers human rights-related challenges in their work. understanding of requirements and build more People accountable to Cisco’s sustainability standards. We continuously educate employees, and in FY20 effective CAPs. We routinely inform managers and executives of we will launch a new supply chain human rights In FY19, 31 unique courses were completed by suppliers’ performance. If a supplier fails to meet compliance training. It will highlight the importance staff at 18 factories. The factory managers at Cisco’s policies or specifications, we escalate of the Supplier Code of Conduct to address Society ● those sites, who had not previously accessed the the issue through management, including to the serious risks such as forced labor through debt Building digital skills & entrepreneurship e-Learning Academy, collectively completed senior executive of supply chain when necessary. bondage, freedom of movement, young workers more than 130 assigned courses, which included Priority audit findings and forced labor allegations and child labor, and ethical sourcing of minerals. Strategic social investments fire safety, health and safety management are reviewed in executive committees such Technology & systems, and working hours. as the Supply Chain Human Rights human rights Governance Committee. Data privacy & security Holding suppliers accountable Responsible sourcing & manufacturing Supplier scorecards help us manage and Supply chain human maintain supplier conformance to Cisco’s Human rights in rights priority areas requirements and standards. The supplier Planet scorecard is used in Cisco’s Supply Chain the supply chain • Freely chosen employment Operations for overall performance monitoring. • Young workers and child labor APPX It also informs supply chain sourcing and We initiated the Supply Chain Human Rights • Ethical sourcing of minerals procurement decisions. In the sustainability Governance Committee in FY19 to help us make • Pollution prevention and GRI section of the scorecard, we score suppliers progress against our priorities (see callout). This hazardous materials committee establishes executive oversight of • Promoting reskilling for the UN future of work SDGs 126 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 414:103-2 Our Story Freely chosen employment Freely chosen employment and forced labor remain salient issues that Cisco monitors Cisco encourages third-party stakeholders and CEO Message carefully and addresses with suppliers as employees to report concerns of misconduct necessary. Cisco upholds the RBA Definition of Fees to minimize the risk of debt bondage. or suspected violation of any of Cisco’s policies The Details The policy requires that workers do not pay using the Cisco EthicsLine. We take any concerns of alleged fees to obtain, maintain, or leave employment. misconduct very seriously and resolve these concerns Cisco also works to ensure that workers do not promptly. In FY19, Cisco did not receive any such reports Governance & experience unreasonable restrictions to their relating to human rights issues within the supply chain. Responsibility freedom of movement. We require suppliers to mitigate risks that could potentially lead to forced labor conditions. They must also remediate People impacts to workers affected. You can read an One such case involves concerns about worked to ensure the supplier addressed the overview of Cisco’s process for addressing nonconformant labor practices and conditions nonconformances in a timely manner including forced labor risks in our Statement on the at a supplier’s operations. The concerns were the immediate reimbursement of costs and fees Society Prevention of Slavery and Human Trafficking. raised in FY18, and Cisco worked with the paid by workers. ● Building digital skills During FY19, supplier audits uncovered supplier through FY19 to resolve them. Cisco In partnership with the RBA, Cisco provided & entrepreneurship nonconformities to our Code of Conduct for first commissioned a thorough investigation to localized training on the Code, ethical labor Strategic social Freely Chosen Employment. These indicated assess the supplier’s conformance to Cisco’s standards, and recruitment practices to staff investments risks for forced labor or bonded labor. We found Code, local laws, and international standards at the supplier facility and labor recruitment Technology & human rights workers in China who paid one-time medical on ethical recruitment and employment. The agencies. Cisco monitored the supplier as they exam fees of less than 5 percent of their monthly investigation identified foreign migrant workers implemented the policy and practices and Data privacy & security salary. Cisco’s audits also uncovered cases of who had paid excessive relocation costs. Some trained their own workers on the new policy. Responsible sourcing workers struggled to understand the terms of & manufacturing excessive recruitment fees charged to foreign A third-party RBA audit verified closure of the migrant workers. During FY19, Cisco oversaw their contracts and disciplinary proceedings due issues. However, the audit also identified areas suppliers’ reimbursement of about $400,000 in to lack of written communication in a language for improvement to prevent recurring forced health check and recruitment fees to 2,150 they understood. Also, the facility’s labor labor risk and affect ethical treatment of workers. Planet workers. To make lasting improvements, Cisco agencies had various nonconformances to the will monitor and coach suppliers across multiple RBA Code. As part of corrective actions, Cisco APPX years if needed. GRI UN SDGs 127 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 414:103-2 Our Story We’re dedicated to improving cases like these. suppliers with vulnerable worker populations such 3TG are sometimes known as “conflict minerals” Working with the RBA on workgroups like the as migrant workers, young workers, interns, and because of concerns about their mining and sale Responsible Labor Initiative, and with other RBA student workers. We used the results of this contributing to armed conflict and human rights members, remains an important aspect of assessment to prioritize suppliers for engagement abuses in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. CEO Message addressing serious human rights issues. beyond our normal audit processes and assess Cisco does not procure minerals directly from their policies and practices. We will be working mines or the smelters or refiners (SORs) that The Details with those suppliers to further identify and address process them. However, we are committed to Young workers and child labor potential risks during FY20. upholding and respecting human rights for all Protecting the rights of young workers within people, including those who work in the earliest Cisco’s supply chain is an important priority. Our Ethical sourcing of minerals parts of our supply chain. Our goal is to work Governance & standards for protecting workers under the age Responsibility collaboratively with suppliers to source minerals of 18, including the types of work they cannot Cisco products, like most electronics, contain consistent with our values around human rights, perform, are outlined in the Juvenile Labor tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold. These minerals, business ethics, labor, health and safety Guidance Document. known as 3TG, are mined around the world. People practices, and environmental responsibility. In FY19, Cisco did not observe any cases of This approach includes sourcing responsibly young workers at risk or any cases of underage from conflict-affected and high-risk areas. Society child labor. However, audits identified suppliers Our full commitment, informed by the UNGPs, ● who did not have written procedures to address is captured in our Responsible Minerals Policy. Building digital skills & entrepreneurship underage child labor if children were to be Our activities are aligned to the OECD Due Strategic social discovered working on site. In these cases, Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply investments Cisco works with suppliers to close gaps. We Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and Technology & help them strengthen their management systems High-Risk Areas. human rights so they can responsibly resolve these issues if Data privacy & security they occur. Responsible sourcing We know that freely chosen employment and & manufacturing young workers are salient human rights issues in technology supply chains. That’s why in FY19, Cisco strengthened its due diligence processes Planet on these topics. We conducted a focused assessment of manufacturing and component APPX GRI UN SDGs 128 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 414:103-2 Our Story Table 10. Total smelters and refiners, by conflict mineral (CY2018) Industry collaboration Total Smelters and Current Percentage Refiners, by Conflict Number Conformant or Conformant or Active Because Cisco does not buy 3TG directly from Mineral (2018)* Active (2018) (2018) CEO Message SORs, we collaborate with our suppliers to Gold 153 105 69% conduct due diligence for responsible mineral Tantalum 40 40 100% sourcing. We also work across our industry to Tin 80 72 90% The Details Tungsten 42 40 95% develop tools and practices to support due diligence. We use the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) Conflict Minerals Reporting Governance & Template (CMRT) to survey suppliers, review Responsibility high risk. Through the Supply Chain Human Rights Cisco is committed to addressing these issues SORs they report, and request them to work Governance Committee, we regularly notify by extending our existing due diligence through their supply chains to shift sourcing to Cisco’s supply chain leadership of our progress. practices. In FY20, Cisco will initiate our first SORs conformant with RMI’s Responsible People If a supplier does not attempt to comply with our Cobalt Supplier Survey, using the RMI’s Cobalt Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP). Responsible Minerals Policy, we may escalate Reporting Template (CRT) to survey lithium-ion Cisco also participates in RMI working groups to the supplier to global supply chain management battery suppliers. Society help develop best practices and standards that and possibly remove them from our supply chain. RMI has expanded its RMAP audit process ● increase the availability of responsibly sourced Building digital skills In 2018, 81 percent of the identified 3TG SORs beyond the DRC and surrounding countries to & entrepreneurship minerals. Our participation will increase in FY20. for current products had been audited by or were include due diligence on all conflict-affected We’ll contribute to the Smelter Engagement Team, Strategic social active in the RMAP process. For more information, and high-risk areas (CAHRAs). In FY19, Cisco investments which performs research on and outreach to see Table 10. The Conflict Minerals Disclosure contributed to the RMI’s Upstream Due Technology & SORs to engage them in the RMAP process. human rights and Report, published in May 2019, describes Diligence Smelter Fund. Our goals with this We’ll also participate in the Mining Engagement in detail how our due diligence activities align contribution are to: Data privacy & security Team, which works with upstream stakeholders to OECD Guidance. • Support smelters making the transition to Responsible sourcing to increase the quantity and quality of data that & manufacturing enables downstream companies to identify and broader due diligence requirements mitigate risks. • Promote the adoption of RMAP assessment Beyond “conflict minerals” After Cisco analyzes supplier CMRTs, we address protocols beyond central Africa and into Demand is increasing for accountability and Planet any identified risks. This includes working with other CAHRAs transparency regarding human rights in global suppliers to remove non-RMAP-conformant • Offset the due diligence cost of sourcing APPX mineral supply chains. This extends beyond the SORs from the supply chain. We set the highest responsibly from CAHRAs and support DRC and beyond 3TG to minerals like cobalt. priority on SORs that meet Cisco’s definition of peaceful economic activity in those regions GRI UN SDGs 129 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 414:103-2 Our Story Advancing transparency emergency preparedness, and reasonable Assessment (QEA) tool with select component through blockchain accommodations for pregnant and nursing suppliers to identify what controls are in place mothers. To address these trends, Cisco sought to address chemical exposure risks. Cisco will Cisco recognizes a need to build upon current tools and resources that could help identify risks use the results of that assessment to engage industry standards and increase the accuracy CEO Message outside of regular RBA audits. component suppliers to mitigate risks. with which downstream companies report on the origin of their materials. As a contributor to Suppliers struggled to conduct risk assessments In addition, to address the frequent audit findings RMI’s blockchain working group, we are exploring in adequate emergency preparedness, fire safety, The Details related to chemical handling and containing and and providing reasonable accommodations for opportunities to leverage blockchain technology to storing chemicals to prevent exposure to workers pregnant and nursing mothers, Cisco will pilot an provide enhanced transparency and trust. This and the environment. Cisco expects suppliers to on-site spot check program. Cisco employees includes valid data on the extraction, processing, evaluate, control, and prevent worker exposure to Governance & who regularly visit supplier factories will be Responsibility and transportation of 3TG materials in Cisco chemicals according to a hierarchy of controls trained to check for visible evidence of supplier products and the ability to share the collected and provide workers with adequate training and conformance to these requirements. The data across the various actors in the supply chain. personal protective equipment. In FY19, Cisco goal is to get additional insight into supplier People In FY18, we worked with industry peers and a became a pilot partner of the Clean Electronics performance beyond audits and prevent large-scale mining company to design and test Production Network (CEPN). CEPN is a recurring nonconformances. Cisco will work with prototypes at a small-scale mine in Africa. In multistakeholder network with the goal to suppliers to address any management systems Society FY19, we started the next phase of this project address workers’ exposure to toxic chemicals gaps and promote continuous improvement. ● by initiating a blockchain pilot in Peru. The goal during electronics manufacturing. In FY20, Building digital skills & entrepreneurship of this project is to learn how data generated in Cisco will pilot CEPN’s Qualitative Exposure Strategic social the mines at the start of the supply chain can investments support downstream companies to execute their Technology & responsible sourcing strategies. We also aim to human rights understand how the value of that data can be Data privacy & security returned to mining communities and drive Responsible sourcing peaceful economic development. & manufacturing Health and safety Planet Protecting workers’ health and safety and providing workers with safe working conditions is part of our APPX human rights commitment and priorities. During FY19, our team conducted a multiyear analysis GRI of nonconformances to Cisco’s Code. We observed a trend of healthand safety-related UN nonconformances in chemical management, SDGs 130 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 414:103-2 Our Story Conducting these pilots is a first step toward engaging suppliers on issues beyond our audit program and providing opportunities for Cisco Learn more about our work to better identify, assess, and address risks to to prevent pollution and protect CEO Message workers’ health and safety within the supply chain. the health of the communities around our supplier sites. The Details Working hours and days of rest Working hours and days of rest is a chronic closure guidelines. We do not include working issue in the electronics industry supply chain hours nonconformances when calculating Governance & and our most frequent audit finding category. closure rates. This allows us to focus on Responsibility Cisco works with suppliers to thoroughly adequately addressing root causes, rather than uncover root causes during the CAP review implementing short-term solutions. As part of Supplier diversity process, develop changes to workforce our long-term commitment, Cisco will dive People management systems, and monitor long-term deeper into this issue during FY20 to see how Creating a responsible supply base includes improvement plans. As we drive progress, we can drive systematic improvement. creating opportunities for diverse-owned we consider the time it takes suppliers to: Society businesses. We actively seek diverse businesses ● • Recruit new workers to reduce the total Promoting reskilling to supply us with goods, services, and labor. Building digital skills & entrepreneurship workforce’s average working hours for the future of work Why does supplier diversity matter? In some Strategic social • Cross-train and license workers so they can Cisco’s socioeconomic research has examined countries, it’s a requirement. Diversity is also investments rotate to roles with workforce shortages how technologies such as automation, IoT, and a mandate from many of our customers. Technology & For example, the U.S. federal government human rights Cisco tracks progress of suppliers with priority artificial intelligence can impact the global nonconformances monthly until the finding is workforce. As manufacturing evolves in our encourages its vendors to source from domestic Data privacy & security downgraded to a major nonconformance. Before supply chain, Cisco has been working to businesses owned by citizens from the following Responsible sourcing determining a nonconformance as ready to close, understand how the shift toward more disadvantaged groups: & manufacturing Cisco conducts a document review of at least automation will affect workers within the supply • Small business three months of average working hours data. chain. In FY19, Cisco and supplier partners • Women-owned business Our goal is to structure solutions so that collaborated on how to make sustainable Planet • Minority-owned business nonconformances do not recur in the next workforce investments to build a more resilient APPX seasonal production cycle or wave of workforce workforce ready to address the future of • Veteran-owned business attrition. However, corrective actions often take manufacturing. Collaboration to develop a pilot • Service-disabled veteran-owned business longer to implement than RBA’s recommended is ongoing and will continue through FY20. GRI UN SDGs GRI 4 03:103-1, 2; 405:103-2; 131 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 414:103-2 Our Story • Disabled veteran-owned business • Historically underutilized business (HUB) zone While LGBT-owned businesses do not fall Cisco’s supplier diversity program is a win-win for Cisco and CEO Message under the U.S. federal government guidelines suppliers. It provides the needed advocacy and advice to our as a disadvantaged group, we track inclusion of suppliers. And Cisco benefits from the diverse talent and skills.” these businesses, as well. Over 100 customers Swati Saran, Vice President, Customer and Partner Experience, Cisco The Details request Cisco’s diversity spend each quarter, and this number continues to grow. In FY19, we adopted a standard format for sharing We participate in professional organizations Lastly, Cisco participates in the National Minority Governance & this information. Responsibility to help us further engage with diverse-owned Supplier Development Council and Women’s Promoting diversity is more than compliance, businesses. In FY19, we focused our participation Business Enterprise National Council conferences. however. It’s no easy task for a company of with regional and global organizations. Lastly, Cisco’s size to elevate supplier diversity among Cisco participates in the National Minority Supplier People other priorities. But doing so helps us better Development Council and Women’s Business Making diversity visible connect with our global base of customers and Enterprise National Council conferences. Current Before a category manager can choose a diverse employees. In addition, research shows that memberships include: supplier, they must first be aware that such a Society ● diverse suppliers regularly meet or exceed supplier exists. Cisco has procurement tools and Building digital skills • Carolina Virginia Minority Supplier customer expectations. Cisco’s work was processes that help us do this. This approach & entrepreneurship Development Council recognized in FY19 at the Procurement Leaders’ helps us create a stronger pipeline for long-term Strategic social investments Americas Procurement Congress event. We • NC Morrisville Chamber of Commerce diverse supplier spend. were also on the short list for the World Supplier • North Carolina Veterans Business Association Technology & For example, when internal clients in the U.S. human rights Diversity & Inclusion Awards. • Technology Industry Group search for augmented staff, they receive a list of Data privacy & security • WEConnect International preferred suppliers. Of these lists, 99 percent Responsible sourcing include at least one diverse supplier. And these & manufacturing • Western Regional Minority Supplier diverse suppliers win 27 percent of bids. In the Development Council U.K. and India, 91 percent and 97 percent, respectively, of contingent labor job postings Planet include a woman-owned business. APPX GRI UN SDGs 132 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 405:103-3 Our Story Helping suppliers maximize their potential Supporting women business owners How better to help suppliers succeed than by Women face work-related barriers in all parts of connecting them with Cisco leaders? This was the world. As a result, the global expansion of the idea behind an executive sponsorship our supplier diversity program focuses on CEO Message program for Cisco’s top U.S. diverse suppliers. women-owned businesses. Cisco partners with Through this program, 26 U.S. Cisco executives WEConnect International, an organization that The Details paired with 26 diverse suppliers. They met at builds capacity among women business owners. least quarterly for 18 months. The goal of the It also connects women-owned businesses with program was for diverse suppliers to: potential corporate buyers. Governance & • Build a structured relationship within Cisco Over the past year, we kicked off this partnership L to R: Ted Baumuller, Former Cisco Vice President, Responsibility Category & Supplier Management; Alexandra Lopez, • Better understand Cisco’s culture and priorities with events in Bedfont Lakes, U.K., and Bangalore, Cisco Chief Procurement Officer and Vice President, India. Steering committees in both locations will Global Procurement Services; Sonu Ratra, Akraya • Receive coaching and feedback President and CoFounder; Irving Tan, Cisco help us engage with local businesses. People Executive Vice President, Chief of Operations. The first round of this program ended in FY19. And it delivered on every measure. • Scores on Supplier Performance and Society ● Recognition (SPAR) surveys increased for each Building digital skills & entrepreneurship of the last four quarters of the program Supplier Day Diversity Award Strategic social • Suppliers reduced their financial risk and investments revenue reliance on Cisco Our Supplier Day Diversity Award recognizes suppliers Technology & who share Cisco’s commitment to inclusion and deliver • Seven new sponsorees earned preferred human rights high customer satisfaction. The 2019 winner was Akraya, supplier status a minority woman-owned consulting and staffing supplier. Data privacy & security All in all, with an 88 percent response rate, The company created Women Back to Work, a program Responsible sourcing that makes it easier for professional women to return to the & manufacturing all diverse sponsorees found the sponsorship workforce after a hiatus. Akraya is also committed to giving program valuable and said it helped them better back. They support the India Project Race for Literacy and understand how to work with Cisco. This program the Saranalayam Orphanage, and participate in local Habitat aligns with our Multiplier Effect pledge—a call for for Humanity builds. Akraya is a member of the Institute Planet Cisco leaders to help diverse individuals advance for Economic Empowerment of Women and Silicon Valley in their careers. A second cohort of this program Leadership Group. APPX has begun and now includes suppliers in the U.K. and India. GRI UN SDGs 133 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 403:103-1, 2 Planet Advancing environmentally sustainable growth in a digital world We are committed to: Environmental sustainability approach 137 Supplier environmental performance 150 Energy & GHG emissions 156 Product & packaging materials 182 Other topics 197 134 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Figure 1. Our Story 2019 Planet dashboard In progress Complete Goal: Goal: Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide Avoid 1 million metric tonnes of GHG by 60 percent absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline) emissions in our supply chain from CEO Message FY12 to FY20 Our progress: We are investing in Our progress: The Details energy efficiency Smart supply chain decisions across the organization and renewables to -41% FY17 helped us achieve and exceed this goal one year ahead meet this FY22 goal. of schedule. -45% FY18 Governance & Responsibility FY17 71% -49% FY19 82% of goal achieved 91% FY18 People FY19 115% Society 115% of goal achieved Goal: Improve large rack-mounted equipment system power efficiency—as measured from the input power from the Planet facility to the board-mounted ASICs, memory, and Goal: other chip devices—from 77 percent to 87 percent ● Environmental Use electricity generated from renewable sustainability approach by 2022 (using FY16 baseline) sources for at least 85 percent of our Supplier environmental performance -50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 global electricity by FY22 Our progress: 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 By driving energy Energy & GHG Our progress: emissions efficiency into our We are sourcing renewable energy in North America, largest-energy2017 80% Product & packaging India, and Europe to meet this goal. consuming products, materials we’re making steady 2018 82% Other topics progress toward our goal. 2017 80% 2019 85% APPX 2018 82% 2019 83% GRI UN 98% of goal achieved SDGs 135 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Figure 1. 2019 Planet dashboard (continued) Key performance metrics Our Story CEO Message 600+ employees are members of the Cisco Green Team Network The Details 100% 191.5 19.4 Governance & Responsibility metric tonnes of of energy avoided in our internal of electricity used at operations through energy used electronics GWh North American facilities is efficiency and renewable collected at People generated from renewable energy projects Recycle IT energy sources Day 2019 Society Circular economy goals: Planet •8  0 percent of Cisco component, manufacturing, and •R  educe all foam used in Cisco product packaging by 75 percent ● logistics suppliers by spend will have a public, absolute measured by weight, by FY25 (FY19 base year). Environmental GHG emissions reduction target by FY25. sustainability approach • Increase product packaging efficiency by 50 percent by FY25, Supplier environmental •7  0 percent of Cisco component and manufacturing suppliers as measured by package volume per weight of product performance by spend will achieve a zero waste diversion rate at one or (FY19 base year). more sites by FY25. Energy & GHG • Design all new products using circular design principles by FY25. emissions •R  educe Cisco supply chain-related Scope 3 GHG emissions Learn more about our goals in Table 3. Product & packaging by 30 percent absolute by FY30 (FY19 base year). materials •D  ecrease use of virgin plastics by 20 percent by FY25 Other topics (FY18 base year). APPX GRI According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols, “zero waste” 1 diversion is defined as a 90 percent or greater overall diversion of solid, nonhazardous wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and/or compost. UN SDGs 136 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message Environmental wwww The Details sustainability approach Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People Cisco has set environmental goals since 2006, and continues to set goals aligned with our Society most material issues. T  hree executives sponsor our energy and GHG emissions Planet initiatives. This arrangement reflects the complexity ● Environmental of an issue that affects our operations, supply chain, sustainability approach and products. Supplier environmental performance  ur enterprisewide circular economy program operates O Energy & GHG under a dedicated program management office. emissions Product & packaging We use life-cycle assessments (LCAs) to estimate materials the GHG emissions associated with the different lifeOther topics cycle stages of our products and to help prioritize the best ways to reduce these emisions. APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 301:103-1, 2; 302: 137 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 103-1, 2 Our Story This chapter is designed to be a comprehensive the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. reference for environmental sustainability Topic names used within this chapter map to the information published by Cisco. We provide GRI Standards, but their names are aligned to See Cisco's performance information either directly in this report or via a the specifics of Cisco’s business, as shown in in accordance with the GRI CEO Message hyperlink to information on cisco.com or another Table 1. Standards in our publicly accessible resource. Appendix IV lists all GRI Content Index. There are two significant differences between our The Details hyperlinks in this chapter. If you have questions, report headings and GRI topics. First, we group contact us using the “feedback” link in the lower energy and a subset of emissions—greenhouse left corner of every page of this report. gases (GHG)—under a single heading. We also The first major section of this chapter is use the term “waste” to refer to operational waste Governance & Responsibility Environmental Sustainability, which covers topics from our labs and offices. It does not include Cisco such as our environmental management system product production. See Product & packaging (EMS). The remaining major sections address materials for more information on used Cisco People environmental topics using the terminology from products and how we’re implementing circular economy principles. Society Table 1. Mapping between GRI Standards topics and CSR Report sections GRI Topic-Specific Standard Related Planet Section Planet ● 301: Materials Product & packaging materials Environmental 302: Energy Energy & GHG emissions sustainability approach 303: Water and effluents Water Supplier environmental Effluents (liquid) performance 304: Biodiversity Biodiversity (including land use) Energy & GHG 305: Emissions Non-GHG emissions emissions 306: Effluents and waste Effluents Solid waste from operations (“trash”) Product & packaging materials 307: Environmental compliance Environmental sustainability approach Environmental compliance Other topics 308: Supplier environmental assessment Environmental sustainability approach Supplier environmental performance APPX GRI UN SDGs 138 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Our Story CSR materiality Environment-related topics are ranked in Table 2 based on stakeholder input and our sustainability Life-cycle assessments One way we prioritize our most important assessment: materiality assessment. The top two issues are environmental issues is through life-cycle addressed through initiatives with dedicated CEO Message Environment funding and program structure, and progress assessments (LCAs). LCAs allow us to estimate the GHG emissions and environmental impacts is motivated and measured through publicly of our products through their entire life cycle. The Details announced goals. The remaining environmental In FY19, a review completed by an independent We continue to see that our products consume issues are also addressed, but through normal, consultancy confirmed that our environmentthe largest proportion of energy—and are operational due diligence by the responsible related priorities remain: responsible for the most GHG emissions— business functions. Details of our efforts and during the product-use life-cycle phase. Governance & • Energy and GHG emissions, with a focus on performance are provided in the topic-specific Responsibility energy consumption and GHG emissions from sections of this Planet chapter. Our LCAs use the five product life-cycle stages our operations and those of our suppliers, as defined by the GHG Protocol in the Product Life A full explanation of Cisco’s materiality well as from use of our products. Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard. This People assessment process and outcomes can be is based on the ISO 14040 standard: • Product and packaging materials, focusing found in the Governance chapter of this report. on material resource efficiency, and waste • Material acquisition and pre-processing Society from our operations and extended operations • Manufacturing (supply chain). Stakeholder inquiries • Transport (distribution and storage) Please see the Governance chapter of this report for an explanation of Cisco’s stakeholder • Use Planet ● Table 2. Ranking of environment topics engagement activities. • End of life Environmental sustainability approach Tier Environment Topic Supplier environmental performance 1 Energy /GHG Material use and waste Energy & GHG 2 IT solutions for the environment emissions 3 Water Product & packaging Biodiversity (including land use) materials Solid waste from operations (trash) Effluents (liquid) Other topics Non-GHG emissions APPX GRI UN SDGs 139 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-46; 301:103-2 Our Story To support our LCA work, we utilize external Figure 2: Breakdown of GHG emissions by life-cycle phase for various Cisco product categories tools and data sources, including thinkstep GaBi 7.3 and publicly available data sources, Chassis-based Small access such as the International Energy Agency (IEA); IP phone1 switch2 router2,3 CEO Message the United Kingdom’s Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy; and the The Details Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Much of the electronics industry uses the same components and materials in its products. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology Product Governance & Responsibility Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) program Use 81.5% Use 93.4% Use 92.8% has developed a collaborative tool to efficiently Manufacturing 19.4% Manufacturing 6.0% Manufacturing 6.0% perform LCAs for GHG impacts. Last year, Transport 0.9% Transport 1.0% Transport 1.5% End-of-life -1.8% End-of-life -0.4% End-of-life -0.2% People Cisco joined the PAIA program, which allows us to streamline LCAs by using shared, industryLarge chassis Mid-level standard inputs. router2 ethernet switch2 Blade server1 Society We benchmarked the PAIA tool against prior GaBi results by conducting new LCAs on a Unified Computing System (UCS) B200 Blade Server and Planet a 7800-series IP phone using both the GaBi and ● Environmental PAIA tools. The tools provided similar results. We sustainability approach plan to use the PAIA tool going forward as it is a Supplier environmental faster, industry-standard method. It allows us to performance efficiently analyze product GHG life-cycle Use 93.0% Use 89.0% Use 91.2% Energy & GHG Manufacturing 4.0% Manufacturing 8.5% Manufacturing 9.0% emissions impacts, which in turn enables us to identify Transport 3.2% Transport 3.0% Transport 0.1% opportunities faster. End-of-life -0.2% End-of-life -0.5% End-of-life -0.3% Product & packaging materials The updated LCA analyses we completed in Other topics FY19 identified changes over time. For example, 1 From FY19 LCA 2 From FY08 and FY11 LCA updated LCAs of the FY19 IP phone showed that 3 Some figures may not total 100 percent due to rounding of underlying data APPX improvements in energy efficiency had reduced the phone’s overall emissions, compared with the existing LCA of the previous-generation GRI Cisco IP phone. At the same time, the proportion of emissions by category remained consistent. UN SDGs Although our phones do not use as much energy 140 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Our Story as our rack-mounted equipment, the long life of Figure 3: IP phone and blade server breakdown of GHG emissions by product component type an IP phone still leads to a higher proportion of IP phone1 Blade server1 GHG emissions in the use phase, compared to emissions from the other life-cycle phases which Intergrated circuits 40.3% PWB 46.0% CEO Message are driven more by the weight of the product. PWB 21.5% Intergrated circuits 24.3% Enclosure materials 16.8% Hard drive 22.5% Figure 2 provides a snapshot of GHG emissions Electronics (other) 13.5% Electronics (other) 5.0% The Details by life-cycle phase for a representative sample Assembly & test 4.3% Packaging 1.9% LCD screen 1.7% Enclosure materials 0.2% of Cisco products. Packaging 2.0% Assembly & test 0.0% Figure 3 provides a breakdown of GHG Governance & emissions by product component type. 1 Some figures may not total 100 percent due to rounding of underlying data Responsibility Figure 4 breaks out these LCA environmental impact categories by life-cycle phase. Figure 4: Blade server impacts by life-cycle phase (% impact) People Figure 5 summarizes the relative impact across Global warming potential standard LCA environmental impact categories Primary energy demand by component. Blue water consumption Society Eutrophication potential The extraction and processing of precious metals Acidification potential like copper and gold required to make printed Abiotic depletion circuit boards (PCBs) and integrated circuits Smog formation potential Planet (ICs) are the primary drivers of all categories of ● Environmental environmental impact, including abiotic depletion, 0 20 40 60 80 100 sustainability approach Manufacturing Transport Use End-of-life which is the decreasing availability of non-living Figure 5: Blade server manufacturing impacts by component (% impact) Supplier environmental resources like minerals and fossil fuels. This performance type of environmental impact is an important Global warming potential Energy & GHG emissions consideration for the circular economy. Hard-drive Primary energy demand manufacturing processes, including washing and Blue water consumption Product & packaging Eutrophication potential materials cooling of production chemicals, are the primary Acidification potential drivers of blue water consumption and smog Other topics Abiotic depletion formation, respectively. Smog formation potential APPX 0 20 40 60 80 100 Printed wiring board Integrated circuits Hard disk drive Electronics (other) GRI Packaging Enclosure materials Assembly & testing UN SDGs 141 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Environmental Table 3. Cisco environment goals Our Story policy Date Goal Completed Announced Goal Topic Goal Statement (performance table) in 2019 Cisco has developed a series of practices over June 2016 Energy/GHG Avoid 1 million metric tonnes of GHG emissions within our supply chain between FY12 and FY20. the last 10 years that guide our environmental CEO Message September 2017 Energy/GHG 1. R educe total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide efforts. These policies declare our values and by 60 percent absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline). inform our decision-making. Our practices are: 2. U se electricity generated from renewable sources for at least The Details 85 percent of our global electricity by FY22. • We will eliminate or mitigate our environmental September 2018 Energy/GHG Improve large rack-mounted-equipment system power impacts. Cisco accepts responsibility for negative efficiency—as measured from the input power from the facility to the board-mounted ASICs, memory, and other environmental impact from our operations, chip devices—from 77 percent to 87 percent by FY22 (FY16 baseline). Governance & extended operations (supply chain), and Responsibility October 2018 Product and Decrease use of virgin plastics by 20 percent by FY25 throughout the life cycle of our products. packaging materials (FY18 base year).1 (Table 19) • We will implement our environmental policies July 2019 Product and • Reduce all foam used in Cisco product packaging by packaging materials 75 percent measured by weight, by FY25 (FY19 base year). People consistently across all Cisco operations • Increase product packaging efficiency by 50 percent by and legal entities worldwide, all extended FY25, as measured by package volume per weight of product (FY19 base year). operations, and all products. • 70 percent of Cisco component and manufacturing suppliers by spend will achieve a zero waste diversion rate at one or Society • We will govern our environment-related efforts more sites by FY25.2 using an externally certified, ISO 14001 EMS. August 2019 Energy/GHG • 80 percent of Cisco component, manufacturing, and logistics suppliers by spend will have a public, absolute GHG emissions • We will take a broad approach. The scope of reduction target by FY25.3 Planet our EMS includes energy and GHG emissions, • Reduce Cisco supply chain-related Scope 3 GHG emissions ● by 30 percent absolute by FY30 (FY19 base year).4 Environmental product and packaging materials, water, sustainability approach biodiversity and land use, solid waste 1  he plastics included in this goal make up the majority of Cisco’s use. However, it excludes plastics contained in commodity T Supplier environmental components sourced from suppliers (such as printed circuit boards). Most of these electronic components require the performance from operations, liquid effluents, and electrical insulating property provided by plastics. non-GHG emissions. 2 According to current standard definitions used in certification protocols, “zero waste” diversion is defined as a 90 percent or Energy & GHG greater overall diversion of solid, nonhazardous wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. emissions • We will listen. The earth’s ecosystem is Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and/or compost. 3 Preferably in line with an approved science-based methodology (applying either a 1.5 or well below 2°C reduction scenario). Product & packaging complex, and there is much to be learned from Includes suppliers that set intensity targets that produce an absolute emissions reduction during the target period. materials our customers, our employees, advocacy 4 Includes allocated emissions from Cisco’s Tier 1 and Tier 2 manufacturing, component, and warehouse suppliers, and calculated emissions associated with transportation emissions managed and paid for by Cisco. Emissions are allocated based Other topics groups, academia, and other stakeholders. on Cisco’s financial share of the supplier’s reported global Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. Transportation emissions will be reported as Upstream Transportation and Distribution according to GHG Protocol methodology because they are paid directly by Cisco. APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 102-11; 301:103-2; 142 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 302:103-2 Our Story • We will identify key analysts and advocacy groups and form strong working relationships. This will help us build a consistent, independent, external measure of our environmental performance. CEO Message • We will identify our environmental impact through annual sustainability materiality assessments The Details informed by stakeholder listening. We will follow the precautionary principle in establishing priorities and implementing initiatives. Governance & • We will set unambiguous, public goals to drive Responsibility improvement and demonstrate accountability. Please refer to Table 3, Environmental Goals for more details on our goals and their governance. People • We will annually and publicly report our environmental performance, prioritizing full disclosure and the stakeholder perspective. Society Links in the table’s left-hand column direct to • We’ll announce goals in a Cisco blog post Environment goals Cisco blog posts announcing each goal. Links that provides context for the global problem Planet in the right column direct to pages of this report being addressed, how Cisco contributes ● Our annual sustainability materiality assessment Environmental where we report performance against the goal. to the problem, how we plan to reduce our sustainability approach incorporates input and feedback from our Appendix IV lists our completed goals with a impact, and any further explanation of the stakeholders as well as a technical assessment Supplier environmental link and page reference to the CSR Report goal language. Even though this context performance of the global problem and Cisco’s contribution to corresponding to the target or completion year. can be complex, we believe it’s important to both the problem and the solution. In 2006, we Energy & GHG emissions announced our first public goal, for business air The governing protocol for our goals is as follows: share it in the interest of full disclosure. Product & packaging travel reduction. Since then, we’ve understood the • We will publicly announce goals for our top-two • We’ll report goal progress annually in the CSR materials importance of public goals for our most material material issues. Report with base year and up to five years of Other topics issues, accompanied by a strong governing • We’ll ensure that goal language is detailed performance data, or the goal duration if it is protocol. Table 3 lists Cisco’s active goals for and unambiguous. less than five years. We will explicitly display APPX our top two material issues in chronological order. our progress against the goal. GRI UN SDGs 143 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-11; 302:103-2 Our Story • We will keep goal language fixed through through remanufacturing, refurbishment, and environmental topics. As our sustainability efforts the duration of the goal, except in rare repair (Capital Equipment Pledge from World continued to mature and our initiatives became circumstances and with full disclosure of the Economic Forum). increasingly integrated into our business, reason for the change. The complete goal is management and governance were further split • At our RTP campus, we are piloting techniques CEO Message included at least once in any communication into two pieces corresponding to our two most to become water-neutral and zero-waste. about the goal. material environmental issues: energy/GHG and • Our recycling partners will maintain a diversion product and packaging materials. Governance The Details • An outside body will independently assure rate to landfill of less than 0.38 percent by related to product and packaging materials is fully reported performance (limited assurance per weight of all material received. embedded within our Circular Economy program. ISO 14064-3). • Cisco has set goals that have been approved Energy/GHG emissions Governance & Cisco has also made public environmental Responsibility by the Science-Based Targets initiative. commitments that are outside of our materialityThree executives sponsor our energy and GHG driven goal process but provide inspiration initiatives. This structure reflects the multipronged for attacking difficult problems that aren’t well Organization nature of the issue affecting operations, extended People suited for a fixed-horizon goal. operations (supply chain), and our products. Governance of our environment program has • Irving Tan, Executive Vice President, Chief of For example: evolved as sustainability has become better Society Operations (COO) is the executive sponsor for integrated into the business, especially as a • At Davos in January 2018, CEO Chuck Robbins all initiatives impacting operations, including result of heightened interest from the investor committed to 100 percent product return, Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduction, renewable and analyst community. pledging that Cisco will take back used energy, water conservation, and waste Planet ● equipment upon request from any customer, More than a decade ago, our Stewardship Council, reduction, and our response to the annual CDP Environmental sustainability approach expand tools and incentives to promote that as a large, inclusive, cross-functional gathering, climate change questionnaire. Supplier environmental practice, and grow our reuse of equipment primarily served an educational function. It helped • John Kern, Senior Vice President, Supply performance executives and organizations learn about various Chain Operations is the sponsor of initiatives Energy & GHG kinds of environmental impacts and Cisco’s role related to supplier operations’ energy emissions in the earth’s ecosystem. As our sustainability efficiency and GHG emissions reduction. Product & packaging materiality assessments became more materials • Marco Crocci, Senior Vice President, Hardware sophisticated, we migrated to a Sustainability Other topics Engineering, along with two Cisco Fellows, Executive Team (SET), which was smaller and sponsors product power architecture and more focused on initiatives for our most material APPX product energy efficiency efforts. GRI UN SDGs 144 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2; 302:103-2 Our Story Circular economy • Circular consumption. Cycle refurbished establish and achieve strategic priorities across In FY18, Cisco launched an enterprisewide and remanufactured product for multiple uses, the company. These include: circular economy program. The program extends leverage partners, and deploy as-a-service • Circular Economy Executive Change from how we design, build, and deliver products, models. This area includes Cisco’s trade-in, Network. Champions Cisco’s holistic circular CEO Message to how we value the assets we have and turn takeback, and recycling programs. economy vision; drives engagement and them into new products. We also apply Cisco • Circular solutions. Shape and pioneer business alignment. The Details technology to support our customers in their technology-driven solutions and services • Operational Leadership Committee. own circular transformations. to enable circular economy value creation Responsible for making decisions, taking Our circular economy initiatives are focused in for customers. accountability, influencing, and allocating Governance & five major areas (see Figure 6): • Ecosystem leadership. Advance the circular resources for circular economy end-to-end Responsibility • Circular operations. Reduce or use renewable economy through industry innovation, at Cisco. and recovered inputs throughout our operations. collaboration, and public policy. • Circular Consumption Steering Committee. • Circular design. Design for product and Cisco’s circular economy program operates Responsible for driving strategic initiatives People packaging circularity, repair, and reuse; use under a dedicated program management office to advance product returns and reuse. The recycled and closed-loop material inputs; under the executive sponsorship of John Kern. committee operates cross-functionally, and and direct used materials to become new The team runs multiple levels of governance is accountable for metrics and financials, Society inputs for production. bodies and cross-functional working groups to allocating resources, and consulting key advisory functions on both systems and process changes. Planet Figure 6. Circular economy strategic pillars ● • Working Groups. Responsible for initiating, Environmental sustainability approach implementing, and managing specific circular Supplier environmental Circular Circular economy projects; organized by pillar. performance operations solutions • Circular Economy Regional Leader Energy & GHG emissions Network. Responsible for championing our vision within their regions, facilitating local Product & packaging Ecosystem engagement, and providing business support. materials Other topics leadership Further details on our circular economy program, including our goals and initiatives, can be found APPX throughout this report and on our website. Circular Circular GRI design consumption UN SDGs 145 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2; 302:103-2 Our Story Design for environment • Recycling markings on plastic components We’ve also built on our DfE principles to form a (ISO 11469, formerly SPI codes) for ease holistic circular design strategy focused on five The goal of Cisco’s Design for Environment of sorting during recycling main areas: (DfE) program is to incorporate environmental design principles into each of our products and • Packaging and fulfillment (reduction of • Material selection CEO Message manufacturing processes so fewer raw materials materials and package volume as well • Standardization and modularization are used, less packaging is needed, and as logistics impacts) The Details • Sustainable packaging product refurbishment and recycling are more • Ability to opt out of product accessories not feasible and effective. Because Cisco products • Energy needed (power cords, cables) can be in service for a decade or more, seeing • Design for disassembly, repair, and reuse • Use of recycled content materials and the impact of these changes takes time. With Governance & materials with less environmental impact We aim to make these principles part of our Responsibility each new generation of product, we are able to design DNA by integrating them seamlessly into increase the percentage of products designed • Standardized and modularized components our design practices. From these principles, we to the latest DfE principles. and enclosures, which allow us to reduce use launched a goal committing that 100 percent of People of unique components on each product Cisco’s approach focuses on the following areas: new Cisco products will incorporate our circular • Design for disassembly, repair, and reuse, design principles by 2025. In support of this goal, • Energy efficiency (with a goal to improve using easily separable components with in FY20 we will launch our Circular Design Working system power efficiency of large rackSociety similar materials to facilitate recycling and mounted equipment from 77 percent to Group to bring together relevant stakeholders reusable components to continually develop and implement these 87 percent by 2022 (FY16 baseline) Both formal requirements (for example, ECMAprinciples in our products. For examples of work Planet • Reduction of hazardous materials ● TR/370) and best practices developed within we’ve done, see Table 21. Environmental • Design for upgradability our business inform Cisco’s DfE principles. In sustainability approach and longevity FY19, we updated our DfE principles Supplier environmental to align with Cisco’s commitment Key ratings and rankings performance to the circular economy while Please see the Governance chapter of this Energy & GHG emissions also aligning with evolving report for a discussion of key Cisco ratings Product & packaging customer requirements and rankings. materials and industry and Other topics regulatory trends. APPX GRI UN SDGs 146 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2; 302:103-2 Our Story Environmental generation or use of materials, impacts on air Our EMS helps us identify our most significant management system and water, and depletion of natural resources. Using this information, we calculate an environmental impacts, evaluate their risks at each Cisco site, and set relevant corporate and environmental score to further help us prioritize local objectives. All ISO 14001 certified sites CEO Message Cisco’s ISO 14001 Environmental Management facilities and issues. Each site aligns with Cisco’s have environment aspect teams. Each site’s System (EMS) is a global framework. It relies corporate sustainability priorities, in addition to team reports on goals, initiatives, and metrics The Details on individual accountability, management site-specific goals. Cisco continually assesses to measure our environmental performance. responsibility, measurement of key performance existing sites and acquisitions against the Local initiatives are aligned to corporate-level indicators (KPIs), and a continuous improvement certification criteria and incorporates them into programs where possible. Table 5 lists the philosophy to meet business and environment the ISO 14001 certification roadmap to meet number of aspect teams per region. Governance & goals and drive environmental performance. business and customer needs. Figure 7 shows Responsibility Cisco’s primary corporate sustainability activities Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy Cisco’s global ISO 14001 certified site locations. are included in our certified EMS and are part outlines Cisco’s high-level environmental of the internal and external audits we perform framework that helps make our EMS so annually. This enables us to internally track key People successful, driving Cisco’s environmental Scope and implementation corporate environmental performance goals, performance. The EMS is certified by TUV SUD Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by initiatives, and metrics. America Inc. to the international EMS standard TUV SUD America Inc. Sites that were part of Society Our EMS aligns closely with our circular economy, ISO 14001:2015. an acquisition are included in the scope of our corporate environmental policy and associated GHG emissions, and energy management We select Cisco sites for ISO 14001 programs and supports the management of environmental initiatives. Therefore, they may Planet certification based on criteria including: our sustainability information. This alignment ● become 14001 certified and audited. Table 4 Environmental • Facility size and lab area shows our ISO 14001 certification KPIs. has helped us automate our sustainability data sustainability approach • Building headcount capacity or persons Supplier environmental performance housed Energy & GHG • Primary facility function emissions These criteria focus on sites with the greatest Table 4. Cisco EMS ISO 14001 certification Product & packaging materials potential to reduce negative environmental KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 impacts and enhance positive impacts. Once Other topics Number of Cisco sites with ISO 14001 28 26 30 32 32 we’ve selected a site for certification, we certification evaluate its associated impacts, including Percent of real estate portfolio with ISO 94% >90%1 >90%1 >90%1 >90%1 APPX 14001 certification corporate functional areas; associated products, We have met our goal of certifying a high percentage of our real estate portfolio. We will maintain >90% coverage of sites 1 activities, or services at that location; and the that meet the certification criteria. GRI environmental impacts associated with the UN SDGs GRI 301:103-2; 302: 103-2; 147 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 307:103-1 Figure Figure 40.7.Cisco ISO 14001 certified site locations Our Story Cisco ISO 14001 certified site locations CEO Message The Details Bedfont Lakes/Reading, Amsterdam,Netherlands United Kingdom Dusseldorf, Germany Governance & Galway, Ireland Krakow, Poland Responsibility Boulder/Englewood, Colorado Chicago, Illinois Paris, France San Jose, California Boxborough, Brussels, Belgium People Massachusetts Netanya, Israel Richardson, Texas Vimercate, Italy New York, New York Toyko, Japan Austin, Texas Columbia, Maryland Beijing, China Alpharetta, Georgia Herndon, Virginia Shanghai, China Society Atlanta, Georgia Hong Kong, China Research Triangle Park, North Carolina Bangalore, India Planet Singapore ● Environmental sustainability approach Supplier environmental performance Energy & GHG emissions Product & packaging St. Leonards/N. Sydney, Australia materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs 148 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2; 302:103-2 Our Story collection and focus resources on other important Table 5. Environment aspect teams per region tasks, such as evaluating and implementing Europe, Middle Asia Pacific, mitigation projects. East, Africa, and Japan, China, and Aspect Teams Global Teams Americas Russia (EMEAR) India (APJCI) Total Internal EMS audits provide insight into how our Waste reduction and 6 8 7 21 CEO Message recycling environmental processes and commitments E-scrap management1 √ 13 9 2 24 have been implemented and how well we are Energy management2 √ 0 2 9 11 The Details improving our EMS at our certified sites. The Green initiative/ 7 5 0 12 frequency of these audits depends on criteria Environmental awareness such as site size, operational activities at the Wastewater management 1 0 0 1 site, and the results of previous audits. In a Total per region 27 24 18 69 Governance & Responsibility typical three-year period, every site will receive one on-site audit and one virtual audit. 1 These teams have site-specific activities and goals but also support a corporate-level/global goal. 2 U  sed at smaller sites, these teams typically include activities around employee engagement, energy management, e-scrap As part of our ISO 14001 certification, we management, waste reduction and recycling, and local “green” activities. People participate in annual audits conducted by a third-party registrar. These audits identify areas of improvement and performance while Society providing external validation and verification of • Cisco’s collaboration with interested parties to verified through Cisco’s internal audit process. our EMS processes and programs. improve our recycling program Cisco’s environment-related claims in the 2019 • A LED light upgrade project that helps Cisco CSR report will be audited in FY20. Cisco has piloted virtual external ISO 14001 Planet meet its GHG reduction goals ● certification audits with our third-party registrar. Environmental sustainability approach For the last three years, at least one of our • Innovative ideas to improve recycling and Environmental compliance annual external site audits is done virtually using environmental performance Supplier environmental Cisco has incurred no significant fines— performance Cisco technology. This helps decrease Cisco’s • Excellent hazardous waste management defined as more than $10,000—in any of the travel footprint. Energy & GHG • An exceptional training program for emergency last five years. Nor have we been subject to emissions During our internal and external audits in FY19, nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with preparedness Product & packaging Cisco received 21 Positive Comments and five environmental laws and regulations. Cisco is materials Best Practices on our ISO 14001 certified EMS. All numeric claims made in this chapter are not aware of any formal grievance filed about Other topics The Positive Comments were primarily tied to subject to a multiday, detailed, bottom-up audit environmental impacts. improving Cisco environmental performance, conducted by our internal ISO 14001 audit team APPX exceeding environmental goals and targets, and part of the annual ISO 14001 internal audit and aligning our operational management with plan. Verification is key to reporting valid data Employee engagement sustainability in mind. The Best Practices were and helps us actively identify needed corrective Please see the People chapter of this report for GRI found across the globe and include: actions. All environmental claims made in the information on how Cisco engages employees 2018 CSR report were successfully audited and in environmental sustainability initiatives. UN SDGs GRI 301:103-2; 307: 149 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 103-1,2 3; 307-1 Our Story CEO Message Supplier environmental wwww The Details performance Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People The greenhouse gas emissions from our supply chain are five times greater than the footprint of Society our own operations, so we make it a priority to work with suppliers to help them improve. Planet ● In FY19, we achieved our goal to avoid 1 million ● Environmental Environmental metric tonnes cumulative of GHG emissions in our Sustainability sustainability approach supply chain from FY12 to FY20, and have set a Energy & GHG Supplier environmental Emissions new target for FY30. performance Material Use Energy & GHG We recently issued the Cisco Supplier Guide: emissions Other Topics Sustainability, Risk and Security, outlining our Product & packaging Appendix expectations of suppliers. materials Other topics Cisco works closely with suppliers in China to ensure proper environmental protection. APPX Learn more about how we engage with suppliers in Responsible Sourcing & Manufacturing. GRI UN SDGs 150 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Cisco Supplier Guide: Sustainability, Risk and Security Ma 2019 Our Story Supplier environmental Read more about performance areas of importance © 2019 Cisco Public. All rights reserved. for our suppliers, CEO Message specific reporting and We aim to ensure that environmental sustainability • Perform risk assessments using reputable compliance requirements, is a key criterion in our relationships with an indicators of environmental risk such as The Details and areas where we assessment of our suppliers. We do this by Yale’s Environmental Performance Index and collaborate for mutual including sustainability requirements and tools from the World Resources Institute, and benefit in our Cisco performance in our supply chain business conduct on-site audits for those identified Supplier Guide. Governance & processes, educating stakeholders, and to be high risk. For more detail, see Risk Responsibility continually improving these processes. See Assessment and Supplier Assessment. organizations with which Cisco engages in Table 6. People To help us understand key impacts in our supply chain and how they are managed, we: Society • Create long-term commercial incentives for Greening our supply chain our top-spend direct suppliers by setting public expectations regarding their GHG We’re helping reduce environmental Planet emissions goals and waste diversion rates. risk in our supply chain, particularly in China. ● As a result, we were recently recognized Environmental • Require suppliers to report GHG emissions and sustainability approach by the Institute of Public and Environmental reduction targets through CDP Supply Chain; Supplier environmental Affairs (IPE), an influential Chinese NGO, performance hold suppliers accountable through Cisco’s with the following awards: supplier scorecard process. # 3 Energy & GHG emissions in the IT industry Corporate Information Product & packaging materials Transparency Index (CITI) 2 Other topics APPX # in the IT industry Supply Chain Transparency Index (SCTI) GRI CITI and SCTI are real-time ranking systems, and these rankings are as of July UN SDGs 2019. Cisco was also named to the CDP Supplier Engagement leader board. 151 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-1, 2,3 • Expanded efforts to reduce our use of Our Story air transportation • Industry collaboration to increase the availability of renewable energy and to reduce energy CEO Message consumption across the electronics value chain Currently, 24 percent of our suppliers are The Details publicly reporting an absolute GHG reduction target. Given the standard lag between when emissions occur at our suppliers and when Governance & they are reported to Cisco through CDP, we Responsibility will report the baseline calculation for our new supply chain reduction target in our 2020 CSR Report. Learn more about our supplier GHG People emissions reporting in Appendix V. Supplier material waste Society Supplier GHG emissions • Reduce Cisco supply chain-related Scope 3 GHG emissions by 30 percent absolute by Cisco’s focus on developing and promoting a The GHG emissions from our supply chain are FY30 (FY19 base year) circular economy has driven efforts to better five times greater than the footprint of our own Planet understand the material used upstream in our operations. We have an important opportunity to These goals build upon our last 10 years of supply chain. Unfortunately, there is little visibility ● Environmental collaborate with our global network of component, working with suppliers to improve and report sustainability approach into supplier data in this area. In FY19, to manufacturing, and logistics suppliers, as well as environmental data through CDP’s supply chain Supplier environmental increase visibility of this information and identify performance our industry peers, to drive the large-scale change program. They’re also the result of collaboration opportunities, we partnered with TRUE Zero needed to transition to a low-carbon economy. with industry peers to advance emissions Energy & GHG Waste to provide training, increase engagement, emissions modeling and to gain more real-time insight into In FY19, we achieved our goal to avoid 1 million and improve reporting capabilities in our supply suppliers’ targets, capabilities, and performance. Product & packaging metric tonnes of GHG emissions in our supply chain chain. We also committed that 70 percent of materials With this information, we have the data needed from FY12 to FY20. With this goal complete, per Cisco component and manufacturing suppliers Other topics to set an absolute reduction target and prioritize Table 3, we’ve announced new goals to address by spend will achieve a zero waste diversion our efforts to drive engagement and reductions supply chain GHG emissions. rate at one or more sites by FY25. APPX in our supply chain. • 80 percent of Cisco component, manufacturing, In FY19, we initiated the TRUE Advisor training With that lens, we plan to focus on: and logistics suppliers by spend will have a at multiple supplier sites. Based on the results, GRI public, absolute GHG emissions reduction • Targeted supplier engagement and increased we will evaluate whether the training improved target by FY25 performance expectations for our top component, UN manufacturing, and logistics suppliers SDGs 152 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-2,3 Our Story Environmental risk management in China Cisco has been working with our suppliers in China on environmental protection. Pollution is a challenge that can come with economic growth, CEO Message and the regulatory landscape in China is complex and quickly changing. Topics we’re focused on The Details include wastewater management and pollution mitigation, as well as tracking and addressing reports of illegal pollution. Cisco addresses and manages the environmental performance of our Governance & Responsibility manufacturing partners and component suppliers in China. In addition, we require our manufacturing partners to do the same with their suppliers. People We partnered with Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and launched a series of activities to prevent and mitigate Society the environmental risk from our suppliers in supplier performance and waste data reporting Supplier audit findings mainland China. This work included screening in support of this goal. We’ll also work to Cisco supplier sites in the IPE Blue Map Planet Environmental findings in our suppliers’ factories determine opportunities not only to reduce database to identify existing and historical ● are a key dimension of the Supplier Code Environmental material waste but also to increase renewable environmental violations. We work closely with sustainability approach of Conduct. Cisco performs audits on our and recovered inputs in our value chain. these suppliers to ensure that they remediate Supplier environmental high-risk suppliers through the RBA Validated any environmental issues and comply with the local performance Currently, 21 percent of our suppliers have a Audit Protocol (VAP). Read more about our environmental law. In addition, Cisco requires Energy & GHG verified zero waste diversion rate at one or more audit processes and supplier audit findings in emissions suppliers to publish their corrective actions sites. According to current standard definitions Responsible Sourcing & Manufacturing. on the IPE website to improve environmental Product & packaging used in certification protocols, “zero waste” materials There were no priority environment findings in transparency, and get the violations addressed diversion is defined as a 90 percent or greater Other topics FY19. We worked with our suppliers to ensure and delisted within the required timeline. overall diversion of solid, nonhazardous wastes that major findings were closed and helped from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and In FY19, wastewater was the most frequent them establish environmental management APPX the environment. Learn more about our supplier issue found in Cisco’s IPE screening of our systems to help prevent similar findings from waste reporting in Appendix IV. suppliers. To identify wastewater treatment and happening again. GRI drainage pathways in Cisco’s supply chain, we UN SDGs 153 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-2; 308-2 Our Story suppliers to disclose their energy conservation, water, air, and waste information through the Pollution Release and Transfer Report (PRTR) reporting system on the IPE website. Cisco CEO Message worked with 60 suppliers to publish their PRTR information in FY19. In doing so, suppliers are The Details making information publicly available on what chemicals are being released to the air, water, and soil, and what pollutants are being transferred to another site for treatment and disposal. Governance & Responsibility We are also taking steps to help suppliers address current environmental compliance challenges. In FY19, Cisco organized environmental seminars People Toddy Tu at the Supply Chain Environmental Roundtable at Cisco’s office in Shenzhen, China. for more than 250 suppliers. These were held in collaboration with industry peers, environmental authorities, and other stakeholders. The seminars Society conducted a wastewater treatment survey with wastewater treatment facilities. However, if included presentations and roundtable discussions 120 supplier sites in China. We then requested we found violations, we collaborated with of environmental issues. Through these roundtables the targeted factories to register and disclose our suppliers to influence the wastewater and trainings, Cisco, our suppliers, and stakeholders Planet the wastewater management information in the subcontractors to address any issues. are jointly learning how to manage supply chains ● Environmental national sewage permit management platform. in a way that reduces impact on the environment. sustainability approach To further promote transparency on pollution, Through this work, we also identified suppliers Cisco encourages high environmental impact Supplier environmental performance who dispose wastewater in their own on-site treatment systems, and which subcontracted Energy & GHG emissions to outside wastewater treatment facilities. Table 6. Supply chain environmental organizations in which Cisco participates Product & packaging We screened the subcontracted wastewater materials treatment facilities to assess if there were any Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), Cisco is a founding member of the RBA, participates in environmental violations at those sites. Cisco formerly Electronics Industry Citizenship multiple working groups and initiatives, leverages many RBA Other topics Coalition (EICC) tools, and has contributed to the development and periodic does not have a direct relationship with those revision of the RBA Code of Conduct. APPX Institute of Public & Environmental Cisco partners with IPE to prevent and mitigate environmental Affairs (IPE) pollution in China, through educating the supply base on environmental stewardship and leveraging data to identify and address risks. GRI UN SDGs 154 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-12; 102-13; 308-2 Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility People Collaborating to stop pollution and drive environmental responsibility Society In Suzhou, China, a component supplier to Cisco was repeatedly partners who also worked with the component supplier and emitting volatile organic compounds (VOCs) as part of its regular asked for their collaboration on this issue. Together with our facility operations. Due to rapid economic development, the partner and IPE, we influenced the factory to take action. The Planet ● area around the factory began to grow in population density. facility improved their air treatment system to purify emissions Environmental Residential communities were built close by. before discharge into the local community. In FY19, they sustainability approach installed exhaust systems to improve air quality inside the Residents began to complain about noise pollution, air Supplier environmental factory and better protect the health and safety of workers. performance quality, and excessive air emissions. These complaints A third party commissioned by IPE verified on-site that the drew the attention of the local government, resulting in Energy & GHG supplier’s pollution issues were resolved. Emissions were emissions various citations in 2016 and 2017. The citations were compliant with local regulations. As a result, the supplier was then published in the IPE Blue Map. Cisco discovered the Product & packaging delisted from IPE’s pollution violation database. citations in our routine supplier screening. To remediate the materials violations, Cisco encouraged the supplier to invest in noise In many cases, we can’t do this work on our own. By collaborating Other topics dampeners and abatement equipment to stem air and noise with our partners, peers, and suppliers, we can drive meaningful emissions and seek approvals from the local government. change in our supply chain and beyond. It’s not only smart business sense for Cisco. It’s the right thing to do for our local APPX However, the supplier was slow to act. And Cisco’s influence communities and the environment. was limited due to the small amount of business we do with that supplier. In FY18, we identified one of our manufacturing GRI UN SDGs 155 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308-2 Our Story CEO Message wwww Energy & GHG The Details emissions Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People T  hrough energy efficiency and renewable energy projects across our real estate portfolio, we have Society avoided approximately 170 GWh of energy and 76,000 metric tonnes CO2e since FY15. Planet In FY19, we reduced our total Scope 1 and 2 ● Environmental GHG emissions worldwide by 49 percent, and sustainability approach are on track to complete our FY22 goals. Supplier environmental performance W  e used electricity generated from renewable sources Energy & GHG for 83 percent of our global electricity consumption emissions Product & packaging  e focus on improving our Scope 3 emissions W materials footprint through product energy efficiency and Other topics optimization of our supply chain operations. APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 3  02:103-1, 2; 302-4; 156 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 305:103-1, 2 Reducing our energy use and GHG emissions is (FY07 baseline) equates to a 4 percent reduction benefits the environment. Our overall strategy to Our Story a critical environmental issue. We are making per year. For reference, this reduction is nearly accomplish these objectives is to: progress through energy efficiency initiatives three times greater than the yearly emissions • Use our real estate space more efficiently across Cisco, investments in renewable energy, reduction of 1.35 percent recommended for our • Increase the energy efficiency of our real CEO Message engagement with our supply chain partners, and industry by the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach estate operations improvements to the efficiency of our products. to science-based target setting.2 For information on our Scope 1 and 2 GHG • Generate low-carbon electricity from on-site Cisco sets five-year, or longer, commitments The Details emissions, see this page, and for information systems and purchase renewable energy because multiyear goals allow for the large on our Scope 3 GHG emissions and goals, up-front investment needed for a big payoff. • Engage our stakeholders, including employees, see page 168. Learn more about our Environment Goals. on our sustainability strategy Governance & Responsibility Our Scope 2 emissions result almost exclusively from electricity use and represent 94 percent Energy and GHG Energy and Scope 1 of our Scope 1 and 2 emissions. As a result, People emissions goals GHG emissions Society Our current energy and GHG emissions goals To achieve our Scope 1 and 2 GHG reduction are summarized, along with other environmental and renewable energy goals, we will: goals, in Table 3. Our completed goals are More information on how we • Invest more than $45 million between FY18 and Planet summarized in Appendix IV. are engaging our stakeholders FY22 in energy efficiency and renewable energy ● Environmental We form our GHG emission reduction goals can be found in Stakeholder sustainability approach based on internal best practices and expert • Implement hundreds of energy efficiency and Inquiries and Environmental Supplier environmental opinion, including recommendations from the on-site renewable energy projects across our Employee Engagement. performance real estate portfolio IPCC, the U.S. EPA, the IEA, and The 3% Energy & GHG Solution report1 from the World Wildlife Fund • Increase renewable energy procurement emissions implementing projects to reduce our electricity (WWF) and CDP. Since 2013, Cisco has been through utility green power programs, power Product & packaging use and increasing our use of renewable materials setting and achieving science-based targets that purchase agreements (PPAs), and renewable electricity are major parts of our energy and exceed the rate of decarbonization required to energy certificates (RECs) Other topics GHG reduction strategy. In FY19, our Scope 1 keep global average temperature increase below Reducing our energy consumption and GHG and 2 GHG emissions were 49 percent lower 2°C compared to preindustrial temperatures, as emissions while enabling a diverse energy supply APPX than our FY07 baseline on an absolute basis. described in the Fifth Assessment Report of the for our operations helps us stay competitive and See Table 7 for details. IPCC. Our FY22 GHG reduction goal of 60 percent GRI 1 T  he 3% Solution report is named for the annual emissions reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and by 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preindustrial temperature. UN 2  ccording to the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach (SDA) sector definitions (version 1, released May 2015), Cisco is classified in the “Services/Commercial Buildings” sector. Calculation is based on the most recent SDA target calculation A SDGs tool (version 8, released 27 February 2017). GRI 3  02:103-1, 2; 305:103-1,2; 157 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 305-5, Our Story Cisco uses the GHG Protocol Corporate report. This is due to updated reporting guidance, Indirect energy or electricity represents 90 percent Accounting and Reporting Standard as the emissions factors, adjustments for acquisitions or of our energy consumption (Table 9). Through basis for our Scope 1 and 2 calculations. This divestitures, or correction of errors found during the projects described in this section, we supports standardization and benchmarking review. We report marketand location-based have effectively plateaued our level of energy CEO Message across companies. We report Scope 1 and 2 Scope 2 emissions in accordance with the GHG consumption for the last several years. We expect emissions based on operations over which we Protocol’s updated Scope 2 guidance. our energy use to rise over time. As a result, we The Details have operational control. Calculations are based Each year, an independent third party provides a are working to reduce the carbon intensity of on site-specific data for fuel consumed and limited assurance review of our GHG inventory. the electricity we do use. Including renewable utilities purchased, applying published emissions This includes the emissions relevant to our energy purchases, our global average contractual factors and global warming potentials (GWPs). current GHG reduction goals, namely Scope 1 emissions factor is 76 percent below the world Governance & See Table 8 for details. The EPA Center for average (See Table 8). We have achieved this Responsibility and 2 emission sources. This limited assurance Corporate Climate Leadership provides additional review is provided in accordance with the ISO by locating facilities where low-carbon grid program guidance. Of the seven GHGs covered 14064-3 International Standard and is published electricity is available and buying renewable by the GHG Protocol (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, as part of our CDP submittal. See our FY19 energy from utilities and green power providers. People PFCs, SF6, and NF3), four (CO2, CH4, N2O, and Inventory Assurance Statement. Our challenge will be to prevent our global average HFCs) are applicable to our operations. We do emissions factor from increasing as we grow in not have biogenic carbon emissions. emerging markets such as India, where lowand Society Historical Scope 1 and 2 emissions data often vary no-carbon electricity is less readily available. from previous publicly reported values, either in Planet the most recent CDP survey or our previous CSR ● Environmental sustainability approach Supplier environmental performance Energy & GHG emissions Product & packaging materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 302:103-1,2,3; 158 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 305:103-1, 2, 3 Table 7. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Our Story KPI FY07 Baseline Year1 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments Total GHG emissions: Scope 1, metric tonnes CO2e 48,311 45,562 53,123 41,926 41,171 41,037 Total GHG emissions: Scope 2 (location-based), 448,950 731,103 731,662 744,929 666,708 651,234 “Location-based” is used consistent with GHG Protocol metric tonnes CO2e and does not include renewable energy purchases. CEO Message Total GHG emissions: Scope 2 (market-based), 402,422 318,890 247,933 223,558 205,141 187,382 “Market-based” is used consistent with GHG Protocol metric tonnes CO2e and includes renewable energy purchases. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (location-based) intensity, 14.2 15.8 15.9 16.0 14.4 13.3 Location-based intensity is a measure of operational The Details metric tonnes CO2e per million dollars of revenue efficiency commonly used by many Cisco stakeholders. Scope 2 emissions from primary data, percent 96.4% 98.2% 98.1% 98.0% 98.2% 97.5% Total GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2 (market450,733 364,452 301,057 265,484 246,312 228,419 based), metric tonnes CO2e Governance & Percent progress against FY22 reduction goal2 Base year -19.1% -33.2% -41.1% -45.4% -49.3% Results are based on Scope 2 GHG Protocol Responsibility Goal: Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG methodology released in 2015. Cisco’s current GHG emissions worldwide by 60 percent absolute by reduction goal was announced in September 2017. FY22 (FY07 baseline) People Table 8. Electricity emissions factors KPI FY07 Baseline Year3 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments Society IEA world average emission factor, g CO2e per kWh 507.1 536.0 536.0 506.0 489.6 485.3 Latest factors used for our current FY19 report from IEA, RE-DISS, and EPA GHG Emissions Factors Hub. Prior years used the latest factors available at time of prior-year reporting. See footnotes for emission factor and GWP sources.4 Planet ● Cisco global average electricity emission factor 437.9 446.6 448.2 447.1 407.9 404.6 Environmental (location-based), g CO2e per kWh sustainability approach Cisco major data center average electricity 394.7 421.0 419.4 419.5 353.9 353.1 Supplier environmental emission factor (location-based), g CO2e per kWh performance Cisco global average electricity emission factor 392.5 194.8 152.8 134.5 125.5 116.4 (market-based), g CO2e per kWh Energy & GHG emissions 1 Our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. Product & packaging 2 S  cope 2 emissions for all years have been adjusted to reflect the GHG Protocol’s new Scope 2 guidance. This new guidance was released in 2015 and had materials material impacts on Cisco’s current and Scope 2 figures calculated prior to 2015. 3 Our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. Other topics 4  isco used emission factors from the following databases for its FY19 GHG inventory: 2019 IEA Electricity Information Database 2017 IEA factors, 2018 EU Residual C Mix Factors from RE-DISS, Center for Corporate Climate Leadership GHG Emission Factors Hub (modified March 9 2019). 2019 country-specific emission factors for Australia, Brazil, Canada, India, and United Kingdom provided from those countries’ governments. 100-year GWPs from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4), 2007. APPX GRI UN SDGs GRI 302:103-3; 302-1, 3, 4; 159 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 305:103-3; 305-1, 2, 4, 5 Table 9. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 energy usage Our Story KPI FY07 Baseline Year1 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments Energy generated, GWh 0 1.5 2.5 2.6 2.6 2.2 Cisco uses all the energy generated by its on-site solar PV systems and does not sell any energy. CEO Message Energy usage, GWh 1,239 1,826 1,850 1,831 1,815 1,788 Indirect energy usage, GWh 1,025 1,636 1,641 1,656 1,637 1,612 Electricity is the only indirect energy source used by Cisco—we do not purchase any heating, cooling, or steam. The Details Direct energy usage, GWh 213 189 209 176 178 176 Direct energy consumption is the sum of Cisco’s natural gas, propane, and diesel usage for heating and backup power generation and regular gasoline and diesel fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Electricity usage, GWh 1,025 1,636 1,641 1,656 1,637 1,612 Governance & Natural gas usage, GWh 135 82 94 90 90 93 Responsibility Stationary diesel usage, GWh 18 37 33 15 21 20 Stationary diesel is typically used for backup power generation. Propane usage, GWh 0.8 0.2 0.2 2 2 2 People Transportation fuel usage (combined gasoline and 59 70 73 68 65 62 Transportation fuel includes regular gasoline and diesel diesel fuel), GWh fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. Energy use per unit of revenue, GWh of energy 35.5 37.1 37.6 37.2 36.8 34.4 consumed per billion dollars in revenue Society 1 Our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. Planet ● Environmental sustainability approach Supplier environmental performance Energy & GHG emissions Product & packaging materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs 160 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Energy efficiency in our buildings, labs, and data centers Our Global Energy Management and Sustainability (GEMS) team leads all energy CEO Message and sustainability initiatives across our more than 20 million square feet of global real estate. The Details The team currently manages the $40 million, five-year global EnergyOps program. EnergyOps aims to implement hundreds of efficiency and renewable energy projects every year through Governance & Responsibility FY22. GEMS includes Cisco employees and contracted energy managers who have the following primary responsibilities: People • Managing Cisco’s global annual utility budget and contracts • Identifying and implementing demandand Society The Cisco workplace assets. In addition, with our flexible work policy supply-side energy solutions, such as energy and mobile technology solutions, employees We continue to optimize our real estate portfolio efficiency upgrades and on-site renewable can work from any Cisco office, as well as from while reducing energy use and GHG emissions. energy projects Planet home, a customer site, or even a coffee shop. ● Our solutions integrate leadership engagement, • Embedding sustainability and efficiency criteria Environmental change management, design, procurement, In FY19, we began a multiyear program to sustainability approach into our building, lab, and data center design policy, and technology to transform the workplace transform the way we manage our smaller sales Supplier environmental standards performance experience. For example, our activity-based offices to improve the flexibility and agility of our real estate portfolio. The program will focus • Exploring and evaluating options for higher Energy & GHG workspaces can accommodate more employees on matching our real estate footprint to Cisco’s efficiency in all of Cisco’s real estate projects emissions than a traditional office layout, substantially Product & packaging reducing space and land requirements and business needs. This flexible real estate model • Engaging employees to participate in materials associated environmental impacts. will reduce our overall real estate footprint, resource conservation Other topics commute times, and energy consumption. The New buildings and renovation projects include In FY19, the GEMS team enabled Cisco to avoid program builds upon our prior success: over energy efficiency requirements such as approximately 19.4 GWh of energy consumption APPX the last five years, Cisco has reduced our real standards for LED lighting and efficient air and 7,100 metric tonnes CO2e by investing estate portfolio by 7.3 million square feet. We conditioning. We have changed our workplace $9.3 million to implement 48 energy efficiency estimate this gross reduction in square footage GRI occupancy model from individual to group projects. This does not include our renewable has allowed us to avoid approximately 166 million assignment, giving our employees flexibility and energy purchases or on-site renewable energy kWh of energy use and 67,400 metric tonnes of UN choice while increasing the utilization of our generation. We estimate that the over 550 energy SDGs GHG emissions annually. 161 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4 Our Story efficiency and on-site renewable energy projects we have implemented since FY15 have avoided approximately 170 GWh of energy and Table 10. Energy and GHG emissions reduction projects1 76,000 metric tonnes CO2e. This program has KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 CEO Message also allowed us to make our operations more Number of projects implemented 165 103 103 145 48 efficient and increase the amount of renewable Annual energy avoided, GWh/yr 47.1 31.2 40.1 32.4 19.4 The Details electricity we buy, directly contributing to the Total estimated annual CO2e savings, 22,500 12,400 23,600 10,300 7,100 metric tonnes CO2e/yr achievement of the FY17 sustainability goals and the creation of our FY22 goals. See our 1 Does not include renewable energy purchases. Environmental Goals section for details. Governance & Responsibility Table 10 shows the energy savings associated with the GHG reduction projects we implemented between FY15 and FY19. Projects the GEMS People team implemented globally in FY19 include: • Updating lighting controls and using LED technologies to increase lighting efficiency Society • Installing solar window film to reduce heat gain and improve occupant comfort Planet • Installing waterside economization and dry cooler ● technologies to improve free cooling utilization Environmental sustainability approach • Balancing airflow and improving hot and cold Supplier environmental aisle containment within our labs performance • Recommissioning chillers and air handling units Energy & GHG emissions to improve energy efficiency of our heating Product & packaging and cooling systems materials • Continuing an employee engagement campaign Other topics to promote, educate, and incentivize employees to conserve energy APPX GRI UN SDGs 162 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4; 305-5 Labs and data centers Our Story Over 60 percent of our operational electricity as projects initiated by lab managers, also help us is used to power and cool equipment in our improve existing airflow management, ventilation, labs and data centers. Increasing the energy cooling, and other building infrastructure systems. efficiency of these spaces is our greatest CEO Message To reduce electricity usage in our labs and data opportunity to reduce Cisco’s GHG emissions centers, we use smart power distribution units and energy costs. We can do this by focusing The Details to monitor our lab equipment. We increase on efficiency in the design of our labs and server utilization by using virtual machines. Our practicing smart approaches to utilization and Cisco Customer Experience labs use a checkpower management. in, check-out system of automation pods to Governance & Our Global Lab Specification includes efficiency allow lab employees to set up configurations Responsibility standards for new, high-density labs and retrofits. virtually and then release equipment when they Our standards mandate airflow management are finished with it. This system maximizes the in all new labs globally and recommend it for number of people who can use the equipment, People renovation projects. EnergyOps projects, as well minimizes the amount of equipment physically Society LEED-Certified data center design features The following sustainable design features have been incorporated into Planet our LEED-NC Gold Certified data centers in RTP, North Carolina, and ● Environmental Allen, Texas: sustainability approach • Waterside and airside economization Supplier environmental • Variable frequency drives on major equipment, including pumps, performance chillers, and CRAH units • Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of 480/277V; rack Energy & GHG emissions distribution of 415/230V • Rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) Product & packaging materials • Heat recovery from data hall for office space use (in North Carolina) • LED lighting Other topics • Low-e glass windows • Reclaimed water use in cooling towers APPX (in North Carolina) • Nonchemical water treatment system • Water-efficient plumbing GRI •O ccupancy sensors integrated with lighting and temperature controls • Landfill diversion during construction UN SDGs 163 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4 needed in each lab, and reduces the amount providers). Our Chief Information Officer, next five years. When IT services move from Our Story of energy used collectively by our labs. When a Jacqueline Guichelaar, recently confirmed on-premise facilities to co-located or the cloud, lab team moves to a different lab, users remove this shift to outsourced IT. GHG emissions accounting also shifts, from unused or old equipment, thereby saving space, Scope 2 to Scope 3. We are tracking the increase As part of this shift to cloud resources, Cisco is CEO Message power, and cooling. in co-located and cloud service providers and its targeting a 30 percent reduction in the number impact on our Scope 3 emissions. We will update Our data center efficiency strategy focuses on of Cisco on-premise data centers within the our Scope 3 emissions in our FY20 CSR report. The Details design, utilization, and power management. Our data centers in RTP, North Carolina, and Allen, Figure 8: Progression of IT functions from on-premises through software as a service (courtesy of BMC Software) Texas, were designed to achieve a power usage effectiveness (PUE) of 1.41 and 1.35 at full Governance & Responsibility load, respectively. Both centers have achieved Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) New Construction (NC) Gold Certification People (v2.2) from the U.S. Green Building Council for incorporating numerous sustainable design features. Society We have also increased efficiency by migrating IT loads into key locations. By consolidating our footprint, we’ve reduced our square footage Planet costs and our overall electricity use. Since July ● Environmental 2013, we have reduced data center square sustainability approach footage by 20 percent. Supplier environmental performance Energy & GHG GHG emissions from outsourced IT emissions IT services come in several forms: on premises, Product & packaging materials co-located, infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software Other topics as a service (SaaS). Figure 8 illustrates the differences between these models. APPX As part of our annual Scope 2 GHG emissions reporting, we calculate the on-premises emissions GRI of Cisco-managed data centers. However, we are shifting more IT services into co-located UN SDGs data center facilities or the cloud (as-a-service 164 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4 Our Story Green building standards We also donate furniture in several locations, certificates (RECs) today to help meet our We have integrated green building standards including sites in China and San Jose, California. renewable energy goal, we continue to engage into our real estate since our first LEED-certified In these locations, we first check if the office utilities and renewable energy providers to building was built in 2009. By the end of FY19, furniture we are replacing can be used in expand both our on-site and off-site renewable CEO Message 19 Cisco facilities were LEED-certified, with another Cisco office. If not, we donate it to a energy activities so we can help support the 13 rated Gold or Platinum. These facilities local charity or recycle it. development of new renewable energy systems The Details represent over 2.6 million square feet of LEEDin locations where we operate. We identify and certified space, which is about 12 percent of evaluate potential projects in the following order: Renewable energy Cisco’s global real estate portfolio. 1. On-site power opportunities Generating and purchasing low-carbon Governance & We also incorporate principles of green building electricity is a key component of our GHG 2. Green power contracts with utilities Responsibility standards into our standard workplace design, reduction strategy. We prefer on-site power 3. Off-site power opportunities even if we’re not planning for LEED certification. projects where possible, but off-site power 4. RECs These standards make our spaces more is often the better option due to factors such People comfortable for our occupants while reducing as location, budget, and space constraints. our buildings’ environmental impact. Some of While we do use unbundled renewable energy the principles we include are: Society • Thoughtful building layouts that place enclosed spaces toward the core, allowing for natural light penetration and placement of people near Planet ● the perimeter Environmental sustainability approach • LED lighting, including task lighting for Supplier environmental adjustable occupant lighting control performance • Biophilic designs such as living walls and Energy & GHG emissions the use of natural materials Product & packaging • Educational outreach through change materials management with design and Other topics sustainable practices • Increased building occupancy and efficiency APPX with the use of data and space policies • Wellness focus with the provision of spaces GRI for relaxing, socializing, and exercising Cisco’s on-site solar • Specification of low-emitting materials system in Allen, Texas UN SDGs in construction 165 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4; 305-5 On-site power: Solar and combined heat and power (CHP) Our Story From FY12 through FY19, Cisco increased our total on-site solar PV capacity from 200 kW to 2.8 MW. Collectively, these systems produce an CEO Message average 3.4 million kWh of electricity, avoiding 1,200 metric tonnes CO2e each year over the The Details projected 25-year life of the systems. Our newest rooftop solar PV systems in Bangalore and Pune, India, increase our on-site solar PV capacity in India to over 1 MW. We also Governance & Responsibility completed a 966-kW solar PV carport in 2015 at our Boxborough, Massachusetts, campus. We installed five arrays containing 3,168 solar People panels. The output for this system is nearly 1 million kWh per year. Our other on-site solar Off-site solar system in Blythe, California systems are located at our data centers in Society Allen, Texas; Research Triangle Park (RTP), We continue to maintain our 425-kW cogeneration North Carolina; and other campus buildings in system at our Bedfont Lakes campus in the U.K. Bangalore, India. Operating at peak efficiency, this system avoids Planet approximately 850 metric tonnes CO2e per year ● Environmental and saves over $510,000 in electricity costs sustainability approach Table 11. Renewable energy annually. We have also installed nine solar hot Supplier environmental water systems at our campus in Bangalore, India. performance FY07 Baseline These systems collectively produce an average KPI Year FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Energy & GHG of 8,500 liters of hot water every day, which emissions Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 1,167 1,264 1,324 1,344 1,342 satisfies approximately 67 percent of our hot Percent progress against renewable energy goal 11% 71% 77% 80% 82% 83% Product & packaging Goal: Use electricity generated from renewable water demands at the campus. materials sources for 85 percent of our global electricity Other topics by FY22 Purchasing renewable electricity Electricity usage from renewable sources by region: Purchasing electricity generated from renewable APPX EMEAR 31% 48% 44% 59% 62% 65% or other low-carbon sources is a key component India 0% 2% 33% 45% 49% 52% of our GHG reduction strategy. We summarize GRI United States 10% 97% 100% 100% 100% 100% our global renewable electricity purchases in Table 11. We have purchased renewable UN electricity in the U.S. and Europe since FY06 SDGs 166 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4; 305-5 by buying RECs and entering into green power Our Story contracts with various electricity suppliers. In FY19, we purchased 1,087 GWh of Green-e Certified RECs and green power in the U.S. and Canada, 88 GWh of green power in Europe, CEO Message and 139 GWh of green power and international RECs (I-RECs) in India. See the percentage of electricity purchased from renewable energy The Details sources for various regions in Table 11. Utility providers are enabling better access to renewable energy. We are actively exploring how Governance & Responsibility to increase the percentage of renewable energy obtained from utility contracts and PPAs. We engage with green power providers through the People WWF’s Corporate Renewable Buyers’ Principles and Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance. Cisco also participates in the EPA’s Green Power Society Partnership and consistently ranks highly in the EPA Green Power rankings. Cisco team visits off-site system in We have expanded our renewable electricity Karnataka, India. Planet purchases in India to include both long-term ● Environmental and short-term contracts supporting solar, sustainability approach Other renewable energy accomplishments in • Continuing participation in Duke Energy’s Green wind, and hydropower development in a grid FY19 include: Rider program to purchase about 10 percent of Supplier environmental that is dominated by fossil fuels. We executed performance • Purchasing 100 percent of the electricity used at the electricity used at our RTP campus from two long-term solar power contracts in April Energy & GHG our facilities from renewable energy sources in 10 MW of solar projects located in North Carolina 2018 and numerous short-term renewable emissions electricity contracts in 2019. Collectively, these the U.S., Canada, and many European countries, • Continuing participation in Austin Energy’s Product & packaging agreements will deliver 85,000 MWh of clean, including Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Green Choice program to purchase 100 percent materials renewable electricity every year to the local Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and the of the electricity used at our facilities in Austin, Other topics electric grid where our Bangalore campus is United Kingdom Texas, from local wind power systems located. Through these contracts, we exceeded • Partnering with multiple companies to sign a APPX 50 percent renewable electricity for our India PPA for a portion of the wind power generated operations in FY19. We also completed our from a large wind farm in Texas. Construction GRI first off-site solar power contract in 2017, began in May 2019 and we expect to begin which now provides solar power to our San receiving power from the system in 2020. UN SDGs Jose headquarters. 167 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 302-4 Our Story Scope 3 reduction strategy Our Scope 3 focus areas are reducing emissions related to our products’ energy use and to our supply chain operations, which make up the vast CEO Message majority of our Scope 3 emissions. Table 12 shows the public commitments we have made The Details to reduce our Scope 3 emissions. Our overall strategy to accomplish these objectives is to: • Increase product power efficiency through Governance & continual engineering improvements Responsibility • Integrate carbon accounting metrics into our supply chain operations to optimize transport and materials in the manufacturing of our People L to R: Andy Smith, Amanda Rickert, and products, and increase energy efficiency in Catherine Paquette accept the 2019 Climate our extended operations Leadership Awards on behalf of Cisco. Society • Collaborate with manufacturing, component, and logistics suppliers to manage and report GHG reduction targets, influencing improvements Planet Climate Leadership Awards Scope 3 GHG in performance year over year (see Supplier In March 2019, Cisco won three 2019 Climate environmental performance section for emissions ● Environmental sustainability approach Leadership Awards, two for excellence in more details) GHG management—goal setting and goal Supplier environmental More information on how Cisco engages with performance achievement for Scope 1 and 2 emissions) and Cisco measures our environmental footprint our suppliers on environmental responsibility, Energy & GHG one for our supply chain initiatives, which impact emissions across our value chain to prioritize areas for including our new supply chain goals, can Scope 3 emissions. (Refer to Supplier GHG improvement. Scope 3 emissions cover a broad be found in the Supplier environmental Product & packaging emissions for more information.) materials range of activities across Cisco’s supply chain, performance section. Cisco also ranks consistently high on the operations, products, and solutions. Below we Other topics EPA Top Partner Rankings, which highlight discuss the most significant areas of impact. the annual green power use of leading Green For a complete table of our Scope 3 emissions, APPX Power Partners within the U.S. across individual see Appendix III. Additional Scope 3 emissions industry sectors. As of July 29, 2019, we information is available in our response to GRI were ranked seventh on the list, eighth on the Question 6.5 of the 2019 CDP Investor Survey. National Top 100 list, and eighth on the Fortune UN SDGs 500 Partners List. GRI 302-4; 305-3; 305-5; 168 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 308:103-2, 3 Our Story Scope 3 supply chain operations Cisco’s Make It Green, Component Scrap Mexico, and Thailand. Each site has taken its Management, and Partner Energy Management own approach to designing and completing As a member of the CDP supply chain program, programs have led to less waste and material energy reduction initiatives, but all have we request that all our direct suppliers with whom use in our supply chain for more than five years. incorporated IoT functionality in some we have a significant business relationship report CEO Message Make It Green is Cisco’s sustainable materials, capacity. their GHG impacts to CDP. In FY19, 87 percent of our manufacturing, component, and logistics packaging, and fulfillment solutions program. It has Collectively, these programs have avoided The Details suppliers, by spend, publicly reported their helped eliminate unwanted or redundant items 159,054 metric tonnes CO2e from Cisco’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions to CDP. often included in a shipment, thereby reducing purchased goods and services between FY12 80 percent of the emissions data they reported packaging and material waste. These solutions and FY19. was verified by a third party. This data allows also help reduce GHG emissions through lower Governance & Responsibility Cisco to gain a more accurate picture of our transportation weights. Through Make It Green, extended operations and to better understand approximately 3,901 cumulative metric tonnes impacts associated with our supplier GHG of material and 41,840 cumulative metric tonnes People emissions. See Appendix V for a complete record. of CO2e were avoided in FY19. The GHG emissions total included emissions avoided from In 2016, we set a goal to avoid 1 million metric reduced material and freight weight reductions. tonnes of GHG emissions from our supply chain Society These FY19 changes also saved an annualized by FY20. This goal was our first quantitative $33 million in material and freight costs. The business case for emissions goal to encompass Scope 3 supply chain activities that Cisco directs or influences. The Component Scrap Management Program pursuing ambitious Planet At the end of FY19, we had avoided 1,152,562 has grown into a formal initiative under our greenhouse gas reduction targets is clear. The ● Environmental metric tonnes of carbon emissions since FY12, Circular Economy program. The objective of the sustainability approach achieving our 2020 target one year early. program is to extend the life of components by work our team did to Supplier environmental This highly collaborative effort relied on smart sharing inventories across business units, making performance achieve our 2020 target supply chain decisions across the organization, repairs, and refurbishing parts where possible. Energy & GHG We also aim to resell more nonproprietary drove cost savings for emissions including more ocean shipments, redesigned product packaging, and energy efficiency components on global commodity markets. the business, as well as Product & packaging materials partnerships at manufacturing sites. In FY19, the Component Scrap Management increased operational Other topics program avoided 1,870 metric tonnes CO2e efficiency and resiliency through the reuse of 342 kg of components. across our value chain.” Scope 3 category 1: Through the Partner Energy Management program, APPX Purchased goods and services John Kern, Senior Vice President of we work with our contract manufacturing sites to Supply Chain Operations at Cisco Cisco’s manufacturing operations are fully save energy by digitizing and monitoring factory GRI outsourced. Therefore, any emissions reductions activities. Over three years, we have engaged from material, waste, and energy savings fall with suppliers at sites in China, Malaysia, UN SDGs under Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services. 169 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-3 Our Story Table 12. Progress toward 2020 Scope 3 supply chain GHG reduction goal Scope 3 category 6: Business travel FY12 Cisco closed its last travel goal in 2017. Our CEO Message Base two travel goals are included in Appendix IV. KPI Year FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 We continue to report travel emissions as part Cumulative GHG emissions avoided 8,958 213,331 337,975 500,170 711,980 910,582 1,152,562 from Scope 3 supply chain GHG of our Scope 3 CDP reporting, summarized in The Details emissions, metric tonnes CO2e Appendix III. Percent progress toward reduction goal 0.9% 21.3% 33.8% 50.0% 71.2% 91.1% 115.3% Goal: Avoid 1 million metric tonnes of GHG emissions in our supply chain from FY12 to FY20 Scope 3 category 7: Employee Governance & Responsibility commuting Cisco completed an employee commuting survey in FY18 to estimate the emissions People produced from employees commuting to work. Scope 3 category 4: Upstream Mode Shift optimizes freight logistics, shifting transportation and distribution transportation modes from air to ocean whenever See Table 13 for our Scope 3 emissions from practical while still meeting customer expectations employee commuting. Society Cisco’s Services Green, Mode Shift, on lead time. In FY19, the Mode Shift program and Responsible Supply Chain Design Flexible work practices avoided 148,432 metric tonnes of CO2e. initiatives have all helped to reduce In addition to the collaboration tools we make Cisco’s transportation emissions. Responsible Supply Chain Design optimizes Planet widely available to our employees, several ● the movement of a product during its life Environmental Services Green uses two primary strategies Cisco network technologies also permit flexible sustainability approach cycle, starting with component shipments to reduce transportation-related emissions. working environments (for example, working from suppliers and continuing through finished Supplier environmental The first is dynamic receipt and disposition, from home or remotely). These include Cisco performance product shipments to customers. Modeling which eliminates the need for a central depot Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. Cisco tools allow executive-level decision-makers Energy & GHG to evaluate a product’s viability for reuse over Virtual Office provides wired and wireless voice, emissions to consider carbon emissions from logistics recycling. Instead, products are screened data, and video service for an employee’s Product & packaging alongside traditional supply chain variables materials locally, and either forwarded for repair or home or for small commercial offices, using like cost, resiliency, and lead time with each sent to an approved local recycler. Repair site Cisco integrated services routers (ISRs) and IP Other topics network design sourcing decision. In FY19, the localization takes this one step further, using phones. Cisco OfficeExtend is an even simpler Responsible Supply Chain program avoided in-theater repair sites and ground transportation solution. It’s a remote wireless access point in APPX 38,866 metric tonnes of CO2e. whenever possible. In FY19, the Services Green the employee’s home that provides the same program avoided 10,972 metric tonnes of CO2e. In total, these programs have avoided 993,508 highly secure communications to a wireless GRI metric tonnes CO2e from Cisco’s upstream local area network (WLAN) controller at the transportation and distribution between FY12 connected Cisco campus. UN and FY19. SDGs 170 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-3 Our Story Many employees also use Cisco’s AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client to connect to our enterprise network, enabling them to work Table 13. Scope 3 emissions from employee commuting from any device, at any time, in any location. KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments CEO Message Although working remotely does not directly Scope 3 GHG emissions from 96,937 91,586 80,506 81,394 79,699 Our FY18 and FY19 figures reduce air travel, it helps our employees employee commuting, metric are externally verified (see tonnes CO2e WSP assurance statement) The Details become more proficient in using collaborative technologies, which is especially important for a global technology company. Our employees can then use these skills to reduce air travel Governance & when possible. We estimate that we avoided We launched a carpooling program for our San possible. The current limit we set is 151 g/km Responsibility 49,300 metric tonnes of CO2e in incremental Francisco Bay Area locations in FY16. By the end for diesel cars, and 160 g/km for gasoline cars commuting emissions in FY19 due to our of FY19, 7,649 users had signed up to participate (WLTP). We expect to further reduce these limits flexible remote work policy. either as riders or drivers, and matched users for over time, as the automobile industry continues People 186,300 carpooling trips. to release more fuel-efficient and less polluting Transportation services vehicles, as well as an increased number of full We offer electric vehicle (EV) charging at We provide a variety of transportation services 40 locations across China, Europe, India, electric vehicles. Society to our employees to help them commute, move Latin America, and North America, saving around our campus locations and adjoining over 1,290 metric tonnes CO2 in FY19. In communities, and maintain their vehicles. 2019, we doubled the number of EV chargers Figure 9. Planet ● Cisco encourages our employees to use mass at our headquarters in San Jose, and now have Benefits of Cisco Environmental transit by providing campus shuttle services over 500 ports available for employees and transportation services sustainability approach Supplier environmental at eight of our locations globally, incentive guests. Globally, Cisco has over 350 stations E  nvironment • Fewer GHG emissions and less congestion performance programs that lower the cost of transit, and with more than 660 charging ports. Cisco Employees Energy & GHG information about public transportation options includes the electricity used to charge employee • Improved work-life balance and emissions EVs in our Scope 2 emissions reported as in their area. We also offer transit shuttle job satisfaction • Reduced vehicle maintenance and Product & packaging services at eight locations, making it easier for shown in Table 8. commuting costs materials mass transit commuters to get from stations to Cisco also maintains a fleet of company cars for • Greater productivity Other topics our sites. In FY19, over 1,700 employees took our employees in Europe and has been working advantage of our mass transit incentive program to reduce the GHG emissions associated with APPX each month, and our commuter and transit this fleet over the last five years. We have set a shuttle services provided 810,000 rides either limit on the allowable CO2 emissions of newly GRI to or from work. purchased vehicles and promote EVs when UN SDGs 171 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story In FY20, employees who select EVs for their company car will get a home charger installed as part of the car lease agreement, while we continue to increase the number of EV charging CEO Message units at our Cisco offices. See Table 14 for the percentage of EVs in Cisco’s fleet. The Details We also provide a number of on-site services for employees on our campuses, including refueling, car washing, oil changes, and bicycle storage. These and other concierge services Governance & Responsibility reduce employee commuting time, employee stress, and vehicle miles. In FY19, over 39,000 employees used our Booster refueling service, People reducing their driving miles by 57,500 miles and associated CO2 emissions by 25.5 metric tonnes. Society Planet ● Table 14. Percentage EVs in Cisco company cars Environmental sustainability approach KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Supplier environmental Total fleet size 6,580 6,100 5,950 5,440 4,772 performance Number of electric vehicles 127 334 420 469 540 Energy & GHG Percentage of electric vehicles 1.9% 5.5% 7.1% 8.6% 11.3% emissions Product & packaging materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs 172 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Figure 10. Our Story Cisco locations with EV charging CEO Message The Details Eschborn, Germany Lysaker, Norway Amsterdam, Netherlands Stockholm, Sweden Governance & Responsibility Bedfont Lakes, Chandlers Ford, Espoo, Finland and Green Park, United Kingdom Kraków, Poland Ottawa and Paris, France Salzburg and Vienna, Austria Toronto, Canada Rancho Cordova, California Diegem and People Kortrijk, Belgium Bucharest, Romania Boxborough, Pleasanton, Santa Clara, Massachusetts Écublens, Switzerland San Francisco, and Prague, Czech Republic San Jose, California Irvine, California Malvern, Pennsylvania Rome, Italy Suzhou, China Richardson, Texas Madrid, Spain Society Fulton, Maryland Vimercate, Italy Hefei, China San Antonio, Texas Hangzhou, China Charlotte, Greensboro, Lawrenceville, Georgia and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina Bangalore and Planet Chennai, India ● San José, Costa Rica Environmental sustainability approach Supplier environmental performance Energy & GHG emissions Product & packaging materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs 173 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Scope 3 category 11: Use of sold products (product energy efficiency) Table 15. Scope 3 emissions from use of sold products Improving product energy efficiency is more KPI FY17 FY18 FY19 than just a regulatory requirement for Cisco. It’s Scope 3 GHG emissions from use of sold 32,847,245 37,865,598 39,311,466 CEO Message products, metric tonnes CO2e an opportunity for us to help customers save on energy costs, lower GHG emissions, and reduce The Details global energy demand. It also makes our products more competitive.1 Recent literature from 2015 has seen GHG emissions from the ICT industry why improving product energy efficiency and To better calculate this number, we’re exploring leveling off, with the total energy footprint decreasing energy consumption are important ways to create a database to track our Governance & Responsibility stabilizing at around 3.6 percent of global factors in our product development. products’ energy consumption. Our goal is to electricity consumption.2 While it’s a good automate this process as much as possible to We track how much total energy our products start that the ICT energy footprint is not growing, allow for easier energy calculations and more use as a Scope 3 Use of Sold Products GHG People we believe success will ultimately be measured consistent data year over year. By the end of emission. To calculate this, we first created a by a decreasing ICT energy footprint and FY20, we plan to have our initial database ready manual database of our existing products and decreasing global energy consumption. That’s to help calculate our GHG emissions from use listed their typical power rate. When that was of sold products. Society unknown, we identified the max power output on the products’ power supply and de-rated Customers and regulators have rising that value, providing an approximation of their expectations that our products minimize Planet power rate. We then calculated how many of energy costs and GHG emissions. Every year, the number of inquiries related to ● Environmental each product we sold in the previous fiscal year sustainability approach environmental sustainability we receive from and added that to our database. With those Supplier environmental factors, we multiplied the typical power rate by analysts, customers, shareholders, and performance the number of units shipped to determine the nongovernmental organizations rises. We Energy & GHG total energy consumed by our products sold in track applicable energy-use regulations and emissions that fiscal year. To account for products sold in certification programs to review compliance Product & packaging materials a previous year, we assumed an average life of needs as requested by our customers. five years. We scaled that number using past Other topics Stakeholder engagement and hardware revenue to determine total energy standards development used by all of our products potentially in use. APPX About 80 percent of emissions were calculated Cisco engages with governments, regulatory using primary data. agencies, and standards development GRI organizations to monitor and influence the development of emerging product energy 1  se-phase emissions generally account for more than 80 percent of product life-cycle emissions. They account for more than 90 percent U UN of life-cycle emissions for larger routers and switches, because power is higher relative to weight. SDGs 2 “The Energy and Carbon Footprint of the Global ICT and E&M Sectors 2010–2015” by Malmodin, Jens and Lunden, Dag, pg. 28. 174 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story efficiency requirements and standards. Product systems approach should result in a fair and Telecommunications Equipment: Methodology for energy efficiency standards can promote correct way to promote energy efficiencies Measurement and Reporting standards, more innovation by being performance-based, by in tomorrow’s networks. One standard that specifically those regarding: taking into account product functionality, and embodies this approach is the Alliance for • Servers and server blades CEO Message by relying on objective criteria, real-world Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) (ATIS-0600015.01.2014) data, and system-level efficiency. Predictable Telecommunications Energy Efficiency Ratio (TEER). This measurement method covers all • Transport and network systems The Details requirements enable companies to focus on the power conversion and power distribution from (ATIS-0600015.02.2016) environmental issues most relevant to them. the front end of the system to the data wire • Router and ethernet switch products Since 2008, we have been working with the EPA plug, including application-specific integrated (ATIS-0600015.03.2016) to define ENERGY STAR requirements for relevant Governance & circuits (ASICs). Responsibility products. In 2013, the EPA released the Version The ATIS TEER standards created a framework 1.0 ENERGY STAR specification to differentiate Cisco has also been a co-editor for several for measuring product energy usage that takes more efficient products across multiple types standards and actively contributes as the product functionality into account. They use realPeople of large networking equipment (LNE). In 2019, standards are updated. These include the ATIS world loads to determine energy efficiency across ENERGY STAR Version 3.0 went into effect. TEER standards and Energy Efficiency of the entire product. This is important because it It introduced active performance criteria for Society qualifying products instead of just focusing on limits for idle power in earlier versions. ENERGY STAR specifications apply to Cisco’s enterprise Planet servers, IP phones, LNE, and small network ● Environmental equipment (SNE). For a full and updated list of sustainability approach Cisco ENERGY STAR-qualified products, visit the Supplier environmental ENERGY STAR program website. performance Although ENERGY STAR is a useful means to Energy & GHG emissions promote product energy efficiency improvements, we believe we can do even more by addressing Product & packaging materials energy efficiency across an entire product system. Almost all eco-design standards and regulations Other topics generally apply to a single point of energy conversion in the power supply at the front end APPX of the total system. Cisco supports the idea of studying energy consumption more broadly. This GRI UN SDGs 175 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Table 16. Energy efficiency initiatives and organizations in which Cisco participates allows companies like Cisco to compare energyusage design improvements from one product generation to the next, and it helps consumers Organization Engagement Areas make better-informed purchasing decisions. All Alliance for Cisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member organizations CEO Message Telecommunications Industry to develop standards relevant to the telecommunications industry. In 2010, Cisco Cisco products covered by these standards that Solutions (ATIS) took a lead role in the development of the ATIS TEER standard for the measurement of product energy efficiency. have entered the market since 2011 have gone The Details European Commission Joint Cisco is a signatory and active member of the EU Code of Conduct on Energy through ATIS TEER testing. Research Center, Codes of Consumption of Broadband Communication Equipment. Conduct Aspirational goals are provided to reduce energy consumption of broadband The ATIS TEER standards have been communication equipment without hampering fast-technological developments and service provided. incorporated into the Network Equipment European Committee Cisco is actively working on EN 45552—General method for the assessment of the Building System (NEBS) design guidelines Governance & Responsibility for Electrotechnical durability of energy-related products. applied to telecommunications equipment Standardization— CENELEC TC10 in the U.S. NEBS is the most common set Electronic Product Cisco has engaged with IEEE and NSF International in the development of server of safety, spatial, and environmental design Environmental Assessment standards for energy efficiency. Cisco is an active member of the EPEAT program People Tool (EPEAT) for servers and is contributing to the new program on networking products. guidelines applied to telecommunications European Telecommunications Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for energy efficiency. equipment. Compliance with these guidelines Standards Institute (ETSI) Cisco reported on the router and switch standard ES 203 136, which addresses is an industry (but not a legal) requirement. measurement methods for energy efficiency of routers and switches. We also Society reported on the ETSI server standard EN303470, which defines the active Table 16 lists organizations Cisco works with on efficiency metrics and idle measurements for 2and 4-socket servers. energy efficiency. Cisco is also collaborating with industry peers on efficiency standards around NFV and SDN and has provided significant input to ETSI EN 303 423: Electrical and electronic household and office equipment—Measurement of networked Improving product energy efficiency Planet standby power consumption of interconnecting equipment. ● The Green Grid (TGG) Cisco participates on a broad range of issue topics, including data center Improving product energy efficiency addresses Environmental sustainability approach management, liquid cooling technology, PUE, and energy usage effectiveness two key challenges for Cisco. First, to achieve the (EUE). Cisco is a member of TGG’s Advisory Committee. Supplier environmental projected, and required, product performance Minimum Energy Performance Cisco supports efforts that focus on the development of energy performance performance Standards (MEPS) (Australia requirements and limit the maximum power consumption of product standby modes. specifications for the next five to 10 years, Cisco and Korea) Energy & GHG products need an architecture with “energy emissions Ministry of Economy, Trade Cisco supports efforts that focus on the development of a minimum energy and Industry (METI) (Japan) efficiency requirement for networking router and switch product groups. scalability.” This is one that can provide energyProduct & packaging Telecom Regulatory Authority In 2011, TRAI released recommendations and guidance on energy-efficiency efficient service for variable traffic types, traffic materials of India (TRAI) metrics and measurement. Cisco provided extensive document reviews and recommendations on how to align with existing and widely adopted ATIS/ANCI demands, customer usage, and installs. Second, Other topics and ITU-R relevant documents. product use is by far our largest GHG emissions U.S. Department of Energy Cisco has been working with the EPA to define ENERGY STAR standards for source. To address these challenges, Cisco (DOE), Environmental networking equipment: SNE, LNE, telephony equipment, and servers. Cisco has APPX Protection Agency (EPA) also worked with Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, the EPA/DOE technical is investing in five primary product energy arm; Navigant; the National Resources Defense Council (NRDC); and Ecova on measurement methodologies and metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to efficiency engineering initiatives. These GRI these organizations on best practices, draft standards, and actual power initiatives were chosen as they allow us to measurement procedures for relevant products. have the largest impact on improving our UN products’ energy consumption. SDGs 176 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 102-12, 102-13 Our Story • Power initiative. We are improving product efficiency of our products from plug to port and Table 17. Product power efficiency improvements (large rack-mounted-equipment) set a product power efficiency goal in early FY18. KPI FY16 Baseline Year FY17 FY18 FY19 This goal is to improve large rack-mountedCEO Message System power efficiency (percent) 77% 80% 82% 85% equipment system power efficiency—as Goal: Improve large rack-mounted-equipment measured from the input power from the facility system power efficiency—as measured from the input power from the facility to the board-mounted ASICs, The Details to the board-mounted ASICs, memory, and other memory, and other chip devices—from 77 percent to chip devices—from 77 percent to 87 percent 87 percent by 2022 (FY16 baseline). by FY22 (FY16 baseline). Read more about this goal in our goal announcement blog post. Governance & Responsibility Progress toward this goal is shown in Table 17. increase the interconnect speed, driving more integrated method for managing IT Such a goal drives Cisco to design new power the gigabits per second per watt (Gbps/W) infrastructures. This initiative includes developing systems that result in a net positive gain in overall consumed metric as high as possible. This will power supplies with wide-ranging AC and DC People product efficiency. increase performance and reduce energy use. inputs, and Power over Ethernet (PoE) and • Thermal initiative. We are exploring By the end of 2020, increasing traffic bandwidth Pulsed Power systems integrated into connected alternative methods of cooling (air flow, liquid, demand will require interconnect speed building applications that reduce the buildout of Society and refrigerant cooling) to reduce operating efficiency to be discussed in terms of Tbps/W future electrical infrastructure. temperatures and facility cooling requirements. of traffic transmitted or received. By 2022, • Power Supply Initiative. Power supplies Forced air cooling systems in wide use today ASIC packet processing technology will likely play a critical role in managing product energy Planet have limitations in cooling concentrated consume more than 1,000 watts in a 4-inch efficiencies, as they are the first step where ● Environmental areas of high power from next-generation by 4-inch area, using hundreds of transmit energy is lost. To overcome this loss, we are sustainability approach packet processing engines. To cool these and receive channels and thousands of power working to offer more energy-efficient options Supplier environmental higher-power components, we must deploy connections. This initiative drives optimization in for power supplies, giving customers the performance the high-speed signaling interconnect to allow more efficient and effective systems. These option of platinum or titanium 80+ rated power Energy & GHG advanced cooling systems, targeted towards more physical space and effective methods of supplies whenever possible. This provides emissions 2023, will use multiphase cooling techniques delivering power to the ASIC. cost-sensitive customers the option of selecting Product & packaging materials to transfer expected thermal output of next• Customer facilities initiative. We are working lower-rated power supplies, such as gold or generation switches and routers. with customers to reduce the amount of energy silver, while allowing customers concerned Other topics • High-speed interconnects initiative. Highrequired to operate IT facilities with power about reducing their total energy use to select speed silicon-to-silicon or optics-to-silicon solutions that increase the efficiency of overhead the higher-rated supplies. For external power APPX interconnects are an integral part of routing power, avoid step-down transformers, and supplies, we ship products that are DOE6 and switching systems. These interconnects provide integrated cooling strategies. These endcompliant, aligning with the latest U.S. energy GRI consume a significant portion of the total to-end solutions reduce hardware requirements efficiency standards. system power. We are exploring ways to and energy consumption while providing a UN SDGs 177 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback When we evaluate product energy efficiency, total energy footprint of each of our products is Our collaboration portfolio is made up primarily Our Story we consider the power performance of the determined mainly by which components we use. of our IP Phones and telepresence products. entire system. We measure the percent As components, such as the ASICs, CPUs, PHYs, Like APs, IP Phones can spend an even greater efficiency as electricity passes through each and DIMMs, continue to consume more energy, amount of their lifetime not in use. It’s critical CEO Message component or function. This can include, for our products will, too. To offset this energy for these products to be designed to efficiently example, the external power supply units (PSU), increase, we continue to push the bps/W ratio of power up for use, then switch into a standby intermediate bus converter (IBC), point of load our products higher to get superior performance mode to minimize their energy footprint. It is The Details (POL), and ASIC, memory, or other chips. for the additional energy they use. Read more also a priority for our IP Phones to be designed about this work here. to meet ENERGY STAR standards. Read more Reducing product energy consumption Our wireless portfolio, which includes APs, also about ENERGY STAR and our ENERGY STAR Governance & Increasing energy efficiency is key to Cisco’s certified products. Responsibility falls under this segment. These products are strategy for managing the total amount of primarily powered through PoE, making energy Telepresence products help customers reduce energy used by our products, but it is only one consumption a high priority. Each product must their GHG emissions from business air travel and part. Cisco produces a wide variety of products People fit into the desired PoE standard, ranging from commuting. When designing these products, ranging in size from access points (APs) to the 802.3af standard of max power at 15.4 W to we prioritize efficient switching between product LNE. This means we must take a multifaceted the 802.3bt max power rating of 90 W. Due to use and standby modes. Whenever possible, approach to managing energy consumption. Society the use case of these products, we design them we design our telepresence line of products Our products fall into three categories in which to minimize their energy consumption during low to support three modes to minimize energy we report revenue: Infrastructure Platforms, use periods, such as overnight. Our latest products consumption: off, standby, and networked Applications, and Security. Each product support the new Wi-Fi 6 standard power-saving standby. Products can then be set to transition Planet segment requires a different approach. ● feature called Target Wake Time (TWT). TWT to either of the two standby modes if no input Environmental sustainability approach Infrastructure platforms make up the backbone of allows the AP and client to schedule target signals are detected for a predetermined time. the network and consume the most energy. The wake-up times to exchange data. See the IT solutions for the environment Supplier environmental performance Energy & GHG emissions Figure 11: Cisco product categories by power consumption and product revenue Product & packaging materials % Total product Other topics % Total power revenue APPX Infrastructure 93.2% Infrastructure 77.4% Applications 5.3% Applications 14.9% Security 1.5% Security 7.0% GRI Other products 0% Other products 0.7% UN SDGs 178 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story section for more information on the benefits of these products. Scope 3 category 12: End-of-use treatment of sold products (end-of-life) IT solutions for Our security portfolio is made up of physical and The last product life-cycle phase defined in the the environment cloud-based product offerings. Similar to our GHG Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting CEO Message infrastructure platforms, energy consumption and Reporting Standard is end-of-life (EOL) We are making progress in managing GHG is determined by component selection. Each management. There are minimal emissions emissions in our own operations, in our supply The Details generation of products uses more energy, but associated with this life-cycle phase for Cisco chain, and at other phases of the product life bps/W ratios are also increasing. This offsets products, and most of them are connected to cycle. Our products and services also offer the additional energy increase. the transport of returned products and recycling. opportunities through the “enabling effect.”1 For more details, see Product End-of-Use. Governance & Responsibility The enabling effect happens when technology helps lower emissions in other industries. For example, high-definition videoconferencing can People be used in place of face-to-face interaction to avoid air travel. Energy monitoring and control of IP-enabled devices can reduce buildings’ Society energy consumption. In addition, Cisco products can support LEED accreditation. Currently, network products Planet can only get LEED credit under the Innovation ● Environmental category of the Building Design & Construction sustainability approach (BD+C): Data Center program. Under this Supplier environmental program, only ENERGY STAR-certified performance products can get LEED credit of up to six Energy & GHG points. Read more about Cisco’s ENERGYemissions STAR certified products. Product & packaging materials Other topics Cisco video conferencing technology brings people 1 S  ee the SMART 2020 report published by GeSI for a more detailed APPX explanation of the enabling effect. together in the same room, which helps limit the need for physical travel. GRI UN SDGs 179 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Figure 12. Remote collaboration Our Story Cisco sponsored and contributed to the first SMART 2020 report in 2009. The report technology solutions identified opportunities for the ICT sector to develop and apply network technologies to CEO Message reduce total GHG emissions by 15 percent. The report continues to be a seminal work and Immersive guides industry strategy. Considering the ICT videoconferencing The Details sector was projected to be responsible for We have more than 5,500 only 3 percent of global emissions in 2020, multipurpose TelePresence rooms, an additional 200 fully immersive this represents a substantial positive impact. Small office/personal TelePresence rooms, and over 1,000 Governance & Potential reductions are concentrated in the video conferencing Webex Boards, deployed in our Responsibility offices worldwide. areas of transportation, buildings, power/energy, The Cisco Workplace is Cisco’s shared office space and industry. solution. Many small, flexible-use rooms for one to two people have DX80, IP Phones, or MX00 videoconferencing units installed. We’ve deployed People over 88,000 IP Phones and over 17,000 personal Reducing GHG emissions from Cisco TelePresence devices worldwide. business air travel and teleworking Society Remote collaboration technologies (see Figure 12) help Cisco and our clients reduce emissions from air travel and commuting. These technologies Desktop/devices videoconferencing Planet include Webex Teams®, Cisco TelePresence®, Webex Meetings, Webex Teams, and Jabber are available ● Cisco Webex®, Cisco Unified Communications, to all Cisco employees using Cisco-assigned laptops. Environmental • In FY19, we logged over 1.1 million Webex meetings sustainability approach and Cisco Jabber® collaboration solutions. Beyond per month, supporting over 4.6 million attendees. Supplier environmental reducing emissions, these technologies also • On Webex Teams, over 100,000 users exchanged performance 45 million messages per month. increase employee productivity, promote work-life • There are over 93,000 deployments of Cisco Jabber, Energy & GHG balance, and help us build customer relationships. where employees can forward phone calls to their emissions computer, eliminating the need to be near a phone. Product & packaging Replacing business air travel with remote • Cisco Jabber, Webex Meetings, and Webex Teams are interoperable on smartphones, with over materials collaboration requires more than just technology. 45,000 devices registered. Other topics Our business processes, management practices, and culture have also had to adapt. As experience APPX with collaborative technologies increases, within Home/remote office Cisco and among our customers and partners, videoconferencing remote interactions have gone from being the Through our Cisco Virtual Office (CVO) GRI exception to standard practice. Hosting and hardware and Cisco AnyConnect VPN, employees had more flexibility to work attending Webex meetings with other employees from any location with network access. UN SDGs In FY19, we supported over 26,000 CVO units and over 105,000 Cisco AnyConnect VPN users worldwide. 180 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story or with customers, partners, and other stakeholders has become as common as using the telephone. We use Cisco TelePresence, Jabber, and Webex for virtual company meetings, CEO Message executive operational reviews, and department all-hands meetings. The Details In addition, about one-third of our annual global ISO 14001 site audits are performed using Cisco remote collaboration solutions. This realworld experience guides product development Governance & Responsibility and helps with the rollout of supporting management practices. Because adoption of remote collaboration technologies has matured, People we are no longer tracking adoption metrics included in our previous CSR reports. Society E-flex In partnership with other leaders in technology, Cisco technology for CDP Planet academia, energy, and the public sector, like the DX80; Cisco IP phones; and Webex Cisco supports CDP’s role in promoting global ● Cisco is leading a demonstration program to meeting, event, training, and technical support Environmental action to reduce GHG emissions. In the interest sustainability approach test technology that puts unused energy from functionality. These solutions enable CDP to of promoting CDP’s mission, Cisco has donated electric vehicles (EVs) back into the grid. This increase its organizational effectiveness and Supplier environmental Cisco Telepresence units, including large singleperformance vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology would free up productivity, and better accomplishes its and dual-screen conference room units (such Energy & GHG energy for other needs, balancing demand and global mission. emissions as MX700 and MX800) and personal-size units supply and dramatically reducing the cost of Product & packaging owning EVs. This in turn would lead to positive materials outcomes for the energy grid and environment. Other topics Read more here. APPX GRI UN SDGs 181 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message Product & The Details wwww packaging materials Governance & Responsibility Key takeaways People Society  e are working to reduce our use of plastic in the W designs of our products and packaging, and where this is not viable, use post-consumer recycled Planet plastic instead. ● Environmental sustainability approach In FY19, we avoided the use of 456 metric tonnes Supplier environmental of virgin plastic, laying a foundation for us to achieve performance our goal of reducing virgin plastic use by 20 percent Energy & GHG by FY25. emissions Product & packaging  e are making progress against the product W materials takeback commitments we made at the World Other topics Economic Forum in 2018. We are investing in improvements to existing product returns and APPX reuse systems to support increased volumes of product returns. GRI UN SDGs 182 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-1, 2 Our Story The design of our products and packaging requires Table 18. Circular economy initiatives and organizations in which Cisco participates a holistic approach. We carefully review our material selection, product fulfillment strategy, Organization Engagement Areas and product end-of-use. This requires crossCENELEC TC10 Cisco is actively working on the following standards: CEO Message functional collaboration between our design, • EN 45554—General methods for the assessment of the ability to repair, reuse, and upgrade energy-related products supply chain, product management, reverse Cisco is providing input and monitoring the following standards’ development: The Details logistics, and repair/service teams through this • EN 45553—General method for the assessment of the ability to remanufacture partnership, we prioritize environmentally energy-related products friendly materials in our products and packaging • EN 45555—General method for assessing the recyclability and recoverability of energy-related products and optimize the use of product accessories. • EN 45556—General method for assessing the proportion of reused components Governance & in an energy-related products Responsibility We also take back the products we sell after • EN 45557—General method for assessing the proportion of recycled content in an customers are done using them, processing energy-related products them for reuse, recycling, or proper disposal. • EN 45558—General method to declare the use of critical raw materials in energy-related products People Ellen MacArthur Foundation Cisco was a founding member of the EMF, and we continue to participate in EMF’s (EMF) Circular Economy 100 (CE100), allowing us to network and partner with other Product and companies toward common circular economy goals. ETSI Cisco will be actively engaged on ETSI EEPS, which focuses on material efficiency mandates from the European Commission, expected to be completed Society packaging goals International by the end of 2020. Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 WP2 Lead Study Group on ICT and Telecommunication Union climate change. On circular economy aspects, we co-edited the standard “ITU-T (ITU) (worldwide) L.CE_Concepts: Circular Economy. Definitions and concepts for material efficiency Planet for ICT.” To create true change through circularity, we’re ● World Economic Forum (WEF) Cisco is an active member of the PACE Capital Equipment Coalition, which shares Environmental aligning our circular economy objectives with our and publishes on best practices as well as progress toward the pledges each sustainability approach business. Cisco has set new goals and committed member made in January 2018. We have also participated in PACE 4IR events. Supplier environmental the necessary resources to meaningfully reduce performance our environmental impact and contribute to a Energy & GHG emissions circular economy. See Table 3 for a full list of our product and packaging goals. Product & packaging materials and influence on circular economy and related issues most relevant to their business, and topics. Through our involvement, we share with address opportunities or challenges that cannot Other topics Stakeholder engagement and and learn from peers, work to help bring clarity be solved alone. Table 18 highlights several standards development and consistency to the global marketplace, initiatives and organizations in which Cisco APPX Cisco engages with a variety of organizations, create predictable requirements that enable participated in FY19. including governments, standards development companies to focus on the environmental GRI organizations, and nonprofits, to collaborate UN SDGs GRI 102-12; 102-13; 183 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 301:103-2 Our Story Product materials Although we did not reduce our use of virgin plastic in FY19, we laid the foundations to Upon request, we provide our customers with basic information about product weight and significantly increase the amount of postpercent of recycled material. As these requests Recycled material content consumer recycled (PCR) materials we use in increase, we continue to improve our ability to CEO Message our products moving forward. We have identified support these requests and product information We use post-industrial recycled content materials a supplier of a minimum 85 percent PCR resin requirements for component-level materials and in a variety of Cisco products. Electronic products The Details and completed mechanical testing and color related weight data. consist primarily of circuit boards, steel, and matching to Cisco specifications for a variety of plastics. Using the lens of the circular economy, products. The supplier sources from recycled we are working to reduce overall material use Miscellaneous shipped material electronic waste, creating a direct connection to and increase recycled content. This includes Governance & Cisco equipment that has been recycled from Cisco aims to optimize the number of accessories Responsibility being more deliberate about how and when to previous use. included with our products, including reducing the use plastic. number of plastic bags we ship with our products. Earlier examples of our work in this area include In FY19, we committed to decrease the use of We’re currently investigating alternative materials People the Cisco 6800 and 7800 Series IP Phones, virgin plastic by 20 percent by FY25 (FY18 base to help separate the various screws we must which use a minimum of 35 percent PCR material. year)1. Progress toward this goal is shown in Table ship, which are a major source of our plastic bag In FY19, this meant that we avoided the use of 19. Where technically feasible, we will design waste. Many of our products also ship with a Society more than 456 metric tons of virgin plastic in plastic out of our products and packaging and cable wrapped in a plastic bag. In FY19, we the production of 2.7 million IP phones. In FY20, reduce our overall material. Where it is not viable launched a pilot program to remove the bag we plan to transition the Cisco 8800 Series IP to design out plastic, we will increase the use from the cables while ensuring they arrived Planet Phone to the newly identified resin, which uses a of recycled plastic. This reduces the extraction undamaged. If successful, the pilot program will ● minimum 85 percent PCR which will substantially Environmental of finite natural resources such as petroleum. be expanded to other product lines in FY20. sustainability approach increase these numbers. Examples of ongoing It also helps to increase demand for recycled Supplier environmental work are listed in Table 21. We are also exploring options to reduce the plastic across the industry, making it a more viable performance amount of physical documentation we ship. economic option for more companies. Energy & GHG While most documentation is already distributed emissions electronically, some physical documentation is Product & packaging Table 19. Progress toward our virgin plastics goal still necessary, such as regional regulatory materials KPI 2018 Base Year FY19 requirements, safety materials, and operating Other topics Virgin plastic avoided, metric tonnes 6,175 * instructions. In these cases, we require suppliers Percent progress against virgin plastic goal N/A * to print their documentation on paper that is Goal: Decrease use of virgin plastics by 20% by FY25 (FY18 base year) APPX The plastics in this goal make up the majority of Cisco’s use. However, it excludes chlorine-free and contains at least 10 percent plastics contained in commodity components sourced from suppliers (such as printed PCR. We are also evaluating new fulfillment circuit boards). Most of these electronic components require the electrical insulating GRI property provided by plastics. UN *To be updated later SDGs 184 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-3; 301-2 technologies that may provide region-specific The following sections cover materials that, to reduce PVC content in cable insulation. Our Story solutions. For more information, see Appendix III while currently not prohibited in our industry, This work focused on understanding the and the Scope 3 Purchased Goods and we are working to reduce or substitute in our environmental trade-offs of standard, Services section. products where possible. halogen-free, and bio-based cable CEO Message jacketing. Cisco will continue to research Halogenated flame retardants alternate materials and apply them to new Hazardous materials Nonregulated halogenated flame retardants products where we can maintain quality and The Details As a global supplier of network equipment, (HFRs) can be found in PCBs and plastic parts. performance requirements. we conform to applicable material regulations We have worked with manufacturing partners, for product, packaging, and battery materials. industry standards technical committees, and Batteries Governance & We’re committed to reducing the impact of academia to validate proposed alternatives Responsibility the materials used in our products and in our to HFRs. Cisco continues to identify, confirm, Batteries in Cisco products are generally used supply chain. We developed our Controlled and, where technically practical, phase out to maintain information in system memory Substances Specification to fulfill global nonregulated HFRs. when a device is powered off. These products People environmental regulations. The purpose of this are designed so batteries can be easily Some of the actions we have taken include: specification is to share Cisco’s substance use located and recycled. We use product labels • Qualifying additional halogen-free PCB to indicate if a product contains a battery. This and reporting requirements with component Society laminate materials and increasing their information alerts our recyclers to remove a suppliers and manufacturing partners. It outlines use in new products battery before further processing. controlled substances and any conditions of use, regulatory restrictions, substances to be • Eliminating, from thousands of Cisco-designed Planet ● reported and phased out, and substances under plastic parts, the HFRs found in resin compounds Environmental sustainability approach study for potential inclusion. Cisco currently • Performing material assessments and restricts more than 200 hazardous substances identifying areas within our business with the Supplier environmental performance and recently removed 30 previously allowed greatest opportunity to move to HFR-free substance exemptions. materials Energy & GHG emissions For additional information on materials-related Polyvinyl chloride Product & packaging regulations, visit our Materials webpage. For materials up-to-date product-level information such as Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is a nonregulated Other topics a CE Declaration of Conformity, visit our selfsubstance found in cable insulation. Cisco service Product Approvals Status (PAS) tool.1 worked on the iNEMI PVC Alternatives Project APPX GRI 1 Cisco.com registration is required. Note: This tool is only accessible using Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox. UN SDGs 185 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Product end-of-use CEO Message We seek to drive circularity throughout the life cycle of our hardware products. The The Details circular economy presents significant business opportunities for Cisco, and for our partners and customers. This commitment starts at the Governance & very top. Our CEO, Chuck Robbins, committed Responsibility to 100 percent product return at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in 2018. We are making product returns simple and People transparent for our customers and employees. Cisco repairs, remanufactures, and refurbishes products for resale and to support customers Society The Capital Equipment Pledge with service contracts. The programs covered in this section aim to extend the useful life of At the WEF Annual Meeting in 2018, Cisco committed to our hardware. 100 percent product return. We will do this by: Planet ● Environmental • Providing product return pickup and transport at no cost for any customer worldwide upon request sustainability approach Product return Supplier environmental • Establishing alternative commercial models that promote performance Extending the life cycle of our products and product return, including purchase trade-in, return the components inside them has long been Energy & GHG credit, leasing, and product-as-a-service emissions a Cisco priority. We operate programs for Product & packaging customers, partners, and employees to take • Offering  comprehensive warranty, replacement, service, materials back, refurbish, and reuse products. And we’re and repair for all products to extend useful product continually developing new ways to manage life and minimize obsolescence Other topics product materials. • Repurposing  returned products, subsystems, APPX Information on our compliance with product components, and commodities, including a limited amount of closed-loop return to new product recycling regulations, such as the Waste manufacturing GRI Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) UN SDGs 186 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Figure13. Cisco trade-in and recycling programs Our Story Directive, can be found here. Products are labeled with a crossed-out “wheelie bin” symbol to encourage users to reuse or recycle CEO Message electronics instead of putting them in the trash. We have nine different programs to support our The Details product trade-in and recycling efforts aimed at customers, suppliers, partners, and internal users. Read more about these programs in Figure 13. Customer programs Programs for companies Internal programs for Cisco And see what we’ve achieved in Table 20. In • Cisco Migration Incentive producing or repairing • eBin/Lab Scrap Program Governance & Program (MIP) Cisco products Responsibility FY19, we saw a decrease in metric tonnes of •C  isco Data Center Server • Manufacturing Scrap/ material returned and a lower refurbish, resell, •C  isco Takeback and Recycling Program Reuse Program Recycle (TB&R) Program and reuse rate. These results are due to multiple •N  on-Genuine Brand • Global Scrap Program •E  xceptional Pick-Up Program People factors, such as fewer returns from customers, Program (EPUP) reduced weight of returned products, and/or • E-scrap events decreased demand for used product. In FY20, Learn how and why Cisco eScrap recycling Society we aim to increase our channels for refurbished is connected to sustainability and the or reusable products and expand programs circular economy that incentivize customers to return their end-of-life equipment. Planet Customer and partner programs Cisco technologies. These programs provide ● Environmental For close to two decades, Cisco has followed Cisco with the newest and best-quality used sustainability approach The Cisco Migration Incentive Program circular economy principles to increase product equipment for refurbishment and reuse. (MIP; formerly the Technology Migration Supplier environmental returns for resale or recycling; to continuously Trade-in materials are refurbished, resold, or performance Program) and Exceptional Pick-Up Program improve leasing and as-a-service models to reused by Cisco Capital® Refresh, Cisco Service (EPUP) enable customers to return used Energy & GHG facilitate return and reuse; to implement IoT emissions equipment. MIP is a global channel partner Supply, or our internal labs. Reuse is always our technologies for improved asset tracking, first priority. Any products that are not reusable Product & packaging program that uses discounts in exchange maintenance, and operations; and to improve are harvested for components and recycled by materials for product returns to reward partners for product design to facilitate reuse. one of our authorized recyclers. Other topics migrating their customers’ networks to new APPX GRI UN SDGs 187 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2, 3 Our Story The Cisco Takeback and Recycle (TB&R) program Cisco products in the Netherlands, the United sent to landfill after initial processing under 0.48 focuses on Cisco-branded items that do not Kingdom, and the U.S. More information on the percent. In FY19, the SMAT team lowered the qualify for either MIP or EPUP. TB&R also accepts Send IT Back process can be found here. objective to 0.38 percent. While we continue to equipment from other manufacturers that has Cisco’s Global eScrap Management Aspect Test aim for decreased material sent to landfill, we CEO Message been replaced by newly purchased Cisco items. (SMAT) is responsible for setting objectives for also recognize that Cisco has limited control over The equipment is typically old or damaged and all ISO 14001 Cisco offices, as described in the the material received at the recycler. Therefore, has no reuse value. These materials go to the Environmental management system section we expect our landfill percentage to remain The Details closest Cisco-approved recycling site. Currently, and seen in Figure 7. These objectives are consistent annually. there are 47 approved recycling locations crafted in line with significant environmental Our trade-in and recycling programs are (Figure 13). The number of locations of Cisco aspects identified by Cisco’s EMS and designed to bring back the products that Cisco Governance & authorized recyclers continues to expand Environmental Aspect Management process. or our acquired companies have sold to channel Responsibility based on the growth in our business and the They drive Cisco’s environmental performance, partners. Of products sent to our e-scrap requirements of local regulations. commitment to pollution prevention, and recyclers, nearly 100 percent are broken down People In addition to TB&R, Cisco has a process called continual improvement. Since FY16, our target into commodity fractions and sent to downstream Send IT Back that allows for the easy return of has been to keep the percentage of material vendors to create new products. Society Table 20. Product trade-in and returns KPI FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments Planet ● Product returns, 12,180 11,718 12,609 11,398 13,946 9,881 All materials sent for harvesting, recycling, and reuse including Environmental metric tonnes materials received via a Returned Materials Authorization (RMA) sustainability approach Refurbish, resell, and 23% 25% 19% 16% 31% 13% Material returned from customers, stock rotations, or internal sources reuse rate, percent that is redeployed by Value Recovery and Repo Depot groups to Supplier environmental Cisco Service Supply, Cisco Refresh, or internal users to avoid performance new purchases Energy & GHG Returned material 0.30% 0.27% 0.28% 0.36% 0.35% 0.38% Landfill material consists only of nonelectronic waste materials, such emissions sent to landfill, as broken pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, accompanying percent Cisco product returned by customers for recycling Product & packaging materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs 188 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2, 3; 301-3 Internal programs someone outside of our certified repair vendors. can bring their e-scrap from home, and Cisco Our Story They can also come to Cisco through law pays to have the materials recycled properly. Any The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is enforcement seizure of counterfeit Cisco Cisco office location can host a recycling day the eBin/Lab Scrap Program. eBins are green equipment. When we find non-genuine event. In FY19, we held our 24th annual Recycle plastic rolling bins where materials are collected CEO Message in the labs for recycling. Each eBin has an equipment, we use a special witnessed protocol IT Day event, with 161 Cisco sites around the owner. When the eBin is full, the owner visits whereby we shred and separate materials into world participating and 191.5 metric tonnes of our recycling web portal and fills out a pickup their basic components to send to downstream used electronics collected. Since Cisco started The Details request, which is fulfilled by a Cisco authorized recyclers and vendors. holding these events in 1995, our employees recycler. The eBin program began at our San and contractors have helped recycle 3,235 metric We also hold an annual Recycle IT Day for our Jose campus, where 450 labs produce a large tonnes of used electronics. employees. Cisco employees and contractors Governance & amount of e-scrap. It now includes all Cisco Responsibility labs and offices worldwide. The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program serves data centers in 11 countries. When a data People center no longer needs a server, it is offered to other Cisco data centers for possible reuse. When one of these servers reaches the end Society of its useful life, it is recycled, and all parts are shredded. By request, some products are not reused due to sensitive data residing in their Planet memory. In this case, the products go through a ● Environmental full data destruction, including shredding of the sustainability approach equipment, photographs of the destruction, and Supplier environmental a Certificate of Destruction with individual serial performance numbers that were destroyed. Learn more about Energy & GHG our policy for data removal here. emissions The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles Product & packaging “non-genuine” Cisco products we occasionally materials receive in equipment returns. Items are classified Other topics non-genuine if they are competitor products or if they are Cisco products that have been altered by APPX GRI UN SDGs 189 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Product redeployment Our Story The Cisco Manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program collects and works to redeploy excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from our contract manufacturers, manufacturing partners, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), and proprietary component suppliers. CEO Message Our contracted repair manufacturers and distribution depots use the Global Scrap Program for these materials. Both programs are a valuable source of reusable product. The Details Figure 14. Cisco reverse logistics locations Governance & Responsibility People Katrineholm, Sweden Forssa, Finland Dumfries, United Kingdom Aizkraukle Novads, Latvia Davydovskoye, Russia Society County Offaly, Ireland Eindhoven and Zoetermeer, Netherlands Aleksandrov, Russia Sint-Niklaas, Belgium Bydgoszcz, Poland North Rhine-Westphalia, Austria Kyiv, Ukraine West Chicago, Illinois Mississauga, Canada Mornac, France Budapest, Hungary Planet Beijing, China Kanagawa, Japan Roseville, California Meco-Madrid, Spain Dilovası, Turkey ● Tucson, Arizona LaVergne, Tennessee Niš, Serbia Shanghai and Environmental Loures, Portugal Brno, Tokyo, Japan Suzhou, China sustainability approach Gallarate, Czech Petah Tikva, Israel Tampa, Florida Regensdorf, Italy Shenzhen and Seoul, South Korea Republic Switzerland Riyadah, Saudi Arabia Guangzhou, China Taoyuan and New Taipei City, Taiwan Supplier environmental Ginsheim-Gustavsburg Aspropyrgos, performance Greece Hanoi,Vietnam Tuen Mun, Hong Kong Lerma, Mexico and Nurnberg, Germany Phnom Penh, Cambodia Pasig City and Paranaque City, Philippines Panama City, Panama Mumbai, India Energy & GHG South Dubai, Chennai, India Ho Chi Minh,Vietnam emissions San José, Costa Rica Cartagena, Colombia United Arab Emirates Pathumthani/ Tamil Nadu, India Bangkok, Thailand Johor Bahru and Shah Alam, Malaysia Product & packaging materials Quito, Ecuador Penang, Malaysia Singapore Other topics Jakarta, Indonesia Canto Grande, Peru  everse LogisticsR APPX Medeiros, Brazil Queensland, Australia Receiving & Reuse Ops Kempton Park, South Africa New South Wales, Australia C  isco Contracted Recycler Location Ballito, South Africa Botany, Australia GRI Santiago, Chile Buenos Aires, Argentina Victoria, Australia Auckland, New Zealand UN SDGs 190 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Remanufacturing and refurbishment Service product reuse $12.5 million of components to be reintroduced Cisco Refresh, our certified remanufactured Our Global Service Supply Chain organization into the market, thus extending their useful lives equipment program, provides a genuine and delivers and supports customer and partner and eliminating the need for virgin components. trusted complement to new Cisco equipment, hardware RMAs. This organization is constantly Material return to manufacturing CEO Message without compromising performance, support, optimizing our network and inventory levels as In FY19, Cisco piloted and formalized a process or value. Cisco Refresh is backed by the same parts are used, customers deploy new products, to return unused products from our distribution The Details Cisco warranty and service options as new and old hardware becomes obsolete. We replace, centers to our contracted manufacturing products. Equipment is sold only through Cisco recover, and refurbish defective inventory back sites. At six sites, returned products that are authorized resellers and is available in more into finished products through an extensive considered “new-in-box” are sent back to be than 80 countries. Inventory includes products logistics, warehouse, planning, and repair Governance & tested and, if necessary, reconfigured. This Responsibility from all technology areas, including switching, operations network. Each device is repaired allows us to reuse products while satisfying routing, wireless, IP telephony, security, and and repeatedly tested to ensure compliance demand for new equipment. In FY20, we plan other advanced technologies. In-stock products with the latest manufacturing specifications. to expand this program to additional contracted People usually ship within three days. manufacturing sites. Remanufacturing products saves approximately Recycling 85 percent of the energy, water, and materials Society used, compared to building the same new Component harvesting products, according to the APEC Market Access Our goal is to redeploy as much material as Group. Cisco Refresh therefore plays an important possible, with recycling as the last step of a Planet role in our circular economy initiatives, creating a ● product’s life only when reuse is not an option. Environmental secondary life for equipment that not only saves In January 2017, Cisco launched a program in sustainability approach minerals and resources, but also reduces waste. the Americas and Europe that allows our recycling Supplier environmental performance Remanufacturing and refurbishing used equipment partners to harvest commodity components from also brings quality technology to those who may materials for the first time. Recyclers may harvest Energy & GHG emissions not otherwise have access to it. In FY19, we processors, memory, and other hardware with Product & packaging announced plans to launch a Repair Partners sufficient market value to offset the cost of their materials Network in Africa. Its aim is to work with selected harvesting, cleaning, packaging, and resale. Other topics distributors to repair and restore Cisco hardware The pilot was a success and is now part of our and make high-quality, refurbished technology standard process. Since the program’s inception, APPX accessible, especially for small and medium-sized component harvesting has allowed more than organizations. By investing in repair centers in Africa, we will help create jobs and develop skills. GRI We will also protect our brand and promote Cisco’s Authorized Channel. UN SDGs 191 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Figure 15. Reverse logistics material sources and flow of materials for reuse and recycling Our Story End customer: CMEOD: Contract Global Scrap: Repair Internal: eBin and Internal: Data center Internal: Annual Internal: NonReturns End customer: takeback & manufacturers manufacturers and Lab scrap program server recycling Recycle IT Day event genuine brand program MIP and EPUP recycle scrap/reuse distribution depots program protection program program program CEO Message Reverse The Details logistics Asset for reuse receiving potential and demand center Governance & Responsibility Refurb, Cisco capital marketing Cisco capital remarketing Cisco service supply Cisco service supply reuse, refurbishment vendor resale to customer refurbishment vendor reuse to customer RFD resell People Recyclers De-manufacturing into fractions and harvesting commodity components Society In addition to the return of whole products, we every prospective recycling company and every harvesting. After harvesting, the unit proceeds Planet are committed to using recycled content in recycling location before sending any Cisco to the recycling process. The recycling process ● Environmental our new products. For information on recycled equipment for processing. In addition, our starts with each load of e-scrap being dismantled sustainability approach content in our products, see Recycled material recycling process is formally documented and is and sorted into “commodity fractions.” This Supplier environmental content. part of the contract with each of our recyclers. separates steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, performance We hold quarterly business reviews with each wire/cable, and printed circuit boards (PCBs). Energy & GHG Commodity resale emissions e-scrap recycler to review recent results, action PCBs are shredded and sorted further before We currently have two contracted e-scrap items, and upcoming focus areas. We also going to a specialized smelter where as many Product & packaging materials recyclers. Each recycler uses both companyconduct random site audits of recycling facilities. as 22 metals are harvested. These harvested owned facilities and subcontracted recyclers metals are sold on the global metals markets. Other topics Each contracted recycler provides Cisco with to provide global recycling coverage. Cisco’s All materials, including any batteries or monthly reports showing all cases opened and contracted recyclers are certified to one or more packaging materials, are sent to downstream APPX processed on a lot-by-lot basis. Reports include e-scrap-specific recycling standards, such as recyclers to be made into new products. a mass balance showing the weight as received R2, R2 Rios, eStewards, and WEEELABEX. Learn more about our return and recycling and the weights of each fractional commodity GRI Our contracts require recyclers to enforce our adding up to the gross weight received. programs here. strict recycling processes with any of their UN After weighing each item on a calibrated scale, SDGs subcontractors doing Cisco work. We approve recyclers review items for possible component 192 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Packaging Once we’ve met basic packaging and material requirements, Cisco evaluates four additional aspects of environmental package design: In an ideal circular economy, there is no such • Packaging material optimization. Designing CEO Message thing as waste. The current reality is that many a package that adequately protects the product packaging materials become waste immediately from transport damage while optimizing the The Details after first use. We are working to remove volume of material and complying with all unnecessary packaging and make what remains relevant environmental regulations reusable and/or easy to recycle. Some common • Space efficiency optimization. Designing materials used for packaging are difficult to Governance & a package that optimizes space/cube Responsibility recycle, like foams or expanded polymers, efficiency during transport yet they continue to be selected due to their ability to protect products during shipment with • Optimizing distribution. Designing strong cushioning. Products that are damaged products for distribution to further reduce People in transit create additional negative business packaging material used and/or GHGs emitted and environmental impacts, since repairing or in transportation Society replacing a damaged good requires resources, • Environmentally friendly materials. energy, and materials. Including recycled content and recyclability To support Cisco’s commitment to sustainable in product designs Planet packaging, we announced two new goals in FY19 focused on reducing the use of foam and ● Environmental sustainability approach improving product packaging efficiency. See Supplier environmental Table 3 for more information. To help us achieve performance our goals, packaging engineers work with product Eliminating plastics in WebEx Share packaging Energy & GHG design teams to reduce protrusions, improve One example of a product that has moved to plastic-free packaging is emissions product fragility, standardize or reduce product our Cisco Webex Share product. We wrapped both the cable and power Product & packaging materials dimensions to optimize product packaging, and adapter clip in paperboard, reducing the need for two plastic bags. A increase packing efficiency during transport. Each molded fiber tray, rather than foam or other plastic cushioning, holds the Other topics packaging design goes through rigorous drop and actual product in place. All of these fit into a corrugated box, which slides into an overpack box with eight other units. We have also optimized the vibration testing to confirm it provides the required APPX design for distribution, so we can fit 132 of these boxes onto a pallet to level of protection. maximize efficiency. For this small, consumer-facing product, plastic was easy to design out, and we addressed all of the principles above. We will GRI continue to explore new designs to protect larger products during transit. UN SDGs 193 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Table 21. Focus areas for sustainable product, packaging, and fulfillment solutions Our Story Category Definition Actions Taken Secondary Reduce materials, packaging, and shipping Customers can choose not to receive: CEO Message product costs by providing customers with a way • Cables from our UCS Storage products, security products, configurable to opt out of receiving cables, brackets, and Catalyst switching products options and similar items. • Cisco Aironet® wireless AP mounting brackets and clips We intend to expand the availability of options to address The Details growing customer demands. However, widespread customer Packaging materials awareness and adoption of such options remains a challenge. Electronic Increase dematerialization and operational The eDelivery program updates products available for electronic Generally, our packaging uses corrugated delivery of efficiencies. Reduce CDs, paper, and delivery though unique product IDs and/or Cisco Commercesoftware, packaging. Reduce packaging and based electronic fulfillment preferences. cardboard that includes a minimum of 30 percent Governance & licenses, fulfillment costs. “Pointer cards” are used across Cisco product lines to recycled content. Almost all of our packaging for Responsibility and product consolidate web links for product and compliance documentation documentation. new products is made either of a single material Bulk packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs Bulk-pack models are now available for high-volume spare or of multiple materials that are separable for and increase operational efficiencies products, including cables, optics pluggables, memory, recycling. In our global market, customer, People by shipping like products in a carton central processing units, hard drives, fans, and rack gear kits. selected during packing based on the municipal, and regional recycling practices vary order quantity. greatly. Customers’ ability to recycle our Dense Reduce packaging and shipping costs In FY19, we continued to focus on optimizing our inbound packaging by optimizing supply chain packaging shipments. The inbound optimization of the Cisco Catalyst® packaging depends on the recycling facilities Society among our factories. 3K chassis avoided over 183 metric tonnes of packaging (corrugated, metal, and wood) and saved over $900,000 in place in their location. in material and freight costs. The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into Use of recycled Reduce the amount of new materials In FY19, Cisco produced 2.72 million IP phones with Planet materials required to produce our products 35 percent recycled content plastic, avoiding the categories identified by Resin Identification and packaging while diverting waste manufacture and use of more than 456 metric tonnes ● Environmental from landfill. of virgin plastic. Codes 1 to 7. Polyethylene (codes 2 and 4) sustainability approach Increase Remove paint from plastic bezels. In FY19, we removed paint from the plastic bezels on the Cisco is the predominant material. Some plastic Supplier environmental material Catalyst 9200 and C9300L products. The design change allows components carry labels indicating their plastic recyclability for easier recyclability of the bezels and reduced 26,800 pounds performance of VOCs and 70 metric tonnes of CO2e. recycling code number to aid end-of-life Energy & GHG Decrease Remove plastic bezels from products to In FY19, we removed plastic bezels from the Catalyst 9500 recycling. We use thermoformed mediumemissions material usage decrease material consumption. switching product. We also released the FPR1000 series rack-mount products without a bezel. density polyethylene cushions made from Product & packaging Reduce use of Reduce the quantity of plastic bags A continued focus on reducing plastic bag usage among virgin material or from recycled substitutes. materials plastic bags from product accessories. product accessories, including product accessory kits and When regionally available and technically cables (power cord, ethernet, USB). Other topics Reusable pallet Replace disposable plastic wraps with In FY19, we reduced the use of plastic stretch-wrap by feasible, we use cushions made from wraps reusable pallet wraps for shipping of 79,000 pounds. 100 percent recycled polyethylene. APPX palletized products. GRI UN SDGs 194 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2, 3 Our Story Cisco legacy products, including those produced by our acquired companies, may not incorporate all current packaging best practices. A similar challenge also exists for packaging provided CEO Message with OEM products that a Cisco supplier delivers directly to a customer. The Details While we promote recyclable packaging, sometimes this is not possible. Although metallized antistatic bags are not easily recycled, they are essential to the safe Governance & Responsibility transport of products susceptible to damage from electrostatic discharge. We size bags to fit the product being shipped and minimize People the amount of material we use. Our contract manufacturers also reuse antistatic bags whenever technically feasible. Society Product packaging end-of-life IT solutions for the environment Cisco Connected Goods showcase Cisco product packaging is designed to be separable and recyclable so it can be absorbed Beyond our efforts to make Cisco a circular In June 2019, we convened a technology Planet ● by local packaging material recycling programs. business, we are committed to advancing the showcase and design thinking workshop called Environmental Cisco Connected Goods for Circularity. sustainability approach Cisco does not collect used packaging, as circular economy across a broader ecosystem shipping empty product packaging to Cisco for of customers, partners, and other stakeholders. This demonstration event explored how Cisco Supplier environmental performance recycling would create unnecessary environmental Our networks provide the infrastructure for technology can enhance and enable circular impacts. However, we are exploring reusable transformative technologies, like IoT, blockchain, business models. Energy & GHG emissions packaging options for specific scenarios. One and artificial intelligence. These disruptive forces One application we explored focused on takeback Product & packaging example is using reusable packaging for customers will help us better understand the context of models for clothing. Using sensors and other materials objects in our physical world. Below are some near our distribution sites. This would allow technologies, we modeled “smart clothes” that Other topics packaging to move between two locations for examples of how we are applying our technology are uniquely identifiable and trackable throughout reuse while minimizing the environmental impact and services to help our customers transform their life cycles. At our showcase, participants APPX of shipping empty material. Read more here their organizations and advance the circular were led through six different stations, including a about Cisco’s compliance with environmental economy ecosystem. mock store, home, recovery center, and more. GRI packaging regulations. UN SDGs 195 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 301:103-2 Our Story Connected clothing enables a new kind of relationship between brands and consumers. Through their smartphones, consumers can receive tips on sustainable laundering methods CEO Message and how to responsibly return their clothing when it is no longer needed. The data generated The Details from the clothing can also be applied to enable more efficient collection, sorting, and reuse. Container 42 Governance & Rotterdam is Europe’s biggest and busiest port. Responsibility It also aims to be the world’s smartest and most sustainable port by introducing technology that makes shipping safer, more efficient, and more People environmentally friendly. Cisco is supporting Rotterdam’s digitization journey through our intent-based networking solutions, including Society partnering with the port and other technology leaders on a project called Container 42. Container 42 is a shipping container equipped with Planet ● sensors and communication technology to collect Environmental data on vibrations, pitch, position, air pollution, sustainability approach temperature, and humidity as it travels the world. Supplier environmental performance The container is a prototype that will lead us into the future of global logistics, where data insights Energy & GHG emissions can be applied to minimize air pollution, increase Product & packaging fuel efficiency, prevent spoilage and waste of materials perishable items, and more. Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins visited the Port of Rotterdam and met with the We Are 42 team for further partnership Other topics in digitization. APPX GRI UN SDGs 196 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story CEO Message Other topics wwww The Details Governance & Responsibility In this section: People Water 198 Society Biodiversity 201 Solid waste from operations 207 Planet ● Environmental sustainability approach Effluents 209 Supplier environmental performance Non-GHG emissions 209 Energy & GHG emissions Product & packaging materials Other topics APPX GRI UN SDGs 197 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Water Our Story Water scarcity affects more than 1 billion primary use of fresh water in our direct as Cisco’s. They provide WASH services in the people around the world. Even though operations is for water, sanitation, and hygiene workplace as well as for cooling towers and technology companies like Cisco do not (WASH) services in the workplace, such as in irrigation. For some Tier 2 component suppliers CEO Message directly use significant amounts of water, we restrooms and cafeterias. We also use fresh that need large amounts of water in their understand the importance of reducing water water in our cooling towers and for irrigation production process, such as semiconductor The Details consumption as much as we can in our where we are unable to use recycled water. Our and PCB suppliers, water quantity and quality operations and supply chain. It’s essential to primary use of utility-provided recycled water is impact their daily operations. protect this limited resource not only for our for irrigating landscapes and evaporative cooling We use the World Business Council for Sustainable Governance & business needs, but also for the sake of for our labs and data centers at several of our Development (WBCSD) water tool and the WRI Responsibility communities in which we operate. major campuses. Aqueduct tool to better understand our water use Cisco’s water strategy is to: Cisco recycles and reuses most of the water we and risks at both the country and local watershed • Benchmark and report water use and risks withdraw for use at our Bangalore, India, campus. levels. The Aqueduct tool revealed that 50 percent People according to industry best practices The campus is a zero-discharge facility, meaning of Cisco’s water use by volume is withdrawn no wastewater is discharged to third parties or the from water-stressed areas, including the water • Conserve water in our operations, focusing on environment. All building water discharge is sent withdrawn for use in our two largest campuses: Society water-scarce and water-stressed locations to two sewage treatment plants that use filtration San Jose and Bangalore. We will continue to • Set long-term water goals for water-scarce and reverse osmosis to treat the water for eventual monitor these sites for changes in water availability and water-stressed locations (FY20) reuse. Eighty-five percent of the treated water and will develop contextual water management Planet ● is used in HVAC systems (cooling towers), for strategies accordingly. Environmental irrigation, and for toilet flushing in two campus However, Cisco’s total water withdrawals are Water usage sustainability approach buildings. A small quantity of discharge water is relatively low compared to other industries Supplier environmental performance trucked back to the water company when it can and companies. For example, through the U.S. no longer be recycled. In FY19, we recycled Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Energy & GHG We have been collecting and tracking water 108,680 m3 of water at Bangalore campus, which emissions Survey (CBECS), the Energy Information Agency usage data for our major campus locations since is 3.2 percent of Cisco’s total global water use. Product & packaging (EIA) estimates large commercial buildings in materials FY07 (Table 22). In FY19, Cisco quantified water In addition to our direct operations, many of our the U.S. use about 18,400 gallons (69.7 m3) of withdrawals, consumption, and discharges for Other topics suppliers require fresh water as a direct input water per worker per year. In FY19, Cisco used 100 percent of our total real estate portfolio during production, and for drinking water and 44 m3 of water per employee, which is far below within our operational control. APPX sanitation for their employees. Our Tier 1 the EIA average. In FY19, Cisco withdrew 3,409 thousand m3 of suppliers’ (i.e., contract manufacturing and ODM GRI water for use in its direct operations. Cisco’s suppliers) primary use of fresh water is the same UN SDGs 198 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 303-5 Our Story Table 22. Water use in direct operations KPI Total water withdrawn, FY15 2,916 FY16 3,050 FY17 3,220 FY18 3,394 FY19 3,409 Comments This figure covers 100 percent of Water stewardship m3, thousands Cisco’s facilities. Withdrawal sources CEO Message are reported below. Cisco does not withdraw water from any source not Cisco is committed to managing water responsibly listed below. across our direct operations and our supply Water withdrawn from municipal 2,872 3,010 3,204 3,366 3,222 The majority of Cisco's water The Details supply (third-party sources), withdrawals are from third-party chain. We have implemented numerous water m3, thousands sources. conservation projects in our direct operations Water withdrawn from fresh 131 148 168 159 165 We withdraw water from a nearby lake over the past few years. These projects are still surface water, m3, thousands at our Vaud, Switzerland, location, use it on site in a closed-loop cooling conserving water today and will continue to do Governance & system, then discharge it back to Responsibility so for many years to come: the lake. Water withdrawn from 44 40 16 28 22 Water is treated on site at our • Using irrigation controllers throughout the groundwater, m3, thousands Boxborough facilities and then discharged back to the groundwater. San Jose main campus People Total water recycled and reused, 102 95 106 116 109 Cisco recycles and reuses about • Using reclaimed water for irrigation and cooling m3, thousands 60 percent of the water it withdraws for use at our Bangalore, India, facilities. towers in RTP Total water consumption, 0 0 0 108 491 We are in the process of improving • Installing variable-frequency drives in our Society m3, thousands our water accounting practices and expect to more accurately report the cooling towers water we use for evaporative cooling and irrigation. • Installing two-way valves for toilets, waterless Total water discharged, 2,916 3,050 3,220 3,286 2,918 This figure covers 100 percent urinals, sink aerators, low-flow showerheads, Planet m3, thousands of Cisco’s facilities. Discharge ● destinations are reported below. and pre-rinse spray valves for kitchen sinks Environmental Cisco does not discharge water to sustainability approach any destination not listed below. • Replacing water fountains and turf in San Jose Total water discharged to sewer 2,731 2,862 3,149 3,258 2,731 The majority of Cisco's water and RTP with native planter beds that require Supplier environmental performance (third-party destinations), discharges are to third-party little water, and installing drip irrigation lines to m3, thousands destinations. Energy & GHG improve irrigation efficiency Total water discharged to fresh 131 148 168 159 165 We withdraw water from a nearby emissions surface water, m3, thousands lake at our Vaud, Switzerland, • Implementing a comprehensive water location, use it on site in a closedProduct & packaging loop cooling system, then discharge management system in Bangalore, including a materials it back to the lake. rainwater harvesting system, two sewer treatment Other topics Total water discharged to 44 40 16 28 22 Water is treated on site at our plants, and an evaporative cooling system groundwater, m3, thousands Boxborough facilities and then discharged back to the groundwater. APPX Real estate portfolio covered by 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% water reporting Real estate portfolio where we 72% 73% 72% 71% 70% GRI receive water data from the utility UN SDGs 199 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 303-5 We plan to develop targeted strategies to Carolina and the Southeast. These projects Our Story conserve water and evaluate partnerships increase flows in rivers and streams, restore with local organizations to address local water wetlands, and replenish groundwater to improve issues in Bangalore and San Jose. In FY20, water security for ecosystems, communities, and CEO Message we will audit our water usage in San Jose to economies. One project we are supporting is the identify opportunities to reduce our water removal of Ward Mill Dam, a decommissioned consumption there. dam in the Watauga River Basin in North Carolina. The Details We have also been working toward a water By supporting this and other water restoration neutrality target for our RTP campus. To us, this projects in the Southeast, we expect to achieve means restoring water to local watersheds in water neutrality in FY20. Governance & quantities equal to our consumption. In addition Cisco’s water restoration project in Responsibility the Watauga River Basin restores free-flowing to implementing the above projects, we also Cisco’s water restoration habitat forproject several in the species Water-energy nexus aquatic aquatic began treating the reclaimed water we use in WataugawhileRiverreducing Basin restores sedimentfree flowing and debris issues in our cooling towers with a plant-based water aquatic habitat the river.for several aquatic species People while reducing sediment and debris issues in treatment solution instead of chemicals in FY19. the river. The production of electrical power is one of the So far, this solution has improved water quality largest users of fresh water. Therefore, one of The U.S. Geological Survey estimates in their and the efficiency of our systems. Society the greatest opportunities for Cisco to reduce latest 2015 water report that an average 15 To balance the remainder of both the fresh water our impact on water resources globally is by gallons of water are used to produce 1 kilowattand recycled water that we use in RTP, we are continuing to make our products and operations hour of electricity in the U.S. Considering this, Planet funding water restoration projects in North more energy-efficient. the energy savings we achieve through our ● Environmental energy and GHG reduction efforts have a big sustainability approach impact on reducing water usage. We estimate Supplier environmental our FY19 energy reduction projects (Table 10), performance which avoided 19.4 GWh of energy usage, also Energy & GHG emissions avoided 1.1 million cubic meters (m3) of water usage in FY19. Since FY15, we estimate our Product & packaging materials energy reduction projects have avoided the use of over 9.7 million m3 of water. To put this Other topics into perspective, the avoided water usage we achieved from our energy projects in FY19 is APPX equal to roughly half of Cisco’s total FY19 water use. GRI The fountain outside San Jose building 10 was UN converted to a drought-resistant planter bed SDGs 200 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Biodiversity The Eastern Box Turtle is native to the eastern part of the United States. Our Story Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms and the ecological complexes they are a part of. All organizations impact biodiversity directly through their own activities or indirectly through their supply CEO Message chains. Cisco’s primary impact on biodiversity is the land we use for our facilities. We mitigate this impact by reducing the demand for physical The Details office space through employee telework programs and other support solutions. For more information, see the Cisco Workplace and Flexible work practices. Governance & Responsibility People Operations Society Cisco uses environmental impact assessments to evaluate the biodiversity and land-use impacts Protecting turtle habitat of our sites. We generate annual biodiversity Planet summary reports for all land and property we own. Our Boxborough campus is located in the habitat of Blanding’s Turtle ● Table 23 shows the percentage of our portfolio (IUCN Endangered Species) and the Eastern Box Turtle (IUCN Vulnerable Environmental sustainability approach with biodiversity assessments in place. Note that Species). We have taken measures recommended by the IUCN to Supplier environmental as Cisco’s total square footage decreases, our ensure the turtles can survive and even thrive in this location, including: performance percentage of real estate portfolio with biodiversity • Establishing two conservation areas of 49 and 60 acres, respectively Energy & GHG assessment decreases as well. Some of the • Constructing three turtle tunnels under the highway to provide a safe emissions buildings we own in San Jose are located near passage for migration Product & packaging a protected area for the American Cliff Swallow, materials • Installing turtle curbing around the site to prevent migrating turtles from which is a bird species on the Least Concern entering the roadway and parking areas Other topics category of the International Union for Conservation • Enhancing 16 acres of turtle nesting habitat within the conservation area of Nature (IUCN) Red List. To protect their habitat • Funding a two-year construction phase turtle monitoring plan and a APPX during nesting season, we close our balconies two-year Blanding’s Turtle conservation research project on those buildings. We then remove the mud • Restricting future development on approximately 50 acres of our land GRI nesting locations on our buildings after nesting season is over. UN SDGs 201 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Over the last several years, we’ve come to Our work began in 2015 in support of Cisco’s understand the importance of ocean biodiversity largest distribution partner, NTT, based in South and ecosystem health. To support and promote Africa. Cisco contributed technology, services, improved ocean health, Cisco has become a and expertise to help NTT protect endangered CEO Message signatory to the UN Global Compact Sustainable rhinos and uplift communities. Following these Ocean Principles. Guided by these principles, efforts, we identified other ways to contribute. The Details Cisco commits, where relevant, to ensure that In 2019, the program evolved from many we integrate material ocean-related risks and independent efforts to a single program under opportunities in corporate strategy, risk Dave Ward, CTO of Engineering and Chief management, and reporting. Architect. The new program’s goals are to apply Governance & innovation and encourage industry to develop Responsibility IT solutions for training programs that support conservation efforts. The program also aims to benefit People the environment surrounding communities, and will ultimately expand to new sectors and use cases. Cisco’s wildlife conservation program began as Society a joint effort with Dimension Data to save rhinos. It has since evolved into an initiative, Cisco Open Conservation, that includes new partners, Planet ● geographies, and species, as well as a new Environmental Table 23. Biodiversity and land use sustainability approach Cisco team: Sustainable Impact. The goal: use innovative technology to impact both human KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments Supplier environmental performance well-being and life on land, under water, and in Percent of real estate 61% 59% 58% 54% 55% Includes IUCN Red List and national portfolio with biodiversity conservation list species with the air. The program aligns with Cisco’s CSR assessment habitats in areas affected by operations. Energy & GHG See Cisco’s current CDP emissions and Country Digital Acceleration (CDA) efforts Water and Climate responses. Product & packaging that aim to positively impact people, society, and Total real estate footprint 22.1 22.2 20.8 21.4 20.6 Reducing our square footage minimizes materials the planet. Saving endangered species and square footage, millions our physical impact. Other topics protecting ecosystems effectively impacts all three of these categories. APPX GRI UN SDGs 202 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Phase 1: Pilot projects Table 24. Open Conservation and sustainable impact Private Game Reserve, South Africa: The program 20131 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 worked with Dimension Data (now a wholly owned Incursions 51 52 76 25 20 27 subsidiary of NTT) to design and deploy a solution Rhino carcasses 45 10 14 2 1 0 CEO Message Possible number of rhinos lost 51 52 76 25 20 27 that would curb rhino poaching at a private game Poacher success rate 88% 19% 18% 8% 5% 0% reserve outside of Kruger National Park in South Ranger success rate 12% 81% 82% 92% 95% 100% The Details Africa. The Connected Conservation pilot used Cisco networking and security technologies, 1 Last year before implementation of technology combined with a series of sensors and data collection tools, to track human movement. These Governance & Responsibility tools helped identify suspicious activity that could Phase 2: Global expansions Lake Itezhi-Tezhi, where we funded the indicate a potential incursion or threat to the construction of a new operations control center In 2017, Cisco expanded beyond South Africa endangered animals. This project has reduced and helped to design a secure network across and took on three new conservation projects People poaching incidents by 95 percent (see Table 24) the 370 km2 lake. The solution enabled rangers through our partnership with World Wildlife in this 650 km2 reserve. to identify illegal activity on the lake and notify Fund. The first project took place in Zambia at their teams to apprehend suspects. From Kafue National Park. This project aimed to Society January to August of 2019, ranger teams using decrease elephant poaching along the banks of this solution apprehended people 45 times for illegal poaching or fishing activity. Anti-poaching Planet units in the area have not found any poached ● Environmental elephant carcasses in the protected area, nor sustainability approach have they received any reports of elephant Supplier environmental poaching incidents. performance Next, we introduced Connected Conservation Energy & GHG emissions solution to Kenya. There, a secure network and series of sensors will provide rangers at Product & packaging materials Lewa Conservancy with real-time surveillance Other topics capabilities for enhanced response time and informed decision-making. APPX To grow our network of partners and expertise, we teamed up with NIL Data Communications, GRI Peace Parks Foundation, and others to begin a project at Hluhluwe-imfolozi Park in the famous UN KwaZulu-Natal region in South Africa, known as SDGs 203 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback • Discuss existing and potential solutions toward Our Story a common architecture At the end of the symposium, we invited select partners to join us for an architecture review CEO Message session. There, we welcomed feedback on our working reference architectures and to solidified The Details industry leadership toward the Open Conservation effort. These deeper conversations have enabled us to refine our architectures with the knowledge that they have viability to work in the field as well Governance & Responsibility as in theory. The Sustainable Impact program also works in Phase 3: Thought leadership, alignment and partnership with country leaders People and Cisco’s 14 Co-Innovation Centers. These techno-conservation research centers are strategically located around the world Cisco’s Sustainable Impact team is interested in Masts kitted with Cisco networking gear provide long-term partnerships and solutions. Cisco will Society connectivity and communications capabilities across parks and feed back to operations control lead the emerging techno-conservation industry centers built with Cisco donations. through an external program called Open Conservation. We are trying to lead the scaling Planet ● the “birthplace of rhinos.” The new “Internet of of the effort from single reserves through parks Environmental sustainability approach Life” solution that we helped develop for this and sharing across nation-states. By pioneering reserve included a complex network paired with this effort, we hope to set an example for Supplier environmental performance a unique sensor placed beneath the skin that technology companies and lead the industry Energy & GHG tracks the movement and location of rhinos, as to a scalable architecture and set of standards emissions well as anatomical data such as blood pressure for protecting threatened biodiversity. Product & packaging and heart rate. This solution is of great interest In 2019, we held a three-day Research and materials to both conservationists and veterinarians, as it Innovation Symposium in Paris, France, in Other topics provides data that was previously unobtainable. partnership with Ecole Polytechnique. Cisco Continuing to grow our footprint within South had three goals for this symposium: Cisco’s Open Conservation program is a multi-faceted APPX Africa, we recently committed to a third project effort focusing on a variety of species, ecosystems • Drive awareness and alignment for in the region, at Balule Game Reserve, using the and regions (photo: Dave Ward) techno-conservation efforts GRI same solution deployed at Hluhluwe-imfolozi. The success of these technologies in multiple • Share best practices among peers and UN locations suggests their potential to scale. across industries SDGs 204 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story • Technology applied to research life patterns and align to our CDA efforts to help governments achieve their digital priorities. By leveraging these of species and their relationships to centers and the CDA program, the Sustainable ecosystem health CEO Message Impact program can explore opportunities in new • Identifying fish species using artificial intelligence regions across the world and access networks of experts, academics, and partners to help The Details propel our conservation efforts forward. Recognition Our university relations and grant program has Our conservation efforts gained the interest of also published requests for proposal (RFPs) to National Geographic, who showcased our Governance & fund academic research. The research is not technology solution in a documentary series. Responsibility limited to species, ecosystems, or geographies. Led by cricket legend Kevin Pietersen and “Outback Wrangler” Matt Wright, the two-part Currently, the Sustainable Impact team has three documentary shares the stories of passionate People open RFPs focusing on: conservationists and their tireless work to save • The economic benefits of ecotourism rhinos in South Africa. Save This Rhino highlighted and conservation that technology can and should play a role in Society Kevin Pietersen with baby rhino. Photo courtesy of THIS. Flim Studio Planet ● Environmental conservation. This coverage has not only sustainability approach accelerated the Open Conservation program but Supplier environmental has encouraged new conversations between performance Cisco and our global partners. Energy & GHG emissions We jointly premiered the documentary in London and Sydney and hosted the national Product & packaging materials premiere of Save This Rhino in Los Angeles. Cisco invited the technology, conservation, and Other topics Hollywood communities to come together and learn about the critical state of rhino populations APPX in Africa. By bridging communities and tapping into celebrity and social media influence, we GRI The cast and crew of Save This Rhino, including Cisco executives Ruba Borno and Dave Ward. UN SDGs 205 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story are working to engage new demographics and amplify awareness for techno-conservation efforts. Our goal is to showcase more of our projects using mainstream media and to empower younger CEO Message generations to get involved. Read more about Save This Rhino and Cisco’s involvement. The Details Cisco’s work with Dimension Data (now part of NTT) won the Innovation award at The Better Society Awards, recognizing commercial companies who are helping to create a better, Governance & Responsibility more equal, ethical, and sustainable world. Internally, the team won Cisco’s first Data Science Award for Benefitting Humanity for People using data science, deep learning, and data sharing policies to innovate for social benefit. The road to conservation projects has been a Society fulfilling one. We are proud of how Cisco good” has become a common refrain, but to Cisco technology for WWF experience, donations, and technology have become sustainable, these efforts must bring Cisco donated much of the information and benefited rhino and elephant populations across long-term value to the company. Many of the communications technology in WWF’s U.K. Planet Sub-Saharan Africa. As we look to FY20, we will use cases in conservation could serve a much ● office—the Living Planet Centre—that opened in Environmental evolve a broader strategy to solve some of the broader set of business opportunities, including sustainability approach late 2013 in Woking, U.K. Much of the equipment world’s toughest conservation problems. education, healthcare, energy, ports, was redeployed as like-new from the 2012 Supplier environmental Innovation will drive our efforts, as will the transportation, agriculture, and manufacturing. performance Olympic Games and refurbished before creation of an open-source technoThis new shared value model is good for Energy & GHG installation at Woking, where it continues to conservation community that will bring scale and conservation, good for Cisco, good for our emissions support WWF’s global mission. accessibility to the conservation ecosystem. customers, and good for communities that will Product & packaging materials Cisco’s Sustainable Impact Program aims to continue to benefit from Cisco innovation. apply the R&D started for conservation efforts Other topics to a broader commercial audience. “Tech for APPX GRI UN SDGs 206 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Solid waste from operations Figure 16. Recycling rates for solid waste (trash) Our Story from major operations Cisco’s waste reduction and recycling Table 25 shows our solid waste metrics. Cisco 100% program applies the principles of reduce, reports total waste generated and recycled for reuse, and recycle to our operations. 100 percent of our total real estate portfolio 80% CEO Message The program is a key component of within our operational control. Figure 18 shows examples of how we reduce waste and increase 60% our ISO 14001 certification and global environmental policy. While municipal reuse and recycling on our campuses. Figure 16 40% The Details and regional recycling practices vary, shows solid waste recycling rates for our major all our facilities take steps to reduce campus locations worldwide. 20% their operational waste and recycle Our headquarters in San Jose diverted 87 percent 0% Governance & materials locally. of all waste streams from landfill in FY19, including FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Responsibility  Total  San Jose  Boxborough  RTP  Lawrenceville a compost program that diverted approximately  Beijing  Hong Kong  Shanghai  Tokyo  Bangalore 796 metric tonnes of waste from local landfills. In addition, through our food collection and Figure 17. People In FY19, we diverted approximately 79 percent donation program in San Jose, we have Breakdown of solid waste streams (trash) donated 21,000 pounds of food to local at San Jose, California, headquarters campus of the waste generated at our facilities from Society landfill. Per the GHG Protocol Corporate Value homeless shelters in the Bay Area. A breakdown Chain (Scope 3) Standard, our emissions of our waste stream for the San Jose site in generated from operational waste sent to Figure 17 illustrates our key sources of operational Planet landfill are 1,096 tCO2e. Using the EPA Waste waste, the complexity of proper waste stream ● Reduction Model, we estimate that our waste segregation, and the need for robust recycling Environmental sustainability approach and recycling efforts in FY19 avoided 763 tCO2e services. Our Boxborough campus diverted Supplier environmental that would have been produced had the material 100 percent of all waste from landfill in FY19 performance been sent to landfill instead of a recycling or through a comprehensive composting, recycling, Total recycling 47.2% Energy & GHG composting facility. Therefore, we estimate that and waste-to-energy program. Landscape waste 23.6% emissions Compost 11.4% Cisco’s net GHG emissions from waste and We have been working toward a zero waste goal Total trash 7.0% Product & packaging recycling in our operations are less than zero. for our RTP campus. Click here for more Confidential paper 4.2% materials To build upon the success of our program, we information on our RTP campus goals. Per the Cardboard 2.8% Other topics Wood 1.5% continue to set and work toward aggressive True Zero Waste Certification definition, zero Mixed recycling 0.5% waste and recycling goals. waste means diverting 90 percent or more of all Foam 0.5% APPX Mixed paper 0.4% Special projects 0.4% Surplus donations 0.3% Cans and bottles 0.3% GRI Batteries 0.1% Kitchen oil 0.0% UN Media 0.0% SDGs 207 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 306:103-1, 2, 3; 306-2 Our Story We are also moving away from plastic and paper Table 25. Solid waste from operations (trash) cups and toward reusable cups and mugs in KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Comments many offices around the world, including our CEO Message Total operational waste 10,388 9,805 12,519 10,559 9,618 This figure covers 100 percent Bedfont Lakes campus in the U.K. and the generated, metric tonnes of Cisco’s facilities. majority of our facilities in Asia and Europe. In Percent real estate portfolio 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Includes major campus covered by waste reporting locations in the United the U.K., we are also replacing the plastic and The Details States, India, and China. polystyrene to-go boxes, cutlery, and straws Total operational waste 7,885 7,358 8,500 7,717 7,639 recycled, metric tonnes with compostable options, and adding campus Operational waste recycled 76% 75% 68% 73% 79% composting. In FY19, 132 facilities, making (including compost), percent Governance & up a quarter of our office square footage, Responsibility were paper-cup-free. People Figure 18. solid waste from landfill. To work toward this goal, we launched a campus composting program Cisco solid waste Society on Earth Day 2019. All to-go containers in the Reduce reduction initiatives cafeteria have been replaced with biodegradable •U  sing online learning and options, and we now provide mugs and reusable communications technologies Planet cups in cafés and breakrooms instead of to reduce paper use • Making product information ● Environmental paper cups. available online to reduce paper use sustainability approach • Using compost made of landscape Recycle Since the zero waste program launched, the waste at our San Jose campus Supplier environmental RTP campus has stopped sending over 10,000 • Batteries • Toner cartridges performance plastic items to landfill each week, saving 6 tons • CDs • Compost Energy & GHG • Beverage containers • Polyurethane foam emissions of plastic to date. We intend to build upon these • Wood and pallets • Landscape waste successes over the next 12 months by switching • Cardboard • Mobile phones Product & packaging plastic breakroom and catering items over to Reuse • Mixed paper • Food waste materials •M  anaging an internal Repo • Packaging materials • Construction waste compostable options, removing paper cups from Depot program, which allows Other topics the remainder of the campus, and transitioning the us to reuse lab and testing equipment campus from deskside trash bins to centralized APPX • Reusing incoming pallets with waste. Over FY19, we diverted 68 percent of outgoing shipments wherever possible the waste produced at RTP campus from • Collecting PC equipment for reuse GRI by our vendor landfill, up from 38 percent diverted in FY14. • Donating surplus used office supplies to local schools UN SDGs 208 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 306:103-1, 2, 3; 306-2 Effluents Our Story We seek to locate our operations in areas where we can successfully serve our customers while limiting our negative environmental impacts. Effluent spills, such as chemical, oil, and fuel spills, can have significant negative impacts on the surrounding CEO Message environment. They can potentially affect soil, water, air, biodiversity, and human health, as well as our business. We take this and other environmental health and safety issues The Details very seriously. Cisco has had no significant releases to an environmental receptor over the reporting year. Table 26 tracks liquid spills and discharges from Cisco facilities. Governance & Responsibility Table 26. Effluent spills and discharges KPI FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 People Spills and discharges None None None None None Society Non-GHG emissions Planet Because our production is outsourced to supply We comply with California Air Resources Board requests and do not use ● Environmental chain partners, our global operations primarily mechanical equipment, such as gasoline-powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. sustainability approach consist of standard office activities and on designated Spare the Air days, when air quality is poor in the San Francisco Supplier environmental research labs. This limits our non-GHG Bay Area. In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol On Substances That performance emissions to volatile organic compounds Deplete The Ozone Layer, we also have worked with our supply chain partners to Energy & GHG (VOCs) from cleaning products, nitrous oxides phase out the use of ozone-depleting substances. emissions (NOX), and sulfur oxides (SOX) from on-site fuel Product & packaging materials combustion (from vehicle engines, boilers, or emergency generators), and the subsequent Table 27. Non-GHG emissions Other topics formation of ozone from the photochemical KPI FY16 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 reaction of NOX. Table 27 summarizes our Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions1 Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible APPX relevant non-GHG-related airborne emissions: NOX, metric tonnes 212 207 138 176 156 VOCs, NOX, SOX, and particulate matter. SOX, metric tonnes 0.72 0.72 0.65 0.67 0.59 GRI Particulate matter Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible 1 Quantities of VOC-based chemicals deployed are minimal and monitoring is not required. UN SDGs 209 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 306:103-2; 306-2 Our Story CEO Message The Details Governance & Responsibility Appendix & People GRI content Society index Planet In this section: Cisco’s Position on Government Use of Technology to Curtail Freedom of Expression 211 Cisco letter requesting suppliers and partners report to CDP 213 FY19 Scope 3 emissions 214 APPX Completed Cisco environment goals 215 Supplier environmental engagement GRI and performance 216 UN Hyperlinks in Planet 217 SDGs GRI Content Index 219 210 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix I—Cisco’s Position on Government Use of Technology to Curtail Freedom of Expression CEO Message Cisco was founded in 1984 by two computer scientists at Stanford in order to enable communication between different computer systems. Thirty-five The Details years later, our mission has not changed. Cisco supports free expression and open communication, and we recognize the importance of driving policies to enable people the world over to benefit from the freedom and empowerment that the Internet can offer. To that end, our goal remains to expand access to information and promote innovation by building our products according to open, global standards that promote human rights including privacy and freedom of expression. Governance & Responsibility As set out in the 2011 United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, businesses have a responsibility to respect internationallyrecognized human rights and fundamental freedoms, which includes avoiding infringing on the human rights of others and addressing adverse human rights impacts with which they are involved. Embracing this critical responsibility, Cisco’s Global Human Rights Policy, first published in 2012, articulates People our long-standing commitment to uphold and respect human rights for all people. Further, in 2018 Cisco published human rights position statements related to the development and use of disruptive technologies that are shaping our collective future, setting out our perspective on the potential human rights impacts of encryption, data localization and sovereignty, surveillance by governments, Internet of Things, big data analytics, and artificial Society intelligence, and how we intend to address their potential adverse human rights impacts. One additional area of technology in particular—Network Security—provides enormous protection to human rights. Network security technology allows people to work, send email messages, browse the Internet, read articles, publish blogs, and shop in privacy. At Cisco, we are proud to be the industry Planet leader in providing network security products that are designed to keep data and Internet access safe and secure; we see this as critical to advancing human rights around the world. The same capabilities that enhance network security can be deployed by end users to subvert these principles. Around the world, governments that fear the liberating power of ideas seek to block free expression by exploiting the very security technologies designed to protect Internet users from outside threats. It is possible for these actors to use these capabilities to block their citizens from accessing, receiving, and sharing information from or with outside sources, thereby subverting their citizens’ rights to privacy and freedom of expression. Unfortunately, there is no effective way to provide network administrators the capabilities necessary to protect their networks (and end-users) without also putting at their disposal powerful security capabilities which can be exploited in ways that can impair free expression. Disabling these security technologies would put networks, and the users of those networks, at risk. Take, for example, the use of Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) in networks. APPX This ubiquitous networking and security capability enables visibility into network traffic packets to detect and block malware, DDoS attack risks, viruses, spam, and other security threats. While leading DPI technologies have been designed to protect the security of network end-users, press reports for more than a decade have alleged their (mis)use by governments to facilitate the control and censorship of the flow of information, blocking access to GRI unfavored websites, and restricting the use of encrypted communication tools. UN SDGs 211 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix I—Cisco’s Position on Government Use of Technology to Curtail Freedom of Expression (continued) CEO Message Governments are increasingly restricting free access to information by deploying security technologies to shut down access to content they oppose. They typically implement these shutdowns by issuing orders to telecommunications companies and Internet service providers, often together with a gag The Details order limiting transparency. These companies often have little choice but to comply because they are government-controlled or rely on government licenses to operate. According to Access Now, there were 196 documented Internet shutdowns in 25 countries in 2018 alone. Shutdowns are often ordered in response to protests, in the lead-up to elections, or to prevent unlawful or policy-violating activities. No matter the reason, Internet shutdowns Governance & have a direct impact on human rights, including the right of access to information, freedom of expression, and the right to peaceful assembly. Responsibility Cisco will continue to follow certain internal rules that it has adhered to for decades with respect to its products to ensure that our business activities will not undermine the right of access to information and the right of freedom of expression: People • We sell the same products globally, built to global standards, thereby enhancing the free flow of information. • Our networking products include basic features that are essential to the fundamental operation of the Internet. • These basic features—without which much of the Internet could not function effectively—can, unfortunately, be used by network administrators for Society political and other purposes. • In this regard, we do not customize or develop specialized or unique filtering capabilities in order to enable different regimes to block access to information with the intent of undermining these rights and freedoms. Planet We often are not in a position to determine how these features are used day to day, so we take these additional steps to promote these principles: • We do not support attempts by governments to fragment the Internet or otherwise create a “closed” Internet. • We do not support interception of telephone calls made over the Internet using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) except in response to valid court orders consistent with due process of law. • Consistent with Cisco’s Security Vulnerability Policy, our product development practices specifically prohibit any intentional behaviors or product features that are designed to allow unauthorized device or network access, exposure of sensitive device information, or a bypass of security features or restrictions (including, but not limited to, undisclosed device access methods or “backdoors”). It’s clear now more than ever that Cisco’s networking and security products present immense opportunity for advancing human rights, but governments can exploit these tools to control their citizens’ ability to access, receive, and share ideas freely with one another. Through our human rights approach, APPX we will continue to promote uses of technology that are respectful of human rights. GRI UN SDGs 212 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix II—Cisco letter requesting suppliers and partners report to CDP CEO Message Cisco has consolidated its supplier sustainability requirements into a single document available from the Supply Chain Sustainability web page. The following transmittal to Cisco suppliers includes a link to specific CDP reporting The Details requirements. Governance & Responsibility People Society Planet Cisco.com | Privacy Statement | Trademarks Cisco Confidential © 2019 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. APPX GRI UN SDGs 213 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix III— FY19 Scope 3 emissions The following table provides Scope 3 emissions for fiscal year 2019. These values will be reported CEO Message in our 2020 CDP Climate Change response. Further explanation of the second column, “CDP Response Evaluation Status” will be provided in our 2020 CDP Climate Change response. The Details CDP Response 2019 Percentage of Total Scope 3 Emissions Category Evaluation Status (metric tonnes CO2e) Calculated Scope 3 1.Purchased goods and services Relevant, calculated 1,154,682 Governance & Responsibility 2. Capital goods Relevant, calculated 58,963 3. F ueland energy-related activities (not Not relevant, calculated 39,074 included in Scope 1 or 2) 4. Upstream transportation and distribution Relevant, calculated 36,598 People 5. Waste generated in operations Not relevant, calculated 763 6. Business travel Relevant, calculated 217,500 Society 7. Employee commuting Relevant, calculated 79,699 8. Upstream leased assets Not relevant, explanation provided N/A — 9. Downstream transportation and distribution Relevant, calculated 83,396 Planet 10. P  rocessing of sold products Not relevant, explanation provided N/A — 11. Use of sold products Relevant, calculated 39,311,466 12. E  nd-of-life treatment of sold products Relevant, calculated 272 13. Downstream leased assets Not relevant, explanation provided N/A — 14. Franchises Not relevant, explanation provided N/A — 15. Investments Not relevant, explanation provided N/A — APPX GRI UN SDGs 214 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 305-1 Our Story Appendix IV—Completed Cisco environment goals CEO Message Completed Cisco environment goals are shown in the following table. Active goals are listed in Environment Goals. The Details Date Goal Established Goal Topic Environment Goal Final Reporting Fiscal Year September 2006 Energy/GHG Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) commitment to reduce GHG CSR Report 2009 Governance & emissions from all Cisco business air travel worldwide by (p. C32) Responsibility 10 percent absolute by FY09 (FY06 baseline). June 2008 Energy/GHG U.S. EPA Climate Leaders’ commitment to reduce all CSR Report 2012 Scope 1, Scope 2, and business-air-travel Scope 3 (p. F14) GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by People end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). February 2013 Energy/GHG 1. Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide CSR Report 2017 by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). (pp. 101, 102, 106, 108) 2. Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Society 3. Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor to half of the latest IEA world average emission factor publicly available before the end of FY17. 4. Reduce total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue Planet worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline). 5. Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent of our electricity every year through FY17. APPX GRI UN SDGs 215 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix V—Supplier environmental engagement and performance CEO Message Our suppliers are essential partners as we work to improve our environmental performance across our value chain. The following table is included to show the historical carbon emissions and waste The Details performance of our direct suppliers. See Supplier Environmental Performance for more details. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Governance & Supply Chain GHG Emissions Responsibility Supplier Engagement Suppliers, by spend, with a public absolute GHG reduction target1 24% Supply Chain Material Waste People Supplier Engagement Suppliers achieving a zero waste diversion metric at one site2 21% CDP Supplier Reporting—Climate Change Society Manufacturing Partners Publicly report GHG emissions to CDP 40% 33% 99% 99% 3rd party verify Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 22% 78% 99% 99% Planet Set a GHG reduction target 100% 44% 100% 100% Engage their suppliers on GHG emissions 87% 32% 87% 86% Component Suppliers Publicly report GHG emissions to CDP 56% 50% 70% 72% 3rd party verify Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 47% 58% 64% 59% Set a GHG reduction target 74% 64% 74% 64% Engage their suppliers on GHG emissions 49% 54% 65% 66% Logistics Suppliers Publicly report GHG emissions to CDP 92% 67% 89% 95% 3rd party verify Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 60% 64% 62% 73% Set a GHG reduction target 88% 91% 64% 73% Engage their suppliers on GHG emissions 87% 86% 88% 85% APPX 1  referably in line with an approved science-based methodology (applying either a 1.5 or well below 2°C reduction scenario). Includes suppliers that set intensity targets P that produce an absolute emissions reduction during the target period. GRI 2  ccording to current standard definitions used in certification protocols, “zero waste” diversion is defined as a 90% or greater overall diversion of solid, non-hazardous A wastes from landfill, incineration (waste-to-energy), and the environment. Diversion methods can include reduction, reuse, recycling, and/or compost. UN SDGs 216 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback GRI 308:103-3 Our Story Appendix VI—Hyperlinks in Planet The Planet chapter provides comprehensive information on Cisco’s environmental sustainability CEO Message performance, including from hyperlinks referenced throughout the chapter. For improved access to this referenced material, a list of all hyperlinked reference material is provided in the following table. The Details Page Referenced Language and Additional Keywords Hyperlink 138 cisco.com http://www.cisco.com/ 138 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/gri-standards-download-center/ Governance & Responsibility 142 Corporate Environment Policy https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/approach-quality/quality-certifications/iso-14001/corporate-environmental-policy.html 142 Cisco environment goal announcement: June 2016 https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/product-innovation-stewardship/product-recycling/weee-compliance.html 142 Cisco environment goal announcement: September 2017 https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-announces-new-greenhouse-gas-reduction-goals-2017 142 Cisco environment goal announcement: September 2018 https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/global-climate-action-series-cisco-announces-ambitious-product-power-efficiency-goal People 142 Cisco environment goal announcement: July 2019 https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-announces-goals-for-sustainable-packaging-and-zero-waste 142 Cisco environment goal announcement: August 2019 https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-achieves-2020-supply-chain-ghg-goal-early-announces-new-goals 144 Capital Equipment Pledge from World Economic Forum https://www.circle-economy.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/pace-pledge-20180126-digital.pdf Society 144 World Economic Forum https://www.weforum.org/projects/circular-economy 144 RTP campus water-neutral and zero-waste https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-makes-progress-on-sustainability-goals-in-north-carolina 145 Circular economy program https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/circular-economy.html Planet 151 Cisco Supplier Guide https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/about/supplier/supplier-guide.pdf 151 Supply Chain Transparency Index (SCTI) http://wwwen.ipe.org.cn/GreenSupplyChain/SCTI.html 151 Corporate Information Transparency Index (CITI) http://wwwen.ipe.org.cn/GreenSupplyChain/CITI.aspx?hy=22&tt=&index=0 153 IPE Blue Map http://wwwen.ipe.org.cn/AirMap_fxy/AirMap.html 158 FY19 Inventory Assurance Statement https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment. do?code=fQJ7jxnFA7MAw0RM9F3rTipcM8adbAnJBhdOQelMhrTC6sdCsaqcPgknHNvzPSl0 168 2019 Climate Leadership Awards https://climateleadershipconference.org/cla-winners/ 171 Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) https://wltpfacts.eu/what-is-wltp-how-will-it-work/ 175 ENERGY STAR program website https://www.energystar.gov/ 181 CDP customer story https://video.cisco.com/detail/videos/collaboration/video/5849927163001/cdp-customer-story%3A-collaboration-tools-and-theenvironment?autoStart=true 181 Vehicle-to-grid (V2G) technology https://www.cisco.com/c/m/en_uk/innovation/projects/e-flex.html APPX 185 Cisco materials webpage https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/product-innovation-stewardship/materials.html#~overview GRI UN SDGs 217 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix VI—Hyperlinks in Planet CEO Message Page Referenced Language and Additional Keywords Hyperlink 185 Product Approvals Status (PAS) tool https://cloudsso.cisco.com/as/authorization.oauth2?response_type=code&client_id=wam_prod_ac&redirect_ uri=https%3A%2F%2Fprdapp.cloudapps.cisco The Details 187 Cisco eScrap recycling is connected to sustainability and the https://video.cisco.com/detail/videos/inside-cisco/video/6045326543001/circular-economy-101:-circular-consumption circular economy (video) 187 Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/about/product-innovation-stewardship/product-recycling/weee-compliance.html 188 Send IT Back process https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/ Governance & getAttachmentdo?code=Me4XGSOyFihBC4CHSHHjOGHDWWScpJDSWp5EkAhD2IYZ9qcOu6TI7EEJ973dlsDO Responsibility 191 Repair Partners Network in Africa https://newsroom.cisco.com/press-release-content?type=webcontent&articleId=1988801 195 Cisco Connected Goods for Circularity https://www.greenbiz.com/article/how-cisco-connectivity-and-collaboration-can-enable-circular-economy-sponsored 109 Container 42 https://weare42.io/ People 206 Save This Rhino https://www.nationalgeographic.com.au/australia/high-tech-lifeline-could-save-the-rhinos.aspx 206 Cisco’s involvement with Save This Rhino https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-connects-to-the-conservation-cause 207 Zero waste goal for our RTP campus https://blogs.cisco.com/csr/cisco-makes-progress-on-sustainability-goals-in-north-carolina Society Planet APPX GRI UN SDGs 218 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story Appendix VII—GRI Content Index CEO Message GRI Standards The Details Disclosure Number Disclosure Title Response GRI 102: General Disclosures Governance & Organizational profile Responsibility 102-1 Name of the organization Cisco Systems, Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Cisco designs and sells a broad range of technologies that have been powering the Internet since 1984. Across networking, security, collaboration, applications, and the cloud, we are integrating intent-based technologies to help our customers manage more users, devices, and things connecting to their networks. This will enable us to provide customers with a highly secure, intelligent platform for their digital People business. For more information refer to 2019 Annual Report / Form 10-K (page 1) 102-3 Location of headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Corporate Headquarters 170 West Tasman Drive San Jose, CA 95134, USA 102-4 Location of operations We conduct business globally and are primarily managed on a geographic basis in the following three geographic segments: the Americas; Society Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC). 102-5 Ownership and legal form Cisco is publicly listed and traded on NASDAQ 102-6 Markets served 2019 Annual Report / Form 10-K / Customers and Markets (page 5) Planet 102-7 Scale of the organization Corporate Profile People / Inclusion & collaboration / Workforce snapshot Revenue and capitalization: 2019 Annual Report / Financial highlights for Fiscal 2019 (pages 4-5) Selected financial data: 2019 Annual Report / Form 10-K (page 30) Product and service revenue: 2019 Annual Report / Form 10-K (page 39) 102-8 Information on employees and People / Inclusion & collaboration / Workforce snapshot other workers 102-9 Supply chain Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Socially responsible supply chain (page 114) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization There were no significant changes in FY19. and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / Environmental policy 102-12 External initiatives Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy efficiency initiatives and organizations in which Cisco participates APPX Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Stakeholder engagement Society / Data privacy & security / Protection in a changing world / External engagement on data privacy GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy efficiency initiatives and organizations in which Cisco participates Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Engaging with stakeholders UN Society / Data privacy & security / Protection in a changing world / External engagement on data privacy SDGs 219 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Disclosure CEO Message Number Disclosure Title Response Strategy The Details 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our Story / CEO message / A message from Chuck Robbins Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms People / Introducing Conscious Culture of behavior People / Ethics & integrity / Conscious of ourselves and others Governance & Responsibility People / Team development / Our People Deal and Principles Governance 102-18 Governance structure 2019 Proxy Statement / Corporate governance / Board leadership structure (pages 3-4) People 2019 Annual Report/ Governance and responsibility (page 8) The Details / Governance & responsibility Stakeholder Engagement Society 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Stakeholder engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Cisco employees are global and each country carries with it local employment laws and norms. Due to data privacy legislation in many countries, we do not have an exact percentage of employees who are represented by trade unions. Planet 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Engaging with stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Engaging with stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Materiality matrix Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated The Details / About this report financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Governance & responsibility / Corporate social responsibility at Cisco / Materiality: Determining what matters most Boundaries Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / CSR materiality assessment: Environment APPX GRI UN SDGs 220 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Disclosure CEO Message Number Disclosure Title Response 102-47 List of material topics People Ethics & integrity The Details Diversity & inclusion (workforce) Employee training & development Employee wellness & benefits Society Data security & privacy Governance & Digital rights & inclusion Responsibility Global social impact — IT skills & digital readiness Global social impact — Local community impact Economic inequality Global social impact — Critical human needs & disaster relief Socially responsible supply chain People Planet Energy & GHGs Material use & waste IT solutions for the environment Society 102-48 Restatements of information No major changes: Any adjustments are explained within the report 102-49 Changes in reporting No major changes: Any adjustments are explained within the report 102-50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2019 Planet 102-51 Date of most recent report Fiscal year 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding csr_report@cisco.com the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance The Details / About this report APPX GRI UN SDGs 221 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions CEO Message Topic-Specific Standards People 103-1 Explanation of the material topic People / Team development / The Details and its Boundary Helping our people learn and lead 103-2 The management approach People / Team development / Employee GRI 404 — and its components Helping our people learn and lead 1 training and Training and development education 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People / Team development / Helping our people learn and lead Governance & Responsibility 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills People / Team development / and transition assistance programs Helping our people learn and lead 103-1 Explanation of the material topic People / Inclusion & collaboration and its Boundary People 103-2 The management approach People / Inclusion & collaboration and its components Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Supplier diversity GRI 405 — Diversity & Diversity and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People / Inclusion & collaboration Society 1 inclusion equal (workforce) People / Inclusion & collaboration / opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Cisco does not disclose information on employee and employees Workforce snapshot age categories. 2019 Annual Report / Board of Directors / Board Diversity (page 10) Planet 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration People / Inclusion & collaboration / Inclusive of women to men Futures / Narrowing the pay gap 103-1 Explanation of the material topic People / Ethics & integrity and its Boundary Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Socially responsible supply chain 103-2 The management approach People / Ethics & integrity and its components Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / How we engage GRI 205 — Ethics and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People / Ethics & integrity / Listening to concerns 1 Antiintegrity corruption Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / How we engage / Self assessments and audits 205-2 Communication and training about People / Ethics & integrity / Conscious of ourselves Cisco reports communication and training data anti-corruption policies and procedures and others as an aggregate for employees and governance, not by region. APPX Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / How we engage People / 2019 People dashboard GRI UN SDGs 222 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions CEO Message 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its People / Team development / Our People Deal Boundary and Principles People / Team development / Our People Deal and Principles / Talent recruitment and retention The Details 103-2 The management approach and its People / Team development / Our People Deal components and Principles People / Team development / Our People Deal and Principles / Talent recruitment and retention GRI 401 — Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Governance & How we engage Responsibility Employment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People / Team development / Listening to employees Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / How we engage / Self-assessment and audits People 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees People / Team development / Helping our people Employee that are not provided to temporary or learn and lead / Rewarding great work 2 wellness and part-time employees benefits People / Health & wellness People / Health & wellness / Benefits that Society benefit everyone 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its People / Health & wellness Boundary Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Human rights in the supply chain / Health and safety Planet 103-2 The management approach and its People / Health & wellness GRI 403 — components Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Occupational Human rights in the supply chain / Health and safety health and safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People / Health & wellness 403-6 Promotion of worker health People / Health & wellness / Benefits that benefit everyone 403-9 Work-related injuries People / Health & wellness / Health and safety performance APPX GRI UN SDGs 223 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions CEO Message Society 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Technology & human rights and its Boundary Society / Data privacy & security The Details 103-2 The management approach and its Society / Technology & human rights components Society / Data privacy & security GRI 418 — Data security 1 Customer 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Technology & human rights and privacy privacy Society / Data privacy & security Governance & Responsibility 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Cisco did not report any incidents to global data breaches of customer privacy and losses protection authorities during FY19. In addition, of customer data there were no data protection incidents of high risk or material harm reported during this period. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Building digital skills & entrepreneurship People and its Boundary Society / Strategic social investments People / Employee community impact 103-2 The management approach Society / Building digital skills & entrepreneurship and its components Society Society / Strategic social investments People / Employee community impact / Inspiring interest in technology 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Planet Society / Strategic social investments / Social investment focus area: Educational opportunity & Global social economic empowerment impact — GRI 413 — 2 IT skills Local People / Employee community impact / Inspiring and digital communities interest in technology readiness 413-1 Operations with local community Society / Building digital skills & entrepreneurship Cisco does not disclose on the following related to engagement, impact assessments, and local community impacts: Society / Strategic social investments / Social development programs i. environmental impact assessments and ongoing investment focus area: Educational opportunity & economic empowerment monitoring; ii. public disclosure of results of environmental and People / Employee community impact / Inspiring social impact assessments; interest in technology iii. broad-based local community consultation committees, and processes that include vulnerable groups; iv. works councils, occupational health and safety committees, and other worker representation APPX bodies to deal with impacts; v. formal local community grievance processes. GRI UN SDGs 224 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions CEO Message 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Strategic social investments and its Boundary GRI 203 — 103-2 The management approach Society / Strategic social investments Indirect and its components The Details economic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Strategic social investments / impacts How we measure impact 203-2 Indirect economic impacts Society / Strategic social investments / Social investment focus areas Governance & 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Strategic social investments Responsibility and its Boundary People / Employee community impact 103-2 The management approach Society / Strategic social investments and its components Global social impact — Local 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Strategic social investments / People 2 community How we measure impact impact Society / Strategic social investments / Our social investment framework GRI 413 — For information on engagement and impact 413-1 Operations with local community Cisco does not disclose on the following related Society Local engagement, impact assessments, assessments refer to GRI 103-2 to local community impacts: communities and development programs i. environmental impact assessments and ongoing For information on development programs, refer to: monitoring; Society / Strategic social investments. ii. public disclosure of results of environmental and social impact assessments; Planet iii. broad-based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; iv. works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; v. formal local community grievance processes. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Technology & human rights and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Society / Technology & human rights GRI 412 — and its components Human rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Technology & human rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Society / Technology & human rights / Our latest Cisco does not disclose on total hours of training on or procedures achievements human rights policies or procedures. Digital rights & 2 inclusion 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Data privacy & security / Protection in a APPX and its Boundary changing world / Security begins with us GRI 416 — 103-2 The management approach Society / Data privacy & security / Protection in a Customer and its components changing world / Security begins with us GRI health and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Data privacy & security / Protection in a safety changing world / Security begins with us UN 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Society / Data privacy & security / Protection in a SDGs impacts of product and service categories changing world / Security begins with us 225 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / CEO Message and its Boundary Socially responsible supply chain Planet / Supplier environmental performance 103-2 The management approach Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / The Details and its components Scope 3 GHG emissions Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / What we expect of suppliers Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / What we expect of suppliers / Cisco expectations Governance & of supplier Responsibility GRI 308 — Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Supplier What we expect of suppliers / Cisco expectations environmental of suppliers assessment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / People Scope 3 GHG emissions Planet / Supplier environmental performance 308-2 Negative environmental impacts Society / How we engage / Self-assessments The following data is not made publicly available: in the supply chain and actions taken and audits i. Percentage of suppliers identified as having Society Appendix V / Supplier environmental engagement significant actual and potential negative and performance environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment; Socially Planet / Supplier environmental performance / ii. Percentage of suppliers identified as having 2 responsible Socially responsible supply chain significant actual and potential negative supply chain Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Planet environmental impacts with which relationships Number of RBA audit findings by category were terminated. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / and its Boundary Socially responsible supply chain 103-2 The management approach Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / and its components What we expect of suppliers Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Human rights in the supply chain Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / How we engage GRI 414 — 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / Supplier How we engage / Self-assessment and audits social assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / The following data is not made publicly available: chain and actions taken Socially responsible supply chain i. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / environmental impacts with which improvements APPX How we engage / Self-assessment and audits were agreed upon as a result of assessment; Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / ii. Percentage of suppliers identified as having Number of RBA audit findings by category significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships GRI Society / Responsible sourcing & manufacturing / were terminated. Key audit findings and actions taken across the globe UN SDGs 226 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Society / Strategic social investments CEO Message Boundary People / Employee community impact 103-2 The management approach and its Society / Strategic social investments components The Details People / Employee community impact 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Strategic social investments / Funding technology for social impact / How we measure impact People / Employee community impact Governance & 413-1 Operations with local community Society / Strategic social investments While Cisco does not report on the following Responsibility engagement, impact assessments, and disclosures related to local community engagement People / Employee community impact development programs and impact assessment, its partner organizations conduct appropriate analyses for the community GRI 413 — Economic programs that employees volunteer with: 3 Local inequality i. social impact assessments, including gender communities People impact assessments, based on participatory processes; ii. environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring; iii. public disclosure of results of environmental Society and social impact assessments; iv. stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping; v. broad-based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups; Planet vi. works councils, occupational health and safety committees, and other worker representation bodies to deal with impacts; vii. formal local community grievance processes. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Society / Strategic social investments and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Society / Strategic social investments / Social Global social and its components investment focus areas / Critical human needs impact — GRI 413 — and disaster relief 3 Critical human Local 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society / Strategic social investments / Social needs and communities investment focus areas / Critical human needs disaster relief and disaster relief 413-1 Operations with local community Society / Strategic social investments / Social engagement, impact assessments, investment focus areas / Critical human needs and development programs and disaster relief APPX GRI UN SDGs 227 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions CEO Message Planet 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Planet / Energy and GHG emissions and its Boundary The Details 103-2 The management approach Planet / Energy and GHG emissions and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / FSummary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Governance & 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Responsibility Scope 1 GHG emissions / FSummary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / FSummary of Scope 1 Energy and GRI 305 — and 2 GHG Emissions 1 greenhouse People gas emissions Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Cisco does not disclose biogenic emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions (not relevant to operations). Appendix III—FY19 Scope 3 emissions 2019 CDP Report Society 305-4 Emissions intensity Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / FSummary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reductions: Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Planet Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Strategy: Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions APPX GRI UN SDGs 228 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Planet / Energy and GHG emissions CEO Message and its Boundary Planet / Environmental sustainability approach 103-2 The management approach and its Planet / Energy and GHG emissions components The Details Planet / Environmental sustainability approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / Summary of Scope 1 and 2 energy usage 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Energy and Governance & GRI 302 — Scope 1 GHG emissions / Summary of Scope 1 1 greenhouse Responsibility Energy and 2 energy usage gas emissions 302-3 Energy intensity Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / Summary of Scope 1 and 2 energy usage 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Reductions: Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / People Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions / Summary of Scope 1 and 2 energy usage Strategy: Planet / Energy & GHG emissions / Energy and Scope 1 GHG emissions Society 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Planet / Environmental sustainability approach and its Boundary Planet / Product & packaging materials Planet / Product & packaging materials / Product Planet end-of-use 103-2 The management approach Planet / Environmental sustainability approach and its components Planet / Product & packaging materials Planet / Product & packaging materials / Product end-of-use Planet / Product & packaging materials / Product Material use GRI 301 — and packaging goals / Circular economy initiatives 1 and waste Materials and organizations in which Cisco participates Planet / Product & packaging materials / Packaging 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet / Product & packaging materials / Product end-of-use / Product returns 301-2 Recycled input materials used Planet / Product & packaging materials / Product Cisco has set long-term goals for recycled content, Materials / Recycled material content but currently does not report on recycled content for all products. Current disclosure covers only recycled content in IP phones enclosures and packaging. APPX 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Planet / Product & packaging materials / Product Data presented is aggregated for all products materials end-of-use / Product trade-in and returns returned by weight; not presented as a percentage of all products sold. GRI UN SDGs 229 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Our Story GRI Standards Material GRI GRI Tier Issue Standard Disclosures GRI Topic Page Omissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Planet / Other topics / Solid waste from operations CEO Message and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach Planet / Other topics / Solid waste from operations / and its components Recycling rates for solid waste (trash) from major The Details GRI 306 — operations Effluents and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet / Other topics / Solid waste from operations / waste Recycling rates for solid waste (trash) from major operations 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Planet / Other topics / Solid waste from operations / Governance & Recycling rates for solid waste (trash) from major Responsibility operations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / Material use 1 and its Boundary Environmental management system / and waste Environmental compliance Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / People Environmental management system 103-2 The management approach Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / GRI 307 — and its components Environmental management system / Environmental Environmental compliance compliance Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / Environmental management system / Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental Planet / Environmental sustainability approach / laws and regulations Environmental management system / Planet Environmental compliance Additional Performance Performance Indicators Page Omissions GRI 303: Water and effluents 303-5: Water consumption Planet / Other topics / Water / Water usage Planet / Other topics / Effluents GRI 304: Biodiversity Percentage of real estate portfolio with biodiversity Planet / Other topics / Biodiversity / Operations assessment (non-GRI indicator) GRI 305: Emissions 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), Planet / Other topics / Non-GHG emissions and other significant air emissions GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-3: Significant spills Planet / Other topics / Effluents / Effluent spills and discharges APPX GRI UN SDGs 230 2019 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 460 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR) © 2019 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco Public Information. Version 1.1, December 2019
