Sustainability Report 2019 Adapting and Looking Forward / xxxx Table of Contents Message from the Co-CEOs 3 Labour Practices and Diversity  11 Supply Chain  24 Policies  12 Policies25 About Our Commitments  5 Focus Areas 12 Actions  25 Our Commitment to Sustainability  6 Our Community Initiatives 6 Results  14 Community Involvement and Environmental Policy 6 Philanthropy26 Business Ethics  17 Labor Practices Indirect Impacts As a Rating Agency  28 Policies18 & Human Rights 7 Actions  19 Looking Forward  30 Community Involvement 7 Code of Ethics 7 Protecting the Environment  21 Policies  22 EcoVadis At a Glance 8 Results  23 Our Values  9 Actions  23 Our Partnerships  10 2 31 / Message from the Co-CEOs Message from the Co-CEOs The 2019 Sustainability Report demonstrates It is encouraging to see the positive changes our latest commitments and concrete actions made by companies who we’ve worked with. toward a sustainable future. Throughout Our customers are continuously finding new 2019, our company, EcoVadis, saw significant ways to drive sustainability, minimize impact growth, reaching more than 600 employees and improve working conditions for their and a total of 65,000 rated companies. employees. We look forward to continuing to Like nearly every business in the world, improve our own tools and processes to help the COVID pandemic touched our direct contribute to a brighter, more sustainable operations and challenged our policies and future. systems for supporting our workforce and business. We are convinced that our own sustainability efforts through 2019 helped us immensely and rendered us more resilient when the crisis hit earlier this year. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative continue to Pierre-Francois Thaler Frédéric Trinel act as the foundation of our sustainability Co-Founder Co-Founder commitments. As a sustainability rating & Co-CEO & Co-CEO agency, business ethics are a top priority, and we’re continuing to ensure optimal working conditions for our employees while limiting our impact on the environment. To help achieve this year’s goals, we’ve built a sustainability strategy that comprises formalized policies, key performance indicators and measurable actions. 3 31 Number of New Employees in 2019: / 2019 Summary Number of 196 2019 Summary Employees: Number of 600+ Scorecards Published 20,007 Number of Rated Companies: CO2 Offset: 65,000 52 tons Percentage of their second assessment: 65% Diversity: 52 nationalities 4 31 / xxxx / About Our Commitments About Our Commitments After over a decade of commitment, we, at EcoVadis, are taking another step closer to a sustainable future. We know that transparent communication is key, and so we want to make our sustainability activities more accessible to internal and external stakeholders. We also want to lead sustainability trends amongst industries, so we want to make our sustainability policies more robust. For these reasons, we have published the 2019 Sustainability Report. Here, we present our policies, measures and reporting related to our sustainability strategy in 2019. You’ll find a presentation of our human rights and labor practices. This outlines what we do to ensure a safe and healthy work environment for our employees. It also shows how we strive for diversity and acceptance in our company culture. Next, we review our business ethics as well as measures we have taken to ensure good corporate citizenship. We also detail our involvement in environmental protection and how we have planned to reduce our impact as a company. Lastly, we show which sustainable practices in EcoVadis our own supply chain are contributing to a on Instagram more sustainable future. 5 31 / About Our Commitments Our Commitment Our Community Environmental to Sustainability Initiatives Policy Sustainable business and As a global advocate for EcoVadis has committed corporate responsibility sustainability, EcoVadis to minimizing the are what drive us. That’s is directly in touch with environmental effect why becoming a leader the environmental and of its operations as a socially responsible social challenges that through the promotion company is one of our communities face. of environmental our top priorities. We We believe in giving awareness, use of want to make sure that back to our communities energy-efficient sustainability practices through volunteering technology, offsetting of are fully integrated and substantial projects carbon emissions related into our operations by that will make a positive to business travel, and promoting transparency, difference. practice of sustainable employee engagement waste management. and our ethical code of conduct. EcoVadis on Instagram 6 31 / About Our Commitments Labor Practices Community Code of Ethics & Human Rights Involvement EcoVadis maintains We are aware of As a global advocate for a code of ethics that the changing needs sustainability, EcoVadis guides employee of society and our is directly in touch with behavior, integrity of employees. This policy the environmental and operations, information is intended to guide social challenges that management and EcoVadis toward our communities face. anti-bribery/antisatisfying certain key We encourage our corruption policies. Each working conditions. employees to donate employee undergoes To start, all of our and fundraise, but we Ethics Training, and we employees are trained also believe that giving enforce a whistleblower on anti-harassment, back to our communities procedure, offering a diversity issues and is not limited to financial dedicated hotline for non-discrimination. We donations. Each of our EcoVadis employees also abide by all health employees can take on to report any concerns and safety regulations one community service confidentially. We hold in all office locations, day per year, dedicating ourselves to the highest focusing especially on their time to a social or standards across the our five pillars of health environmental cause. same criteria we evaluate and safety, including in our ratings process. stress management, ergonomics, general health and hygiene, as EcoVadis on Instagram well as physical activity and nutrition. 7 31 / EcoVadis At a Glance EcoVadis At a Glance Our company is a global sustainability rating agency that helps companies to improve their sustainability practices and manage risks. Since its founding in 2007, EcoVadis has become a trusted partner for procurement teams in more than 450 multinational organizations. EcoVadis is headquartered in Paris, France, and has offices in the U.S., the U.K., Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Mauritius, Poland, Australia and Tunisia. Our core offering is an online collaborative platform which allows companies to have their sustainability practices assessed and results shared with business partners. In 2017, we introduced an innovative tool for cybersecurity assessments, called CyberVadis. The CyberVadis team is located in France, the U.S., the U.K., Mauritius and Poland. EcoVadis To find out more, see the EcoVadis website. on Instagram 8 31 / EcoVadis At a Glance Our Values Committed Customer Brave Ethical We are committed to making a major positive impact– Driven As teams and individuals, we challenge ourselves to Our work impacts people and businesses all over the world – worldwide. Our solutions We drive customer success innovate and improve. We so, integrity is very important improve business sustainability through close collaboration. learn and adapt quickly to us. Honesty and integrity on a global scale. We strive to provide our because we are not afraid are the foundation of trust – customers with innovative to listen and try new ways of for our team, but also for our solutions by leveraging working. customers and partners. technology and maintaining our own integrity. Kind Fun We are an ‘us before me’ We do serious work, but we organization. We shine when do not take ourselves too it comes to collaborating seriously. We share our energy because we respect individual and enthusiasm – doing our differences and needs. We best to create a fun workplace always seek to help and while practicing work-life support others – regardless of balance. We know that happy level of experience or seniority. people work better. 9 31 / EcoVadis At a Glance Our Partnerships We partner and engage with organizations that share our passion for sustainability. Our partner ecosystem consists of Technology Integration Partners and Supplier Training Partners as well as memberships in leading sustainability-focused organizations across the globe. See the EcoVadis website for more information about all of our partners. 10 31 / Labour Practices and Diversity Labor Practices and Diversity All of our employees are trained on antiharassment, diversity issues and nondiscrimination. We also abide by all health and safety regulations in all office locations, focusing especially on our five pillars of health and safety, including stress management, ergonomics, general health and hygiene, as well as physical activity and nutrition. We offer the option to work from home to help ensure that employees are able to find the right balance between their work and their personal life. EcoVadis on Instagram 11 31 / Labour Practices and Diversity Policies Focus Areas Labor Practices and Human Rights I. Employee Health and Safety Policy We strive to maintain a safe and healthy We are aware of the constantly changing working environment and to mitigate all needs of the society and our employees. work-related health issues, including stress. This policy is intended to help our company We abide by all safety regulations in each satisfy key working conditions for all country where we operate and try, whenever employees and provide everyone with the possible, to implement measures that go opportunity to grow. beyond legal requirements. We commit to: II. Working Conditions ■ Raising awareness and training employees We want to make EcoVadis a great place on non-discrimination and diversity to work. We strive to foster communication issues; between management and employees on working conditions and social benefits. ■ Respecting and promoting the principle of non-discrimination in all its forms III. Social Dialogue and in all stages of human resources We promote healthy communication management; between the employer and the worker to reach agreements on issues of common ■ Reflecting the diversity of society and interest. Managers are responsible for especially its cultural and ethnic diversity encouraging open communication to in our workforce; facilitate social dialogue between them and their employees. ■ Communicating our non-discrimination and divers. 12 31 / Labour Practices and Diversity IV. Career Management & Development EcoVadis is also a UN Global Compact and French Diversity Charter Signatory. The UN We want to equip our people with the Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative necessary skills, knowledge and attitudes to for businesses that are committed to aligning meet the organization’s vision of becoming their operations and strategies with ten the global platform for sustainability ratings. universally recognized principles in the area By investing in employee training, we of human rights, labor, the environment and can ensure that our company harnesses anti-corruption. employees’ full potential and focuses their energies on the needs of the organization UN Global Compact while fulfilling their need for personal development and job satisfaction. We The French Diversity Charter is a written promote internal mobility by recruiting commitment that can be signed by any internally whenever possible. company that intends to ban discrimination in the workplace while working to create a V. Diversity, Non-Discrimination diverse environment. & Harassment French Diversity Charter EcoVadis strongly believes that diversity amongst our employees encourages and brings innovation and creativity, adaptability, collaboration. We oppose all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination. All employees, whether part-time, full-time, contractor, intern or temporary, will be treated fairly and equally. All opportunities will be given on the basis of aptitude and ability. Anti-Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy Labor Policy 13 31 / xxxx / Labour Practices and Diversity Results Safety Week A fire drill is conducted twice a year and elected office fire wardens are trained accordingly. The office obtained a Fire Certificate in 2016. Ergonomics We carry out occasional training on ergonomics, posture and physiotherapy as well as health and safety at work during induction of new recruits and throughout the year. General Health and Hygiene and Work-Life Balance Several offices of ours practise regular stretching and meditation breaks. We encourage our employees to practise physical activities on a regular basis for their overall wellbeing but also to boost morale, mood and motivation in an office environment. We offer gym benefits, compensating half of employees’ monthly gym membership fee. We also offer flexible working time and work-from-home options. EcoVadis on Instagram 14 31 / Labour Practices and Diversity A Healthy Social Dialogue Cultural Exchange and Career Mobility EcoVadis is committed to social dialogue We have an internal mobility program by allowing employees to form groups and through which all employees who have been designating employee representatives with the company for at least one year have to advocate for their needs and rights. the opportunity to visit and temporarily Complying with French law, our office in work from one of our other offices. This Paris has six employee representatives allows them to discover and experience selected by employee vote. Additionally, different environments and cultures – a great the Paris office has signed a sector-specific opportunity to develop communication skills, collective agreement for all local employees. teamwork and empathy. Career mobility No other office is required by law to have opportunities are also granted to those a union or employee representatives, who would prefer to stay closer to home. however, EcoVadis supports the freedom of Employees can also temporarily join other employees to create representative bodies. business units to carry out specific tasks, As such, our Mauritius office has created depending on business needs. This scheme their own employee representative body, has already led to a wide range of skills with three employee representatives, who development for our employees and may are elected by all of the Mauritius office team even lead to a career change opportunity for members. some. Professional Growth EcoVadis’ constant growth would not be possible without our employees’ outstanding work. We strive to create an environment where employees can grow professionally and develop their careers. All employees are thoroughly trained at the beginning of their career, following up with a robust performance management system. This way, we ensure that each of our employees can enhance their personal skills and realize their own individual potential. 15 31 / Labour Practices and Diversity Diversity EcoVadis’ diverse workforce is a valuable asset. It provides us with a wide range of perspectives necessary to interact with global stakeholders. We are fully committed to maintaining such diversity. In 2013, we made our commitment public by signing and becoming a member of the French Diversity Charter (Charte de la Diversité). We are convinced that diversity and equality are essential for building a stronger company. In 2019, EcoVadis had over 600 employees from more than 52 different nationalities. Title: Age and Gender Diversity 23 Below 25 25 to 30 198 31 to 40 Female 41 to 50 314 Male 51 301 294 Above 50 22 Gender Age Group Record Count 2019 Record Count 2019 EcoVadis on Instagram 16 31 / Business Ethics Business Ethics EcoVadis was founded with the belief that businesses can make a positive impact on environmental and social practices globally, through their supply chains. We are confident that, with the implementation of our code of ethics, we will continue our growth as a company committed to corporate social responsibility, while improving our performance and exceeding our customer’s expectations. 17 31 ISO ISO/IEC 9001:2015 27001:2013 CERTIFIED CERTIFIED / Business Ethics Policies Quality of Sustainability Rating Our code of ethics establishes expectations The EcoVadis rating methodology evolves for employee conduct. As a ratings company, with the fast-changing corporate social our business ethics focus is on quality, responsibility field. Our clients rely on transparency and integrity. This code builds our ratings to make business decisions; on these values by detailing the expected therefore, we are committed to delivering behavior as a member of EcoVadis’ global a product that meets and exceeds client team. All employees and contractors working expectations. Anything less than this for EcoVadis are expected to fully comply commitment carries significant reputational with this code. risks for our company. EcoVadis maintains a quality management system compliant with The latest version of this code is published on ISO 9001 (“Quality Management Systems the EcoVadis website and on the EcoVadis – Requirements”) and certified ISO 27001 Intranet. An Ethics Officer has been (“Information Security Management Systems appointed by the Executive Committee. – Requirements”). To support the Ethics Officer in EcoVadis’ different locations, Ethics Referents have also been appointed. All new EcoVadis employees must sign the acknowledgement Transparency of Sustainability Rating of the code. Twice a year, all employees are As part of our commitment to transparency, asked to confirm their compliance with the we share the details of our rating process on code during their performance appraisal. a need-to-know basis, primarily to engage We have a formal whistleblowing procedure stakeholders and provide continuous to report any breaches of our code of ethics support to clients after scorecards are (ranging from corruption to harassment) published. via a dedicated email address. The process ensures confidentiality and protects the report from any sort of retaliation. 18 31 / Business Ethics Integrity of Sustainability Rating system allowing us to ensure the availability, integrity, confidentiality and traceability of The following principles are essential to information. safeguarding the integrity in our rating system and protecting our reputation: EcoVadis believes that the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is ■ Integrity guidelines for ratings analysis an important step in strengthening EU ■ Information firewalls between Evaluation citizens’ personal data protection. As a Services and other departments. data controller, EcoVadis is committed to complying with regulations and enforcing Please review our Code of Conduct for the best practices. EcoVadis uses the more information ISO 27001 standard, for which we are certified, as a framework and integrates personal data protection aspects in its Actions management system. Information Security Certification There is no certification available yet to EcoVadis is committed to providing the demonstrate GDPR compliance, but we have highest level of information security implemented our data protection practices and to continuously improve in order to and confirmed our good practices by a protect all stakeholders’ data in an evolving third-party audit. For the data processing landscape of information security threats. performed outside of the EU, we have For this reason, EcoVadis has established an contractual clauses in place with our entities, information security management system and EcoVadis is currently registered for the (ISMS) which is ISO27001-certified and EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. which enables us to systematically operate Trust center and maintain information security in our business processes and services and to Quality, Security, Privacy determine and apply the necessary security and Compliance measures based on our risk evaluation. The ISMS and quality management system ISO27001 certificate (QMS) build an integrated management ISO9001 certificate 19 31 / Business Ethics Quality Corrective and Preventive Action We at EcoVadis are committed to creating ■ Continuous improvement with the a reliable sustainability rating system that identification of improvement areas to can act as a benchmark across a wide eliminate non-conformities or prevent variety of sectors and countries. EcoVadis reoccurence. One example being the use has developed a quality management of the Quality Check Form (QCF) at each system (QMS) which is certified ISO 9001. stage of the evaluation process. We actively pursue ever-improving quality through a process management system ●Incident Management Process that enables each employee to do their job right the first time and every time in ■ Customer and supplier complaints as well a safe work environment. It is supported as internal issues are reported, recorded by our tailor-made and self-developed IT and managed through an Incident platform which guides employees through Management Platform. All incidents are the whole process. We put our efforts into reviewed regularly by concerned parties continuously improving the processes, and resolved within a given timeframe. seeking advice from specialized bodies like our methodology committee. ●Internal Audit Employee Training Program ■ The Internal Audit Program is set over a period of three years where Information ■ Q&IS training programs for all newcomers Security audits are conducted twice per during the onboarding period with quizzes year and all internal processes undergo a and set pass marks to verify effectiveness quality audit at least once per year. Audit plus mandatory annual refresher training results are reviewed and discussed during for all employees followed by quizzes. our biannual management review. ● 20 31 / xxxx / Protecting the Environment Protecting the Environment Environmental protection is at the core of our purpose. Constituting one of the four sustainability themes in our sustainability ratings methodology, it is also an area we continuously seek to address as a company. No matter which country or office, at EcoVadis we are committed to ensuring that our environmental impact is as low as possible. EcoVadis on Instagram 21 31 / Protecting the Environment Policies 2. GHG Emissions EcoVadis has committed itself to work toward EcoVadis’ main source of greenhouse gas minimizing the environmental effect of its emissions is employee commuting and operations through best practices including business travel. EcoVadis plans to reduce the promotion of environmental awareness, such GHG emissions through use of monitoring relevant environmental Key dedicated teleconferencing software for Performance Indicators (KPIs), identifying meetings and by encouraging carpooling and assessing environmental impacts and and public transportation amongst the implementation of adequate controls. employees. All CO2 emissions related to business travels will be offset every year We will focus on the following areas in an through partnership with reliable offsetting effort to meet our objectives: organizations. 1. Energy Consumption 3. Water Consumption Energy use is a material issue for EcoVadis EcoVadis recognizes that water is an given that its core business relies on the important natural resource and that there is continuous availability of energy, primarily a water scarcity issue in many regions around for the operation of IT equipment. To limit the world. Therefore, EcoVadis is committed energy use, EcoVadis promotes server to making responsible use of water through virtualization. In an effort to reduce energy increasing employee awareness. consumption related to transportation, EcoVadis promotes the use of online communication and teleconferencing tools during meetings and training sessions. In 4. Consumption and Waste Generation offices, EcoVadis has purchased energy EcoVadis encourages each of its efficient technology that is designed to turn business units to practiwe sustainable off when users are inactive. waste management. This includes waste segregation and recycling, reduced consumption of paper and recycling all IT equipment to reduce electronic waste in landfills. 22 31 / Protecting the Environment 5. Promotion of Sustainable Results Consumption GHG emissions 2019: 380.191 kg EcoVadis provides sustainability rating services to its clients and uses a methodology Green energy consumption 2019: 54,313 based on new industry research. We want (kWh) to ensure that companies we assess are continuously improving their sustainability Carbon offset: 38.479 kg less than in 2018 performance. Commitment to the Science Based Target Initiative Actions ■ All emissions due to business flights are The Science Based Target Initiative (SBTi) offset on a yearly basis is a collaboration between the UNGC, CDP, WRI and WWF. EcoVadis joined the ■ Carbon footprint done in 2019; global movement, pledging to align their business with the most ambitious goal in ■ Energy savings initiatives (e.g. LED light, the Paris Agreement, that is, to limit global awareness posters, efficient IT equipment, temperature rise to 1.5 C above pre-industrial server virtualisation); level. EcoVadis made the commitment to set science-based targets in December 2019. ■ Waste management procedures and recycling initiatives (e.g. waste sorting See more and recycling of plastic, paper, cartridge/ toner); ■ Sustainability parameters integrated into events organization. EcoVadis on Instagram 23 31 / Supply Chain Supply Chain As experts in evaluating the sustainability performance of thousands of suppliers every year, we know that we can leverage sustainable supply chain practices within our own operations. Being an office-based Software As A Service (SaaS) company, our supply chain does not present significant risks. However, we understand the important link between our procurement practices and its impact on society and the environment. EcoVadis on Instagram 24 31 / Supply Chain Policies ■ Developing a Sustainable Procurement Guide for our procurement team; Our Sustainable Procurement Policy was developed to formally integrate sustainability ■ Building awareness of our sustainability factors into our procurement process and commitments and Procurement Guide give systematic consideration to responsible among employees and suppliers. purchasing. We are committed to: Actions ■ Identifying areas of higher risk within our supply chain (our major spends and main ■ Supplier Code of Conduct in place and suppliers); communicated to suppliers. ■ Favoring suppliers/products/services ■ we work with the sheltered workshop who, at a minimum, comply with “ESAT Arcade” in our Paris office. locally applicable laws pertaining to environmental protection, fair labor practices and business ethics; ■ Prioritizing suppliers who drive sustainability practices within their own supply chain; ■ Binding key suppliers to our sustainability commitments through relevant contract clauses; ■ Assessing our main suppliers through our own platform to monitor sustainability performance; 25 31 / xxx / Community Involvement and Philanthropy Community Involvement and Philanthropy As a corporation, we have the responsibility to give back to the community in which we operate. Engaging in community activities not only builds up relationships and brand awareness, but it also helps to improve employee engagement. We are committed to human well-being and environmental protection. Human Well-Being: we’re committed to poverty eradication and helping with the issue of homelessness. In 2019, employees from the Paris office had a Community Involvement Day devoted to food distribution to those in needs through Les Restos du Coeur. Employees from the Mauritious office took part in a blood-donation day. EcoVadis on Instagram 26 31 / Community Involvement and Philanthropy Employees from the Toronto office volunteered to cook and serve food to people in need at the St. Feliz community center. Environmental Protection: we’re committed to reducing land pollution and preserving water ecosystems. In line with the community service day policy, a carbon offset tree planting event was organized through the Mauritius office. The goal was to plant 23 trees, which is the equivalent of one year’s carbon offset for EcoVadis’ CO₂ emissions via road travel for business purposes. The Mauritius office had an ‘Ebene Clean Up Day’, where they mapped out four zones and did a clean up to raise awareness about land pollution and the importance of waste separation. Facebook Instagram 27 31 / Indirect Impacts As a Rating Agency Indirect Impacts As a Rating Agency The EcoVadis sustainability rating methodology measures the quality of a company’s sustainability management system which comprises its policies, actions and results. These three management layers are further broken down into seven management indicators, namely: policies, endorsements, measures, certifications, coverage (deployment of actions), reporting (key performance indicators), and 360 news monitoring. To learn more, check out our Methodology Overview and Principles 28 31 / Indirect Impacts As a Rating Agency When assessing a company’s sustainability management system, it is important to define which sustainability issues (e.g., energy, water, employee health and safety) are material for the business activity of the company being evaluated. Such issues should be covered by their sustainability management system. The issues covered in each assessment are based on the relevance of the sustainability issues to the supplier context, such as industry, size and geography. The final product of the evaluation process is a scorecard detailing the overall sustainability score by themes, and also showing the strengths of the sustainability management system as well as improvement areas 29 31 / xxxx / Looking Forward Looking Forward Adapt. Key word for many companies during these tough times. While many companies are struggling to stay afloat, sustainable development becomes even more important for us. How we (or any other business) operate our business sustainably during such times of crisis only seems to reinforce the fact that sustainability is becoming a determining factor for long-term success. At EcoVadis, we will continue to ensure that our business is increasingly sustainable by reducing our direct impacts, and also that our biggest impact — which is indirect — becomes more positive through the development of new services enabling our customers to further improve their sustainability performance. Yograz Alluck Senior Analyst and Global Sustainability Coordinator 30 31 About EcoVadis EcoVadis is the world’s most trusted provider of business sustainability ratings, intelligence and collaborative performance improvement tools for global supply chains. Backed by a powerful technology platform and a global team of domain experts, EcoVadis’ easy-to-use and actionable sustainability scorecards provide detailed insight into environmental, social and ethical risks across 200 purchasing categories and 160 countries. Industry leaders such as Johnson & Johnson, Verizon, L’Oréal, Subway, Nestlé, Salesforce, Michelin and BASF are among the more than 65,000 businesses on the EcoVadis network, all working with a single methodology to evaluate, collaborate and improve sustainability performance in order to protect their brands, foster transparency and innovation, and accelerate growth. Learn more on ecovadis.com, Twitter or LinkedIn. Copyright © 2020 EcoVadis SAS (Paris, France) All Rights reserved EcoVadis-Scope-3-Corporate Action on Greenhouse Gas Emissions.indd
