WE ARE THE FIBER OF THE FUTURE [102-1; 102-3; 102-5] Name: Empresas CMPC S.A. RUT [Chilean Tax ID Number]: 90.222.000-3. Company headquarters: 1343 Agustinas St, Santiago, Chile Telephone: +56 2 2441 2000 Corporate website: www.cmpc.com Incorporation: A publicly traded corporation controlled by the Matte Group which holds a 55.83% stake. It was incorporated on February 5th, 1920 before the Santiago Notary Public Manuel Gaete Fagalde with Decree N° 589 as Compañía Manufacturera de Papeles y Cartones. integrated report 2019 Contacts [102-53] ● For more information on the Integrated Report 2019, contact Francisco Because our first 100 years are just the beginning Torrealba, Chief Public Affairs Officer, at francisco.torrealba@cmpc.cl ● For more information on sustainability, contact Nicolas Gordon, Chief Sustainability and Environment Officer, at nicolas.gordon@cmpc.cl ● For Investor Relations enquiries, contact Colomba Henriquez, Head of Investor Relations, at colomba.henriquez@cmpc.cl ● For information on corporate governance, contact Rafael Cox, Chief Legal Officer, at rafael.cox@cmpc.cl CON Setting sustainability 18 goals CMPC publicly committed to TENTS specific corporate sustainability goals. For more information, go to sections 2.3, 4.5, 4.7 and 4.8. Chapter 1: Company description 1.1 Letter from the Chairman of the Board.............................8 1.2 Our first 100 years of history........................................12 1.3 2019 Milestones..........................................................16 1.4 Empresas CMPC.........................................................20 1.5 Our business areas......................................................22 4.3 Labor relations...........................................................109 4.4 Health and safety across operations........................110 4.5 Water use and quality of discharge...........................114 4.6 Energy generation and efficiency................................118 4.7 Greenhouse gases and other atmospheric emissions..122 4.8 Waste management...................................................126 Commitment to indigenous peoples 83 CMPC continuously works with the indigenous communities in proximity to its operations. For more information on 1.6 Highlights.....................................................................34 Chapter 5: Solutions to genuine needs the main such programs and projects, 1.7 Corporate purpose: 3C................................................35 5.1 Creating product innovation.........................................135 go to section 3.3. 1.8 Value creation model....................................................36 5.2 Innovating for the future..............................................137 Chapter 2: Forests are our most important asset 5.3 Increasing customer satisfaction................................141 2.1 Six key elements of the forestry cycle...........................40 Chapter 6: Corporate governance 2.2 Sustainable forest management...................................42 6.1 Shareholders..............................................................148 193 2.3 Ecosystem and biodiversity conservation.....................49 6.2 Board of Directors.....................................................154 2.4 Wildfires.......................................................................56 6.3 Senior executives......................................................164 2.5 Addressing climate change..........................................60 6.4 Culture of integrity.....................................................170 Chapter 3: Stakeholder engagement 6.5 Risk management.....................................................176 3.1 Our communities..........................................................67 Chapter 7: Business performance 3.2 Local development and community engagement.........68 7.1 Financial results..........................................................190 Green 3.3 Commitment to indigenous peoples.............................83 7.2 Green financing..........................................................193 financing 3.4 Corporate citizenship...................................................86 7.3 Summary of financial statements...............................196 3.5 Local supplier development..........................................90 Chapter 8: Elaboration of the integrated report In 2019, CMPC issued its third green bond in the Chapter 4: Operating responsibly 8.1 Methodology...............................................................206 Chilean market and obtained a green loan from Japanese banks. For further information on green 4.1 Our people...................................................................96 Chapter 9: Appendices..................................................212 financing, refer to section 7.2. 4.2 Talent development....................................................102 01 7 100 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n YEARS ARE JUST THE BE GIN NING Company description 8 9 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 1.1 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Empresas CMPC, greeting of fire fighters. [102-14] Dear Shareholders, This document is a true reflection of the accomplishments, Nevertheless, 2019 will not be remembered for the economic Chilean society has had the opportunity to engage in the disIt is my great pleasure to share with you the Empresas CMPC challenges and difficulties that marked this past year, certainly challenges it presented, but for the visibility gained by social cussion of and voice demands related to issues that are still Integrated Report, containing the Annual Report, Balance including the negative impact on our results of lower world pulp movements in a number of countries around the world, inlacking in the country’s development. We, too, at CMPC, enSheet and Financial Statements for the year 2019, as well prices produced by a combination of factors such as higher including, of course, the events that took place in Chile starting couraged this dialogue through a series of discussion groups as the Sustainability Report prepared in accordance with the ventory levels, slowing Chinese demand and the trade conflict in October and led to a number of news announcements and which resulted in concrete initiatives to support company guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Interbetween China and the US, among other factors. regulatory modifications by the government, culminating in the workers and contractors. national Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). decision to organize a referendum on whether or not to rewrite the constitution of the country. However, the positive aspects of giving visibility and addressThis Integrated Report also serves as a Communication on ing legitimate concerns by the Chilean society have been Progress (CoP) report for the United Nations Global Compact, overshadowed by violence of unseen proportions, which a network to which the company belongs since March 2018. 10 11 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n caused visible destruction in many cities across the country business lines, such as retail paper bags for the Chilean margranted CMPC the highest possible score, A, inviting us to its workers, contractors, shareholders, and investors. and strongly impacted economic activity and the availability of ket with production facilities in Chillan. These changes were prestigious Water Security A List. quality employment. reinforced by a new corporate structure, which merged some Big companies play a fundamental role in the economy by subsidiaries in order to improve efficiency and better meet the CMPC environmental protection efforts were not left unnoticed creating an entire ecosystem around themselves with opWe expressed this a number of times in connection with attacks growing demand for sustainable packaging solutions made by investors, either, as was obvious in our third issuance of a portunities for suppliers of various sizes. This role should be on our operations in the south of the country and we would like from natural fibers. green bond, this time in the local securities market, in addition encouraged, valued and safeguarded by legal regulations, to reiterate it now: violence does solve anything, it just breeds to successfully securing the first syndicated green loan entirely acknowledging its contribution to solving the problems and more violence. It is only through dialogue and peaceful coexOn the other hand, the level of significance that our Brazilian by Japanese banks to be obtained by a Chilean company. I satisfying the needs of the public. istence that we can continue to make progress on the road operations have gained received a recognition by the Valor would also like to mention our issuance of a USD 500 million towards development and better quality of life for all. 100 annual handbook which named CMPC the best pulp and bond in the US market in the early days of 2020 at a record Our contribution to Chilean society have been our 100 years paper company in Brazil. We even added new plantations to rate, an unequivocal confirmation of our financial stability and of experience, allowing us to actively participate in addressing In 2019, we enhanced our community engagement by creatour forest assets there. I would like to especially highlight the the trust international investors place in Chile and in CMPC. challenges, surpassing difficulties and creating open spaces ing new opportunities for employment, business ventures and volumes of production and sales of our pulp and solid wood for dialogue and cooperation in order to achieve the developdevelopment for communities neighboring not only our indusmills, as well as the positive results reported in terms of occuAs is well known, CMPC’s commitment to the community ment and living standards which we all deserve. trial, but also our forestry operations. Unfortunately, there are pational safety. manifests itself especially in the work that the CMPC Founviolent groups that oppose themselves to this mutually benedation has been doing for almost 20 years now, focusing on Although this report is of fiscal year 2019, I cannot end this ficial coexistence and end up harming the interests of the very None of this would be sustainable in the long run without the early childhood education. In 2019, it continued the expanletter without mentioning the current critical global situation communities they claim to represent. efficient use of resources and protection of the environment. sion of the implementation of the HIPPY program, designed resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic declared by the World This is why, last year, we also made public our environmento stimulate the development of preschoolers in their homes. Health Organization (WHO). All our efforts as a company in all We trust in the full recovery of public order and our political tal goals to reduce emissions and the industrial use of water In Brazil, social and education projects are in the hands of the the countries where we operate have been focused on taking leaders’ vested interest in returning our country onto a path of in our operations, increase the conservation of native forests, CMPC Institute. care of our direct and indirect employees, while at the same growth under the reign of law and understanding. and transition to being a zero waste to landfill company. time maintaining operational continuity to ensure the provision Our commitment to education and the development of comof our products which are considered of essential nature. Commercially speaking, as I already mentioned, our company CMPC has thus positioned itself among the world leaders in munities neighboring our operations inspired us in 2019 to has been impacted by low pulp prices, partly offset by very social and environmental matters. As such, we participated form a partnership with the DUOC UC University to build Nonetheless, we are well aware of the enormous impact this satisfactory annual sales volumes. We were also affected by in the elaboration of the Forest Sector SDG Roadmap by the first DUOC UC – CMPC campus in Nacimiento to offer a pandemic will have on the world economy. Despite being well slower growth rates of the main global markets and fluctuathe World Business Council for Sustainable Development unique opportunity to young people from the region, as well prepared for this situation, both financially and operationally, tions in the exchange rates of a number of currencies. As a (WBCSD), which was presented before the United Nations by as extension programs and a center for the support of local we know that a lot of effort and commitment will be required result, Net Income in 2019 totaled USD 84.4 million, much our CEO. Additionally, 2019 marks the fifth consecutive year entrepreneurs. throughout. lower than the USD 502.3 million of the previous year, and for CMPC to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index EBITDA amounted to USD 1,169 million. (DJSI) Chile. This past year, we also made it into the Emerging Another noteworthy example of a strategic partnership, this In its 100 years of history CMPC has faced many difficult Markets index of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes suite time in support of innovation, was the one signed with the moments, locally and internationally. Now is the time to put I would like to take this opportunity to point out that we manfor the first time. Furthermore, the global organization CDP University of Concepcion. Further innovation efforts included that experience to the service of our employees, clients, conaged to increase our commercial presence in important marthe development of a digitalization strategy, spearheaded by sumers, communities and shareholders. Only in unity can we kets such as the US, China and Europe, where we formed the corporate department created exactly for the purpose of move forward. a strategic partnership with the German GUSCO Handel G. fostering innovation. Schürfeld + Co. GmbH group to create CMPC Europe GmbH & Co. KG for the marketing of our pulp, solid wood and boxenvironmental goals to Core values, sustainability, innovation, continuous improveboard products. ment, development, engagement are some of the concepts One of the most important milestones for the company in reduce emissions and the that keep CMPC moving forward and have allowed us to achieve our first 100 years of history. We know that these Thank you very much. 2019 was the consolidation of our tissue and personal care products business Softys as the biggest producer in Brazil industrial use of water in same pillars can serve as the foundation to build our next century by dedicating our efforts to meeting the growing demand Luis Felipe Gazitúa A. Chairman of the Board of CMPC after the acquisition of SEPAC, created 45 years ago in the state of Parana and recognized both for its excellent indusour operations, increase for natural, renewable and certified products that contribute to preserving the environment. trial facilities and its prestigious brand portfolio. To this was also added the purchase of Papelera Panamericana in Peru, the conservation of native The Board that I have the honor of chairing has been working while in Argentina was completed the USD 130 million Zarate expansion project, adding 60,000 tons of tissue paper proforests, and transition on the CMPC business development strategy for the following years based on this purpose as well as seeking to always duction capacity. remain competitive in the markets where we operate and poto being a zero waste to sition ourselves as a company that adds value and promotes Biopackaging, on the other hand, introduced a number of growth that is shared with the community, clients, consumers, improvements in its production processes and added new landfill company. 12 13 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 1920: CMPC is founded in Chile to produce paper and cardboard from wheat straw. 1938: Newsprint production starts in Chile. 1940: Acquisition of the Fundo Pinares property and first Radiata pine plantations in the Biobio region of Chile. 1951: Ramp-up of paper mill in the city of Valdivia in southern Chile, initially producing newsprint and kraft paper. 1957: Inauguration of the Biobio newsprint production facility in San Pedro de la Paz in the Biobio region of Chile. 1959: Start-up of the Laja mill, the first pulp production facility in Chile, Biobio region. 1960: CMPC exports first Chilean pulp to clients in South America. 1970: Annual production increases to 220 thousand tons of pulp and 150 thousand tons of paper. Exports almost reach USD 30 million. 1972: A modern plant for multi-wall paper sacks starts operating in Chillan (Propa), Chile, with an annual production capacity of 90 million sacks. 1977: A large-scale fire in the municipality of Puente Alto, Chile, destroys industrial facilities for the production of corrugated boxes, printing paper, sacks and multi-wall paper bags. 1978: Despite events from the previous year, 1978 closes with 218,534 tons of paper products sold compared to 198,556 tons in the previous period. 1983: CMPC enters the diaper market by founding the personal care products subsidiary Prosan. 1990: Launch of the eucalyptus plantation program in Chile. 1991: Acquisition of the Argentine diaper producer Química Estrella San Luis S.A., the company’s first investment outside of Chile. 1992: The Celulosa del Pacifico pulp mill is inaugurated. This USD 517 million greenfield project is a joint venture with Simpson Paper. 1994: Acquisition of the tissue paper companies IPUSA and FABI in Uruguay and Argentina respectively. 1995: Restructuring of CMPC as a holding company with five business divisions. The purchase of 20% of the Santa Fe pulp mill in the Biobio region of Chile. OUR FIRST 1996: Manufacturing of tissue products begins in Peru. 1.2 1998: Buyout of 100% of Simpson Paper’s shares in the Celulosa del Pacifico and Santa Fe mills, Chile. 1999: Second paper manufacturing line is installed in Argentina. CMPC becomes one of the leading tissue producers in Latin America. 2000: The CMPC Foundation is created. 2003: Acquisition of Forestal Monte Aguila in Chile. 100 YEARS OF HISTORY 2004: PEFC™ CERTFOR certification granted to eucalyptus and pine plantations in Chile. 14 15 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 2006: Acquisition of the tissue and diaper producer Absormex, gaining entry into the Mexican market. 2007: Entry into the Colombian market with the purchase of Drypers Andina, specialists in the production and distribution of baby diapers. 2009: Purchase of Melhoramentos Papéis, a manufacturer of tissue paper products with factories in Sao Paulo, Brazil. 2009: Acquisition of Aracruz Celulose’s Guaiba mill in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. 2012: All of the company’s forest plantations in Chile and Brazil receive an FSC® certification. 2013: Construction of the Guaiba II pulp line begins in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. 2014: The corrugated boxes business in Chile is reorganized by merging the Envases Impresos and Envases Roble Alto subsidiaries. 2014: CMPC is included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the first time. 2015: Ramp-up of the second pulp production line at Guaiba, Brazil. 2015: The first natural gas based cogeneration plant is launched at the Altamira production facility in Tamaulipas, Mexico. 2016: Merger of the Pulp and Forestry business areas. Eliodoro Matte steps down as Chairman of the Board. 2017: A modern Softys tissue production facility is inaugurated in the town of Cañete, Peru. 2017: First Green Bond issuance. 2017: CMPC receives its first Gold level seal for Energy Efficiency by the Chilean Ministry of Energy for the Laja, Pacifico and Santa Fe pulp mills. 2018: Softys investment plan for growth in the Argentine, Brazilian and Mexican markets is put in motion. 16 17 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 1.3 2019 MILESTONES European presence A YEAR OF In August, CMPC signed a partnership agreement with the GUSCO Handel G. Schürfeld + Co. GmbH group as a strategic partner for us in Germany in CHALLENGES order to bolster its business in Europe. The two formed a joint venture under the name CMPC Europe GmbH & Co. KG for the distribution of pulp, wood and boxboard, which began operating in January, 2020. Softys is growing Award for best pulp January saw the creation of Softys, a CMPC subsidiary which merges, consolidates and gives and paper company a new name to the business area for tissue, personal care and away-from-home products. This in Brazil is part of the business’ expansion plan, which started materializing in April with the purchase of the Peruvian company Papelera Panamericana e Activar with operations in the Arequipa region In August, CMPC received this recognition by the Brazilian of the country, followed by the acquisition of 100% of the ownership in Serrados e Pasta e newspaper Valor Económico. This is an annual award given to Celulose Ltda. (“Sepac”) in Brazil in October. companies with the best results according to eight economic and financial criteria including sustainable growth, profitability and EBITDA. Creation of The awards ceremony was attended by the Brazilian Minister of the CMPC Biopackaging Economy, Paulo Guedes, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Rodrigo Maia, and executives from a number of companies. In June, the subsidiaries dedicated to Mauricio Harger, CEO of CMPC Brazil, Guaiba plant, receives award for best pulp and paper company in that country. sustainable packaging solutions were reorganized and restructured, giving Forest Sector birth to CMPC Biopackaging with four SDG Roadmap CMPC Brazil: a year of business units: Corrugated, Sack Kraft, Boxboard and Edipac. This merger aims consolidation and expansion to consolidate this area’s operations in Empresas CMPC CEO, Francisco Ruiz-Tagle presented the order to benefit from the synergies beForest Sector Roadmap towards the Sustainable Development CMPC celebrated 10 years of presence in Brazil with its Guaitween different production stages. Goals (SDG), which was elaborated by the Forest Solutions ba mill, located in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. During this Group (FSG) of the WBCSD, one of the most important instidecade of operations, the mill has brought in more than USD tutions in the world for sustainability issues in the private sector. 4 billion in sales and contributed approximately USD 408 million in local taxes with an average annual production capacity This document was the result of 18 months of collaborative work of about 1.93 million tons of hardwood eucalyptus pulp, as between 11 companies with CMPC as one of the three co-prewell as strong ties to neighboring communities and respect siding companies. for the environment. Green financing Based on an analysis of the current situation of the forest sector, Building up on this foundation, CMPC Brazil acquired 423 this manual identified eight impact opportunities in 22 lines of thousand m3 and 767 thousand m3 of standing forests from In July, CMPC issued its third Green Bond for the amount of USD 93.17 million following previous issuances in Peru in 2018 and action for closing the gaps in various SDGs. the Brazilian companies Trevisa Investimentos S.A. and Celuthe United States in 2017. The 10-year bond issued in the Chilean market obtained a coupon of 1.22% with a spread over the lose Irani S.A. respectively as a step forward in its strategy reference rate of 0.57%. The roadmap has identified risks and opportunities for the sector to increase its presence in the region. These plantations are and provides solution pathways through which negative impacts located in the south of Brazil and will be used to supply the This was accompanied by a Green Loan for USD 100 million obtained in September with a 5-year term. This transaction adheres can be minimized and efforts can be made towards achieving Guaiba pulp mill. Additionally, the purchase of forest plantato the format of a Green Loan and is the first of its kind syndicated entirely by Japanese banks, thus representing a new financing the SDGs by 2030. tions with 9 million m3 of growing stock was completed. The option for the company. transaction amounted to approximately USD 46 million. Note: For more information on the Forest Sector SDG Roadmap, review https://docs.wbcsd.org/2019/07/WBCSD_Forest_Sector_SDG_Roadmap.pdf 18 19 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n Launching sustainability goals Inauguration of our Listed in the DJSI In September, the company made public its corporate sustainability goals, formalizing its comLos Angeles office building Emerging Markets mitment to reducing absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 50% (scope 1 and 2) by 2030 and In March, we inaugurated the new CMPC office building in the city of Los Angeles, Index its industrial water use by 25% per metric ton of production by 2025, as well as becoming a zero waste to landfill company by 2025 and conserving, protecting and/or restoring an addiBiobio Region of Chile. The inauguration celebration was attended by local and regional government officials, business leaders, community representatives, architects and At the end of September, CMPC was tional 100 thousand hectares by 2030 to be added to the already existing over 320 thousand CMPC employees, among others invitees. included for the fifth consecutive year in hectares of the company in Argentina, Brazil and Chile. The goals are based on data from 2018 1 the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Chile, as a baseline. The building is largely made from wood, which accounts for almost 100% of the main a stock market index which groups the structure, as well as other materials meeting the highest sustainability standards. It also companies leaders in sustainability. Adtakes advantage of natural light, thus pioneering innovation in energy efficiency. It is the ditionally, for the first time, the company first building in Chile to receive an FSC Project Chain of Custody Certification as 95% was included in the Emerging Markets 50% reduction in absolute of the wood used including structural wood beams, cross laminated timber (CLT) strucindex, its third one in addition to Chile greenhouse gas emissions tures, wall, floor and ceiling paneling, and decorative plywood panels is FSC® certified and MILA Pacific Alliance. 2 (scope 1 and 2) by 2030 (2017 RA-PRO-007711), FSC-P001672 . 3 CMPC office building in Los Angeles, Biobio region, Chile. become a zero waste landfill company in not more than 6 years 25% reduction in industrial water use per metric ton of 4 product by 2025 conservation and restoration of 100 thousand hectares by 2030, adding to the company's existing over 320 thousand hectares for conservation and protection in Argentina, Brazil and Chile Highest score on the CDP Water Security evaluation CMPC was one of 72 companies to obtain the highest possible score on the Water Security questionnaire by the CDP (ex Carbon Disclosure Project). The A score places CMPC among the leading companies and adds it to the A List reserved for the top less than 3% of companies that report on their water management. The company scored above the Latin American regional average, global average and the one for our sector, Wood and Paper Materials. 20 21 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 1.4 EMPRESAS CMPC (102-2; 102-7; 102-16; IR1) CMPC is a multi-national company with a global footprint that has been providing solutions from renewable sources for 100 years, seeking to satisfy the varying needs of its clients and consumers in an environmentally responsible way. 01 Its business is the production and distribution of solid wood As part of its operations, CMPC partners with various organizaproducts, pulp, packaging, tissue and personal care products tions to boost local economies, have a positive impact on the of the highest quality, market competitiveness and from susdevelopment of neighboring communities, and protect ecosystainably sourced raw materials. tems and biodiversity. That is why, it continuously works to: ● Recognize the importance of stable business relationships with diverse international clients as the building blocks of an integrated logistic network and a commercial structure of excellence. ● Promote practices that protect fair competition and ● Strictly comply with the laws and regulations in the 03 benefit all consumers, allowing the efficient distribution of countries where it operates through a corporate culresources while at the same time encouraging innovation. ture based on compliance, honesty, a job well done 01. Workers at Nacimiento sawmill in the Biobio region of Chile. 02. Plant nursery worker in the CMPC Los Angeles building, Biobio region, Chile. and personal effort. 03. Production line, CMPC Corrugated molded pulp mill in Metropolitan region, Chile. ● Develop all of its workforce by fostering identity building, commitment and high performance in its teams. ● Condemn child labor, forced labor and any type of discrimination. ● Use the latest generation technology in its processes in order to maintain high standards of quality, safety and ● Make progress towards achieving its sustainability protection of its people and the environment. goals. 02 22 23 1.5 OUR BUSINESS AREAS i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n CMPC CMPC Bosques Production capacity 2019 It has forest assets in Argentina, Brazil and Chile totaling 1,189,680 hectares as of December 31, 2019. CELULOSA It also has three highly automated nurseries for the production of superior quality saplings using sophisticated programs for genetic improvement that use techniques such as: the selection of superior individuals, cross-breeding, assessment (102-2; 102-4) and specimen cloning (genotype propagation), among other practices for the improvement of production. It is this business area that plants and manages the forest assets that support This is the business area responsible for the company’s forest assets and the Company’s industrial development with a long-term vision MADERAS the production and distribution of solid wood products and pulp. It has CEO: Jaime Argüelles A. and sustainability. operations in Argentina, Brazil and Chile. Board of Directors: Luis Felipe Gazitúa A. (presidente), Bernardo Matte I., Francisco Its main products are: pulpwood, sawing logs, logs for lamBiobio region It is present worldwide with a network of agents and representatives in Ruiz-Tagle E., Osvaldo Burgos S., Jorge inating (pruned and with knots), firewood, wood chips, and Bucalemu 16 countries in the Americas, nine in Asia, eight in Europe and one in Larraín M. and Jorge Matte C. biomass. Its subsidiaries are: Bosques del Plata (Argentina), Sawmill 204 th. m3 Oceania and it also supplies raw materials and products to the African CMPC Brazil (Brazil) and Forestal Mininco (Chile). Mulchen continent. To provide support to this network, it has Customer Service Sawmill 304 th. m3 offices in the cities of Los Angeles and Santiago in Chile and Guaiba in Brazil. Additionally, since 2019, it has a sales representative office in AtNacimiento Sawmill 281 th. m3 lanta, in the United States, and as of 2019, one in China, as well as one CMPC Maderas in Europe starting in 2020. Coronel Millwork The CMPC Maderas has three production lines: sawmills, ply79 th. m3 CMPC Celulosa does not have any clients that represent more than 10% wood and millwork, with a total of six production facilities, all Los Angeles Millwork of its revenue, nor suppliers that account for more than 10% of its proof them in Chile. Three are sawmills (Bucalemu, Mulchen and 99 Mm3 curement. Some of its main competitors are APP, APRIL, Arauco, EldoNacimiento); 2 millwork mills (Coronel and Los Angeles); and FOREST rado, Ilim, Klabin, Stora Enso, Suzano, and UPM. one plywood plant (Collipulli). Araucania region Its main products are: green and kiln-dried sawn wood, plyPlaywood “In celebration of our 100 th wood, moldings and edge-glued panels. Collipulli 428 th. m3 Misiones province Bosques del Plata Humus production through vermicomposting year anniversary, we must 706 th. m3 PULP CMPC is constantly on the lookout for new first thank our workers CMPC Pulp Araucania region bio-sustainable and renewable solutions from forest-based products that can replace foswhose efforts and excellence This is the business unit in charge of the production and disBiobio region Forestal tribution of pulp and its derivative products. Its four mills, Laja, Laja 360 th. tons Mininco 10,442 th. m3 sil-based ones. brought us to where we stand Pacifico, and Santa Fe in Chile, and Guaiba in Brazil, have a Santa Fe 1,496 th. tons combined annual production capacity of 4.3 million tons. Such an example is the story of this successful pilot program at the Laja mill that recovers today, and then stand up and Its main products are: bleached softwood kraft pulp from RaAraucania region Rio Grande sludge from effluents as a raw material for verdo Sul state micomposting. This technology uses worms look towards the future with diata pine (BSKP), sack kraft paper, unbleached kraft pulp (UKP), bleached eucalyptus kraft pulp (BEKP), and printing Pacifico 520 th. tons CMPC Brazil to decompose waste, while also preventing 7,595 th. m3 malodors. A similar program exists at CMPC a focus on the continuous and writing paper (P&W). Rio Grande do Sul state Brazil, where byproducts such as wood fibers are converted into an organic fertilizer for agriimprovement of our processes Guaiba 1,930 th. tons cultural use. and operations.” Source: CMPC Celulosa Note: CMPC Maderas data corresponds to total production. 24 25 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n CMPC Celulosa worker at Nacimiento Sawmill, Biobio Region, Chile. 26 27 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n CMPC Corrugados CMPC This subsidiary encompasses the entire value chain from collecting paper, through manufacturing corrugated paper, to its conversion into boxes and trays for the fruit and industrial sectors. Production capacity 2019 BIOPACKAGING (102-2; 102-4) It has three factories for packaging, molded pulp and paper production as well as fiber recycling in Chile. Its main products are corrugated boxes, cardboard edge protectors, molded-pulp trays, corrugated and wrapping paper SACK KRAFT and bales of recycled paper and board. This business area provides sustainable solutions from virgin or recycled natural fibers for the promotion, transportation and protection of its cliCEO: Jorge Navarrete1. Jalisco ents’ products. CMPC Biopackaging products are made from materials Board of Directors: Luis Felipe Gazitúa Sack Kraft Mexico which in most cases can be reincorporated in the production cycle. A. (presidente), Francisco Ruiz-Tagle E., CMPC Boxboard 31 th. tons Vivianne Blanlot S., Andrés Echeverría This is the boxboard manufacturing business unit. It uses virLima It manufactures corrugated products, boxboard, paper sacks and bags, S., Jorge Matte C., Bernardo Matte I. and gin Radiata pine pulp for the production of its products as this Sack Kraft Peru 42 th. tons and molded pulp products and distributes P&W paper. Washington Williamson L. allows it to deliver boxboard products with a perfect ratio of Its brands have a global presence in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe weight/flexibility. Buenos Aires and Oceania through a network of commercial representatives. It does not have clients that account for more than 10% of its Sack Kraft Argentina It also offers lighter-weight products, which provide clients 12 th. tons revenue, nor suppliers of more than 10% of its materials. Neither does it have a single competitor on a global scale. with a competitive advantage as they are more easily folded and allow more folds and pockets per unit of boxboard As of 2019, Biopackaging’s structure is subdivided in four major business units: Corrugated, Boxboard, Sack Kraft, and Edipac, weight. There is also an especially designed line of products of Ñuble region which have 15 production facilities altogether throughout Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Peru. high quality boxboard for graphic design and branding. Sack Kraft Chile 27 th. tons The CMPC Corrugated complex located in the municipality of Puente Alto, in the Metropolitan Region of Chile, has Metrogas Boxboard industrial operations are located in the Maule and S.A. as a main supplier which represents over 10% of supplier billing, while International Paper Cartones S.A. is the main supCORRUGATED Los Rios regions of Chile. plier for Edipac accounting for 10% of its spend. Metropolitan region CMPC Sack Kraft BOXBOARD “Celebrating our Tiltil packaging 47 th. tons Maule region Its products are industrial paper sacks. It offers quality products New paper bags with handles first 100 years as made from Radiata pine fiber. Buin packaging 86 th. tons Boxboard Maule 450 th. tons The recent ban on plastic bags in Chile led to an increased awareness of the need to reduce the use of this material in a company is both a It manufactures packaging solutions at its four strategically loMolded pulp 25 th. tons Los Rios region cated plants in Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Peru and distribBoxboard Valdivia various industries. matter of pride and utes them with the help of a commercial network with an office Papers 263 th. tons Carlos Valdovinos 72 th. tons in the United States and a logistics platform that makes it possiCMPC Biopackaging, and in particular, its sack kraft subsidiary, is contributing to the process of substituting plastic with a coma challenge, which ble to serve more than 25 countries in the region. fibers 38 th. tons Pudahuel fibers postable and renewable solution. For that purpose, it acquired a machine for manufacturing paper bags with double flexible motivates us to look CMPC Edipac 96 th. tons Puente Alto fibers handles, which started operating in September, 2019. in the future through A distributor of printing and writing paper and boxboard, either 20 th. tons Los Lagos region The main segments for which this product was designed are supermarkets, department stores, and others. the lens of constant manufactured by CMPC subsidiaries or imported from international producers. Osorno packaging 35 th. tons innovation.” It currently has presence only in Chile and its main products EDIPAC Metropolitan region are: bond paper, boxboard, cut size papers, couche paper, and 1 At the time of writing of this Integrated Report, Mr. Cristobal Irarrazaval, CEO of this business division throughout 2019, left non-carbon copy paper, among others. Edipac Plant the company. He was succeeded in the position of CEO by Mr. Jorge Navarrete in February, 2020. Source: CMPC Biopackaging Note: In 2019, Sorepa changed its name to Fibras. 100 th. tons i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 28 Chillan Sack Kraft worker, Ñuble Region, Chile. 29 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 30 31 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n SOFTYS Production capacity 2019 Tissue products Santa (102-2; 102-4) Responsible for the consumer tissue product line, Catarina including toilet paper, paper tissues and paper 26 th. tons towels, among others. These are praised for their 21 th. tons This is the business area responsible for the production and distribution 34 million units high quality, softness, and excellent performance in of tissue paper, personal care and away-from-home products from virgin Altamira terms of personal hygiene and cleaning, by wholefiber and recycled materials. 105 th. tons sale clients and consumers alike. Tamaulipas The business unit currently distributes its products under 25 brand Garcia Its production facilities are located in all eight counnames of tissue and personal care products. It has 19 production facili859 million units tries where Softys has industrial presence. ties across eight countries: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay. Additionally, it operates a smaller scale plant for collecting paper for recycling in Argentina2. Cali 259 million units Walmart and Cencosud are the only individual clients that account for Gachancipa more than 10% of the revenues of this business area, while there is no 22 th. tons individual supplier responsible for more than 10% of the business’ pur7 th. tons chases. Its main competitors are Kimberly-Clark and Essity. Personal care In January 2019, this area merged all its subsidiaries in Argentina, CEO: Gonzalo Darraidou D. Softys develops products for the care, protection Guayaquil Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay under the Board of Directors: Luis Felipe Gazitúa A. and autonomy of people at different stages in their 11 th. tons name Softys. (presidente), Francisco Ruiz-Tagle E., Verólives. Its products encompass the categories of in1 th. tons nica Edwards G., Jorge Larraín M., Jorge Matte fant, adult, and feminine care, among others. 168 million It has three business units: for tissue products, personal care products C., Bernardo Matte I. and Pablo Turner G. units Pernambuco and away-from-home products. Its production facilities are present in all eight counCañete Caierias tries where Softys has industrial operations and in 32 th. tons Metropolitan 54 th. tons the case of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico 6 th. tons region 1,427 million are independent of the tissue paper business units units Arequipa by being geographically separated. Talagante Recife Panamericana “We seek to provide daily care for the needs of people at any 97 th. tons 12 th. tons 12 th. tons 7.8 th. tons Rio Grande Lima stage of life. This corporate purpose is our motivating force Puente Alto 28 th. tons do Sul Santa Anita Guaiba to continue being successful for another 100 years.” 16 th. tons 741 million 9 th. tons 57 th. tons 2 th. tons units Parana 1,001 million units Away from home Sepac 140 th. tons This business segment is dedicated to corporate San Luis Pando 202 million Launching first e-commerce websites and institutional clients. Its products are marketed Naschel units 18 th. tons under the Elite Professional brand and are char4 th. tons 1,512 million Sao Paulo In 2019, Softys launched its first e-commerce platforms, mitiendacotidian.cl and clubsoftys.cl, following a subacterized by high quality, innovation and efficiency. units 384 million units Mogi scription-based business model for its mass consumption brands. Zarate 23 th. tons These products are manufactured in all eight counZarate 32 th. tons Both websites allow Softys to learn about its consumers, enabling it to provide them with a better service and build tries where Softys is present, both at integrated fa87 th. tons Tissue products an intimate relationship, unique in the Latin American market. cilities with the other two business lines mentioned 10 th. tons Personal care above and at its own plants. This is another step in the implementation of the company’s e-commerce strategy, which was first introduced in Away from home Source: Softys 2017 with the launch of a B2B platform for away-from-home clients that has not stopped growing ever since. Note 1: The Caierias plant in Brazil produces mechanical pulp (chemo-thermal mechanical pulp, CTMP), which is used in its paper making machines. Production capacity for this product is 6,000 metric tons/month. Note 2: The Corepa plant, which collects recycled paper in Argentina, is not included in the production capacity table as it is currently functioning as a sales office. 2 Corepa plant, recycled paper collector in Argentina, which is currently functioning as a sales office. i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 32 Softys Talagante plant worker in Santiago, Chile. 33 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 34 35 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n 1.6 1.7 HIGHLIGHTS 35.6% (102-7) CORPORATE PURPOSE 3C 8 45 COUNTRIES WITH PRODUCTION PRODUCTION of GHG emissions Being a company with 100 years of history is OPERATIONS FACILITIES belong to Scope 1 and 2 the result of having a direction that is clear, dynamic and in line with society. 16.4% 1,189,680 HA 325,995 Ha of water FOREST Since 2017, CMPC has a corporate purpose which serves as a declaration CREATE areas for protection, extracted is conservation and restoration consumed ASSETS of its vision and guides its role beyond profit generation, giving meaning to the COEXIST actions of each of its collaborators on a path towards a sustainable future. CONSERVE 63.9% USD 3,283 6,815 SELFMILLION (NET MSME For more details on our Corporate Purpose, visit: FINANCIAL) DEBT suppliers GENERATED ENERGY https://www.cmpc.com/en/nosotros/visio-proposito-valores/ USD 8,136 17,859 90.3% MILLION IN DIRECT COLLABORATORS OF OWN FOREST FOREST ASSETS ASSETS CERTIFIED USD 1,169 million in 19,360 USD 5,670 average million third-party sales EBITDA clients Note 1: All numbers are as of December 31, 2019 except for the percentage of certified own Note 2: MSME: micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. forest assets as of November 30, when the last official audit took place. Note 3: GHG: greenhouse gases 36 36 37 1.8 Ash i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 VALUE Pulp Pulp 01 Cd oe smcprainpyt i o n CREATION Black liquor Distribution MODEL Product Renewable quality and energy Raw Supply Facilities, characteristics Biomass materials chain equipment and inputs and spare Export (102-6; 102-9) parts Maderas Solid wood Carbon The visual representation of CMPC’s value creation, products sequestering centered around its corporate purpose, has been evolving each year. IS T CELULOSA EX It aims to depict the core processes, activities, prodO ucts and byproducts of each business unit. The C model pays close attention to internal circular flows as the optimal use of renewable resources is essential for CMPC such as in way of regenerative cycles Boxboard Recycled Recovered and the recovery of its operations’ byproducts. In paper and paper and this way, CMPC makes a tangible contribution to board board sustainable development and value creation. Product conversion Paper sacks C R E AT E and bags Biopackaging Distribution Corrugated paper and boxes Product quality and characteristics Conservation, Molded pulp Fiber Export protection and products recovery restoration CO N B I O PA C K A G I N G S E Nurseries Carbon capture RV E Forest Logs Biomass plantations and Product Tissue management conversion products Woodchips Forest certifications Softys Personal care Distribution Point products and last mile of sale delivery FORESTRY Brand value Away-from-home creation tissue products Processes/Activities Products Byproducts and recovery Circular flows Business areas SOFTYS Forests are our most important asset 02 GROW 39 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T 40 41 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 2.1 SIX STAGES OF THE 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T FORESTRY CYCLE 1 The CMPC production process begins in the nurseries where saplings are produced from seeds and vegetative propagation. The best genetic specimens in terms of volume, growth rate and density of the wood are selected. Plant specimens are selected for specific genetic qualities to ensure superior characteristics of the raw material produced and the tree’s ability to thrive in the climate conditions of the locations where we operate. The company owns three nurseries which grow both productive and native species: ● Carlos Douglas, in the Biobio region of Chile; ● Barba Negra, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul in Brazil; ● El Pindó, located in the town of Posadas in the Misiones Province of Argentina. 2 After growing in the nursery, pine and eucalyptus saplings are planted in their assigned forest land. Once they have reached the appropriate age according to the geographic location, climate and other conditions, for some of them the process of forest management begins. It consists of two stages: thinning and 3 45 6 pruning, which allow the production of higher quality timber for industrial, construction or other uses. Adult trees are harvested and the timber is transferred to storage fields spread across production facilities. Thinning consists of the removal of a predetermined number of trees in order The average plantation rate for CMPC in Chile has to leave only the best specimens standIn the winter after trees have ing and provide them with better access Pruning is used to partially been of about 22 thousand hectares per year, which to nutrients in the soil. This results in betremove the lower branchbeen harvested, the same tract of land is replanted and ter technical characteristics and market es of the trees, ensuring means 250 million trees planted in the last decade. value of the timber at harvest. the production of timber a new forestry cycle begins with the birth of a new forest. without knots. 42 43 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 2.2 Forest assets SUSTAINABLE Total area in hectares FOREST 1,400,000 1,200,000 1,000,000 1,051,119 1,151,491 1,152,545 1,189,680 02 MANAGEMENT 800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 Year 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: CMPC Celulosa The CMPC forest assets include productive and non-productive areas. The former, with 73% of the total land area, is reserved for productive plantations for pulp, timber and other wood fiber based products, while the latter, with the remaining 27%, corresponds to areas for protection, conservation, and restoration3. Productive area (103-1) (103-2) (103-3) Why is sustainable forest management relevant? (in hectares) • Sustainable forest management is the practice of handling forest plantations in compliance with Productive area Total environmental, economic, social and cultural criteria. Plantations 687,862 • Forest plantations not only allow the creation of economic resources, but also contribute to cliLand to be planted 71,897 mate change mitigation by capturing carbon dioxide, regulate water flow, and provide food and Right-to-use plantations 42,096 shelter to various species. Right-to-use land to be planted 3,495 • All activities related to our forest plantations must be conducted in a sustainable way, contribLand for administrative use 61,030 uting to stopping and reversing the degradation and desertification of land and the loss of biodiversity. Total productive area 866,380 Source: CMPC Celulosa • CMPC promotes and ensures sustainable forest management by obtaining international certifications, which require compliance with existing principles and criteria. • The company department responsible for the adherence to these commitments and their oversight is the Certified Management and Sustainability Department, which is part of CMPC Celulosa. 3 For more information, go to section 2.3 Ecosystem and biodiversity conservation. 44 45 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Certifications Chain of custody 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T and controlled (CMPC 5; CMPC 6) wood certifications Sustainable forest management certification Chain of custody certifications guarantee the traceability of wood across the entire supply chain and ensures that there is no contamination with timber from controversial sources. This According to the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE)4, certification applies to all CMPC business areas. the total forest land area operated with a certification for sustainable management in the world was 424 million hectares in 2018-2019, a decrease of 7 million hectares from 2016-2017 or approximately 11% globally. Percentage of raw material certified for chain of custody and controlled wood 2019 Certifications protect forests and ensure their sustainable and is obligated to undergo annual audits that certify, quantitatively responsible management. Local and international markets and qualitatively, that it is adhering to its Principles and Criteincreasingly require and demand renewable products from ria. This guarantees a certain level of structure and uniformity CMPC BOSQUES 97% sustainably managed forests. Despite the voluntary nature of in the process. certifications, once a company has chosen to acquire one, it CMPC Pulp 100% CMPC Maderas 100% 90.3% of CMPC own forest assets are certified for CMPC Biopackaging 100% sustainable forest management. Softys 100% Certified forest assets by category in hectares In addition to sourcing timber from its own forest assets, CMPC also buys raw material from third parties, mostly Category 2018 2019 certified with only a small portion coming from non-certified suppliers. In order to ensure traceability, the company has CMPC owned forests 1,083,351 1,081,832 a Responsible Procurement Program which requires all suCertified CMPC owned forests 976,930 976,649 ppliers of raw materials to undergo a due diligence process verifying: the legality of forest ownership from which the timber Percentage of CMPC owned forests that are certified 90.2% 90.3% originated, the management and harvesting plans granted by Third-party forests 64,720 162,649 the forestry authorities, and compliance with product quality Source: CMPC Celulosa Note 1: As of November 30, 2019 when the and safety protocols. Certified third-party forests 64,720 65,885 last official audit took place. Note 2: In Chile, certified assets include FSC Percentage of third-party forests that are certified 100% 40.5% and CERTFOR certifications. For detailed information on CMPC forest certifications with specific codes, refer to the Appendices of this Integrated Report or visit our corporate website: https://www.cmpc.com/en/certifications/ 4 UNECE. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Forest products. Annual Market Review 2018-2019. Anual Market Review 2016-2017. 46 47 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Certified raw material (timber/wood) covered by a controlled wood 2018 2019 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T certification (in m3) INCENTIVES PLAN FOR The Due Diligence plan makes sure that a plantation meets the technical, legal, labor and environmental standards that CMPC voluntarily subscribes to through Own raw material produced 17,878,000 17,683,000 THE IMPLEMENTATION its certifications. OF A DUE DILIGENCE Percentage of certified own raw material (from the total) 96.2% 96.4% SYSTEM (DDS) The program focuses on providing incentives to suppliers who do not have Total third-party raw material 3,018,000 3,790,000 or cannot obtain a certification to set up a Due Diligence System for their Percentage of certified third-party raw material (from the total) 100% 100% forest management. All raw material (own and third-party) 20,896,000 21,473,000 Total certified raw material (own and third-party) 20,217,000 20,838,000 Certified raw material as a portion of the total consumption 97% 97% SAWING LOGS This program, launched after large wildfires raged across Chile in 2017, strives Source: CMPC Celulosa PROCUREMENT FROM to support and give priority to the local economy by the procurement of a certain FORESTRY SMES volume of sawing logs solely from microbusiness from the Chilean regions of Maule, Biobio and Araucania. Support programs for small and medium sized timberland owners In Chile, CMPC supports the sustainable forest management certification of small and medium-sized timberland owners via the administration of a forest management group certified by Fiber production Wood is comprised of cellulose or pulp (which has a fibrous structure) and lignin, both are maFSC and PEFC. The company provides a technical team to consult member businesses as well terials that have been in high demand in recent years. as offers four support programs to small forestry businesses: CMPC’s goal is to source this material not only via a highly sustainable process, but also in the most efficient way possible to minimize loss and protect forests. CREATION AND CMPC provides support for forest management certifications to two groups of PROMOTION OF THE FOREST small and medium timberland owners. CERTIFICATION GROUP CMPC Celulosa worker, at the Nacimiento sawmill, in the Biobio region, Chile. The first consists of 13 owners of a total of 15,173 hectares of plantations, while the second one has 19 members with a total of 19,846 hectares of plantations. A team of experts from CMPC provide consulting services on the sustainable management of forest plantations to members of the program through technical support and training. In 2019, ten such sessions were delivered to 354 people, covering topics such as fire prevention, occupational health and safety, as well as environmental issues. TECHNICAL TALKS The company offers talks to suppliers on a regular basis to help them update their knowledge on issues such as fire control and prevention and genetic imFOR SUPPLIERS provements. It also organizes visits to nurseries and experience exchange on forest management methods, and facilitates discussions of current and future forestry and pulp market conditions. 48 49 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Wood fiber production performance 2.3 Argentina 2018 2019 2018 Brazil 2019 2018 Chile 2019 Ecosystem Growing stock increment (million m3) Total annual increase in the volume of stemwood in forest plantations 0.99 1.43 7.20 7.6 10.10 10.31 and biodiversity conservation Total trees planted (million) 1.68 1.68 17.20 19.22 31.0 34.44 Total number of commercial species trees planted Average fiber per tree at current 0.39 0.44 0.30 0.30 0.27 0.29 (103-1; 103-2; 103-3) age (m3/tree) Median volume per tree at the current average plantation age (11.1 years) Average fiber per tree at time of harvest (m3/tree) 0.84 0.94 0.40 0.40 0.81 0.65 Why is ecosystem and biodiversity conservation relevant? Median volume per tree at the time of harvesting • According to the United Nations (UN)5, forests are home to more than 80% of land Source: CMPC Celulosa species such as animals, birds, plants and insects. • CMPC follows a management and monitoring plan for the conservation and protection of its forest assets and biodiversity in its lands, the wellbeing and equilibrium of the biosphere, and as a result, environmental and social aspects necessary for human development. • For that reason, in 2019 the company set specific sustainability goals including the conservation, protection and/or restoration of natural habitats. Corporate goals To add 100 thousand hectares of land for conservation, protection and/or restoration by 2030 to CMPC’s already existing more than 320 thousand hectares of such land in Argentina, Brazil and Chile (as of 2018). With these activities, CMPC contributes to target inland freshwater ecosystems and their services, 15.1 of the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) in particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drythat postulates: “By 2020, ensure the conservation, lands, in line with obligations under international restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and agreements.” 2019 PROGRESS 2030 GOAL 4,466 ha 4.47% 100,000 ha This corporate goal complements the Commitments for Degraded Landscape Restoration made by Brazil and Chile in 2010. To date, 46,402 hectares have been restored accounting for 63% of the 2026 goal. 5 New York Declaration on Forests. Declaration and Action Agenda (UNDP). 50 51 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Conserve, protect and restore 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T (102-11, 304-1, 304-3, CMPC 1) CMPC has developed certain guidelines for the conservation of its HCVAs: According to the International Union for Conservation of Area for protection, conservation • Fire control as a priority Nature (IUCN), conservation is the care, management and and restoration (in ha) • No fire use within the HCVAs or in neighboring areas maintenance of ecosystems, habitats, species, and populations • No fishing, hunting, logging or any other illegal activity within HCVA boundaries of wildlife, in or outside their natural environment, in order to Country 2018 2019 safeguard natural conditions for their long-term survival. It also • Coordination with scientists and experts to monitor critical conservation indicators defines an area under protection as a piece of land or sea • Clearing the undergrowth around endemic species Argentina 18,861 18,865 dedicated to preserving biological diversity and the associated • Communication and outreach in local communities about HCVAs natural and cultural resources and formalized in a legal or Brazil 136,657 139,599 • Training the company’s workforce in the care of HCVAs other practical structure. Chile 166,010 167,531 • Outreach through flyers and pamphlets on biological HCVAs Total 321,529 325,995 • Fencing and signage on the ground On the other hand, as the Chilean National Forestry Corporation (CONAF) points out, ecological restoration is an activity that initiates or accelerates the recovery of an ecosystem, Source: CMPC Celulosa Note: In Brazil, restoration takes place in areas which have already been declared for improving its state of conservation, recovering degraded sites conservation and protection, called Legal Reserves (LR) and Permanent Protection Areas (PPA). In contrast, in Chile restoration activities result in adding new tracts of conservation and increasing the flow of ecosystem goods and services. or protection land, or could even take place within forest plantations. Number and surface area (in hectares) of HCVAs 2018 2019 HVCA Number Area Number Area High Conservation Value Areas (HCVAs) Biological 26 22,589 26 24,481.5 Service 364 3,661.8 378 3,621 There are three types: HCVAs are areas which possess Socio-cultural 28 211.2 28 215.3 Biological Total 418 26,462 432 28,317.8 unique characteristics of Areas protecting vulnerable flora Source: CMPC Celulosa and fauna. outstanding significance or critical importance to their Service Species protection natural surroundings (HCVRN, Natural areas providing basic services in 304-4 critical situations and fulfilling the needs 2005). Their conservation of local communities (for example, water catchment areas). CMPC land spans across an incredible variety of ecosystems with numerous is part of the commitments flora and fauna species, including some endangered ones. According to UN What does it mean for a species to be endangered? According to the IUCN Red List, a species is considered endangered (or mandated by sustainable Socio-cultural data6, about 30.7% of land surface area is covered by forests with 15% of those at risk of extinction) when all of its living members are at risk of disappearing. This could be due to direct predatory activity or the disappearance forest management Forests critical to the cultural identity of communities (areas of economic, relidesignated for protection, evidence of the high risk to which biodiversity is of a resource on which its life depends (as a result of human activity, habitat change, natural disasters or climate change). certifications. gious, social or cultural significance). exposed. In South America, of the 14,060 species of flora and fauna assessed, 4,445 are at risk of extinction, almost 32%. 6 United Nations Strategic Plan for Forests 2017-2030 https://www.un.org/esa/forests/documents/un-strategicplan-for-forests-2030/index.html 52 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 CMPC conserves and maintains unNumber of endangered species changed the habitat conditions for naby extinction risk category tive species in all of its forest asset and has identified 230 areas that are home Category Total to protected flora and fauna within the territory of its operations. Currently, Critically endangered 1 there is only one critically endangered species within the company’s land Endangered 183 holdings: the Saffron-cowled blackbird Vulnerable 37 (Xanthopsar flavus) in San Javier, Aguapey, Argentina. Near threatened 13 Least concern 14 Total 247 Source: CMPC Celulosa Saffron-cowled blackbird (Xanthopsar flavus) SOME PROTECTION INITIATIVES Protecting the South Andean deer: an endangered species CMPC monitors and protects the most endangered population of South Andean deer (Hippocamelus bisulcus), found in the Rucamanqui Park, located in the Nevados de Chillan-Antuco section of the Andes Mountains in the Biobio Region, Chile. In 2005, the company declared 4,600 hectare of forest under its ownership as an HCVA in order to protect this emblematic species at risk of extinction and as well as other species that call this area home. In this site, located in high-altitude zones of the Andean Mountains between the cities of Los Angeles and Chillan, threats such as domestic animals and livestock are controlled in order to create the necessary conditions for the South Andean deer population to flourish in its natural environment. Since 2014, CMPC monitors the specimens with 14 hidden cameras installed throughout the mountain range, measuring indicators such as their footprints and coat with the help of a conservation expert. In order to further improve the quality of this work, in 2019, the company built a dome to shelter the workers who come to the area to collect the audio-video recording. CMPC hopes to continue to contribute to the preservation of this species by safeguarding their habitat in Rucamanqui. 54 55 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Bird monitoring programuna 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T RAPA NUI This program started with the cataloguing of various species between 2007 and 2008 including the green-chinned SACRED TREE euphonia (Euphonia chalybea), included in the IUCN endangered species list, the violaceous euphonia (Euphonia A TREE violacea) – considered vulnerable, and the red-spectacled parrot (Amazona pretrei) – listed as endangered by the IUCN. This was done through constant observation of these birds, which made it possible to come up with an adjusted plan for partial harvesting in the affected forests between January and July when the birds are away from the area. Saving the ruil: a survivor COMING BACK What is the ruil? The ruil (Nothofagus alessandrii) is a tree only found in Chile, in the Coastal Range of the Maule Region. It could FROM EXTINCTION grow up to 30 meters in height and live up to 100 years. This endemic species is endangered and has been protected by the Chilean legislation since 1995 when its felling was first banned. It is designated as a biological relic, as well as a natural monument since 2017. What is the sacred tree of Rapa Nui? which grows various endangered naThe toromiro, or Sophora toromiro in tive trees such as the araucaria. There, Where is it found? Latin, is a very important tree in the CMPC was able to clone them with the It can be found in the Los Ruiles Reserve, which was founded in 1982 and is managed by the Chilean National Rapa Nui due to its use to carve symhelp of partner institutions such as the Forest Corporation (CONAF) specifically for the purpose of preserving this species. The protected area spans 100 bolic figures such as the moai kavakava. University of Concepcion, the Chilean km between Cauquenes and Curepto and is approximately 40 km wide. National Forest Corporation (CONAF), Why did this tree go extinct? Lincoln University and Murdoch UniverWhy is it endangered? Its overexploitation together with the insity. The company then planted some Because of fires, illegal logging, overexploitation and deforestation. While in 1981 there were 800 hectares of ruil troduction of new fauna by the colonizspecimens in the Lago Peñuelas Natrees, today its natural habitat has dwindled to less than half of that. ers in the XVIII century led to this tree's tional Reserve and on Rapa Nui or EasWhat is being done? extinction. The last toromiro to grow in the wild was found in the Rano Kau ter Island. Metrics: In 2013 CMPC, together with the Chilean Universidad Austral university, developed a restoration project to increase volcano and cut down in 1960, leading As a result, out of a total of 3,500 plants the protected land area covered by ruil trees. to it being declared extinct in its natural provided to the National Reserve, 170 habitat. However, thanks to the propahave survived, while CONAF has man• 52 seedlings Wildfires in 2017 were a turning point for the efforts to save this species. The reserve was then converted into a gation of seeds collected from this last aged to preserve 78 specimens on Easin November 2019 High Conservation Value Area (HVAC) with a protected area of 311 hectares. This means that it cannot be used standing specimen, it can still be found ter Island, 60 of which are located in the for productive activities and is only dedicated to the recovery and protection of native species, making it a priority in private collections, in the Viña del crater of the Rano Kau volcano and 18 for firefighting efforts. Mar botanical garden in the Valparaare still in the nursey. Today, CMPC and other land owners have designated areas which were previously used for growing pine trees for iso Region of Chile and other parts of • 88% survival rate of the world. What are the next steps? the protection of the ruil, managing to spread it to other third-party forest tracts as well. In 2020, these 18 trees which are still the 24 seedlings planted What is CMPC doing? in the nursery will be transported to an Taking care of protected areas requires clearing the undergrowth from around trees, isolating animals and eliminatIn 2006, the Valparaiso Region botanical acclamation plot where they could grow in the Carlos Douglas ing the regeneration of pine specimens. garden offered CMPC six toromiros to in their native habitat surrounded by nanursery in 2018 add them to its program for species restive species to protect them from solar toration at the Carlos Douglas nursery, radiation and winds. 56 57 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 2.4 Fire outbreaks and affected surface area Wildfires Country Outbreaks 2016 2017 Affected area (in ha) 2017 2018 Outbreaks Affected area (in ha) Outbreaks 2018 2019 Affected area (in ha) 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T Dedicating our best resources Argentina 28 26 46 17 20 3 to protection Brazil Chile 120 596 265 19,432 230 712 1,339 1,199 152 920 111 3,215 Total 744 19,723 988 2,555 1,092 3,329 Source: CMPC Celulosa Why are wildfires relevant? Note: The wildfire season spans June-May of the following year. • According to the definition by the Chilean National Forest Corporation (CONAF), a wildfire is an unplanned fire affecting forests and vegetation, regardless of whether it was started by a natural phenomenon or human activity, and its occurrence and spread What is preventive forest management? are not controlled or programmed. • Certain environmental conditions increase the probability of higher propagation speed Preventive forest management refers to the alteration, clearimity with urban zones, to progressively reduce the fuel load of wildfires, namely when the temperature is above 30 degrees Celsius, relative humidity ing or elimination of green or dry vegetation and plant waste and thus debilitate a potential fire. is below 30% and the wind speed is 30 km/hour or more. to avoid starting a fire or to slow down its spread and mitigate any damage should a fire start (CONAF 2006). Depending on the context, there are three lines of defense: a • In recent years, wildfires have become a common occurrence worldwide. In Chile, firebreak of mineral soil, reduced fuel zones that would contain most wildfires are caused by human activity, about 99.7%7, be it as the product of negCMPC has implemented standardized defense systems the fire’s spread and a ring of preventive forest management ligence or intentionally. mainly in interface areas where forestry operations are in prox(thinning and/or pruning). • CMPC has enhanced its fire prevention and control plans and programs in all three countries with forestry operations, Argentina, Brazil and Chile, in order to better safeguard persons and company owned and third-party forest assets. Preventive forest management measures • The company’s commitment to the protection of human life and the ecosystem transpires in its continuous initiatives to prevent, educate on, and combat wildfires, investwere taken in 5,000 hectares of land ing over USD 36 million over the course of the 2018-2019 season. where fires tend to occur and in interface areas across Chile. Although Chile is the country most affected by wildfires, all company forestry operations are prepared to handle such incidents according to international best practices. What is an interface fire? The company’s preparations for each season follow a A wildland/urban interface fire is a fire that starts or spreads in zones where human-made improvements three-pronged approach: preventive forest management intermix with wildland fuels. (CONAF 2005)8. (silviculture), prevention and control all three considered An interface fire could potentially affect man-made structures, while at the same time burning natural fuels. climate change adaptation measures. 7 Preventive forest management. Forest management for the prevention of wildfires in forested lands. CONAF. 8 Forest Fires Prevention Manual. CONAF. 58 59 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Our prevention efforts 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T To prevent wildfires, CMPC provides year-round training to its workers and community groups such as neighborhood associations, schools, municipalities, local authorities and fire departments, and assists them in forming neighborhood prevention committees. The first step in this process is to create a culture of presuch as fire behavior, combatting principles, and equipment vention among the people who live in the affected area by use and maintenance. The second seeks to familiarize them teaching them best practices and instructions to follow in the with fire control tools and techniques and how best to use case of an emergency. To that effect, a network for cooperathem to create firebreaks. In 2019, 4 fire fighter trainings took tion on prevention and coordination with local municipalities place, reaching a total of 80 people. called the Neighborhood Prevention Network (NPW) was established in Chile. In addition, the company organized 33 training sessions on fire control and prevention in Brazil instructing 687 workers. The NPW brings together 314 neighborhood committees to These covered wildfire control and prevention as well as first collaborate on the prevention of wildfires by managing the aid instructions. risks in their respective areas through the use of the measures laid out in their respective prevention plans. CMPC allocated almost USD 6.5 million annually to fire prevention efforts. In Chile, fire fighter trainings consist of two parts: theoretic and practical. The first part covers basic fire-related topics Combatting wildfires When fighting a wildfire, the protection of human life is most Additionally, the company has at its disposal 21 aircraft (inimportant. To that effect, our strategic plans focus on fires cluding a massive Chinook helicopter and a heavy-duty Super spreading to urban areas. CMPC allocated close to USD 29.9 Puma helicopter), two multipurpose vehicles and 73 firefightmillion to manage such occurrences. ing units to combat fires in the central and southern regions of Chile. In Brazil, the company made available three helicopters, First, it is important to detect the location of a fire outbreak as three convoy trucks, 20 pick-up trucks equipped with firefightquickly as possible. For that reason, in 2019 CMPC installed ing kits and nine trucks. There are also 74 people involved another 70 observation towers, manned and/or equipped in these activities, including nine truck drivers, 25 fire fighters with video surveillance cameras that can pinpoint the exact and 40 surveillance operatives. In Argentina, the company origin of a fire. As of this year, the company is also equipped provided access to one combat aircraft and 222 days of use with a software that can predict the hourly spread of wildfires of a tank truck in addition to the 1,160 workers involved in the in order to improve and strengthen its fire control strategy. program for wildfire control. CMPC fire fighters ? 60 61 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 2.5 HOW DOES CLIMATE CHANGE AFFECT US? Addressing As a result of climate change, certain CMPC activities could be negatively or positively affected at any stage such as the production processes, factory operations, supply chain stability and requirements from clients and consumers. That is why, the company focuses its efforts on the constant assessment of related risks and opportunities in order to incorpo02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T climate change rate effective controls and measures in its operations. Droughts, which are exacerbated by climate change, could limit the availability of water for the company’s industrial operations as well as affect the growth rate and yield of plantations. On the other hand, heat waves in addition to changes in wind patterns, could create favorable conditions for the spread of wildfires wreaking havoc in forest plantations and local communities. Furthermore, a change in climate conditions could favor the increase of tree pests and diseases posing a risk to CMPC forests. However, variations in weather patterns could increase precipitations in some regions resulting Why is climate change relevant? (103-1) (103-2) (103-3) in an increase of fiber availability. Finally, the substitution of plastic in response to environmental concerns, could also present an opportunity by increasing the demand for products derived from natural and renewable sources. • Among the consequences of climate change are more frequent extreme temperature occurrences, rising sea levels, faster melting polar ice caps, as well as an increased frequency of extreme weather events. • The areas where CMPC operates are not immune to these impacts and have been affected by worsenCLIMATE CHANGE IMPACT ing droughts due to precipitation scarcity, an increase in temperatures, extreme weather events and faster spread of wildfires. REPORTING AND TRANSPARENCY In order to assess the potential financial impacts and opportunities related to climate change and create a strategy to • That is why, in 2019 the company formulated its Climate Change Policy, declaring its commitment to climate address them, CMPC has been evaluating the recommendations by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Discloaction and setting a clear direction for its actions. sures (TCFD). • The real or potential impacts of climate change are addressed by the CMPC Sustainability Committee with each business area and unit executing specific measures. What is TCFD? Founded in 2015 by the Financial Stability Board and led by Michael Bloomberg, the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) has developed recommendations for the voluntary disclosure of quantitative and qualitative financial information related to issues of climate change, which would be consistent, comparable, trustworthy, clear and efficient in order to allow the market to price this risk and help make strategic decisions as one of the most significant risks that organizations face. CMPC CLIMATE CHANGE POLICY According to TCFD guidelines, there are two types of risks and opportunities related to climate change: transition and We acknowledge our responsibility for climate action in line with our mission, values, and corporate purpose. We physical: rely on scientific data which indicates that human activity has been accelerating global warming. We also underTransition risks: The transition towards a low carbon emissions economy could entail political, legal, technological and stand that deteriorating environmental conditions have an adverse effect on humanity. market changes to address the need for mitigation and adaptation to climate change. Depending on the nature, speed and focus of these changes, they could expose a company to different levels of financial and reputational risks. That is why we: • Strive towards a low-carbon economy based on renewable natural resources and a circular business model. Physical risks: Related to changes in weather patterns. These could have direct financial implications for companies • Follow applicable international climate change related conventions and principles, while complying with local such as physical damage to fixed assets or indirect ones such as disruptions in the supply chain. The financial perforlegislature and existing regulations on the subject matter in the countries where we operate. mance of companies could also be exposed to changes such as water quality and availability, food security and extreme • Work with our people, communities, providers, clients and other stakeholders on building awareness about temperature variations affecting the industrial facilities, operations, supply chain, transport and employee safety. These climate change and its impacts in order to inspire action and develop a shared response. could either be acute or chronic. • Promote the carbon capture and storage potential of our forest plantations and products. • Measure and report our greenhouse gas emissions on an annual basis, as well as publicly disclosing our climate performance. • Set quantitative science-based targets for the reduction of our carbon footprint. In 2019, the CMPC Risk Management, Finance and Sustainability departments took the first steps towards aligning Integrate climate issues into our corporate risk assessment, the design of effective adaptation measures and the and deepening these areas’ understanding of the TCFD recommendations. To that end, representatives from the three search for new business opportunities. departments agreed on a plan of action, whose first step was reviewing the progress in the development of a new risk management model for CMPC. 62 63 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 CMPC is focused on preventive measures for addressing these impacts and is working to Climate change mitigation: adapt its production processes and forest management practices. The following are the most 02 FI MO PR OE RS TT AANRTE AOSUSRE TM O S T forests are essential for important ones: capturing carbon • Measures to protect the company’s forest assets and facilities. • Scientific innovation to create trees that are more resilient to weather fluctuations. For example, the company has developed adaptive features in eucalyptus and pine species that make We call climate change mitigation a set of initiatives for reducing and/or elimithem better equipped to resist frost and/or lower temperatures, survive in drier soil, and even nating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or for increasing its elimination from the make their bark thick enough to be able to withstand fire. atmosphere (UNEP 2009). In order to reduce or eliminate GHG emissions and/or increase carbon capture, there are a number of mitigation measures that could These measures are implemented according to local climate, geographic conditions and spabe adopted. tial planning. The goal is to ensure that the natural resources on which CMPC depends for its production can continue to prosper over time despite changes in the local climate conditions. Forests, be it native or productive plantations, are an important resource for the capturing and storage of carbon from the atmosphere. Mitigation and adaptation efforts today are essential for CMPC maintains or increases the contribution of its forests to the capture of CO2. Species that grow slower could take up to climate change mitigation with sustainable forest management 400 years to reach their maximum capture potential (CONAF making our business resilient practices and restoration and reforestation for productive use 2018). For all of the above-mentioned reasons, rapid-growth or conservation purposes. Wood products themselves have forest plantations, such as CMPC’s, play an important role in for the next 100 years. the capacity to store significant amounts of carbon, in some compensating emissions from other sectors of the economy cases for a number of decades. by capturing CO2. Rapid-growth species, such as eucalyptus and Radiata pine, take between 12 and 60 years to reach maximum capacity for • CO2 capture from the atmosphere. At CMPC this is achieved through the forest IN plantations and the conservation and protection of native forests. SUMMARY • CO2 storage out of the atmosphere. At CMPC, this happens as carbon sequestered in its renewable products. Climate change adaptation: adjustment for the future The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) defines effects” (IPCC 2014). Thus, an adaptation strategy aims to limit climate change adaptation as “the process of adjustment to actuthe risks derived from a changing climate and increase resilience al or expected climate and its effects. In natural systems, human in the face of potential impacts. intervention may facilitate adjustment to expected climate and its 03 65 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR CON NECT Stakeholder engagement 66 67 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 3.1 SOFTYS OUR WATER COMMUNITIES CHALLENGE A CHALLENGE FOR LATIN AMERICA CMPC is committed to any place where it operates, which is part of its corporate purpose to coexist in the territories that we share as an opportunity for mutual development. ters, sports clubs, cultural centers, senior clubs, family centers, schools and other organizations. In all of these cases, the company strives to maintain close relationships with its neighbors for the purposes of peaceful coexistence and local 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR To this end, a local community is defined as the people, groups development. and their leaders, authorities and political, territorial and funcWhat is the Softys Water Challenge? Water Challenge seeks ways to improve tional representatives, as well as organizations, companies Operations located in woodlands maintain community enThe Water Challenge is an innovation access to this resource for communities and businesses, which interact or are interested in interacting gagement mainly through public and private organizacontest for entrepreneurs and startups that do not have it. stages: with the company and/or could potentially be impacted due to tions from the area. On the other hand, forestry operations to participate with water-related solutheir specific needs or dependence on the land where CMPC’s in proximity to residential areas, rely on a relationship with tions. The goal of its first edition (2019Where does it take place? 1 Launch: diverse operations take place, whether in the forestry, industritheir closest neighbors that allows them to keep communica2020) is to improve access to this reIn the eight Latin American countries January 13, 2020. al, or logistics sectors. tion flowing. source for communities that do not where Softys operates as 37 million have it. people in the region as a whole lack In areas with forestry operations, CMPC shares the space Finally, those operations that are very close to inhabited areas access to safe drinking water and it is applications For future editions, we expect to move estimated that 110 million do not have 2 with other companies, organizations and businesses, while or whose operations are very large and could have a bigger on to sanitation solutions. access to proper sanitation. In Chile, received: in industrial zones, depending on the location of its producimpact, engage with the local communities on a regular and January 13 tive facilities, it borders homes, neighborhood meeting cenconsistent basis over time. 47% of the rural population9 do not have to March 9, 2020. How did this initiative come about? access to drinking water, while in Peru Softys aims to provide the care that peo28% of people rely on water from rivers, 20 semifinalists ple need at every stage in their day-todrains or wells. In Brazil, 35 million peo3 Group walk for Raún Castro Márquez School, Araucania Region, Chile Tree Hall, Alessandri Park, Coronel, Biobio Region, Chile day lives. To that end, the company has ple are deprived of that right. announced: been developing innovative hygiene and March 19, 2020. cleaning solutions. However, these are What will the winners get? no use without access to water. That is The 20 semi-finalists will receive men10 finalists why, the initiative was launched in 2019 torship and networking with institutions 4 to help increase access to clean water. and key players in this sector and a total announced: of USD 45,000 will be split among the July 7 and 8, 2020. What is the challenge? winning teams. The winning startup will Despite the fact that having access to also have the opportunity to implement Bootcamp 60 liters of fresh water a day is a hutheir project. 5 man right, for 263 million people it takes and awards: August 3 and 4, 2020. more than 30 minutes to pick up waWhat are the stages of the challenge? ter (from public sources far from their This initiative is carried out in partnerImplementation homes). Data shows that due to climate change and the growing population, ship with the Amulen Foundation and the Center for Innovation of the Catho6 of the winning by 2025 half of the world’s population lic University of Chile and is divided into will live in areas with water scarcity. The six stages: project: September 2020 to March 2021. 9 The Chilean rural population totals 2,149,469 people, 12.2% of the country’s total population, according to the 2017 Census. 68 69 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PROCESS STEPS 3.2 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT ASSESSMENT between the two parties. 1 2 3 Collaborative process involving CMPC and the community tasked with identifying engagement opportunities to resolve controversies, contribute to development, and generate local growth, while maintaining fluid communication SOCIAL INVESTMENTS Identifying opportunities for collaboration, the critical points of interaction (or lack thereof) between the company, community and local and/or national authorities, facilitating our work to generate potential impacts that improve the overall wellbeing of communities. To that end, we organize participatory projects MONITORING AND EVALUATION Definition of metrics to measure the impact of the already implemented initiatives in the areas where CMPC operates. These inform future decisions for the CMPC social investment strategy according to the company objectives and corporate purpose. 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR AND COMMUNITY It is divided into two stages: collecting and activities in three thematic groups: information and assessing expectations education, business ventures, and through socio-demographic studies in outdoor life. the area in order to better understand the issues at hand and the main stakeENGAGEMENT holders. In addition, local needs and ongoing projects are identified. In addition to the three steps mentioned above, the company has also developed mechanisms for constant flow How are local development and community engagement achieved? (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) of communication: ● Community engagement initiatives are carried out based on a process of prioritization. ● Regular meetings with social organizations. ● This process assesses proximity, intensity of operations (potential or real impact) and popula● Keeping the community informed about forestry and industrial operations in the vicinity. tion density, as well as the defining qualities of each community in the territory they inhabit. ● Meetings with local public authorities. • The Empresas CMPC Corporate Affairs Department has management guidelines for community ● Programs and workshops held for the community at large. engagement to be applied in all countries where the company operates. ● Visits to plants to learn about the production process and address any doubts that the community might have. • The goal is to work on initiatives that encourage local development through socio-environmental ● Environmental talks, creating awareness on the topic. solutions in three steps: 1) assessment, 2) social investments, and 3) monitoring and evaluation. ● Updates on ongoing forestry operations. 70 1 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Step 1: ASSESSMENT (413-1) Each operation has its own community engagement plan based on local and sociodemographic differences, which are identified at this step of the process. COMMUNITIES WITHIN 10KM OF FORESTRY OPERATIONS in Chile 103 direct Urban and 195 thousand neighbors rural communities 1,450 community organizations MUNICIPALITIES Communities of indigenous peoples 380 mapuche communities 7 regions in Brazil Urban 20,000 communities direct neighbors in Guaiba 39 246 communities with a total Rural population of approximately communities 15,809 inhabitants municipalities 12 TRADITIONAL 37 communities with a total of COMMUNITIES 1,253 guaraní indigenous people and (indigenous and quilombolas ) quilombolas (Afro-Brazilian residents) municipalities In 2019, Softys completed an assessment of its comnication with the local authorities the status of ongoing munity relations in the countries where it operates. programs, continuity of plant visits and communication channels for neighbors. The information collected As a result of this process, relevant information was made it possible to create action plans for community gathered on the teams responsible for community enengagement in the future. gagement at each plant, active work groups, commu72 73 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 CMPC Pulp Brazil carried out an assessment and mapping of the stakeholders adjacent to the Guaiba mill in Porto Alegre and the forestry operations throughout the state. CMPC Foundation The assessment concluded that the operations of CMPC Brazil do not interfere with the daily lives of commuWorking hand in hand with the company, the CMPC Foundation is responsible nities located within 10km from forest plantations. Additionally, the study mapped out a total of 18 indigenous for the company’s community engagement efforts in Chile. It contributes to communities (Guaraní) and 19 quilombolas communities (descendent of slave communities from the past). Of education and provides cultural activities for students in various communities those, six traditional communities were prioritized in 2019 to establish an ongoing dialogue with them and proby training to local players and building long-term partnerships. vide adequate social investments for local development. 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR For more information on the CMPC Foundation, visit: http://www.fundacioncmpc.cl/ In 2020, activities benefiting the rest of the local communities will take place. 2 Programs marked NV were not included in the external verification of CMPC indicator 7. Step 2: SOCIAL INVESTMENTS (CMPC 7) EDUCATION At the social investments step, there are three focus areas for community Drinking water for the Having identified the supply of clean drinking water to the EMEF Baltazar Teixeira school as a critical issue engagement and local development efforts: Sao Gabriel municipal for the community, CMPC Brazil in cooperation with local institutions developed a permanent solution to school in Rio Grande provide access to drinking water to the community. do Sul NV In 2019, CMPC invested a total of USD 14,322,466 10 Approximately 100 people at the school, including students, workers and teachers benefit from this initiative. for the development of more than 55 11 programs and Partnership agreement between This strategic alliance between CMPC and the DUOC UC Professional Institute makes possible the construction of the first such educational institution in the province of Biobio and second in the region. CMPC and DUOC projects for community engagement. UC Professional Institute The professional institute campus will be in the municipality of Nacimiento, conveniently located in proximity to students from neighboring communities. It will offers courses in conjunction with the Santa Fe and Laja mills, continuing education and will have an Entrepreneurship Center to promote the professional development of young people and adults. Its classroom seating capacity will be over 700 students. Below are the 36 most significant programs and projects related to: The building is expected to have a total usable area of 2,500 m2 and will enroll its first cohort of 200 students in 2022. Support for the Paraty The purpose of this initiative is to use literature as a tool for livening up public spaces. The Paraty Book Fair Book Fair is the most important literary festival in Brazil and has already seen seventeen editions. 26,400 visitors participated in the 2019 edition. FibraLab NV Inaugurated in 2019, FibraLab (Fiber Lab) is a space in the CMPC office building in Los Angeles, Chile, open to visitors to walk around, play and learn about the forestry world, science, technology and nature. Education Business ventures Outdoor life The facility boasts an interactive room, a trail of Quillay (soapbark) trees, amphitheater, labs, greenhouses and a free-access park. Support educational initiatives for the Bring about local development by enPromote the creation of outdoor spaces community, run directly by CMPC and in couraging business ventures among designed for people to enjoy time outFor more information on the initiative, you can visit: www.fibralab.cl some cases in collaboration with other community members, which directly side and improve their quality of life. organizations, always with the benefit to benefit neighboring communities. the community in mind. 10 This number corresponds to social investments in communities by CMPC Celulosa in Chile and Brazil, as well as CMPC Foundation spend on social development programs. 11 Contains 16 projects by Celulosa Chile and 29 by CMPC Brazil that were externally verified. 74 75 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Formando Chile and A program developed between CMPC and Formando Chile (Educating Chile). It is a free-of-charge CMPC Puente Alto university preparatory course for students and young people from the Puente Alto municipality, NV Santiago, Chile. Classes take place at the CMPC Puente Alto plant, in a specially designated space for students. Thanks to this project, students were able to make up for any lost school material and get ready for the university entrance exam, scoring above their peers from the community. Due to its success, 128 students have already signed up for 2020. 50 people benefited in 2019. 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR Partnership with This initiative seeks to build abilities and capacities in students from technical professional schools. technical professional high schools 73 students benefited. Scholarships Financial aid to cover the costs of high school and higher education for the children of neighbors to the company’s industrial and forestry operations. 256 students benefited. Employability A program promoting vocational training related to the company’s most critical operations oriented towards training program neighbors of the company’s industrial and forest assets. Nacimiento Professional School certification, Biobio Region, Chile 2,478 people received training. Music schools, A program dedicated to spreading local, regional and national Chilean folklore. It focuses on building social bringing communities skills and using music as a tool to motivate learning. closer to their culture 1,000 children benefited. Factory for A social inclusion project in association with the Renato Borghetti Institute targeting children between 7 and accordion players 15 years of age. It teaches student-apprentices how to play the melodeon or diatonic button accordion. Something that differentiates this project is that to help them learn, students are allowed to take the instruments home. The accordions are made from certified eucalyptus wood originating in renewable plantations. 530 benefited. Biobio and A literary contest, organized by CMPC in collaboration with the Plagio Foundation (Plagiarism Araucania regions Foundation), for writings on the life in the region. The region of Biobio, Chile, already celebrated the in 100 words NV eighth edition of this contest promoting reading and writing. Since its inception, it has inspired the writing of more than 55,000 original stories. In addition, the first edition of the “Araucania in 100 words” competition took place in the city of Temuco. It received more than six thousand submissions of short stories from people of all ages, written both in Spanish and Mapudungun (the language of the mapuche people). Environmental Designed to teach values and attitudes related to the preservation of forests and the environment to education workshops kindergarten and/or elementary school children, teachers, principals and their parents or legal guardians. 5,000 children benefited. Forests are life Supports improvements of school yards combined with environmental education through the inclusion of all members of the school community in a learning space that is environmentally friendly. 9 schools and 1,334 students benefited. 77 Creating and growing With this program, the CMPC Foundation aims to aid the development of linguistic and socio-emotional NV abilities in children ages 0-6 from public nurseries and kindergartens by encouraging the use of effective early stimulation through play at home with the family and at educational centers. 1,172 children benefited in 24 educational establishments across 5 municipalities. Accompanying The CMPC Foundation promotes language and math learning for children in pre-kinder to 4th grade in schools neighboring communities to CMPC operations. It helps provide the right tools and experience to the most program NV important vectors in child learning: teachers, educators, parents or legal guardians, principals and financial backers. 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR In 2019, it benefited from an external review process by the Impulso Docente Foundation (Foundation for the Support of Teachers) and also adopted MentorPro, a web and mobile platform that connects teachers with mentors to help them in their professional development by having videos of their classes observed and receiving feedback as well as having access to other instructional video materials. The three schools that participate in this program, El Saber, Toqui Lautaro and Dollinco, received recognition by the Agency for Quality Education (Agencia de Calidad de la Educación) for their exceptional performance in the period 2005-2019. 5,407 children in 34 schools and 9 municipalities benefited. BUSINESS VENTURES Berry gardens This initiative aims to create and maintain community gardens in the municipalities of Collipulli, Victoria and Tirúa in the Araucania region of Chile. The project provides support in the form of technical, legal and commercial advice to the entrepreneurs in order to reinforce their ability to form partnerships, formalize their business ventures and find distribution channels for their products. 100 small business ventures benefitted. Collipulli market A program to collaborate in the construction from wood the structure for the future farmers market of the Collipulli municipality. 100 stands benefitted. Santa Veronica Support for the creation and organization of organic gardens in the Santa Veronica neighborhood of the neighborhood Santa Margarida do Sul municipality in Brazil to supply an agricultural business venture which is currently getting started. 21 business ventures benefitted. CMPC fund Contributes to improving the quality of life of the neighbors closest to the company’s industrial and forestry operations by offering financial support for projects that directly benefit neighbors and the community as a whole. 361 organizations benefitted. Embrapa farmers This program consisted in training community leaders on how to improve the management of rural land. day NV The training was led by the Temperate Agriculture division of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation (Embrapa Clima Temperado) and focused on technical knowledge related to agrobiodiversity, biological control, production systems, environmental services and value added to encourage revenue generation practices that can be employed by small family farmers. 1,112 community leaders benefitted. 78 79 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 OUTDOOR LIFE Partnership with Partnership between CMPC and the Catholic University of Chile Sports Club to promote initiatives for sports clubs NV sports and outdoor activities. Workshops could be in tennis, athletics, volleyball, hockey, and basketball, among others. Organizing a workshop is coordinated with local municipalities based on the interests of its residents. In 2019, two cycles of basketball training were organized for amateur players from Laja, Nacimiento 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR and Collipulli. As part of the agreement, CMPC also committed to the reforestation of the Catholic University’s San Carlos de Apoquindo sports center in Santiago, Chile. WimBelemDon CMPC Brazil sponsors the WimBelemDon Program, which uses tennis and other educational social activities to promote inclusion and achieve holistic development for high risk children and teenagers from vulnerable social backgrounds. 75 students benefitted. Guaiba eco run A free running competition open to the community offering distances of 5, 10 and 15 km, developed by CMPC Frontera Trail 2019, city of Temuco, Araucania Region, Chile Sports Clinics, partnership between CMPC and Universidad Catolica Sports Club CMPC in collaboration with the Ministry of Citizenship of Brazil. 2,000 participants. Construction of There will be 2 holiday centers near the Guaiba mill, which are awaiting authorization from authorities. holiday centers NV The first one, Alvorada, is a 4,760m2 site which will be completely renovated and equipped with a pier, playground, sitting area, new lighting, boardwalk, pet area, and an access ramp for boat maintenance. This project was designed collaboratively the community. The second is Alegria encompassing 12,900m2 with a new pier, lighting, boardwalk, sports fields, board games and recreation spaces open to the community, which actively participated in elaborating the project. Caravana cultural fair Promotes gaucho traditions in CMPC adjacent communities in the municipalities of Guaiba, Pinheiro Machado, Butua, Piratini, Encruzihada do Sul and Rio Grande. The fair invites producers to participate with local cuisine, arts and crafts and by doing so creates 25 direct and indirect jobs. It also offers diverse l programming, including art, culture and environmental education to better utilize public spaces for the benefit of the community. 53 activities took place and 13,500 people benefitted. Projati The Projari Orchestra offers classes to orchestras, choirs and educational and cultural groups. It works with orquestra a variety of artistic expressions in a multidisciplinary form. It also organizes a series of socio-educational, cultural and sports activities. 150 children from the Guaiba municipality participate. Rebuilding In January, CMPC together with Desafio Levantemos Chile (A Challenge to Rebuild Chile) committed homes to the reconstruction of 24 high quality homes, with thermal insulation and fully equipped. This came in response to the damage caused by three concurrent wildfires that affected the municipalities of Carahue, Nueva Imperial and Chol Chol in the La Araucania Region, Chile. The finished homes were handed over in in May, 2019. 24 families benefitted. 02 80 81 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Virada Sustentável This is the largest sustainability fair in Latin America and one of the largest in the world. Thousands of civil society organizations, public authorities and companies, including CMPC, participate in it. HIPPY Its agenda is based on the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) which focus on issues such as reducing social inequality, responsible consumption, health and wellbeing, and climate change. PROGRAM, CHILE In 2019, there were more than 1.5 million visitors and more than 1,600 activities took place. Community This program focuses on child growth and development. It engages in a variety of activities benefitting Since its launch in May, 2018, HIPPY which stands for Home Inapproach by children such as the shelter house project, solidary children’s day, elementary and middle school workshops struction for Parents of Preschool Youngsters, has been providing 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR Softys Argentina NV and donations of institutional products such as diapers to the Regional and Garrahan Hospitals. training to community tutors (parents or legal guardians of chil6,000 people benefitted. dren ages 3 and 4) to conduct home visits with other caregivers in the community, so that they can in turn help their own children develop language, motor and spatial exploration skills through acCMPC 100 year As one of the activities initiating the celebration of the company’s first century in existence, the CMPC cup NV 100 Year Basketball Cup was organized. The championship consisted of two games. The first one took tivities in the form of play. place in the municipal gym of Puente Alto in Santiago, Chile, the municipality where CMPC built its first plant in 1920, and the second one on the Palestinian Stadium, also in Santiago. The program started with 37 families and in 2019 that number increased to 387 families participating in its various stages with a The Catholic University of Chile Sports Club was crowned champion after winning against Puente Alto Basket. 30-week curriculum per the year and six activities per week. CMPC supports Puente Alto Basket in the lower age range divisions, as well as the adults’ team, which competes in the Chilean National Basketball League. Alessandri Park The Alessandri Park in Coronel, the Biobio Region of Chile, offers a variety of cultural, recreational and Hippy’s 2019 progress highlights in numbers: environmental activities such as the Summer Saturdays of Culture, native forest walks and professional (Santiago, San Joaquín, Cañete, Angol, internships for young people with disabilities. It is comprised of 11 hectares of free educational spaces 8 municipalities in Chile Collipulli, Victoria, Lumaco, Traiguen) 6,656 home visits open to the public year round such as the Artequin Museum, Tree Hall, trails and an educational nursery. In 2020 will be inaugurated another partk with the same name in the municipality of Nacimiento in the same Chilean region. 2,495 books with short stories delivered 387 sets of HIPPY materials distributed In 2019, the park received 140,027 visitors. training: 25 community tutors trained 120 hours of training on average workshops for parents on first aid, storytelling, 95% tutor attendance 47 self-esteem, setting rules and limits. In 2019, the program entered into an evaluation stage. It is expected to take two years and measures participation rates, loyalty and relevance of its activities. The assessment is conducted by the Center for Early Childhood Education (CEPI) through interviews, focus groups, follow-ups of main activities and parent questionnaires of a representative sample. Additionally, the PICCOLO scale is used to observe the relationship between the caregiver and the child at home. The evaluation covered activities with 222 children and their families. Characteristics of the participating families: • 46 ethnic mapuche families • 55 immigrant families 82 83 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 3.3 COMMITMENT TO INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR Why are indigenous peoples relevant for CMPC? • In the day-to-day, CMPC coexists with more than 417 traditional communities, including both indigenous and quilombola peoples, living in proximity to its zones of influence . • In Chile, according to the 2017 census published by the National Statistics Institute (INE), 12.8% of the population self-identifies as belonging to an indigenous or native ethnic group, predominantly mapuche representing 9.9% of the country’s total population. • In Brazil, indigenous people did not represent more than 0.47% of the population estimated for 2016 according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE12), the largest group being guarani. • The company’s Social Plan includes a Policy for Engagement with Indigenous Communities, 3 Training community tutors for the HIPPY program, CMPC Foundation. whose objective is to express our absolute respect for the ethnic belonging, traditions and development choices of various cultures. This consideration for indigenous people comes from the Public Affairs departments of the company’s subsidiaries in their efforts to resolve local issues and Step 3: address historic injustice with respect, trust and communication. MONITORING AND EVALUATION CMPC condemns any violence even if it is used to advocate for legitimate claims by these communities and considers that such actions do not represent the overwhelming majority of the community, neither in sentiment, nor in behavior. At this step, CMPC undertakes an evaluation of its contribuThe results showed a positive perception of the company by tions in the areas where it operates. To that end, it conducts a stakeholders. In Chile, the company ranked among the top biannual study of the perception that community stakeholders companies according to the people surveyed. Efforts are primarily oriented towards identifying have of the company in order to provide feedback on the social investment strategy in relation to the company purpose. • 35% of interviewees gave Forestal Mininco a positive or very In Chile, CMPC works with development opportunities that respect the cultural identity and customs of this indigenous group. This study was carried out by the Feedback consulting firm for positive evaluation. • 67% of local interviewees evaluated the Puente Alto subsidmapuche communities by In 2019, the company together with the commuthese business units: • Puente Alto in Chile, while is an agglomeration of Biopackaiaries in a positive or very positive way. • CMPC Brazil scored as one of the largest companies in the organizing roundtables with nity developed a document called Propuesta Mapuche which maps out important issues for ging and Softys plants. • Forestal Mininco in the south of Chile. area being the second most commonly recognized name by those surveyed. It was also one of the best evaluated compalocal and national authorities the communities, such as production development, culture, land, water and infrastructure. • CMPC Brazil. nies in the Rio Grande do Sul state. and mapuche leaders. 12 The IBGE census from 2010 was the last one that took place in Brazil. The next census is scheduled for 2020. 84 85 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Some of the social investments are: Roots – Intercultural Program, getting to know the mapuche people Project Name Description Number of people or groups benefitted In July, a cultural exchange workshop was held in Los Angeles, Chile. Five hundred people attended the event, hosted by the mapuche journalist and writer, Pedro Cayuqueo at the CMPC office building in Los Angeles and Project Name This project entails the creation of two spaces where local entrepreneurs from 35 entrepreneurs and hundreds more joined online via streaming. The same event was organized again at the company’s headquarters Promoting local fibers the communities adjacent to our forestry operations can offer their products. 2 groups benefitted in Santiago where 200 people participated in-person and about a hundred joined remotely. The first of these spaces is located in the center of the city of Temuco and also The workshop consisted of learning about the real history of the mapuche people, their traditions, and culture and 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR has a coffee shop and co-working space open to the public, while the second one is part of the Alessandri Park in the municipality of Coronel. helped answer various questions from the audience from a historical and journalist point of view. River route on Rio An initiative to promote and develop tourism on the Río Imperial river in the 20 entrepreneurs This talk was one of the activities in the Roots intercultural program. The program also employs, among its many Imperial Araucania region, Chile, by improving skills and abilities, local infrastructure benefitted initiatives, a traditional mapuche medicinal woman (machi) to treat company employees. and facilities in order to make tourism a strategic pillar for the economic development of the municipality. Kuyulche The project encourages business ventures for the production of vegetable 65 entrepreneurs vegetable charcoal charcoal for the indigenous communities neighboring forest plantations in benefitted Lumaco, Chile. In Brazil, the number of indigenous peoples in the area of the The assessment concluded that CMPC operations do not incompany’s forest assets is low, as the majority of such peoterfere with the way of life or the culture of these traditional Ñocha Malen A program supporting a cooperative of ñocha basket weavers to improve their 75 artisans benefitted ples are found in the Amazon basin. In 2019, CMPC Brazil communities. Nevertheless, in 2020, the company is planning (Ñocha Woman) products and services, increase orders, meet with clients, and consolidate their conducted a thorough assessment to identify any native peoto open up a dialogue and start making social investments for organizational and partnership structure. ples living close to the company operations and developed a the development of these communities. plan for community engagement and building relationships. Source: CMPC Celulosa The peoples identified were guaraní and quilombolas. Monkul river route Number of traditional communities in Brazil A quilombola is an Afro-Brazilian resident of quilombo settlements first established by escaped slaves. TheCommunities 2019 se communities are located in vulnerable rural areas and the majority live from cultivating land that was Guarani people 18 donated, bought or occupied a long time ago. Quilombolas 19 These social groups share common ancestry, social and political organization, and linguistic, religious or Source: CMPC Brazil cultural elements, which distinguish them from the rest of society. That is why the company includes them in its programs for engagement with traditional communities. 86 87 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Donations and social contributions The company contributes to a number of institutions for the support of science, culture, social and economic development and education, whether in the form of membership, as a sponsor or benefactor or others. It does not support financially political campaigns, political parties, candidates, public authorities or lobbyist organizations. In 2019, its donations totaled USD 12,753,445, divided in: 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR Type Contribution amount (USD) a) Cash donations 12,613,810 Source: Various CMPC business areas Note 1: Donations for all items contemplate Chile and b) Time donations 4,816 Brazil. Note 2: Time donations were calculated based on two of c) Product donations 134,819 the four corporate volunteer activities. a) Cash donations: Donations by category (in USD) Interactive workshop, Laja Park, Biobio Region, Chile 2017 2018 2019 3.4 Lobby Political campaigns, organizations, candidates 0 0 0 0 0 0 CORPORATE To industry associations, memberships or other 10,492,087 10,281,934 12,613,810 tax exempt groups and think tanks Source: CMPC Chile and Brazil Public Affairs Note: Years 2017 and 2018 incorporate information only from Chile. CITIZENSHIP In addition to local communities, CMPC interacts with The three largest contributions made to industry associations and public policy advocates were: The three largest contributions to social initiatives were: • Imagine Foundation (Desafio Levantemos Chile): organizations and companies, with which it cooperates • Chilean Association of All Trades (Sociedad Fomento Fabril or SOFOFA): USD 570,836 USD 886,358 • My Park Foundation (Fundación Mi Parque): to promote innovation and research and development. It • Chilean Center of Public Studies (Centro de Estudios Públicos or CEP): USD 149,108 USD 335,554 • Plagio Foundation (Fundación Plagio): USD 147,726 contributes to society through partnerships, memberships, • Chilean Institute for Rational Business Administration (ICARE): USD 95.224 These represent 10.7% of total cash donations. sponsorship, donations and corporate volunteer work. These represent 6.5% of total cash donations. 88 89 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 b) Time donations Partner organizations and institutions (102-12, 102-13) There were four corporate volunteer programs in 2019 in col• Acción Empresas • Colegio de Ingenieros Forestales A.G. (Chilean Forest Engilaboration with Chilean organizations dedicated to the social • Americas Society neers Trade Association) development of different target groups. • ASIANOR (Association of the Industrial Manufacturers in the • Concepcion Chamber of Production and Commerce North of Chile) • Construcción Santa Olga (Santa Olga Construction) Maria ayuda Cottolengo Reforestación Escuela Villa Coigue • Asociación Canalistas del Canal San Miguel (Association of • Corporación Chilena de la Madera (Chilean Wood Corporation) (South of Chile) (Santiago de Chile) (Santiago de Chile) (Sur de Chile) the San Miguel Canal) • Corporación de Desarrollo Tecnológico de Bienes de Capital 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR • Asociación Canalistas del Maipo (Association of the Maipo Canal) (Capital Goods Technological Development Corporation) Volunteer days 3 6 2 1 • Asociación Consumidores de Energía A.G. (Association of En• Corporación Educacional Colegio San Jorge (San Jorge Number of participants in 13 10 5 7 ergy Consumers) School Education Corporation) each activity • Asociación de Canalistas Canal Biobio Sur (Association of the • Corporación Educacional San Juan (Nacimiento) (San Juan EdEstimated time 1 4 4 8 Biobio South Canal) ucation Corporation of Nacimiento) (in hours) • Asociación de Industriales del Centro Asicent Maule (Association • Corporación para el desarrollo productivo de La Araucania (CorEstimated time cost (in USD) N/A 535 N/A 4,281 of Industrial Manufacturers from the Maule Asicent Center) poration for the Economic Development of the Araucania Region) Source: Public Affairs • Asociación de Industriales Gráficos A.G. ASIMPRES (Graphic • Corporate Leaders Group Chile (CLG Chile) Note 1: N/A: No information available. Participants did not register with personally identifying information for this event, so it was not possible to calculate the average monetary value of each person’s hour. Industries Associaton) • Council of the Americas Note 2: The estimated time cost in USD is based on an average hourly rate for the participants based on their salaries. • Asociación de la Industria del Salmón A.G. (Association of the • Diálogo Forestal Chileno (Forests Dialogue Chile) Chilean Salmon Industry) • Donations to the Community (Earthquake) • Asociación Gremial de Industriales de Malleco y Cautín • Feria Computación y Servicios (Computers and Services Fair) c) Product donations ASIMCA (Trade Association of the Industrial Manufacturers of • FSC Chile Malleco and Cautin) • FSC International Throughout the year the company donated some products Donations of timber for research and development: In • Asociación Gremial de Industrias Proveedoras (Trade Asso• Global Compact through the following organizations: 2019, the company supported the following research projects ciation of Suppliers) • Great Place to Work by supplying them with wood samples: • Asociación Gremial pequeños y medianos generadores (Trade • ICARE Chilean Institute for Rational Administration of Industries Diapers donations through the Food Network (Red de Alimentos) and Cottolengo: This initiative has been running • Pine and eucalyptus Nitens KD and green lumber wood to Association for Small and Medium Energy Generators) • Instituto de Ingenieros de Chile (Chilean Engineers Institute) since 2018 when it was first made possible due to changes the University of Biobio. • Asociación Nacional de Avisadores (National Advertisers As• RADE Regional Administration Institute in Chilean regulations. It donates to hospitals and founda• Thermo-treated lumber for cladding to the Project Fourth sociation of Chile) • Junta de Adelanto de Maule (Maule Advancement Board) tions for infants and senior citizens the diapers produced by Skin (Proyecto Cuarta Piel) by CORFO. • Asociación Técnica de Celulosa y Papel (Pulp and Paper Tech• La Unión Members Club the company that did not meet all quality assurance criteria • Lumber and TMT lumber for a prototype of Cross Laminated nical Association) • Maipo Business Owners Association and cannot be sold on the market but are nonetheless comTimber (CLT) of the Polo Madera Program by the University of • British-Chilean Chamber of Commerce • MIT Industrial Liaison Program pletely usable. Concepcion. • Structural lumber and plywood to the Catholic University of • Center for Public Studies (Centro de Estudios Públicos CEP) • MT Consulting Services The total value of diapers donated in 2019 was estimated at: Chile for a prototype of the Rancagua Ayelen School architec• Center of Studies for Latin America CIEPLAN • New Generation Plantations Platform (NGP) USD 99,519. tural design. • Centro Nacional de Empaques y Embalajes (National Center for • RISI • Lumber as construction material to the Solar Construction Containers and Packaging) • Santiago Chamber of Commerce Donations related to the social unrest in Chile, OctoProject (Proyecto Construye Solar) of the University of Santiago. • CERTFOR (Chilean Sustainable Forest Management Certi• Santiago Stock Exchange ber 2019: Due to a shortage on the market of hygiene and • Lumber as a construction material for the Solar Construcfication System) • Sedex Information Exchange Ltd. personal care products during the situation of social unrest tion Project (Proyecto Construye Solar) of the Maule Catholic in the country over the fourth quarter, CMPC donated Softys University. • Chile Pacific Foundation • Sociedad Fomento Fabril SOFOFA (Chilean Association of products to the municipalities of Puente Alto and Talagante • Chilean-Argentine Chamber of Commerce All Trades) and the Ladies of the Chilean Army Foundation (Fundcaión The value of these donations totaled USD 21,384. • Chilean-Brazilian Chamber of Commerce • Sustinendo Oy Damas del Ejército de Chile). These included diapers, tissues, • Chilean-Chinese Chamber of Commerce • Unión Social de Empresarios Cristianos (Social Union of Christoilet paper, wet wipes and others. In addition, in 2019, 163,448 living native plants were donat• Chilean-Mexican Chamber of Commerce tian Business Owners) ed to the Let’s Reforest Foundation (Fundacion Reforestemos) • Chilean-North American Chamber of Commerce • University of Concepcion The total value of the donation was: USD 13,916. and the Chilean National Forest Corporation (CONAF) for restoration projects. • Chilegenómico (Chilean Genomics Project) • World Business Council For Sustainable Development WBCSD • Club de Innovación (Innovation Club) • World Pulp MarketAcción Empresas 90 91 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 3.5 LOCAL SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR How do we contribute to the development of • Organizes local trade fairs as a way to bring local suppliers? together micro-business owners from the area; CMPC’s commitment to the places where it op• Increases sourcing from local small and medierates can be seen in its efforts to promote the um-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Chilean industrial local economy and development. To that end, centers, encouraging them to improve their techthe company: nical competencies; • Promotes the establishment and growth of • Launched an online portal for suppliers in local businesses that can provide services to it; 2019 to improve communication along the supply chain. The portal is expected to be up and • Offers talks, training sessions and mentorship running in all of its countries of operation by programs; the end of 2020. Due to the nature of its business, CMPC relies on two types of suppliers: (204-1) • Local suppliers, which represent 96.6% of all suppliers and • Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), which repare defined as the companies based in the same region as the resent about 26.9% of all suppliers and are defined according to the CMPC plant or factory that depends on their products or services norms of the respective country of operation. for the continuity of its operation. Number of suppliers and spend by category Category 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total suppliers 29,415 30,494 31,428 25,339 Local suppliers 28,082 29,211 30,049 24,466 MSMEs 6,815 Total supplier spend (Million USD) 4,096 4,213 4,667 4,629 Source: Corporate Administration Department Note 1: In Chile, there are 8,156 natural persons Local supplier spend (Million USD) 3,497 3,628 3,970 4,837 who provide recycled paper collection services as suppliers to Fibras and on average receive an MSME supplier spend (Million USD) ---873 annual pay of USD 2,988 per person. A CMPC Celulosa worker at the Nacimiento Sawmill of the Biobio Region, Chile. 92 93 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 PROPYME Individual recycled paper and cardboard collectors: allies to our business (PRO SME) SEAL CMPC works with micro suppliers or natural persons whose daily work local contributes to the collection of papers and cardboard for recycling, an essential raw material for many of the company’s operations. In this way, they play an important role in promoting a circular economy model. In Chile, the ProPyme Seal13 is a recognition given to companies that are committed to paying off their small and medium-sized suppliers (SMEs) In Chile, a law called “REP” was introduced to encourage initiatives that provide training and certification to within 30 days receiving their invoice. 03 SE NT AGKA EGHE OMLEDNETR these people as “invididual paper and cardboard collectors” – an important step towards bringing their efforts into the sphere of the formal economy. In 2019, CMPC was able to obtain this seal for The company maintains a close relationship with them. For that reason, it has been organizing the CMPC Recycling Gala for the past two years whose main goal is to provide recognition to paper and cardboard collectors for its Chilean subsidiaries and is now working on their efforts, reliability and contribution towards a culture of recycling which could help to address environmental challenges. implementing the same practices and standards In 2019, six collectors received special recognition, some of which have been working with CMPC for more than in the other countries where it operates. 30 years. Currently, the company works with: This demonstrates the company’s commitment to helping • 600 recycled paper and cardboard collectors in Santiago, Chile. MSMEs succeed and prosper and anticipates Chilean law No. In January 2019, a new law No.21131 was passed in • 1,400 in other regions of Chile. 21131 which establishes specific payment deadlines for priChile, limiting the payment period to suppliers to Net 30 • Recycling 14,100 metric tons in 2019. vate companies and is expected to enter into effect in 2020. (30 calendar days). After two years from the publication of this law, this term will become obligatory, while for the first 24 months, the payment period will be set at a maximum of 60 calendar days in order to help companies’ transition into the terms of this regulation. Average CMPC payment days to suppliers by category 34 AVERAGE PAYMENT DAYS 25 AVERAGE PAYMENT DAYS TO MSMES Note 1: Average payment days according to accounts payable data for 2019. Note 2: In the case of Chile, SMEs are defined as having annual revenue between CLF 2,400 and CLF 100,000. 13 For more information on the seal, visit: https://www.sellopropyme.cl/ 04 95 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY OPE RA TE Operating responsibly 96 97 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.1 OUR Note: Data in this chapter (both on collaborators and the environment) does not include the Softys subsidiaries Serrrados e Pasta e Celulose Ltda. (SEPAC) and Papelera Panamericana S.A. as they were both acquired towards the end of 2019. PEOPLE (102-8) 1% persons 15.4% PROMOTED 172 WOMEN 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY with disability WOMEN CMPC IN A PICTURE 0.06% X 26.4% 17.6% generation x SILENT GENERATION BABYBOOMERS In 2019, the company employees numbered 17,581. As of December, that number reached 17,859, up 1.7% from the same period last year. 52.9% MILLENNIALS (GENERATION Y) 3% GENERATION Z Z 22% more than 12 years at the company 1,526 2,387 9,635 518 32% 26,792 LESS THAN 3 YEARS CONTRACTORS AND AT CMPC SUBCONTRACTORS 262 1,435 1,737 14 345 Source: Corporate Human Resources Department Note: US employees refer to the sales office that the company has in that country. 98 99 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Diversity and inclusion in the workplace (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) INCREASING Why are diversity and inclusion relevant? FEMALE PARTICIPATION (102-8, 405-1) • The CMPC vision for diversity is multidimensional, recognizing that the highest performing teams 15.4% draw on the best talent available, regardless of any differences. • In 2019, with the creation of the Corporate Human Resources Department, the Diversity and Inclu14.3% sion team also took shape. It conducted a study to help develop its strategy and set measurable goals 13.6% 13.7% 13.4% for 2030. 13.3% • In December, the new CMPC Diversity and Inclusion Policy was published to promote respect and equal opportunities and end arbitrary discrimination at the company as well as to ensure continuous 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY growth centered around people. Source: Corporate 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Human Resources Department. • Additionally, there were a number of activities that took place over the course of the year to raise 2,328 2,316 2,473 2,750 awareness, train and orient employees on the issues of diversity and inclusion. This was accomplished through unconscious bias workshops. In recent years, CMPC has been focusing its efforts on increasing diversity by including more women at various positions in its operations. In 2019, the number of women at the company reached 15.4%, a 1.1% increase from the previous year. • Since 2017, CMPC has been a member of the Gender Parity Initiative (IPG)14 in Chile, whose goal is to reinforce the commitment to closing the gender gap, increasing women’s participation in the workforce and promoting their career advancement. • In 2019, in recognition of their excellent work 54 women were promoted to management positions with 57% of them in Chile. • Additionally, 118 women were promoted to various positions, a clear manifestation of CMPC’s intention to foster professional development and encourage career growth for its women. • Currently, there are 2,750 women employees at CMPC: 8% managers, 55% professional and technical staff members, and 37% operators. To find out more about gender diversity by country and business division at CMPC, refer to the appendices of this Integrated Report. Workers from the CMPC Biopackaging inclusion program at the Buin Corrugated plant in the Metropolitan Region of Chile. 14 For more information on the Chilean Gender Parity Initiative, visit: https://iniciativaparidadgenero.cl/ 100 101 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Inclusion of persons with disabilities PAY GAP (405-2) • Since the introduction of the Chilean Inclusion Law, the company has conducted a thorough study of positions, competencies and needs of workers. As a result, we reached the 1% representation of persons with The pay gap between men and women is one of the most This analysis considered the following criteria for the samdisability as is required by local regulations. In fact, in 2019 this number exceeded the legal requirement, important issues on which the Diversity and Inclusion ple selection of 78 employees, 38 women and 40 men: adding up to 1.1% of collaborators. team focuses its efforts. 1) Persons who joined the company in 2019 2) Persons at the corporate level at Empresas CMPC • The purpose of the CMPC Diversity and Inclusion Policy is to help the company proactively build a workFor the purposes of this Integrated Report, the company and/or the CMPC Foundation force that is truly representative of the societies in which it operates by encouraging all the necessary changes conducted a study to identify the gender wage gap be3) Persons at category C, D and F positions according to to be able to attract and retain the best talent that possesses a variety of viewpoints for each and every team tween men and women with the same qualifications and the CMPC job classification. in the company. in similar positions. Based on the results from this initial study, corporate level For more information on the numbers related to workplace inclusion by country and business area, refer to 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY FEMALE-TO-MALE hires at CMPC in 2019 did not register a gender wage gap the appendix of this Integrated Report. WAGE RATIO favoring men and in some case, women even received better remuneration. CATEGORY C (MANAGERS) 103.5% CATEGORY D (PROFESSIONAL AND TECHNICAL STAFF) 106.5% CATEGORY F (ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL) 137.5% Source: Corporate Human Resources Department ONE IN FIVE CMPC COLLABORATORS In 2020, the Corporate Human Resources Department plans to embark on a similar study encompassing all business areas of the company (Celulosa, Biopackaging and Softys) and covering not only new hires during the year. IS BELOW THE AGE OF 30 • Throughout its 100 years of history, each year CMPC 4% Collaborator at the Corporate Headquarters in Santiago, Metropolitan Region of Chile. has been welcoming young professionals who bring new talents, energy and values to a company with a variety of 22% challenges. In 2019, employees below the age of 30 accounted for 22% of the workforce. • At the same time, CMPC values the work of workers over the age of 60 and considers them experts in their field. This age group represented more than 4% of total employees in 2019, including 10 people who are above 70 but continue actively contributing to the company. • 65% of female workers at the company are millennials. 74% • 53% of all workers are millennials and 26% belong to 15 generation X. Below 30 Between 30 and 60 Above 60 Source: Corporate Human Resources Department 15 Millennials are people born between the years 1981 and 1996, generation X those born between 1969 and 1980. 102 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.2 TALENT DEVELOPMENT (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Why is talent attraction and retention relevant? • People are the central axis and a strategic pillar for the • CMPC prioritizes internal mobility through regular peroperations of a company that has been around for 100 formance reviews which serve to guide employees’ cayears and plans to be around for another 100, like CMPC. reer path. • Our goal is to establish the company as a great place • In addition, it invests in improving the working environto work. ment and creating excellent working conditions. • To that end, we attract, recruit, develop, promote, train • CMPC stands out for the career paths of its collaboraand compensate our talent as best we can. tors, its low turnover rates, and its progress towards a system of performance reviews at all levels. • (404-1) In order to improve the performance Hours of training as a percentage of total hours worked of its employees, CMPC has designed training 1.35% and capacity building plans which have proven essential as they create opportunities for growth 1.11% both within and without the organization. 0.89% 0.71% • In 2019, about 0.71% of hours worked were spent on training. • Most learning activities focused on foreign language learning (English and Portuguese), crisis prevention, compliance and cybersecurity. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Corporate Human Resources Department Note 1: Does not include Softys Mexico data. Note 2: Hours worked are an estimate, as there is no system to record hours worked such as a punch clock or similar. For that reason, there might be some variability in the numbers from previous years. 104 105 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 • (401-1) Turnover rate variations over the past Turnover rate few years are not significant. 21.0% • In 2019, the female turnover rate reached 23.3%, which is currently under review by the 19.1% 18.8% Corporate Human Resources Department. 18.0% Overall turnover rate was 19.1%. • This was offset by the addition of 715 women to the workforce during the year of this report. 2016 2017 2018 2019 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Source: Corporate Human Resources Department Note 1: Turnover rates were calculated based on the number of employees as of December. Note 2: The turnover rate is calculated on the basis of all employees leaving (voluntarily and involuntarily). Internal mobility is not considered. 01 02 FOSTERING CAREER DEVELOPMENT: PERFORMANCE REVIEW (404-3) The performance review process at CMPC is two-tiered: one component are individual objectives responsible for 60% of the final evaluation and the other, corporate competencies representing the other 40% of the final evaluation. Individual objectives and goals are set on the basis of one’s contribution towards the overall objectives for the department or business area. After that, they are discussed and agreed upon with one’s direct supervisor at the beginning of each year and are then evaluated both quantitatively (responding to the question “What do I do?”) and qualitatively through the competencies related to company values (with the question “How do I do it?”). The competencies evaluated are: project implementation skills, orientation towards achievement and excellence, sustainability and CMPC values, teamwork, openness to change and continuous improvement, and leadership and motivational skills. This model for performance evaluation and management is a continuous cycle comprised of five steps: setting of objectives, goal completion tracking, self-assessment, review/validation, and feedback meeting and conversation. It is carried out on an annual basis, starting in December with the setting of objectives and culminating in February of the following year with feedback and discussion. This process is designed for technical and professional staff, team leads, management, team leads, department heads, and senior executives (personnel categories: A, B, C, D, E and F). The majority of our production facilities have their own mechanisms for performance evaluation of operators, 01.Worker with cutting dies at the Buin Corrugated plant in the Metropolitan Region of Chile. suitable for the operations of that particular subsidiary. The Corporate Human Resources Department is work02.Softys collaborator from the Talagante plant, Metropolitan Region, Chile. 03.Puente Alto collaborator, Metropolitan Region, Chile. ing with each subsidiary directly to systematize these methods. 03 106 107 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 In 2019: • 5,280 collaborators had been evaluated as of December (79.93% of employees in the categories of executives, AT CMPC, WE TAKE CARE OF professionals and technical staff). At the time of writing of this report, the performance review process is still underway. EACH OTHER ALWAYS THINKING AT CMPC • 1,831 operators were evaluated. This represents only 16.27% of all operators, however we expect the number WE TAKE CARE to increase over the next few years. OF OUR COLLABORATORS OF EACH OTHER As a result of the social unrest in Chile that started in October 2019, CMPC Executives, professionals and % Operators % implemented a number of measures to support its collaborators and the technical staff evaluated evaluated community at large. Here are some of the initiatives: 5,280 79.93% 1,813 16.27% Source: Corporate Human Resources Department Flexible work hours: For CMPC, the integrity and safety of its workers is paramount. That is why, flexible work hours were introduced for those who were experiencing mobility issues and could perform their work remotely. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Shuttle buses: Due to interruptions in the Santiago public transit system, CMPC organized shuttle buses for employees living far from the company production facilities or administrative offices. It also reinforced this service in parts of the Since 2011, the company has been evaluating its organizational climate through the world renowned country where it already existed. Great Place to Work (GPTW) survey, which measures employee perception of the work environment. Constant assessment: During the first weeks of the events, the CEO and the Chairman of the Board visited all producThe GPTW survey is administered annually, between May and June. tion facilities in order to evaluate the situation at each one of them first hand by listening to people working there as well as from neighboring communities. In addition, all employees received a care package with products and basic necessities. Organizational climate score Communication: The CEO maintained all employees informed about the ongoing events, repercussions for the company and actions being taken via regular emails. The company also organized talks by university professors, psychologists, and various other speakers to discuss the current events, provide information and help people understand the situation. 79% 79% 79% 85% CMPC Dialogues: Employees were provided with the tools to organize group meetings amongst themselves to discuss 76% recent events in the country and share concerns with coworkers. More than 300 people participated and their sugges80% 73% 74% tions were included in the action plan presented by the CEO to the entire company. 72% 75% Pay increases: In response to the income inequality in the country, CMPC declared that none of its direct employees or contractors in Chile would earn less than CLP 500,000 or approximately USD 67116 a month, to be implemented by 70% December 2019. 65% 65% Support for the community: The municipality of Puente Alto was one with the most heavily affected metro stations 61% and supermarkets, so CMPC donated basic consumer products and provided shuttle buses to complement the sparse 60% public transportation, which turned out to be an important service for local residents. Similar initiatives took place in the municipality of Talagante, where CMPC distributed Softys tissue products. 55% 50% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Corporate Human Resources Department 16 At the exchange rate as of December 30, 2019 as informed by the Chilean Central Bank. 108 109 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.3 LABOR RELATIONS Fair pay (202-1) Prompted by the situation in the country, CMPC reviewed the salaries of all its employees and concluded that as of the end of 2019, not a single employee was being paid less than CLP 500,000 or approximately USD 671 per month. CMPC also urged its contractors to follow suit. (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) The lowest pay grades at CMPC (categories F and G) receive the following remuneration: • Administrative personnel at CMPC makes on average 3.5 times the Chilean minimum wage. • CMPC operators make on average 2.5 times the country’s minimum wage. Why are labor relations relevant? • Collective bargaining is conducted independently of each other and in an atmosphere conducive to achieving • Coordination and dialogue between the company and labor agreements. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY its workers is fundamental for fulfilling its business goals. • In 2019, there were no strikes and/or disruptions due • There is freedom of association at CMPC. Each subto a strike at any of the company locations with a labor sidiary is open to reaching a collective agreement with union. the workers through the mediation of one or more labor unions. Unionization (102-41; 407-1) 56.0% 59.0% 58.0% 60.4% With its 100 years of history, CMPC is home to the oldest labor union in Chile: Labor Union No. 1, founded in 1927. It was followed by Labor Union No. 2 of Papeles Cordillera, established in 1931, and the Unified Labor Union of the CMPC Laja pulp mill workers resulting from the merger of unions No. 1 and No. 2, created in 1961 and 1966, respectively. Source: Corporate Human Resources Department 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unionized workers The company has a total of 10,779 unionized workers, representing 60.4% of the entire workforce, distributed among a Total workers covered by collective agreements 63.4% total of 55 unions. Non-unionized workers covered by collective agreements A total of 550 workers (3% of the workforce) who are not affiliated with any unions are nonetheless covered by union collective Source: Corporate Human Resources Department. Note: This number is calculated on the basis of the total workforce and includes positions such agreements. as senior executives who by definition cannot join a union. 110 111 0 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.4 Number of accidents ZERO FATALITIES HEALTH AND SAFETY per 100 workers Year Consolidated accidents To reach its yearly zero fatalities goal, CMPC encourages employee parIN INDUSTRIAL per 100 workers ticipation in the design and implementation of safety procedures as well as the timely reporting of incidents in order to create a culture of health 2014 3.0 and safety. OPERATIONS (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 2015 2.5 Accident incidence rate decreasing to 1.0 accidents per 100 employees 2016 1.7 in 2019 is the product of company-wide efforts over the past many years. 2017 1.3 Occupational health and safety systems protect 100% of CMPC collab2018 1.3 orators as well as all employees of service provider companies, as they also come into direct contact with the our facilities and must strictly follow 2019 1.0 their guidelines. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Source: Corporate Human Resources Department Why are occupational health and safety relevant? Note: Accidents per 100 workers = Number of accidents *100 / Average workforce size. In terms of occupational illnesses17, there were 8 cases reported among • Healthy and safe working conditions are recognized direct collaborators and none among contractors in 2019. as a human right and are addressed by a number of inworkers, in particular women migrants, and tergovernmental entities such as the International Labor those in precarious employment.” Organization (ILO), the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and the World Health • CMPC creates a culture of safety through a Committed to the safety of its workers, CMPC publicly Organization (WHO). variety of prevention plans, to which both direct • They are covered by SDG #8 “Decent work and econocollaborators and contractors must adhere. declares its corporate goal for zero fatalities at my growth” of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. More specifically, they form part of target 8.8 that • This commitment is formalized in the corporate goal for zero fatalities in any company its operations, whose purpose is to guarantee the reads: “Protect labor rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant operations, which guides work in all CMPC subsidiaries. company’s utmost efforts in this aspect. The goal applies both to direct collaborators and service provider companies at CMPC production facilities and forestry operations. In a number of its production facilities, CMPC follows the Standard for SAFETY, Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001, which defines the requirements for achieving a culture of occupational Occupational safety numbers for 2019 health and safety. Source: Corporate Human OUR NUMBER This management system allows the early detection of the risk factors to which each operation, and most importantly, the people who work there, Direct collaborators Contractors Resources Department Note: The injury frequency rate is calculated as: Number of lost-time accidents*1,000,000/total net hours ONE PRIORITY are exposed in order to protect all employees and contractors. At the same time, it provides a framework for a systematic and structured policy making, strategy building and goal setting for the purpose of preventing Number of accidents with days away from work Days away from work due to accidents 171 6,565 148 5,374 worked. The injury severity rate is calculated as: Days away from work due to accidents (including days of statutory sick pay)*1,000,000/ and controlling health and safety risks at the workplace, incorporating Fatalities (per year) 1 0 total net hours worked. Lost-time (403-9; CMPC 8) injury rate is calculated as: Days such practices within continuous improvement processes. Injury frequency rate 8 3 away from work due to accidents *1,000,000/ total net hours worked. Injury severity rate 629 113 Note 2: 12,865 are the days away from work due to accidents Lost-time injury rate 321 113 including days of statutory sick pay For a detailed information on CMPC certifications that ensure product quality, broken down by and are used to calculate the injury production facility, visit: https://www.cmpc.com/en/certifications/ Hours worked 20,455,296 47,470,686 severity rate. 17 This number includes only those occupational illnesses which were resolved within the reporting period. 112 113 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Unfortunately, in 2019, the company had one fatality among collaborators in its CMPC Celulosa operations in Brazil. COMMITTED TO In response, CMPC has been working on implementing new technology such as robotics and, automation and other remotely controlled solutions to replace certain high-risk manual tasks during the production process in order to safeguard the occupational safety of workers, was well as increase the efficiency of forest and industrial operations. ELECTROSoftys worker at the Puente Alto plant in the Metropolitan Region of Chile. MOBILITY 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY What is electromobility? It is the use of electricity as the main Along the same lines, in 2019 CMPC source of energy for transport and mobilintroduced electric loader cranes for • CMPC became one ity, thus reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) woodhandling at CMPC Maderas wood of five companies to emissions and increasing energy efficienyards, proving that switching from fossil cy to help mitigate climate change. fuels to electricity is possible. participate in the What are we doing? Additionally, in 2019 CMPC adopted Chilean pilot program CMPC, together with only four other electric log handling machines at the for the Acceleration Chilean companies, co-signed a volwood yards of CMPC Maderas, showuntary collaboration agreement to paring that replacing fossil fuels with elecof Corporate ticipate in the Pilot Program for the Actric energy in industrial operations is alElectromobility. celeration of Corporate Electromobility ready reality. run by the Chilean Energy Sustainability Agency and Ministry of Energy. What further steps will be taken in the following years? • CMPC adopted electric The pilot project, whose theoretical In 2020, the company is planning to run log handling machines stage already took place, assessing a tender process for employee transthe introduction of employee shuttle port in the Biobio region and expects to at the wood yards of buses to and from the Santa Fe mill in completely transition to electric vehicles maderas. the Nacimiento municipality of Chile. within the next few years for company The resulting proposal is to start with owned and third-party vehicles used in launching one 45-seat electric bus with its operations such as forklifts, loader a daily route of approximately 418 km, cranes, pick-ups and trucks. followed by the installation of a fastcharging electric station as more buses This requires continuous cooperation get added to the fleet. between CMPC and its suppliers, who are the ones that need to incorporate The implementation of this pilot projsuch new technologies in their portfoect is expected to reduce annual CO2 lio of services and equipment in order emissions by up to 130 tons, which is for us to meet the electromobility chalabout 5% of all carbon emissions from lenge together. burning fossil fuel for the transport of people by the company. 114 115 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.5 WATER USE Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge (303-3; 303-4; 303-5) Water data by category in m3 The water used by the company’s production facilities comes from surface or groundwater sources or is provided by sanAND QUALITY Category 2018 2019 itation companies or other CMPC plants depending on the location. Our investments in water related issues are focused Withdrawal 205,870,133 206,541,364 on permanent improvements such as closing the water cycle and the recycling of water, in order to make our processes (103-1)(103-2)(103-3) Discharge 176,508,887 172,762,732 more efficient, thus reducing the need for water withdrawal. Industrial consumption 29,361,246 33,778,632 Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department Note: In 2019, the measuring methodology used by pulp mills was modified, resulting in the Why are water use and quality relevant? smaller numbers compared to the ones published in the Integrated Report 2018. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY • Water availability is indispensable for the growth of forests and plantations and its use is essential for many of CMPC production facilities. TYPES OF WATER USE ACCORDING TO THE METHODOLOGY • In 2019 were taken the first steps towards measuring the water OF THE WATER FOOTPRINT NETWORK 1 2 footprint of the company using the methodology of the Water Footprint Network. Green water footprint: water Blue water footprint: water that has been • This long-term process will help us improve the traceability, accuracy from precipitation that is stored extracted from surface or groundwater reand scope of our data, enabling us to focus on the reduction of water in the root zone of the soil and sources and is either evaporated, incorporatused and achieving optimal quality of discharge. evaporated, transpired or incored into a product or taken from one body of porated by plants. It is particularly water and returned to another, or returned at • CMPC’s concern for water efficiency is expressed in its corporate relevant for agricultural, horticula different time. Irrigated agriculture, industry water-related goal. tural and forestry products. In and domestic water use can each have a blue the case of CMPC, such water is water footprint. For CMPC, this takes place at found in its forest assets. its industrial operations. 3 Corporate goal Grey water footprint: the amount of fresh water required to assimilate pollutants to meet specific water quality standards. The grey water footprint considWe are going to reduce our industrial use of water per metric ton produced by 25% by ers point-source pollution discharged to a freshwater resource directly through a pipe or indirectly through runoff or leaching from the soil, impervious surfaces, the year 2025 (using 2018 as baseline). This goal covers all of our production facilities that or other diffuse sources. For CMPC, this takes place at its industrial operations. use water in their processes across the eight Latin American countries where we operate. 2019 PROGRESS 2025 GOAL 31.33 m 3/ton -1.2% Reduce by 25% Through this goal, CMPC contributes to target 6.4 all sectors and ensure sustainable withdrawals and CMPC Celulosa, and especially its subsidiary Pulp, is responsible for the majority of water used of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) “Clean supply of freshwater to address water scarcity and by the company, about 83% of the total. However, all three business areas, Celulosa, BiopackWater and Sanitation”, which states: “By 2030, substantially reduce the number of people sufferaging and Softys face great challenges in terms of the use of this resource. substantially increase water-use efficiency across ing from water scarcity.” 116 117 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Water-related challenges manifest themselves differently deThe use of water per metric ton produced went up in 2019 pending on the specific location and/or region of the plant, due to a slight increase in the extraction of water together Water discharge as they are linked primarily with local precipitations and the with a reduction in production during the year. By 2025, we availability of water in the watersheds used for sourcing it. This expect to reach 33.22m3 of water extracted per metric ton CMPC treats and returns a large portion of the water extractImprovements in the quality of discharge resulted from the causes differences in how the issue is handled by each one of product. ed after using it. The discharged water is usually reincorporatimplementation of measures for efficient water use as well as of our operations. ed in its original source, be it surface water bodies (rivers or investments in treatment facilities and systems. lakes), underground, sea or to third parties. In 2019, the company began the implementation of various initiatives for the reduction of water use Water discharge by destination in m3 including changes in its industrial processes and water Destination 2018 2019 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY recycling and reuse systems. In this way, we expect to Surface water 172,247,382 168,489,812 see progress towards the corporate goal in 2020. Groundwater Third parties 26,153 4,046,691 6,619 3,964,735 Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department Note 1: The Softys Cañete plant in Peru is the only one to discharge in the ocean. Note 2: Of the 29 production facilities that report their water withdrawal and discharge: • 19 have their own effluent treatment plants. • 3 treat their effluents at a third-party facility (Softys Puente Alto, CMPC Corrugados Sea 188,661 301,567 Molded Pulp, Plywood). • 4 have their effluents treated by third parties. Total 176,508,887 172,762,732 • 3 do not report any discharge as they recycle or reuse all of their industrial water. Water withdrawal by source in m3 CMPC adheres to local norms and regulations for the qualital Suspended Solids (TSS). In the case of pulp production, Fuente 2018 2019 ty of effluents in each country and region where it operates. organic halogenated compounds (AOx), a byproduct of the Some commonly regulated indicators are: Chemical Oxygen bleaching process, are also monitored. Surface water 188,133,517 188,403,875 Demand (COD), Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and ToSource: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Groundwater 14,327,180 14,634,382 Department Note: Industrial water withdrawal is measured for all production facilities that use water in their processes. Of Provided by a third party 3,409,437 3,503,107 the 43 CMPC plants, 29 use industrial water and were included in the calculations. The rest have dry processes Total withdrawal 205,870,133 206,541,364 and their only water consumption is for domestic purposes by the employees. Three CMPC plants (Softys Chile Water emissions (in metric tons/year) in Puente Alto, CMPC Corrugados Molded pulp and Production (metric tons) 6,650,491 6,593,385 Plywood) that were included in the “Water provided by a third party” category, are not supplied with water by a utility Withdrawal per metric ton of product 30.96 m3 31.33 m3 company, but rather other CMPC plants. Indicator 2018 2019 COD 41,799 35,521 BOD 5,024 3,526 Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department Note: Three Biopackaging plants started measuring these indicators in 2019 and Forsac AOx 389 400 We made it onto the Water Security A List Peru is the only plant with industrial effluents which does not measure the quality of its wastewater, as it is stored in containers and sent to a landfill. AOx only applies to the 4 TSS 4,833 3,952 pulp mills. CDP (ex Carbon Disclosure Project) is a non-profit organization dedicated to creating a global environmental reporting platform, used by companies and cities to disclose information about their climate change, water security and deforestation related risks and initiatives by filling out comprehensive questionnaires. CMPC is the only Chilean company to report on all three issues. The decrease in water emissions (COD, BOD and TSS) is pridergoing a continuous improvement process for the treatment In 2019, close to 2,500 companies from all over the world disclosed information on Water Security and CMPC was marily due to the measures adopted by one of our largest of its effluents, whose goal is to set production parameters at one of only 72 to receive the highest possible score, A, placing it above the Latin American regional average (B), production facilities, the Laja pulp mill, which accounted for a a level more stringent than required by law, and it will continue global average (B-) and the one for our sector, Wood and Paper Materials (B). significant overall reduction in these indicators. This mill is uninto 2020. 118 119 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.6 Energy consumption Despite an increase in production, the intensity of energy ENERGY consumption, i.e. energy consumption per unit of output, by type of fuel in TJ has remained unchanged thanks to various energy efficienType of fuel Total cy initiatives and energy management systems introduced by CMPC. GENERATION Biomass 14,880 Coal 4,143 Diesel 1,348 Our energy consumption is directly proportional to AND EFFICIENCY Natural Gas 12,894 LNG 773 Oil #4 7 production levels 18 with CMPC (103-1)(103-2)(103-3) Oil #6 4,598 Celulosa responsible for 85% 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Kerosene 3 Electricity 19,024 of the total, Biopackaging 6%, Black Liquor 78,318 and Softys 9%. Why is energy efficiency relevant? Methanol 600 Vapor (purchased) 4,414 • CMPC industrial operations require electric and thermal energy. For that reason, energy is an important factor Total 140,957 Source: Forest Bioenergy Department both in terms of cost and operational continuity. Adopting Energy Management Systems (EMS) Change and repair of boilers • The company’s energy mix includes primarily renewEquipment updates Pulp energy consumption intensity in TJ able non-conventional energy and we expect to continue Change of lighting installations increasing this type of energy as a portion of the total enCategory 2016 2017 2018 2019 ergy consumed in our operations. • In mid-2019, the company decided to proceed with the preliminary studies necessary to obtain an environmental Consumption 107,370 101,699 115,500 120,353 • CMPC has taken concrete actions to make its energy permit for a wind power project in CMPC forest lands in Production (ADt) 3,800,950 3,458,387 4,231,333 4,104,726 management even more efficient. A few examples are: the La Araucania region. Source: Forest Bioenergy Department. Intensity (TJ/ADt) 28.25 29.41 27.3 29.32 ADt: Air Dry ton In terms of electric energy, CMPC also generates a large portion of what it consumes. In 2019, we were 63.9% self-sufficient, less than in 2018 due to failures of the turbo generators at the Santa Fe mill and the closing of the Corrugated Papers cogeneWe generate our own energy (302-1, 302-3) ration plant as part of a change in our energy generation strategy. Consolidated electricity by category in GWh Energy that is not produced by the company, is The company’s energy mix includes a large portion of reEnergy consumption in TJ by year provided by third-party generation and distribution newable non-conventional energy with biomass as the main providers, with whom we have Supplier AgreeCategoría 2016 2017 2018 2019 source of such energy, accounting for approximately 79% of ments requiring some of the energy supplied to be total energy self-generation. It is generated by using byprod2016 2017 2018 2019 Generation 3,934 3,677 4,221 3,377 derived from renewable sources. ucts and waste from the industrial and harvesting processes, recovered wood and other waste streams. Consumption 127,765 120,479 135,177 140,957 Consumption 4,872 4,671 5,191 5,284 Source: Forest Bioenergy Department Generation/consumption 80.7% 78.7% 81.3% 63.9% Source: Forest Bioenergy Department 18 The decrease in 2017 consumption figures is due to 146-day downtime at line 2 of the Guaiba pulp mill. 120 121 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Progress towards Energy Management Systems (302-4) Energy Efficiency Seal In 2019, CMPC received eleven distinctions from the Chilean Ministry of Energy and the Energy Efficiency Agency CMPC has been implementing Energy Management Systems The company aims to implement and sustain EnMS at its profor the implementation of energy efficiency measures at its facilities. (EnMS) since 2013. An EnMS is a series of procedures that alduction facilities as a way to improve the energy performance low a more efficient use of energy by optimizing its consumpof its processes by systemically assessing it and setting indiMore specifically, the CMPC Pulp mills: Santa Fe, Pacifico and Laja, as well as the Sack Kraft plant in Chillan tion at industrial facilities, which leads to significant savings in cators to track and control. received the Gold Seal for Energy Efficiency, the highest level of recognition. cost. This process involves the assessment and standardization of energy management practices at all industrial facilities, Since the beginning of this project, 11 plants’ Energy ManageCMPC also received five Silver Seals for its Softys plants in Talagante and Puente Alto and CMPC Maderas faaccounting for the various types of fuel and energy sources ment Systems have been certified to the ISO 50001 standard, cilities in Bucalemu, Mulchen and Coronel. Additionally, the Biopackaging Sack Kraft in Chillan was chosen to they use. while others are currently in the process of assessment, dereceive the “Distinguished Measures in Energy Efficiency” award among all participating companies for its project sign, implementation and verification of their systems. “Eliminating Compressed Air Systems Loss”. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Finally, CMPC Celulosa received the international Clean Energy Ministerial Energy Management Leadership Award for its leadership in energy management. Implementation of ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems Business area Certified facilities Actions taken over the course of the year Over the past 3 years, CMPC has managed Celulosa 7 • Recertification of Santa Fe, Pacifico and Laja pulp mills (Chile) to reduce its energy consumption by 223 • Certification of CMPC Maderas plants in Coronel, Bucalemu and Mulchen (Chile) • Implementation of systems at the Guaiba pulp mill (Brazil) and the Maderas TJ through initiatives at its production Biopackaging 1 plants in Los Angeles, Nacimiento and Plywood (Chile) • Certification of the Sack Kraft plant in Chillan (Chile) facilities to improve operating and Softys 3 • Implementation of systems at the Cordillera, Maule and Valdivia plants (Chile) • Recertification of Pando plant (Uruguay) process efficiency • Implementation at the Santa Anita (Peru), Caiheiras and Mogi (Brazil) plants • Certification audits for the plants in Talagante and Puente Alto (Chile) were scheduled for 2020 Source: Forest Bioenergy Department ENERGY MANAGEMENT PROFESSIONALS In 2019, CMPC and the Chilean Sustainable Energy Agency signed an agreement within the policy framework of the Ministry of Energy, allowing 13 of its employees from various business areas to take part in a Certificate Course for Energy Management Professionals in Los Angeles, Biobio Region. For information on all CMPC certifications by site, visit: https://www.cmpc.com/en/certifications/ 122 123 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.7 Carbon footprint GREENHOUSE GAS AND (305-1, 305-2, 305-3) OTHER ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS What is it? A carbon footprint is defined as the total amount of greenhouse gases produced, directly or indirectly, by people, organizations, products, events and geographic areas, usually expressed in terms of metric tons of CO2. It is used as a tool to understand what behavior and activities are contributing to the increase in a company’s emissions (103-1)(103-2)(103-3) and figure out ways to improve certain processes and use resources more efficiently. (Chilean Ministry of the Environment). How is it measured? There are different methodologies and protocols that can be used for compiling a GHG inventory depending on the scope or perspective: corporate, product life cycle, and others. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY How is CMPC working on reducing its emissions? To prepare a GHG emissions inventory from the perspective of a business, CMPC used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council • CMPC is working to reduce its atmospheric emissions by improving its energy efficienfor Sustainable Development (WBCSD). cy and incorporating new technology in its processes. This standard groups greenhouse gas emission into 3 scopes: • In 2019, the company measured its carbon footprint of its entire operations for the third time, identifying specific areas with a potential for reduction. • Direct emissions (Scope 1): greenhouse gas emissions that occur from sources are owned or controlled by the company, for example, emissions from fossil-fuel combustion in stationary and/or mobile sources, uninten• As a result, the company set a goal to reduce its GHG emissions as a way to address tional leaks from air conditioning equipment, etc. climate change. • Indirect emissions from purchased electricity and steam (Scope 2): accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and/or steam consumed by the company. • Other indirect emissions (scope 3): sallows for all other indirect greenhouse emissions from sources not owned or controlled by the company. Some examples are transportation of personnel, air or ground travel for CORPORATe goal business purposes, transportation of raw materials, generation and transportation of waste, and others. We will reduce by 50% our greenhouse gas emissions in absolute terms (direct and indirect) by 2030 using 2018 as baseline. Total emissions by CMPC corporate offices measured in tCO2e Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department 2017 2018 2019 Note 1: Starting in 2017, corporate offices do not include the ones located at the site of industrial operations. Note 2: Starting in 2018, emissions include all CMPC 2019 PROGRESS GOAL 2030 corporate offices worldwide. Total emissions 5,892 6,833 7,346 Note 3: Total emissions include scope 1, 2 and 3. 2,387,659 tCO 2e -3% Reduce by 50% Carbon footprint of industrial operations by scope measured in tCO2e With this goal, CMPC is contributing to target 13.3 awareness-raising and human and institutional caof the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) “Clipacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, Scope 2017 2018 2019 Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment mate Action”, which dictates: “Improve education, impact reduction and early warning”. Department Note 1: Scope 3 emissions for 2019 include: upstream transportation of raw materials, inputs and fuel to the plant, Scope 1 1,834,294 1,891,066 1,948,516 air travel, employee commuting, environmental load of raw materials, chemical, packaging and fuel inputs, transportaScope 2 517,463 425,663 439,143 tion of waste for final disposal or to treatment facilities, and transportation of products to warehouses, customers and Scope 3 3,757,346 4,213,360 4,314,816 internationally. Note 2: Figures for 2018 were amended to eliminate the double accounting for the emissions related to raw materials Total emissions 6,109,103 6,530,089 6,702,475 and fix a minor error in emissions from biomass combustion. 124 125 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Percentage of emissions from Other atmospheric emissions (305-7) industrial operations by scope CMPC operations generate other emissions that have an impact on the quality of air in the areas where they are located. The company adheres to the current norms and regulations in the countries where it operates in regard to the concentration of air pollutants and emission Scope 1 29.1% limits for CMPC. Most emissions are generated by CMPC Pulp, responsible for close to 95% of CMPC emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOx), about 59% of sulfur dioxide (SO2), and around 74% of particulate matter (PM). Scope 2 6.5% Emissions by pollutant type in metric tons 64.4% 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Scope 3 Pollutant 2018 2019 Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department Note 1: Not all plants measure their emissions. The ones that do not conduct measurements NOx 8,235 8,134 are the ones that do not utilize considerable amounts of stationary sources and therefore, are not required to do so by law. There are also other plants that measure the concentration according to local regulations in each country, but do not record total emissions in metric tons. Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department SO2 1,508 1,781 Note 2: The Sack Kraft Argentina plant and CMPC Corrugados P Tiltil packaging plant started Note 1: Scope 3 (other indirect emissions from the supply chain) contemplates the following gases CO2, measuring their NOx emissions in 2019 and therefore were not included in 2018 measureCH4 and N2O for all three years reported. PM 1,556 1,213 ments. Note 3: The Softys plant in Pando, Uruguay, is the only one to report SO2 in this business area. When the carbon footprint of industrial operations in 2019 was measured, we noted an increase The reported emissions correspond to stationary sources at each plant (boilers, paper machines, turbines, in Scope 1 emissions compared to 2018, resulting from an increased use of oil fuel at the Guaidiaper machines, etc.) and measurements are conducted by external labs, with the exception of Guaiba, ba pulp mill by emergency pumps that were used for the construction of rainwater collection which has its own equipment to conduct such measurements online. lagoons. In addition, there was a failure of the turbo generators at the Santa Fe mill, which led to an increased consumption of diesel by stationary sources (back-up electric generators). This turbo generator failure, in turn, caused an increase in purchased electricity, driving CMPC Pulp Scope 2 emissions up. Furthermore, the CMPC Corrugated Chile papers mill experienced a stoppage of its cogeneraGREEN TAX (CMPC 4) tion plant for the duration of almost the entire year. This resulted in the purchase of electricity to satisfy close to 100% of its needs, instead of the usual self-generation, which increased Scope The green tax on emissions from stationary sources is part of a regulation introduced in Chile’s 2014 tax reform that came 2 emissions for CMPC Biopackaging as well. into force in 2017. In terms of Scope 3, the increase from 2018 is due to: Law No. 20780 imposes a tax on the owners of establishments with stationary sources of over 50MWtt that produce • A slight upwards correction of emission factors for transportation by ship and truck. atmospheric emissions of particulate matter (PM), nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and carbon dioxide (CO2). • An increased fuel consumption by the Guaiba and Santa Fe mills, which increased their environmental load. In 2019, the company paid USD 3,685,784 in such tax for 2018, down 1.3% from the previous period. • An increase in emissions from the inclusion of the transportation of all waste, while in previous years only waste for final disposal was considered. Green tax paid in USD 2018 2019 Amount 3,735,979 3,685,784 Source: Corporate Tax Department 126 127 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 4.8 WASTE MANAGEMENT 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY Puente Alto Corrugated plant in the Metropolitan Region of Chile. (103-1)(103-2)(103-3) Why is waste management relevant? • In order to reduce the environmental impact of its waste and generate value from it, the company engages in the following activities: CORPORATE GOAL Plans to minimize unused resources and thus reduce waste generation Reincorporation of waste in its own production cycle or its transformation into raw Become a company with zero waste for final disposal, or landfills, by the year materials that can be used in other processes 2025, by reducing waste generation, its recovery in the form of byproducts and Constantly looking for opportunities for its waste to be used by other industry sectors promoting circular business models. Monitoring the volume of waste. • CMPC’s goal is to eliminate the majority of waste from its value chain and transform 2019 PROGRESS 2025 GOAL it into secondary products through innovation and synergies with other organizations. 577,772 t 14.3% Zero • CMPC’s commitment to the circular economy is enshrined in the corporate goal that the company published in 2019 to reduce waste for final disposal. With this goal, CMPC is contributing to target 12.5 “By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation of Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) “Sustainthrough prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.” able consumption and production”, which states: 128 129 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Finally, Softys’ final disposal of waste increased by 15.4%, partially explained by an Circular economy challenge (306-2) increase in production and the use of recycled fiber in its productive processes. This increases paper sludge generation at effluent treatment plants. CMPC continues working on the challenge to transform its according to its categorization as hazardous or non-hazardprocesses and products to adapt to a circular economy modous, hazardous waste was down 5.7%, while non-hazardous el, in which does not exist and resources are continuously rewaste (industrial waste, sludge, residential-like, and others) Non-hazardous waste by treatment method (in metric tons) used. In this way, the useful life of products and/or resources increased by 4%. can be extended, preserving their value over time while reducing their impact on the environment. The company complies with the respective current environTreatment method 2018 2019 mental regulations for the disposal or treatment of hazardous The company makes sure that its waste management is in waste. It is primarily disposed of at hazardous waste landfills Recovery compliance with current environmental regulations in the authorized by the corresponding environmental and health Reuse 773 1.357 countries where it operates. In addition, it looks for strategic authorities. partnerships that allow it to recover waste and develop projRecycling 189,612 169,647 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY ects focused on reducing environmental liabilities. In 2019, hazardous waste accounted for 0.15% of all waste Composting and biological decomposition 549,399 636,091 generated and 93.7% of that was disposed of in hazardous Waste to energy 847,791 966,613 In 2019, there was a 4.0% increase in the generation of waste waste landfills. Thus, non-hazardous waste accounts for Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department on an aggregate basis by the company in comparison with the 99.85% of all generated waste. Disposal Note 1: The composting and biological decomposition method includes a variety of treatments to reintroduce carbon and other previous year (2018 baseline). In terms of fluctuations of waste nutrients in the biological cycle. Final disposal 673,815 577,772 Note 2: Data on the disposal methods published in 2018 was rearranged in order to better align reporting with the GRI Total 2,261,390 2,351,481 methodology. Total waste by type (in metric tons) Waste by tipe 2018 2019 As part of the waste management strategy of CMPC Non-hazardous 2,261,390 2,351,481 Pulp, the Laja mill started selling the byproducts from Hazardous 3,583 3,378 its processes, thus reintroducing them as raw materials in the operations of third parties. Total waste 2,264,973 2,354,859 Source: Corporate Sustainability and Environment Department Waste recovery Some CMPC production facilities are already working towards zero In recent years, the company has been working to avoid the duction of 54.8% due to an increase in the commercialization final disposal of waste in landfills in favor of various recovof wood-derived byproducts for energy generation and fertilizwaste, while others are still at the ery alternatives, such as reuse, recycling, composting and ers, used internally or by third parties. energy extraction. In 2019, recovery through such methods assessment stage focusing on identifying increased by 11.7%. On the other hand, CMPC Biopackaging managed to reduce The 2019 performance in terms of the final disposal of its waste for final disposal by 25.7%, largely as a result of the ramp-up of a new biomass boiler at the Valdivia Boxboard opportunities for improvement. non-hazardous waste is explained by changes in each busimill, which can extract value from certain waste in the form ness area. CMPC Celulosa, for example, experienced a reof energy. 130 131 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Ash, dregs and sludge RECYCLING MATERIALS CMPC Pulp industrial operations in Chile uses half of the ash from its biomass boilers as fertilizer for the company forest plantations. On the other hand, dregs and grits, fly ash and lime are INTERNALLY AND FROM THIRD PARTIES sold for the fertilization of agricultural land. In addition, biomass waste and most sludge from effluents are incinerated in boilers for energy generation. Fibras, a subsidiary of CMPC Corrugated of the Biopackaging business is a waste collector. Its purpose is to develop the Similarly, in Brazil lime, dregs and grits are sold as fertilizers for agriculture, bark and sludge are market for collecting and recycling paper and cardboard. composted, and ash from the carbon boiler is sold to cement makers. With its help, CMPC is able to use these secondary materials in its production by recycling them into new tissue and Some of the actions taken towards meeting the corporate goal are packaging products. 04 OR PE SE PR OA NT ISNI BG LY • Byproducts: all production facilities generate byproducts, which can be used as raw materials in other processes, such as biomass for energy generation or soil enrichment. Waste collected (purchased) for recycling by Fibras in metric tons • Ash: CMPC uses ash from its biomass boilers as fertilizer for forest plantations, giving a new use to something that was previously considered waste for the company. 2017 2018 2019 • Sludge: sludge is the main waste product from the production of the Biopackaging and Soft317,000 305,000 290,000 Source: Fibras ys businesses, and to a lesser extent Celulosa. Its disposal method varies from plant to plant: at some, it is used for energy generation, at others for compost production or bricks manufacturing when combined with clay. Waste collected by Fibras represents 61.7% of the total paper and cardboard that CMPC recycles. The other 38.3% comes directly from other company facilities or is purchased from third parties domestically or internationally. • Paper or its derivatives: some CMPC production processes require paper and cardboard as their raw material, which means reincorporating these products in the production process after the end of their life. Collection is done either by CMPC or third parties. Origin of recycled paper in metric tons These activities and their implementation depend on the conditions in each country where the company operates. Origin 2019 Fibras in Chile, Peru and Argentina 373,368 Third parties 202,311 Intercompany (between subsidiaries of the company) 29,063 Total waste recovered and incorporated 604,742 Clean Production Agreement (Acuerdo de Producción Limpia, APL) Source: Fibras In 2019, two CMPC plants subscribed Clean Production Agreements (APL) for zero waste: Sack Kraft in Chile and Note 1: Fibras is present in Chile, Argentina and Peru. In Chile, the company is part of CMPC Biopackaging and in Argentina and Peru it belongs to the Softys Molded pulp, subsidiary of CMPC Corrugated. business. Note 2: Third party waste refers to post-consumer third-party waste purchased on the domestic market or imported. They are joining the five Biopackaging plants for containers and packaging that already had such agreements in place: Corrugated (Buin, Osorno and Tiltil), Sack Kraft Chile and Fibras. With these agreements, plants commit to the implementation of a clean production strategy. 05 133 SOL VE 05 Sg Oe nL Uu ti ni oennseteod s Solutions to genuine needs 134 135 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 5.1 NANOCELLULOSE PRODUCT A MATERIAL INNOVATION OF THE FUTURE The mission of our company is to produce and market prodcreating value for its shareholders and clients, as well as opucts based on resources from forest plantations such as wood, portunities for growth for its employees and local communities. pulp, paper, and tissue products in a way that is sustainable To pursue this mission, CMPC focuses on the concept of cirover time, providing superior quality and competitiveness and cular bioeconomy with the next 100 years in mind. What can nanocellulose What is circular bioeconomy? 05 Sg Oe nL Uu ti ni oennseteod s What is nanocellulose? tissues, disposable diapers and many be used for? It is a material made out of nano sized others, has the potential to be transThe circular bioeconomy is a system in which renewable biological resources are used for manufacturing cellulose fibers. There are three types formed into something completely difproducts and energy, which are then recovered and reused as many times as possible in a circular econCoating: of nanocellulose according to its strucferent. And the result is a renewable and 1 when used in the form of omy fashion. In the circular bioeconomy, new products are based on scientific innovation responding to ture and origin: nanocrystalline cellulose sustainable supermaterial. social and environmental challenges and creating economic value. film to cover a surface, it (NCC), bacterial cellulose (BC), and migives isolating properties to crofibrillated cellulose (MFC). CMPC is What is CMPC doing? packaging making it a more exploring the entire range of opportuniCMPC is in the process of evaluating sustainable alternative ties that these products could offer. the technical and financial viability of to plastic. using nanocellulose to reinforce paper CMPC is actively exploring opportunities within the scope of Why is this significant? and board. Additionally, the Research stationary: the circular bioeconomy that could maximize the value of its Due to its characteristics, microfibrillatand Development Center is currently 2 incorporated into the raw material, focusing primarily on lignin, nanocellulose and ed cellulose is considered a “supermatesting for other potential uses. One of biocomposites, as well as byproducts such as tall oil, methacomposition of papers even terial”, as it is 20 times more resistant these could be an isolating barrier for nol, hydrogen and others. in small quantities adds than steel and almost four times more gases and/or liquids, where currently significantly to the product’s than Kevlar. It is also light, impermeable, fossil-based polymers are used resultresilience. durable, and could even replace some plastic applications. ing in packaging that is 100% ecological and biodegradable. Rheology modifier: Cellulose is one of the most abundant 3 due to its chemical polymers on the planet, placing it among the What is more, its importance is directOther applications being researched are and morphological ly correlated to its being both a biodein prosthetics, construction materials gradable and renewable material, given and automobile parts. characteristics, nanocellulose can act as most efficient potential responses to the that it originates in plant fibers. MFC is a high value-added product a thickening agent with a number of applications from environmental crisis. How is this material derived? obtained using mechanical shearing to food and pharmaceuticals to It is derived from pulp, one of the most separate the cellulose fibers into a three paint and concrete. In order to transition into a circular economy, it is necessary to abundant polymers in the world. It is dimensional network of microfibrils with derived from trees and other plants, a large surface area. This gives it the create renewable materials that can be reused, recycled or, in such as, for example, eucalyptus. That ability to interact intimately with the surOther applications being this case, are biodegradable. means that the raw material used for rounding environment. It has many ap4 tested are in prosthetics, magazines, newspapers, books, paper plications such as: construction materials and automobile parts. 136 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 5.2 Finding sustainable solutions: a project for new seedling trays INNOVATING FOR THE FUTURE In order to make the connection between the different stages of its industrial processes more circular, CMPC conducted an analysis of the use of non-renewable materials by CMPC Celulosa. As a result, one such case was identified in the millions of plastic trays used for the propagation of pine and eucalyptus seedlings before their outplanting. (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) The innovation project that CMPC carried out researched alternative solutions to the use of plastic trays and came up with ones made from pulp and waste from the paper production process. This helps avoid the generation of plastic waste, reduce the use of fossil-based products, and diminish the environmental impact of transportation. The new trays represent a circular solution as they can be decomposed directly in the ground after having been used for about a year showing the same ability to withstand nursery conditions (humidity, irrigation, and Why is innovation relevant? weather) as the old plastic ones. 05 Sg Oe nL Uu ti ni oennseteod s • Innovation is the central concept which allows us to address current and future challenges by providing sustainable solutions to global problems and clients. • That is why, CMPC is committed to promoting and strengthening innovation efforts within its processes and created a Corporate Innovation Department, which reports directly to the CEO and is in charge of deepening the company efforts in that direction. 1 CONSOLIDATING Strengthening innovation skills INNOVATION and processes EFFORTS The Corporate Innovation Department provides support to CMPC subsidiaries and looks for new CMPC aspires to lead the way in finding sustainways to promote innovation by forming alliances able and innovative solutions which increase the with startups, the integration of agile methodolowell-being of people and the competitiveness of gies and reinforcing innovation strategies. the company, modernizing the way it works and bringing science and technology closer together. This process has five focal areas: 138 139 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 2 Innovative product For example, in 2019 development by subsidiaries CMPC continuously promotes a strategy for all Softys introduced into subsidiaries to develop new products. Many of these innovative solutions have managed to create the market its new Soft value and competitive advantages for the company through their unique qualities. CMPC has a roTouch technology for bust product portfolio and constantly encourages highly disruptive technological innovations. Elite brand toilet tissue products, which 3 Commitment to the at the same time adds circular bioeconomy softness and resistance CMPC renewed its commitment to the circular bioeconomy as the main pillar of its innovation strateto the paper. gy. Currently, research is underway into opportunities such as nanocellulose, lignin and the recovery of side streams of the pulp production process in order to create sustainable and renewable alternatives from forest-based products. 5 Engage with the ecosystem to boost innovation STARTUP DAY STONE FRUIT INSERT TRAYS CMPC has decided to engage with the public on CMPC launched its first innovation chalinnovation projects in order to empower novel lenge open to the public and received Prompted by new regulations introduced by some countries to reduce plastic use, CMPC Biopackaging initiated a ideas that have the potential to generate value. To submissions by 189 participants from 18 project to develop an innovative solution that would replace polypropylene insert trays used for the protection of fruit that end, we have been actively communicating countries offering their disruptive soluduring transport (mainly peaches, nectarines, and plums) with ones made from molded pulp. with players from the innovation and entrepreneurtions related to the circular economy and ship ecosystem around the world. digital transformation of CMPC. Three ideas were chosen to participate in a pilot project together with the company. 4 Our interaction with startups does not Continue on the road towards end there. The company is collaboratdigital transformation ing in a systemic way with startups in various stages of maturity in order to CMPC has been encouraging the digital transalytics for procurement processes. The company find innovative solutions to its challengformation of all of its business units including the also streamlined industrial processes using maes. Such examples are the High Tech digitalization and automation of processes, the use chine learning and big data. Additionally, we made SOFTYS INNOVATION CHALLENGE challenge, an incubator for early-stage of advanced analytics and other technology that progress towards the optimization of industrial prostartups with science-based technohelps capture value and meet the goals set forth in cesses by testing and implementing solutions such A regional competition for innovative ideas by employees from all counlogical innovations, the Inventing the the corporate strategy. as digital interconnection or the Internet of things tries where Softys has industrial operations. Its goal is to develop new Future meet-up and our constant part(OIT), digital tools like drones for forest monitoring products, improve the performance of current products, differentiate the nering with entrepreneurs from around Many back office processes have been automated equipped to process images, and other initiatives company and reduce costs. More than 1,000 ideas were submitted and the world to test new technologies including the digitizing and use of advanced anthat present opportunities for CMPC. evaluated and the best ones received an award. in practice. 140 141 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 5.3 Partnership with the University of Concepcion to promote innovation, sustainable development and entrepreneurship INCREASING The University of Concepcion, which was founded in Chile in May 1919, was the first university in the country outside the capital city. CMPC was created in March of the following year and is well-known for its fruitful alliances. CUSTOMER In celebration of the 100 in existence of both organizations, the two signed a collaboration agreement whose purpose is to provide support for innovation, the bioeconomy, culture and entrepreneurship for sustainable development in the next 100 years. SATISFACTION 05 Why is customer satisfaction relevant? (103-1,103-2,103-3) • Recognizing the expectations and opinions of clients and consumers is fundamental for providing quality products that meet all their requirements. • For that reason, a constant monitoring and evaluation is necessary in order to achieve continuous improvement of industrial processes and customer satisfaction. • This allows us to form long-lasting mutually beneficial working relationships. • The most important milestones for CMPC in 2019 were the opening of CMPC Celulosa customer service offices in Shanghai, China and in Hamburg, Germany (as part of a joint venture agreement with the agent GUSCO) to better service various markets. • All three business areas evaluate their customer satisfaction, each one using their own tools and methodology that best suits their products, customer base and markets. 142 143 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Net PromotER Score (NPS) CMPC CMPC CELULOSA BIOPACKAGING focus: Joint methodology focus: Joint methodology The SSIndex survey is a tool for measuring the susCustomer satisfaction evaluation focuses on final conIn 2019, CMPC Maderas and CMPC Pulp conducted The evaluation consists of a survey (Image and tainability risks of various stakeholders. In the case sumers. In 2019, CMPC Biopackaging once again evaltheir first joint annual customer satisfaction evaluation usCustomer Service Experience Study) conducted of customers, it includes 19 Likert scale questions uated its positioning and brand image, involving all of its ing the Stakeholders Sustainability Index (SSIndex) survey by phone, online or in person, and covers clients in in addition to 11 open box ones and considers 05 Sg Oe nL Uu ti ni oennseteod s by ESG Compass after managing to unify their criteria. subsidiaries in the process this time. Thus, it was able to Chile and other countries, depending on the market aspects such as service level perception, product standardize measurements and results. scope of each subsidiary. quality, community engagement, corporate integrity, awareness of CMPC environmental policies, reResults sponse to complaints, etc. Net satisfaction percentage was evaluated in order to identify opportunities for improvement and innovation. • CMPC Maderas conducted evaluations for its plyResults Net Promoter Score wood, sawn wood and millwork facilities. Up to 2018 customer satisfaction had been measured with inNet Promoter Score Subsidiary 2018 2019 Change ternally designed surveys by each business unit. 2019 CMPC Not 82% -• CMPC Pulp, which has already been using this Maderas evaluated methodology for a number of years, substantially CMPC Boxboard 79% expanded its sample size in 2019 taking advantage CMPC Pulp 87% 88% 1% CMPC Sack Kraft 53% of the new languages in which the questionnaire was made available. This allowed it to collect inforCMPC Corrugados 84% Source: CMPC Celulosa mation from markets that had not been surveyed CMPC Edipac 84% before incorporating about 9% more clients. Total Source: CMPC Biopackaging response rate increased to 46% from 45%. 144 145 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 In addition, Softys conducts an evaluation of the satisfaction company needs to focus investment to drive customer relaof its B2B clients called relationshipTRI*M, which measures tionship strength and business performance. It is conducted in SOFTYS the corporate image and reputation, service, products, sales process, delivery and post sales experience of the away-fromhome brand Elite Professional. the eight markets where Softys operates and the results show how strong the customer relationships of the company are. B2C BUSINESS The study consists of a bi-annual questionnaire, online or via The last such evaluation was conducted in 2018, so the next one is not due until 2020. Its results are going to be reported a phone call, administered to current clients to understand the in the following year. relationship and service level and pinpoint exactly where the focus: Joint methodology Softys uses the Advantage methodology to evaluate its consumer oriented brands. It measures customer satisThe study is based on annual questionnaires distributfaction in terms of the sales process and product perceped among senior management of the man retailers in CERTIFICATIONS: tion according to eight dimensions: strategic alignment, order to evaluate the strength of the relationship be19 people, category development, consumer marketing, tween the retailer and the supplier, compare service trade & shopper marketing, supply chain, and customer level to that of other suppliers and identify the the most service, and identifies the reasons for a certain supplier critical points for improvement. evaluation by their clients. Participants in the survey are ENSURING QUALITY AND SAFETY FOR OUR CUSTOMERS main retailers and the result is expressed in terms of a The results allow Softys to understand its ranking 05 Sg Oe nL Uu ti ni oennseteod s ranking among the consumer product companies that among other consumer goods companies per country participated in the study. and develop a strategy for improvement based on the Quality Management System, ISO 9001 opportunities identified. CMPC Biopackaging and CMPC Pulp have a system for quality management to effectively conduct and improve the efficiency of internal processes. It takes into consideration administrative elements and is as an objective and quantiResults fiable assessment of the performance of their functions by each employee. An external certification serves to ensure these high standards of quality and production management by providing specific guidance on environmental, labor and responsible procurement matters. 2016 2017 2018 2019 Current Change Current Change Current Change Current Change position from position from position from position from Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 previous previous previous previous year year year year To comply with the environmental laws and regulations of the respective authorities in each country, CMPC adheres to the Environmental Management System standard, ISO 14001. Every stage of the production process from the Argentina 23 20 +3 19 +1 14 +5 reception of raw materials to the distribution warehouses where final products are stored is certified to this standard. Following the requirements of this certification benefits the company by providing it with a competitive advantage in Brazil 9 9 0 6 +3 9 -3 front of clients who require it resulting in opportunities for greater profitability. Chile 9 5 +4 3 +2 4 -1 Mexico 10 10 0 12 -2 15 -3 Peru 16 12 +4 11 +1 3 +8 Food Safety Management, ISEGA and ISO 22001 Source: Softys Note: The Advantage study is only conducted in 5 countries (Chile, Argentina, Peru, Mexico and Brazil). These standards set out the specific requirements that pulp and paper manufacturing must meet in order to ensure the safety of food throughout the entire food supply and sanitation chain. For all CMPC product quality certifications detailed by site, visit: https://www.cmpc.com/en/certifications/ 19 For Energy Management System certifications, go to section 4.5. 06 147 LEAD 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e ER SHIP Corporate Governance Inauguration of CMPC Office Building in Los Angeles, Biobio Region, Chile, March 2019. 148 149 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 6.1 12 main CMPC shareholders as of December 31st, 2019 SHAREHOLDERS Shareholder Name Rut No. of shares (Chilean Tax ID) 1 Forestal Cominco S.A. 79.621.850-9 487,492,057 2 Forestal Const. y Com. del Pacífico Sur S.A. 478.715.048 478,715,048 (102-5) 3 Forestal O'Higgins S.A. 229.954.793 229,954,793 4 Banco de Chile (in representation of third parties) 137.733.654 137,733,654 CMPC is a publicly traded corporation with 2.5 billion outstanding shares 5 Forestal Bureo S.A. 106.457.955 106,457,955 and 21,390 shareholders as of December 31st, 2019. 6 Banco Itaú (in representation of foreign investors) 97.854.158 97,854,158 7 Banco Santander-JP Morgan 93.805.017 93,805,017 Control of the company is exercised through a Joint Control 8 9 A.F.P. Habitat S.A Pension Fund A.F.P. Provida S.A. Pension Fund 66.400.041 60.849.777 66,400,041 60,849,777 and Performance Agreement between Forestal O’Higgins S.A. 10 A.F.P. Capital S.A. Pension Fund 47.182.753 47,182,753 and other companies and includes restrictions on the free 11 A.F.P. Cuprum S.A. Pension Fund 46.575.370 46,575,370 12 Coindustria LTDA. 41.531.124 41,531,124 disposition of shares. 1,894,551,747 75.78% Source: Empresas CMPC S.A. Shareholder Register The Controlling Group is comprised of the members of the Larrain Matte, Trilahue Air Base, Biobio Region, Chile, used for combatting wildfires. Matte Capdevila and Matte Izquierdo families, whose holdings, their manner and size, are indicated below: Name Rut % (Chilean Tax ID) Patricia Matte Larraín y sus hijos 4.333.299-6 6.49 María Patricia Larraín Matte 9.000.338-0 2.56 María Magdalena Larraín Matte 6.376.977-0 2.56 Jorge Bernardo Larraín Matte 7.025.583-9 2.56 Jorge Gabriel Larraín Matte 10.031.620-K 2.56 Eliodoro Matte Larraín y sus hijos 4.436.502-2 7.15 Eliodoro Matte Capdevila 13.921.597-4 3.26 Jorge Matte Capdevila 14.169.037-K 3.26 María del Pilar Matte Capdevila 15.959.356-8 3.26 Bernardo Matte Larraín y sus hijos 6.598.728-7 8.05 Bernardo Matte Izquierdo 15.637.711-2 3.35 Sofía Matte Izquierdo 16.095.796-4 3.35 Note: The natural persons listed above belong by family relationship to the Francisco Matte Izquierdo 16.612.252-K 3.35 same controlling business group. 150 151 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Empresas CMPC S.A. Controlling Shareholders Quarterly share transaction statistics in CLP Name RUT (Chilean Tax ID) Dec 2018 Dec 2019 Quarter Year Number Transaction Average price Stock market Stock market of shares amount (CLP) (CLP/share) presence (%) transactions 1 Forestal Cominco S.A. 79.621.850-9 487,492,057 487,492,057 1st 2017 99,171,433 147,535,308,210 1,487.6795 100% BCS; BECH 2 Forestal, Const. y Com. del Pacífico Sur S.A. 91.553.000-1 476,205,596 478,715,048 2nd 2017 91,867,785 147,696,473,980 1,607.7069 100% BCS; BECH;BC 3 Forestal O'Higgins S.A. 95.980.000-6 186,526,333 229,954,793 4 Forestal Bureo S.A. 87.014.900 -K 106,457,955 106,457,955 3rd 2017 95,451,523 155,009,124,500 1,623.9565 100% BCS; BECH 5 Inmobiliaria Nague S.A. 94.645.000-6 39,015,066 2,504,340 4th 2017 144,206,068 280,056,823,353 1,942.0599 100% BCS; BECH;BC 6 Coindustria LTDA. 80.231.700-K 46,575,370 46,575,370 1st 2018 111,582,133 254,059,544,955 2,276.8837 100% BCS; BECH 7 Forestal y Minera Ebro LTDA. 77.868.100-5 14,408,280 14,408,280 2nd 2018 107,705,995 261,103,102,977 2,424.2207 100% BCS; BECH;BC 8 Forestal y Minera Volga LTDA. 77.868.050-5 8,823,060 8,823,060 3rd 2018 90,757,426 235,533,936,050 2,595.2029 100% BCS; BECH;BC 9 Viecal S.A. 81.280.300-K 6,501,641 6,501,641 4th 2018 101,780,769 244,833,261,165 2,405.4963 100% BCS; BECH 10 Forestal Peumo S.A. 87.014.500-4 5,141,294 5,141,294 1st 2019 95,624,399 220,592,464,326 2,306.8638 100% BCS; BECH 11 Forestal Calle Las Agustinas S.A. 87.014.600-0 3,863,334 3,863,334 2nd 2019 158,142,923 310,874,191,338 1,965.7800 100% BCS; BECH 12 Forestal Choapa.A. 87.014.700-7 2,332,209 2,332,209 3rd 2019 179,662,992 306,101,024,103 1,703.7511 100% BCS; BECH 13 Matte Larraín Eliodoro 4.436.502-2 1,187,078 1,187,078 4th 2019 156,219,250 282,581,705,265 1,808.8789 100% BCS; BECH 14 Matte de Larraín Patricia 4.333.299-6 961,342 961,342 15 Agrícola e Inmobiliaria Rapel LTDA. 87.014.800-3 617,993 617,993 Note: Statistics include information from the Santiago Stock Exchange (BCS), the Chilean 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e Electronic Stock Exchange (BECH) and the Valparaíso Stock Exchange (BC). Source: Certificate issued by the Santiago Stock Exchange and the Chilean Electronic 16 Larraín Bunster Jorge Gabriel 4.102.581-6 134,844 134,844 Stock Exchange Total Controlling Group Shares 1,386,243,452 1,395,670,638 % Participation 55.45% 55.83% Source: Empresas CMPC S.A. Shareholder Register Annual dividends per share in CLP CLP / Share 8.00 10.00 1.26 31.00 56.00 Shares held by government entities or state owned companies Shareholder No. of shares Comments 1 University of Chile Law School 713,940 Shares acquired in 1942 2 Chilean Treasury 20,500 Shares corresponding to vacant inheritance, provisional balance Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Empresas CMPC S.A. Shareholder Register Source: Public information 152 153 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Details of share transactions in CLP in compliance with Article 20 of Chilean Law No. 18045 (GCN 269, 2009) RUT Legal Name Relation Transaction date Transaction commuTransaction Security Series No. of shares Unit Price (CLP) Transaction amount Stock (Chilean (mm/dd/yyyy) nicated to the Stock type type traded (CLP) Exchange Tax ID) Exchange (mm/dd/yyyy) 94645000-6 Inmobiliaria Nague S.A. CO 09/26/2019 09/27/2019 Sell Share Sole 13,566,312 1,687.60 22,894,531,062 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 09/26/2019 09/27/2019 Buy Share Sole 13,566,312 1,687.60 22,894,531,062 S 94645000-6 Inmobiliaria Nague S.A. CO 09/24/2019 09/24/2019 Sell Share Sole 10,864,443 1,716.13 18,644,830,490 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 09/24/2019 09/24/2019 Buy Share Sole 10,864,443 1,716.13 18,644,830,490 S 94645000-6 Inmobiliaria Nague S.A. CO 09/23/2019 09/24/2019 Sell Share Sole 3,061,344 1,740.00 5,326,738,560 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 09/23/2019 09/24/2019 Buy Share Sole 3,061,344 1,740.00 5,326,738,560 S 94645000-6 Inmobiliaria Nague S.A. CO 09/12/2019 09/12/2019 Sell Share Sole 2,911,484 1,731.05 5,039,924,378 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 09/12/2019 09/12/2019 Buy Share Sole 2,911,484 1,331.05 5,039,924,378 S 94645000-6 Inmobiliaria Nague S.A. CO 09/11/2019 09/12/2019 Sell Share Sole 2,965,740 1,700.20 5,042,351,148 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 09/11/2019 09/12/2019 Buy Share Sole 2,965,740 1,700.20 5,042,351,148 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 08/23/2019 08/26/2019 Buy Share Sole 100,000 1,546.34 154,634,361 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 08/22/2019 08/23/2019 Buy Share Sole 100,000 1,585.00 158,500,000 S 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 08/16/2019 08/19/2019 Buy Share Sole 400,000 1,649.47 659,788,381 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 08/14/2019 08/16/2019 Buy Share Sole 693,759 1,669.66 1,158,342,955 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 08/12/2019 08/13/2019 Buy Share Sole 500,000 1,683.87 841,934,612 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 08/09/2019 08/12/2019 Buy Share Sole 328,920 1,663.06 547,014,520 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 07/19/2019 07/22/2019 Buy Share Sole 77,970 1,811.35 141,231,240 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 07/19/2019 07/22/2019 Buy Share Sole 882,439 1,811.00 1,598,097,029 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 07/18/2019 07/19/2019 Buy Share Sole 250,000 1,815.00 453,749,603 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 07/11/2019 07/12/2019 Buy Share Sole 41,162 1,812.00 74,585,544 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 07/11/2019 07/12/2019 Buy Share Sole 1,102,000 1,815.00 2,000,130,000 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 07/10/2019 07/11/2019 Buy Share Sole 1,400,000 1,815.00 2,541,000,000 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 06/18/2019 06/19/2019 Buy Share Sole 147,311 1,812.25 266,964,238 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 06/18/2019 06/19/2019 Buy Share Sole 230,799 1,815.00 418,900,185 S 91553000-6 Forestal, Constructora y Comercial del Pacífico Sur S.A CO 06/07/2019 06/10/2019 Buy Share Sole 292,538 1,810.64 529,680,902 S 91553000-6 Forestal, Constructora y Comercial del Pacífico Sur S.A CO 06/06/2019 06/10/2019 Buy Share Sole 433,874 1,808.00 784,444,192 S 91553000-6 Forestal, Constructora y Comercial del Pacífico Sur S.A CO 06/06/2019 06/10/2019 Buy Share Sole 1,408,000 1,814.10 2,554,249,522 S 91553000-6 Forestal, Constructora y Comercial del Pacífico Sur S.A CO 05/29/2019 05/30/2019 Buy Share Sole 375,040 1,805.90 677,284,724 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 05/29/2019 05/30/2019 Buy Share Sole 163,374 1,795.39 293,319,704 S 95980000-6 Forestal O’Higgins S.A. CO 05/28/2019 05/29/2019 Buy Share Sole 500,000 1,790.00 895,000,000 S 154 155 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 6.2 The identification and management of economic, environBoard, the CEO and senior executives of each respective mental and social issues, in addition to critical matters for the area. The committees analyze, manage and solve matters in company, are in the hands of three committees: Sustainability the above mentioned subject areas and report their actions at BOARD OF Committee, Financial Risk Committee and Ethics and Compliance Committee. These are comprised of members of the the corresponding Board meeting. DIRECTORS (102-18; 102-19; 102-20; 102-22; 102-24, 102-26, 102-31, 102-33) Jorge Marín, Empresas CMPC Board Member, with the Chairman of the Board of Empresas CMPC, Luis Felipe Gazitúa, at the ceremony for the 10-year anniversary of CMPC in Brazil. Empresas CMPC Board Members Rafael Fernández, Vivianne Blanlot and Ramiro Mendoza, also at the 10-year celebration celebration of CMPC in Brazil that took place in Guaiba, Porto Alegre. Since 2016, the CMPC Board of Directors has been comprised of nine members, some of whom are independent and others related to the Controller. Directors are elected at the Annual Shareholder Meeting pursuant to Chilean Law No. 18046 regulating publicly traded corporations. Directors hold office for three years and meet ordinarily once responsible for the annual business plan and the corresponda month and for extraordinary sessions, whenever required by ing budget for the company administration and the plan’s law, in accordance with pertinent regulations and the compaaccomplishment. The Board is supported by the Directors’ ny bylaws. In 2019, all nine members of the Board of Directors Committee which, among its other functions, meets at least Bernardo Matte, Empresas CMPC Board Member. were re-elected for another term. three times a year with the external auditors and without the presence of the CEO, in order to receive a report of all relevant The Board of Directors is responsible for strategic planning, findings on deeds or adverse situations affecting the company including the review, amendment and validation of company that might have been detected. policy and monitoring its correct execution. The Board is also Among the functions of the Board of Directors are the following: An independent Director is ● Elaborate the company strategy one who has no relationship or ● Approve business objectives link with the controlling share● Establish management policies holder as stipulated in Article 50 ● Evaluate executive performance Bis of Chilean Law No. 18046 ● Decide on the development or termination of business activities governing public companies. ● Decide on the appropriate investments or divestments ● Monitor the progress towards achieving the company objectives ● Develop and maintain a system for talent identification and selection for executive Francisco Ruiz-Tagle, Empresas CMPC positions to ensure proper management continuity CEO and Board Member, Jorge Larraín. ● Approve the risk matrix, its policies and their implementation ● Review and approve the Integrated Report corresponding to each year of business. ● Select an independent External Auditors firm to vote on at the Annual Shareholder Meeting 156 157 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Membership in Board remuneration executive committees '000 USD21 Board Directors‘ Directors‘ IndepenName meeting dence DC ECC AC FRC SC 2018 Committee 2019 Committee attendance20 2018 2019 Luis Felipe Gazitúa A 12 200 660 Vivianne Blanlot S. 11 100 33 330 110 Rafael Fernández M. 13 100 33 330 110 Jorge Larraín M. 13 100 330 Jorge Matte C. 13 100 330 Bernardo Matte L. 12 100 330 Jorge Marín C. 12 100 33 330 110 Ramiro Mendoza Z. 13 100 330 From left to right: Ramiro Mendoza, Jorge Marín, Jorge Larraín, Vivianne Blanlot, Pablo Turner, Jorge Matte, Luis Felipe Gazitúa, Francisco Ruiz-Tagle (Gerente General), Bernardo Matte and Rafael Fernández. Pablo Turner G. 13 100 330 Members of the Board 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e (102-22, 102-23, 102-27) DC: Directors’ Committee, carries out the functions established in Article 50 bis SC: Sustainability Committee, it was created by the CMPC Board to directly of Law No. 18046 and those requested by the Board of Directors. supervise the implementation of the company sustainability strategy in its ecoLuis Felipe Gazitúa A. Vivianne Blanlot S. Rafael Fernández M. nomic, social and environmental aspects, as well as to propose improvements Chairman Director Director ECC: Ethics and Compliance Committee, monitors the progress of the comthat would allow to enhance the CMPC long-term commitment to sustainable Business Administration Economist Industrial Civil Engineer pany in matters related to ethics and compliance with regulations and internal development. It meets once every two months for a total of six annual meetings. Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 6.069.087-1 Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 6.964.638-7 Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 6.429.250-1 policies. Members of the committee are Bernardo Matte Izquierdo, a Board member Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 of all three business areas, the CEO, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Chief AC: Audit Committee, supervises and coordinates activities designed to idenSustainability and Environment Officer. tify, inform about and prevent risks inherent in the business. FRC: Financial Risk Committee, analyzes the financial risks of the company, with special attention to derivative contracts and other financial operations. Jorge Larraín M. Jorge Matte C. Bernardo Matte L. Director Director Director Business Administration Business Administration Business Administration Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 10.031.620-K Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 14.169.037-K Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 6.598.728-7 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Jorge Marín C. Ramiro Mendoza Z. Pablo Turner G. Director Director Director Business Administration Lawyer Business Administration Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 7.639.707-4 Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 7.578.740-5 Rut (Chilean Tax ID): 7.056.349-5 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 Appointment Date: April 26, 2019 20 Minimum attendance at Board meetings is not mandated by law. There were 13 Board meetings held in 2019. 21 Board remuneration was approved at the Annual Shareholder Meeting on April 26, 2019. 158 159 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 BOARD DIVERSITY (405-1) MATERIAL FACTS Pursuant to General Common Norm (GCN) No. 386 of the Securities Market Law that is currently into effect in Chile, the composition of the Board of Directors, senior executives and workforce, includNumber of persons by segment and gender Position Men Women Total 2019 1 ing the newly acquired Papelera Panamericana Board members 8 1 9 S.A. and Serrados e Pasta e Celulose Ltda., was Senior executives 10 1 11 the following: On April 4, the Board agreed to convene an Ordias well as the budget for the Directors’ Committee Employees 15,863 3,059 18,922 nary Shareholder Meeting to be held on April 26th for 2019. to cover following matters: There is one woman on the CMPC Board of Directors, accounting for • Inform shareholders about dividend policies and 11% female representation • Decide on the Integrated Report, Annual Finanprocedures of dividends. cial Statements and their corresponding verificaNumber of persons by segment and age tion report from External Auditors; all of them as of • Hear and resolve any other aspect that may be December 31st, 2019. decided by the Ordinary Shareholder Meeting, acPosition < 30 Between 30 Between 41 Between 51 Between 61 > 70 Total cording to applicable law and the company bylaws. and 40 and 50 and 60 and 70 • Decide on dividend distribution. Additionally, the Board of Directors agreed to proBoard members 0 1 1 3 4 0 9 • Elect Board of Directors. pose to the Annual Shareholder Meeting the payment of a dividend charged to the distributable liqSenior executives 0 2 5 4 0 0 11 • Inform the shareholders about the Board of Direcuid net income of the year ended December 31st, Employees 4,428 6,694 4,331 2,622 588 10 18,922 tors’ agreements related to operations referred on 2018, in the amount of CLP34 per share. The payTitle XVI of Law No. 18046. ment of this dividend, subject to the approval of the 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e Annual Shareholder Meeting, would be carried out Number of persons by segment and seniority • Designate External Auditor firm and Rating Agency. on May 7th, 2019. All shareholders of record as of the midnight of April 30th, 2019, would be entitled 2 Position < 3 years Between 3 Between 6 Between 9 > 12 years Total • Determine the Board of Directors’ remuneration, to this dividend. and 6 years and 9 years and 12 years Board members 7 0 2 9 On April 26, took place the 100th Ordinary Shareholder Meet● To distribute of a final dividend No. 270 charged to the distribSenior executives 3 5 3 11 ing of the company, which agreed to the following items: utable liquid net income for the period ended December 31st, Employees 6,125 3,587 2,721 2,446 4,043 18,922 2018 in the amount of CLP 34 per share. The payment of this ● To entirely renew the Board of Directors, which is currently dividend would be carried out the date previously mentioned. comprised of: Number of persons by segment Gender wage gap Vivianne Blanlot Soza ● To acknowledge CMPC’s dividend policy for 2019, which and nationality Rafael Fernández Morandé (Independiente) shall consist of the distribution of 40% of the company’s DisLuis Felipe Gazitúa Achondo tributable Liquid Net Income for the period ended December Position Chilean Foreign Position Female to male pay ratio Jorge Larraín Matte 31st, 2019, through two interim dividends, approximately in Jorge Matte Capdevila September and December 2019 or January 2020, and a final Board 9 0 Senior executives 72% Bernardo Matte Larraín dividend which would be voted on at the General Shareholder members Jorge Marín Correa (Independiente) Meeting and paid on a date determined at the same. Professionals and 86% Ramiro Mendoza Zúñiga Senior 11 1 technical staff executives Pablo Turner González ● To appoint KPMG Auditores Consultores Limitada as Operators 93% CMPC’s External Auditors for 2019. Employees 9,624 9,298 ● To approve CMPC’s Balance Sheet, Financial Statements and the Annual Report of the year ended December 31st, 2018. Note 1: This wage gap contemplates all CMPC employees, including the recently acquired Softys plants SEPAC and Panamericana. Note 2: The difference between this table and the wage gap shown in Chapter 4 is due to the different methodologies and simple size used. Calculations in this table are made on the basis of simple average and do not take into consideration factors such as tenure, education level, job description, etc., which in no way are determined by the employee’s gender. Note 3: This is the average wage gap reported to the Chilean Financial Market Commission (CMF). 160 161 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 7 At the Board of Directors meeting held on this same date, • Vivianne Blanlot Soza, Rafael Fernández Morandé and Jorge following the Shareholder Meeting, the Marín Correa were appointed as members of the Directors’ Board agreed to the following: Committee, with the last two members being independent. On December 5, the Board decided not to distribute the interim dividend considered for Decem• The above mentioned board members accepted their nomber in its Dividend Policy informed at the General Shareholder Meeting in April. This decision was ination and appointed Mr. Luis Felipe Gazitúa Achondo as the based on the fact that third quarter profits for 2019 reported by the company in its financial stateChairman of the Board. ments were strongly influenced by the exchange rate fluctuations of the currencies in which CMPC accounts some of its assets and the impact that this variation had on deferred tax provisions. 3 On July 4, the company issued a bond on the Chilean market for the amount of USD 93.17 million, whereAs established in the Dividend Policy, the Board of Directors will propose the distribution of a final of Empresas CMPC S.A., in its capacity as parent company of the issuer, has become its guarantor and dividend at the next General Shareholder Meeting, tasked with approving the Financial Statements co-debtor. of the company for the year ended December 31st, 2019. The bond issued corresponds to Series O notes with maturity date June 1, 2029 and coupon of 1.22%. The proceeds from this issuance were to be used to refinance current corporate bonds issued by Inversiones 4 CMPC S.A. and for environmental projects. Remuneration of the Board of Directors (102-35,102-36) On August 6, CMPC informed the Chilean Financial Market Commission that on the In 2019, members of the Board received remuneration consisting of the greater of either: In compliance with the previous day, its subsidiary CMPC Melhoramentos Ltda. (Softys Brazil) had signed a purchase agreement for all corporate shares of SEPAC Serrados e Pasta e Celua) 1.5% of dividends paid out from the 2019 distributable net provisions of the final ose Ltda. (“Sepac”) from the Ferreira Dias family. income, duly adjusted for inflation, and equally divided among all Directors, or paragraph of Article 39 of the 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e The transaction amounted to BRL1.312 billion to be paid at the closing of the deal, b) fixed monthly remuneration of CLP 5,000,000 payable in estimated to take place approximately 120 days from signing the agreement. any event, to be discounted from the amount detailed in a). Chilean Public Corporations It is estimated that this acquisition would have a positive effect on CMPC results, The Chairman of the Board received double the final amount Law, it is hereby informed that even though they cannot be quantified at present. paid to each of the Directors, while members of the Directors’ Committee received remuneration in the amount of 1/3 that of a Board member. during 2019, the Board did not The Dividend Policy of the company, proposed by the Board incur any additional expenses On September 5, the Board of Directors of Empresuch as consulting services, 5 and approved at the 2019 General Shareholder Meeting, dicsas CMPC S.A. approved an interim dividend No. tated the distribution of 40% of Distributable Net Income from 271 of CLP 8 per share with charge to the distributable liquid net income of the exercise of the year On October 31 was concluded the acquisition of all the equity fiscal year 2019, by means of two interim and one final dividends, payable on the date determined by the Shareholders. advisory and others. 2019 and payable on September 26th, 2019 interest in Sepac – Serrados e Pasta e Celulosa Ltda. (SEPAC) by the CMPC subsidiary CMPC subsidiary Melhoramentos 6 Ltda. (Softys Brazil). The transaction Price was BRL 1.3 billion and was paid in full to the vendors on the same date. Board expenses as of December 31st (‘000 USD) With this transaction, Softys Brazil annual installed tissue pa2018 2019 per production capacity reaches 269 thousand tons, which is expected to translate into sales of approximately USD 175 Board 997 3,375 million and about 20% market share. Directors’ Committee 100 399 Source: Corporate Administration Department Note: Expenses include Board remuneration and other administrative expenses. 162 163 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 controls, including fraud risk factors, and the calendar of aupolicy was reviewed, choosing Willis with Bice Vida as their Board performance evaluation (102-28) dit activities for the year. It also outlined important reporting offer came at a lower price compared to the current one. deadlines and considerations of independence and compliance with Law No. 20382. Subsequent meetings in August At the October session, the Committee considered and apThe Compendium of Corporate Governance Policies and ment. The results are analyzed by the Board to identify any and November focused on the implementation and progress proved a proposal for the leasing of a transformer from Colbun Procedures establishes guidelines approved by the Board of weaknesses and take appropriate actions. of the audit plan as well as the auditor’s analysis and recomas a temporary solution to the issues caused by the SeptemDirectors for the implementation of good corporate practices. mendations in relation to internal controls. ber failure of one of the Papeles Cordillera transformers at the This document includes “A Procedure for Continuous ImproveIn 2019, this process took place during Board meetings at Puente Alto industrial complex. This decision was based on ment of the Board designed to oversee and evaluate the perthe beginning of the year to evaluate performance from the The Committee also fulfilled its obligation to inform the Board finding the proposal beneficial to company interests when formance of this highest instance of corporate governance. previous year. of the advantages and disadvantages of hiring the external considering the cost, time and technical difficulties of the alaudit firm for the provision of services outside the scope of the ternatives. Additionally, members of the Board are required to answer a external audit, whenever this was not prohibited by law under questionnaire on an annual basis to detect areas for improvethe provisions of Article No. 242 of Chilean Law No. 18045 At the November meeting, the Committee reviewed the pubconsidering the risk of loss of independence due to the nature lic procurement process for the renewal of the provision of of such services. mobile phone services, mobile Internet and computer devices for the subsidiaries in Chile. After a comparative analysis of Activities of the Directors’ Committee At the September Committee meeting, the credit rating agenthe parameters and technical and financial conditions being cy Fitch Ratings presented an overview of their rating proceoffered, the Committee concluded that it was beneficial to dures together with their stance on CMPC and the rationale company interests to renew the existing contract with Entel In 2019, the Directors’ Committee met formally on 13 occaEY, KPMG, BDO, Deloitte and PwC were invited to submit for the rating issued. At the October meeting, Humphreys as it was better than the other two offers received as well the sions to review and discuss matters covered by Article No. 50 a proposal. The process consisted of, among other things, credit rating agency delivered a similar presentation, which conditions of the current contract with the same provider. Bis of Chilean Law No. 18046 governing Chilean publicly tradthe submission of a proposal and a description of the team covered many of the same issues with a particular emphasis ed corporations. A detailed account of all activities performed of professionals to be assigned to the CMPC account. The on the company’s ability to make payments as the most imDetails of the above mentioned transactions can be found in Note by the Committee over the course of the year can be found evaluation considered various criteria, such as the qualificaportant factor for their rating. 36 of the Consolidated Financial Statements of the company. in their Annual Activity Report, which includes the following: tions and structure of the auditing team, the total number of auditing hours included and their distribution according to At each meeting held throughout the year, the Committee anThe Committee also assessed the remuneration and bene06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e The Committee reviewed the Independent Auditors’ Report seniority, awareness and knowledge of local conditions, exalyzed related-party transactions pursuant to Article XVI of the fits plans for CMPC upper management, executives and staff. and the company Consolidated Financial Statements prior to perience working in the industry and with big corporations, Chilean Law No. 18046 governing publicly traded corporations. In particular, at the June meeting, it examined the programs, the Board meetings at which these would be presented for apand the firm’s transition plan and previous experience working procedures and changes that the Corporate Human Resourcproval in order to be able to make pertinent recommendations. with CMPC. The Committee took note of the approval and annual budget es Department is implementing in terms of employee evaluafor transactions between subsidiaries of Empresas CMPC, tion, salary structure, and talent attraction and development. The Committee reviewed the Consolidated Financial StateHaving considered all the proposals, the Committee concludwhich are considered exempt by the above referenced law On that occasion, it also reviewed the model for the variable ments of CMPC and its subsidiaries for the year ended Deed that the best offers for the company were those presented due to their regular nature within the scope of the subsidiary’s portion of executive and management remuneration in order cember 31st, 2018. It also examined the Report on the Audit by KPMG and EY, which stood out not only because of the registered activity in accordance with the Board approved not only to better align their objectives with the company’s, of Financial Statements prepared by KPMG, the independent qualifications and industry specific experience of the proposed Regularity Policy of the company, and recommended them but also to simplify the existing model making it more compatexternal auditors designated by the shareholders for fiscal teams and their respective managing partners, but also due for approval to the Board. In addition, the execution of these ible with the general CMPC performance evaluation process. year 2018, which concluded that the statements were preto their ability to provide global services to CMPC with offices transactions was periodically reviewed by the Committee sented fairly. All of the above was presented at the Ordinary in all the countries where CMPC operates. As a result, the throughout the year against the previously mentioned budget. During fiscal year 2019, the Committee made no recommenShareholder Meeting held on April 26th, 2019. Directors’ Committee agreed to propose these companies to dations to the shareholders. The approved Committee exthe shareholders, indicating a preference for KPMG in considIn addition, the Committee also took note of and recommendpense budget of USD 100,000 was not used. In addition, the Committee reviewed the Interim Consolidated eration of the positive feedback received from their work in the ed for approval to the Board all other related-party transactions Financial Statements for the company and its subsidiaries as previous reporting period and the convenience of continuing exempted from the regular approval process in accordance of March 31st, June 30th and September 30th, 2019 prior to the with the same auditing process for a second consecutive year. with Title XVI of Law No. 18046. On the other hand, transacBoard meetings at which these financial statements were to The Board approved the recommendation and presented the tions that be approved through the appropriate channels set be presented for approval. options to the shareholders at the General Shareholder Meetforth by Title XVI of this law, were reviewed by the Committee ing held on April 26th, 2019, where KPMG was approved as and the following of them were recommended for approval: The Committee was also responsible for nominating external External Auditor for the fiscal year 2019. audit firms and credit rating agencies for the Board’s considThe procurement process for the renewal of the employee eration. To that end, the Committee supervised the CMPC The Committee held meetings with the External Auditors of complementary health and accident insurance plan for the peprocurement process for these external services. the company in March, August and November 2019. The first riod 2019-2020 was reviewed. After carefully assessing each of these meetings reviewed the 2019 audit plan which prosubmission, the plan offered by AON with Zurich was chosen The Directors’ Committee initiated the process for the selecvided a description of the scope of annual services, details for its more extensive coverage at a lower premium. Additiontion of an External Auditor for the company in January 2019. of the work team, the audit approach, an analysis of internal ally, the selection process for a personal accident protection 164 165 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 6.3 SENIOR EXECUTIVES Francisco Ruiz-Tagle Jaime Argüelles Jorge Navarrete Gonzalo Darraidou Edwards Álvarez García Díaz CEO CEO CMPC Celulosa CEO CMPC CEO Softys Age: 56 Age: 49 Biopackaging Age: 58 Business Administration Industrial Engineering Age: 60 Business Administration Rut (Chilean tax ID): Rut (Chilean tax ID): Industrial Engineering Rut (Chilean tax ID): 7.052.877-0 0-E (Foreigner) Rut (Chilean tax ID): 8.808.724-0 Appointment: Appointment: 7.013.024-6 Appointment: 01/08/2018 01/01/2019 Appointment: 14/01/2020 01/12/2015 From left to right: Rodrigo Hetz, Chief Ignacio Goldsack Rafael Cox Montt Guillermo Turner José Antonio Correa Human Resources Officer; Guillermo Trebilcock Chief Legal Officer Olea García Turner, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer; 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e Ignacio Goldsack, CFO; Felipe Alcalde, Chief Financial Officer Age: 45 Chief Corporate Affairs Chief Development Chief Innovation Officer; and José Antonio Correa, Chief Development Officer. Age: 44 Lawyer Officer Officer Business Administration Rut (Chilean tax ID): Age: 49 Age: 39 Rut (Chilean tax ID): 12.797.047-5 Journalist Business Administration 12.722.226-6 Appointment: Rut (Chilean tax ID): Rut (Chilean tax ID): Appointment: 01/01/2010 10.800.982-9 13.882.533-7 01/02/2016 Appointment: 02/05/2016 Appointment: 01/12/2018 Rodrigo Hetz Felipe Alcalde Arrau Pincheira Chief Innovation Officer Chief Human Resources Age: 35 Officer Lawyer Age: 45 Rut (Chilean tax ID): Industrial Engineering 15.644.559-2 Rut (Chilean tax ID): Appointment: 12.016.317-5 04/03/2019 Appointment: 04/03/2019 From left to right: Gonzalo Darraidou, CEO Softys; Francisco Ruiz-Tagle, CEO; and Rafael Cox, Chief Legal Officer. 166 167 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Name Board Committees Executive Committees Executive remuneration (102-35) ECC AC RFC SC CC CreC22 TCC AdmC23 SRC The company has a Remuneration Policy which clearly esdepending on the achievement of strategic objectives and the Francisco Ruiz-Tagle Edwards tablishes severance and incentive payments for the CEO and fulfillment of profitability goals for each business area. (CEO) senior executives. This document is publicly available on the company website: https://www.cmpc.com/en/nosotros/goRafael Cox Montt Senior management remuneration bierno-corporativo/ (Chief Legal Officer) in '000 USD It also establishes the guidelines for senior executive comGonzalo Darraidou Díaz 2017 2018 2019 pensation packages, which include a variable annual bonus (CEO Softys) tied to company profits and other bonuses during the year 4,601 4,893 5,835 Ignacio Goldsack Trebilcock Source: Corporate Administration Department (Chief Financial Officer) Jorge Navarrete García (CEO CMPC Biopackaging) Shares owned by Board members and senior executives Jaime Argüelles Álvarez (CEO CMPC Celulosa) Name Position December 2019 José Antonio Correa García (Chief Development Officer) Luis Felipe Gazitúa Achondo Chairman 500 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e Guillermo Turner Olea Jorge Matte Capdevila Director (Chief Corporate Affairs Officer) Jorge Larraín Matte Director 148,688 Bernardo Matte Larraín Director Rodrigo Hetz Pincheira (Chief Human Resources Officer) Vivianne Blanlot Soza Director 500 Jorge Marín Correa Director 5,631 Felipe Alcalde Arrau (Chief Innovation Officer) Ramiro Mendoza Zúñiga Director 500 Pablo Turner González Director María Inés Garrido Head of Internal Audit Rafael Fernández Morandé Director Francisco Ruiz-Tagle Edwards CEO José Jaime Argüelles Senior Executive ECC: Ethics and Compliance Committee. AC: Audit Committee . Cristóbal Irarrázabal Philippi Senior Executive FRC: Financial Risk Committee24. Gonzalo Hernán Darraidou Díaz Senior Executive SC: Sustainability Committee25. CC: Executive Coordination Committee (meets monthly). Ignacio Goldsack Trebilcock Senior Executive CreC: Credit Commitee (meets weekly). TCC: Tax Compliance Committee (meets monthly). José Antonio Correa García Senior Executive AdmC: Administration Committee (meets monthly). SRC: Strategic Risk Committee26. Rafael Ignacio Cox Montt Senior Executive María Inés Garrido Sepúlveda Senior Executive Guillermo José Turner Olea Senior Executive 22 The Credit Committee comprises the CFO and commercial executives. 23 The Administration Committee also comprises the Heads of Administration of each business division (Celulosa, Biopackaging and Softys). 24 An external consultant appointed by the Board also sits on the Financial Risk Committee. Rodrigo Andrés Hetz Pincheira Senior Executive 110 25 The Chief Sustainability and Environment Office also sits on this committee. Source: Information obtained from the Empresas 26 The Head of Corporate Risk Management also sits on this committee. Felipe Alcalde Arrau Senior Executive CMPC S.A. Shareholder Register 168 169 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 ORGANIZATIONAL CHART BOARD OF DIRECTORS C-SUITE CMPC CMPC SOFTYS CORPORATE FINANCE CORPORATE CORPORATE CORPORATE INNOVATION CELULOSA BIOPACKAGING C-SUITE LEGAL DEPARTMENT HUMAN AFFAIRS DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT C-SUITE C-SUITE DEPARTMENT RESOURCES DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT Chairman of the Board of Empresas CMPC, Luis Felipe Gazitúa, at the inauguration of the new CMPC office building in Los Angeles, Biobio Region, Chile. 170 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 6.4 CULTURE OF INTEGRITY (103-1) (103-2) (103-3) Why is a culture of integrity relevant? • For CMPC, having a culture of integrity means living and breathing its corporate values in the daily actions of each one of its collaborators. • This is achieved through its policies, training sessions, communication, monitoring and constant assessment in order for every employee to internalize the culture as an integral part of their job function. • The Board, Ethics and Compliance Committee, Corporate Legal Department and the Compliance Department spearhead these efforts through assessments, training programs and evaluations of ethics and integrity employed in different areas of the company. Corporate values (102-16) 1 3 The company has identified five basic corporate values, Respect for Protection of designed to guide employthe individual the environment ees in their swift incorporation of the culture of integrity 2 4 and as a result, the corpoStrict Consideration for the rate mission. These are as follows: compliance needs of our neighbors with legal 5 regulations Fair competition These are communicated to employees via different information campaigns and trainings, materials and manuals, and online resources such as e-Learning courses, workshops and talks. 172 173 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 “Competition and Anti-Trust” workshops Compliance strategy (102-17, 205-2) Business division Attendees Attendance rate In 2017, the Compliance Department conducted a company-wide assessment culminating in the design and implementation of an Integrity and Compliance Program. Its objective is to articulate and systematize Corporate Headquarters 4 100% all efforts in prevention, detection and reaction to acts and behaviors contradicting the corporate values, internal regulations or current laws. Celulosa 135 93.8% Biopackaging 180 97.8% In accordance with the previously approved work plan, the Board approved the Policy of Integrity which is intended to reinforce CMPC commitment to strictly comply with the active laws in the various jurisSoftys 17 89.5% dictions where the company has industrial or commercial operations, including pertinent international TOTAL 336 95.7% best practices. Source: Corporate Legal Department Compliance Department Note 1: This workshop targeted senior executives from each business division and In order to communicate the Corporate Policy subsidiary, as well as critical area employees in Chile. Note 2: The total number of people invited to the “Competition and Anti-Trust” workshops was 351. of Honesty and Integrity, CMPC organized 18 inperson sessions under the umbrella of the “Let’s 40 sessions of the “Updates to the Crime Prevention Model” workshop and 35 sessions of the “Competition talk about good practices” campaign reaching and Anti-Trust” workshop took place, organized by the Compliance Department. a total of 1,059 employees who attended these In addition to these initiatives, in the first half of 2019, specialized competition workshops were given to Softys employees in Chile, especially for their commercial and institutional segment departments. This activity orgapresentations. nized by the Softys Legal Department in collaboration with the Corporate Compliance Department attracted 93 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e participants (84% attendance rate among the target group). A number of in-person training sessions on the topic of compliance took place in 2019, including both employees based in Chile and other countries. The topics that were addressed included corruption prevention and fair competition practices, among others. In the case of Chile, there were also two practical The implementation of the Integrity and Compliance Program will continworkshops: “Updates to the Crime Prevention Model” and “Competition and Anti-Trust” hosted by the ue in 2020 according to plan, including other subsidiaries in Chile as well Compliance Department. as in other countries. “Updates to the Crime Prevention Model” workshops Business division Attendees Attendance rate Corporate Headquarters 84 97.7% CMPC Celulosa 208 95.9% CMPC Biopackaging 134 94.4% Softys 140 95.9% TOTAL 566 95.9% Source: Corporate Legal Department – Compliance Department Note 1: This workshop targeted AD, A, B and C level employees in Chile. Note 2: The total number of employees invited to the “Updates to the Crime Prevention Model” workshops was 590. 174 175 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 INTEGRITY AND Hotline: A tool available to anyone guaranteeing their anonymity The investigation of any claim is coordinated by the Legal COMPLIANCE and confidentiality (if they so wish). It can be used to report acts or behaviors that can be considered or could lead to a violation of the company values, corporate policies and Department, directly reporting to the Ethics and Compliance Committee. In accordance with the established in the Policy of Integrity and Compliance, the company does PROGRAM active laws. not retaliate, neither tolerates any retaliation, against any claims made in good faith. INTEGRITY & COMPLIANCE Number of claims received Code of Ethics Policies Policy of Integrity Crime Prevention Model 2018 2019 Total number of claims received 151 202 Anonymous 83 117 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e Not anonymous 68 85 Ongoing (in the process of 0 13 investigation) Closed 151 189 Source: Corporate Legal Department – Compliance Department Corporate Legal Note 1: The “Not admissible” category includes items which by their nature ETHICS AND Not admissible 111 135 are not intended for the hotline and/or present insufficient information in order to conduct an investigation. COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE: Resolved (investigation concluded) 40 54 Department: Nota 2: Data as of December 31, 2019 The department provides of legal and ethical support An entity consisting of the members of the Board of Claims received by issue type 2018 2019 to employees. Directors and senior executives, responsible, among The role of Crime Prevention Commissioner at Empreother things, for reviewing investigation processes re45.0% sas CMPC S.A. is fulfilled by Rafael Cox Montt, Chief sulting from claims submitted through the Hotline and 39.7% Legal Officer, in accordance with Law No. 20393, with proposing corrective measures to be taken accordingly. 29.2% 29.8% the support of the Compliance Department headed by Carlos Villagran Muñoz. 23.2% 18.8% 2.0% 3.5% 2.6% 2.0% 2.6% 1.5% Communication Respect for the individual Others Compliance with the law Protection of the Environment Fair competition Consideration for the needs of neighbors Active awareness building among collaborators through various activities including, among others, internal newsletters, online resources, distributing materials and manuals, e-Learning courses, as well as organizing workshops and talks. Source: Corporate Legal Department – Compliance Department Note: The “Others” category includes all other claims which do not fall in any of the other categories. 176 177 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Compliance with the law (307-1, 417-3, 419-1; CMPC 3) In 2019, CMPC received no fines for fair competition violations, but made payments totaling USD 671,384 in fines for Restitution for consumers: the final chapter administrative, environmental, labor, sanitation, tax and other such violations. (205-3, 206-1) Fines by type, amount in USD and share Type of fine Amount in USD Percentage The Chilean Consumer Protection Agency (Sernac), reported that after the restitution of USD 150 million to consumers in 2018 in relation to the collusion case, the remaining USD 10.7 million were transferred to the Chilean Tax 589,767 88% Social Security Institute for the benefit of 589,983 accounts who received CLP 14,000 each. Environmental 57,871 8.6% Source: Corporate Legal Department Note 1: Fines reported are the ones over USD 10,000 paid during the period. The beneficiaries are individuals who belong to the bottom 60% of the country’s population in terms of income Labor 23,746 3.5% Fines not included in the table (below USD 10,000) do not exceed USD 30,000 in total. according to data published by the Social Security Institute (IPS) of Chile. 70% of those are senior citizens. Total 671,384 100% Note 2: Tax related fines were imposed in Brazil, Chile and Colombia. Understanding that the recent leniency program and the restitution process that took place over the past few years could lead to consumer mistrust and negative feelings, CMPC also voluntarily donated 6,517,000 diapers to be distributed to minors in high risk areas as part of the Chile Grows with You (Chile Crece Contigo) program In addition, CMPC keeps track of marketing and advertiseIn 2019, the company received ten fines for non-compliance by the Ministry of Social Development and Family (Chile) and its Undersecretary for Childhood. ment liabilities. The Softys business is the one most exposed with product labeling requirements (for number of units sigto this type of sanctions due to the nature of its products and naled on the packaging) for the amount of USD 11,048. In In January 2020, the Chilean Supreme Court ruled on the appeal filed by SCA Chile S.A. against the decision the high volume of advertising materials distributed to the the rest of the countries where Softys operates, there were no of the Antitrust Court, overturning the exemption from paying a fine that had previously been granted to CMPC 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e general public. fines related to product advertising or labelling imposed. Tissue S.A. (Chile). This decision overturned in part the December 2017 ruling of the Chilean Competition Court, which had followed the recommendation of the National Competition Agency (FNE) from October 2015, and ordered CMPC to pay a fine of 20,000 UTA (Chilean Annual Tax Units), approximately USD15.9 million, for the acts described in the original FNE lawsuit filed in October 2015 against SCA Chile S.A. for non-compliance with Article Number of cases of non-compliance with labelling regulations and sanction amount in USD 3, letter a) of Law Decree No. 211 in the tissue business. With the payment of this fine on February 14, 2020, this case is definitively closed. 2018 2019 Total number of non-compliance cases 6 10 Total amount of sanctions (USD) 17,258 11,048 Source: Softys Legal Department To address these issues, in January 2020, Softys issued a document titled Ethics and Advertising principles, signed by all the advertising agencies that CMPC works with for its campaigns. It lays out the company commitments on the subject. 178 179 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 6.5 Risk Management RISK Program MANAGEMENT The risk management model used follows four clear steps in order to be able to apply (102-15, 102-29, 102-30, 102-34) the Risk Management Program consistently throughout the various business units of IDENTIFICATION, DETAILED In 2019, CMPC conducted a complete review of its risk The governance pillar involves specific roles and responsibilithe company. These steps are ASSESSMENT AND ANALYSIS management model and methodology. As a result of this asties, a clear process for reporting risks, and a mechanism for as follows: PRIORITIZATION sessment, a new Risk Management Program was developed the oversight of the program and its components. To strengthbased on international standards such as COSO ERM and en risk governance, a new Strategic Risk Committee was BUSINESS ISO 31000 as well as best practices. It is comprised of two pilformed to lead the efforts on these issues and report directly STRATEGY AND lars: risk governance via a Corporate Risk Policy and methodto the Board for its supervision. TARGETS ology described in the Corporate Risk Management Manual. A Corporate Risk Management Policy was MONITORING AND REPORTING SOLUTIONS AND RESPONSE introduced in 2019. It has been reviewed and approved by the Board and is applicable to the whole company and all its business lines. 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e Risk Management Program IDENTIFICATION, A study of the industry and market environment as well as internal company data including specific inASSESSMENT AND formation on CMPC business areas led to the identification of the most important risks that could affect PRIORITIZATION the company strategy and meeting its objectives. The identified risks were then assessed using the Policy’s methodology in order to prioritize the one relevant ones and thus be able to focus on the most critical ones in the following steps of the cycle. DETAILED The most critical risks are analyzed in detail in order to better understand to which business divisions, ANALYSIS subsidiaries, manufacturing facilities and processes they apply, identifying their root causes and preventive measures, as well as possible consequences and mitigating factors. This provides clarity of residual exposure to these critical risks. SOLUTIONS The information gathered during the first two stages of the process is used to determine what the meaAND RESPONSE sures to take in response to the risks. It is usually a combination of accepting, mitigating, transferring or eliminating them. Which one to implement is determined on the basis of an analysis of the residual exposure juxtaposed against the company’s risk appetite and tolerance. MONITORING AND REPORTING Creating indicators that allow to monitor these risks and reporting its evolution. Lastly, being able to address uncertainties affecting the strategy and objectives of CMPC and its business areas is at the core of the Risk Management Program. 180 181 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 Based on the process described above, in 2019 CMPC carThis exercise produced a consolidated list of risks, which was Risks are broken down into four categories. Should any of these risks materialize, they could ried out the first step in the process: an identification of the then assessed by the new executive Strategic Risk Commithave a significant impact on the company strategy or objectives. main risks for the company, which involved an analysis of the tee, headed by the CEO, reducing it to a list of the top priorindustry and market environment complemented by one-onity critical risks. This list was then reviewed and approved by one interviews with company executives in a top-down order the Board. starting with the Chairman of the Board. Category Risks identified FINANCIAL RISKS Financial27 • Commodity prices Risk Description and potential impact Risk management • Exchange rate Commodity prices A considerable share of CMPC’s revenue is derived CMPC partially benefits from the diversification of its Strategic • Water availability for industrial operations from products, whose price depends on the prevabusiness lines and the vertical integration of its oper• Wildfires lent conditions in international markets, over which ations to have some flexibility in managing its expo• Fiber scarcity the company has no significant influence or control. sure to fluctuations in pulp prices. • Community relations and social license to operate • Geopolitical changes These factors include fluctuations in global demand The impact of a possible decrease in pulp prices • Positioning of the Forestry Industry (mainly driven by economic conditions in China, would be partially offset by the resulting reduced in• Acquisitions and investment projects North America, Europe and Latin America), variaput cost of certain other more elaborate products, • Product innovation for the market tions in the industry’s installed capacity and actual especially tissue paper and boxboard. • Knowledge and talent management production, inventory levels, business strategies and competitive advantages of the main players in the forestry industry, availability of substitute products Operational • Cybersecurity and the stage of the product’s life cycle. • Occupational accidents or illness • Industrial fire or explosions • Natural disasters Exchange rate CMPC is affected by currency fluctuations in three In order to mitigate the currency exchange rate risk, ways: hedging transactions are carried out through deriv06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e • Environmental incidents • Critical equipment failure atives in order to fix the exchange rates in question. • Attacks on physical assets 1) Company revenue, costs and expenses, which are directly or indirectly denominated in currencies other As of December 31, 2019, a portion of the estimatthan the functional currency. ed 2020 sales of boxboard and wood in Europe, in Compliance • Corruption and fair competition 2) Exchange rate variations arising from a possible euros and British pounds, was covered for the cur• Change in environmental regulations accounting mismatch between assets and liabilities, rent year. denominated in other currencies than its respective functional currency. Considering that the structure of the company’s cash 3) The provision taxes: deferred particularly in Braflows is highly indexed to the US dollar, most liabilities zil, for those subsidiary companies that use a funchave been incurred in that currency. In the case of tional currency different from the tax currency and foreign subsidiaries in the Softys business division, current mainly by Softys Chile for its investments which collect receivables in local currency, part of outside the country. their debt is denominated in the same currency to reduce financial and accounting mismatches. Additionally, it is estimated that the sales in US dollars or indexed to this currency amount to approximately Other mechanisms used to mitigate the exchange 59% of the company’s total sales. At the same time, rate risk are: managing the currency denomination on the expense side, raw materials, supplies and of the financial investment portfolio, occasional conreplacements required for continued industrial optracting of short-term future operations and, in cererations, as well as property, plants and equipment tain cases, transactions using options, which are investments, are mostly denominated in or indexed subject to limits previously authorized by the Board to US dollars. of Directors and represent a small amount in relation to the company’s total sales. 27 The credit and liquidity risks are described in the Earnings Release of the company in the Appendix section of this integrated report. 182 183 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and potential impact Risk management Risk Description and potential impact Risk management Water availability for Water is an indispensable and strategic resource for CMPC is examining new technology and processes Positioning of the The company has identified the risk of not managing There are significant opportunities in positioning the industrial operations the company‘s industrial operations. for the reduction of its industrial water use. In addiForestry Industry to position forests, the use of biofuels and the creforestry industry as one that plays a crucial role in tion, it currently disposes of permits for the extraction ation of bioproducts as important in society. capturing carbon and similarly for the wood industry. Climate change could have an impact on the availof enough water to feed its operations. In addition, bioproducts have an enormous potential ability of water due to long-lasting decrease in precipto be positioned as a renewable alternative to substiitations and therefore, less accumulation of mountain tute fossil-based non-renewable products. water in the watersheds, which could lead to a chronic drought. Acquisitions and CMPC has an important investment plan with annual All these investments pose the risk of not having investment projects budget of approximately USD500 million. Additionally, been correctly evaluated or it could turn out that the Wildfires In recent years, conditions aiding the start and spread The company has developed a program for the preit carries out capex projects which require large disassumptions or scenarios considered as part of the of wildfires have become more common. This could vention of fires as well as systems for fire control in bursements. In addition, this is a company that bases evaluation process never materialized in the expected directly impact our forest plantations, which could in order to minimize their impact. its expansion not only on organic growth, but also way. That is why CMPC has a multi-tiered process for turn suffer losses resulting in fiber scarcity. evaluates and could carry out acquisitions of busithe revision and approval of investment and acquisiThe company allocates funds in its annual budget for nesses or companies. tion projects. the prevention and control of fire, as well as for training its workers and the local community. product innovation CMPC identifies as critical the risks associated with The company is working on and will continue to be for the market not being able to innovate in step with the competition, committed to a number of projects in order to inFiber scarcity due Precipitations play a fundamental role in the growth Through proper management and genetic improvenot anticipating in a timely manner the needs of the crease its capacity and culture of innovation, as well to environmental and yield of plantations. There are other natural risks, ments, the company has managed to constantly inmarket, or the emergence of substitutes and alternaas being market and consumer oriented. conditions which could affect the availability of fiber, such as crease the yield of its forest plantations, but it is not tives which would cause our products to lose value. strong winds or pest affecting forest plantations. immune to the risk associated with significant weather pattern changes. Knowledge and One of the competitive advantages of the company Adequate talent and knowledge management not Should these events occur, it would result in the loss talent management and what its future prospects depend on is knowlonline eliminates the risk of losing knowledge and the of forest assets, which could in turn impact the availSome of these potential occurrences have partial inedge management and the attraction and retention capacity to retain or attract talent, but also allows us to ability of timber for company operations or sale. surance coverage limited by deductibles and com06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e of talent. CMPC has identified knowledge and talent be proactive in capturing various related opportunities. pensation maximums, determined in accordance management as fundamental and strategic, identifywith the historical losses and the levels of prevention ing as main risks. and protection implemented. Community relations CMPC runs forestry and industrial operations in difCMPC has a Community Engagement Policy, which and social license ferent geographical locations, including the Chilean aims to contribute to the environmental and social to operate regions of Biobio and La Araucania, where it borders sustainability of all these communities, generating local communities. It is important for the company to programs for employment, education and the furtherbe on good terms with these communities, as it could ing of productive development, including support for be considered a risk if these relationships worsen. micro-entrepreneurship initiatives by families that live in these areas, among other initiatives. It should be noted that in Chile, such initiatives take place in more than 380 mapuche communities. Geopolitical and Changes in the political or economic conditions in The company keeps track of changing economic and economic conditions the countries where CMPC operates could affect the political conditions, which could affect it and develcompany's financial and operating performance, as ops action plans addressing the arising conditions. well as the fulfilment of its business plan. CMPC has industrial operations in 8 countries (Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay). The operations located in Chile account for 57% of total assets and originate 51% of sales. In turn, Brazil represents approximately 31% of CMPC's total assets. 184 185 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and potential impact Risk management Risk Description and potential impact Risk management Cyber risk The increase in cases of a breach of cybersecurity CMPC and its main IT service providers have continRisks affecting Other operational risks identified by the company The purpose of CMPC’s operational risks manageand cybercrime in Chile and the world present a pogency plans and have adopted measures to prevent operational continuity are fires and explosions at industrial facilities, natument is to efficiently and effectively protect the worktential risk to the security of our information technolor mitigate the impact of events such as interruptions, ral disasters, critical equipment failure, environmental ers, assets, processes and systems of the company, ogy systems, including those of our productive mills, failures or breaches, due to causes such as natural incidents, attacks on physical assets, or environmenthe environment and business continuity in general. our service providers, as well as the confidentiality, calamities, power outages, security breaches, comtal accidents. To this end, accident prevention measures are adintegrity and availability of information stored in these puter viruses or cybersecurity attacks. ministered in a balanced way, systematic work is systems, some of which depend on the services proShould these risks materialize, they could have a sigdone in loss prevention, which is carried out accordvided by third parties. nificant impact on the continuity of operations, causing to pre-established guidelines, to which periodic ing stoppages and affecting production goals and the inspections carried out by specialist engineers of inShould these risks materialize, they could have a sigability to meet the needs of clients. surance companies are added. nificant impact on the continuity of operations, causing stoppages and affecting production goals and the They could also force unforeseen disbursements for Additionally, CMPC has a plan for a continuous imability to meet the needs of clients. asset maintenance and recovery, all of which may adprovement of its operational risk conditions in order versely affect CMPC's financial results. to prevent and minimize the probability of occurrence They can also have significant consequences on and mitigate the effects of eventual accidents. These the occupational health and safety of workers, the Additionally, the materialization of these risks can plans are implemented by each business unit of the environment, communities and the reputation of the have significant consequences on the occupational company in accordance with norms and standards company. health and safety of workers, the environment, comdefined and coordinated at the corporate level. munities and the reputation of the company. Additionally, they could also force unforeseen disIn addition, CMPC and its subsidiaries have contractbursements for asset maintenance and recovery, all ed insurance coverage through which a substantial of which may adversely affect CMPC's financial repart of their main risks are transferred. sults. All of the company's infrastructure assets (buildings, facilities, machinery, among the main ones) are reaOccupational Any situation that could pose a risk to the health and CMPC has a plan for identifying situations or occursonably covered for operational risks with insurance 06 cg oo rv pe ro rn aa tnec e accidents or illness safety of CMPC collaborators, both direct and indirences, which could turn into employee accidents or policies at their replacement value. rect, is an important concern for the company. illness, and takes measures to prevent and minimize the probability of occurrence of such events. Risk prevention professionals at each production facility are in charge of this process. 186 187 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 COMPLIANCE RISKS Risk Description and potential impact Risk management Corruption and fair These risks are associated with the company’s ability The respective organs of CMPC corporate govercompetition to comply with legal, regulatory, contractual, and any nance regularly review its operating and administranon-contractual obligations and standards which the tive processes in order to ensure proper compliance company has imposed on itself. with the laws and regulations applicable to it in every country where it operates. Any situation that could result in non-compliance with corruption and competition laws is considered of high The company has implemented and is taking actions impact. that continue to strengthen a series of processes, controls and systems to prevent the occurrence of acts of corruption and anti-competitive practices, and safeguard fair competition. Within the framework of this constant concern, better international practices and modified corporate governance structures have been adopted in order to make related efforts more efficient. Together with the existence of Board committees to oversee the correct identification and mitigation of these risks, there are corporate areas with high levels of independence that participate in these processes, whose objective is to make more effective the controls and preventive actions defined. Changes in CMPC operations are regulated by the environmental CMPC has been adopting best practices for susenvironmental laws in the countries where it is present. tainable development of its businesses, which has regulations meant the voluntary adoption of and compliance with Climate change as well as any future changes in standards stricter than required by local regulations. these environmental regulations or their interpretaThis has enabled the company to adapt to modification, could have an impact on the company operations in environmental legislation and meet the new tions. requirements. Employee monitors forest assets at the CMPC Los Angeles office building, Biobio Region, Chile. It should be noted that non-compliance with these In 2019, CMPC announced specific environmental and other environmental regulations could incur goals. With these efforts, CMPC strives to contribute costs that would affect the business’ profitability. to mitigate the effects of climate change and prepare itself for environmental regulatory changes which could have an adverse effect on its operations and finances, as well as identify and take advantage of related opportunities which might present themselves. Emerging risks Emerging risks are those which have been gaining momentum as critical risks in the course of the past few years due to changes in the surrounding environment. Some of the risks which were given priority meet this Note: For more detail on these risks, refer to the 4Q19 Earnings Release requirement more than others, such as, for example, cybersecurity. It has been gaining importance as a critattached to this integrated report. ical risk for many companies in recent years. Another risk to gain significance is the one associated with communities and social license to operate. This comes in response to the importance of improving the standards of interaction with neighboring communities for companies with industrial operations or natural resources, such as in the forestry industry. 07 189 FI NAN 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Business performance CES 190 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 7.1 FINANCIAL Financial ratios 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net Debt/ EBITDA 3.7x 3.0x 1.6x 2.81x RESULTS Debt/Tangible Net Worth 0.53x 0.51x 0.47x 0.50x Liquidity Ratio 2.47x 1.1x 2.17x 1.29x Interest Coverage Ratio 4.60x 4.98x 8.50x 6.09x Source: Investor Relations. The third pillar on which CMPC bases its operations in order to generate value for all of its Results by business division stakeholders is a stable economic performance with prudent financial management, coupled with commitment to environmental and social sustainability. As a result, CMPC celebrates 100 years of history, full of success, growth and continuous Sales by Business EBITDA by Business improvements despite the challenges of market conditions. 1,816 6,274 5,670 81 4,866 5,143 924 153 890 1,169 836 814 970 1,078 1,974 70 2,094 86 201 1,803 1,923 111 215 243 1,616 3,377 929 2019 was a challenging year for pulp producers around the On the other hand, the Softys and Biopackaging business di2,226 2,406 2,686 634 798 world, due to low prices and weaker demand compared to visions benefited from the lower fiber costs, which led them market expectations. Hardwood and softwood prices deto report higher EBITDA generation and better margins (9.6% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 creased by 23% and 28% respectively, compared to 2018. and 7.9% respectively). Nevertheless, CMPC managed to maintain stable levels of pulp production and sales throughout the year. Net Income for the year ended December 31st, 2019 totaled 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Biopackaging Softys Celulosa USD 84 million, compared to USD 502 million in the same This resulted in a decrease of 10% in consolidated sales and period 2018, primarily explained by lower operating earnings, 36% in EBITDA compared to 2018. partly offset by lower income taxes. Results by business for the last 4 years Sales volumes by business 28 Consolidated earnings Celulosa 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consolidated earnings (Million USD) Pulp (‘000 tons) 3,188 3,005 3,558 3,641 2016 2017 2018 2019 BSKP 623 679 644 693 BHKP 2,656 2,326 2,914 2,948 Third-party sales 4,866 5,143 6,274 5,670 Solid wood products 1,376 1,191 1,398 1,243 EBITDA 970 1,078 1,816 1,169 (‘000 m3) Net Income -18 103 502 84 Source: Investor Relations Net Debt 3,573 3,198 2,853 3,283 Third-party sales volumes. 28 Free Cash Flow 19 429 702 -258 Source: Investor Relations 192 193 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 7.2 GREEN Sales volumes by business Softys 2016 2017 2018 2019 Tissue paper (‘000 645 671 682 726 FINANCING tons) Personal care 5,318 5,241 5,497 6,337 products (Million units) Source: Investor Relations Biopackaging 2016 2017 2018 2019 Biopackaging 789 780 839 843 The proceeds of this type of financing are used exclusively to Through this kind of financing, CMPC seeks to continue growing products (‘000 finance or refinance, in part of in full, new and/or existing projits investor base by attracting the environmentally conscious and metric tons) ects with environmental benefits, according to the Green Bond socially responsible ones with a long-term vision. Source: Investor Relations Principles. Consolidated taxes 29 Green bonds and loans Consolidated financial information for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 (‘000 USD) In 2019, CMPC issued its third green bond for the amount USD 100 million with a 5-year term. This transaction was Categoría 2018 2019 of approximately USD 93.17 million on the Chilean market. executed in compliance with the format of a Green Loan and The 10-year term bond obtained an effective annual placeis the first green syndicated loan granted completely by JapaRevenue 6,221,464 5,596,093 ment rate of 1.22% with a spread of 0.57% over the refernese banks, opening the door to new financing opportunities ence rate. In addition, the company procured a green loan for for the company. Net Income before tax 880,197 221,262 Income tax expense for the year (115,043) (340,496) 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Tax payable (361,195) (100,187) Emission year 2017 2018 2019 Effective tax rate 42.94% 61.86% Reconciliation of income tax (107,748) (62,315) Country USA Peru Chile Japan expense with effective rate Source: Corporate Administration Department Term 10 years 6 years 10 years 5 years Amount (in USD) 500,000,000 30,000,000 93,170,000 100,000,000 Financial information by country in 2019 (‘000 USD) Source: Investor Relations Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Mexico Peru USA Uruguay Revenue 379,848 1,646,467 4,732,471 116,239 40,198 450,018 406,165 352,494 91,747 Green bond issuance aligns to the four pillars of the Green and reporting. The four pillars are: use of proceeds, project Operating (20,715) 304,899 (30,439) (2,507) (3,492) 12,936 31,841 10,771 8,151 Net Income Bond Principles (GBP), which promote integrity in this market evaluation and selection, management of proceeds, and finalthrough guidelines that recommend transparency, disclosure ly, annual impact reporting. Tax Expense (750) (108,727) (225,275) (565) (507) (1,004) (2,727) (941) 0 Source: Corporate Administration Department 29 For more information on taxes, refer to Note 33 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. 194 195 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 PROJECTS FUNDED Environmental benefits 2019 Eligible category Description Funds allocated/ disbursed (USD) Sustainable forest Building and maintaining a forest base which captures and stores CO2. This 70,243,354 management process includes producing and acquiring seedlings, preparing the soil for planting using subsoiling and harrowing, planting the seedlings, and protecting and taking care of trees until they reach harvesting age. The sustainable management of pine and eucalyptus forest plantations is certified through CERTFOR-PEFC™ or CERFLOR-PEFC™, FSC® or other equivalent certification. Sustainable water Reduction of industrial water consumption, the installation of systems for reusing 21,159,432 management industrial water and the development and installation of systems and technologies that improve the quality of water discharge. Additionally, continuous efforts to reduce the content of organic compounds and volume of effluents. Preservation of Protection and conservation of existing native forests, identification and protection 679,900 Biodiversity and of endangered flora and fauna, and conservation and restoration of High Restoration of Forest Conservation Value Areas (HCVA). Pollution prevention Projects for the prevention and control of liquid and solid waste, as well as the 4,231,539 capture and incineration of gas emissions in industrial facilities. Energy efficiency Projects that increase energy efficiency such as the substitution of land transport 2,496,157 of timber with barges which are more efficient in their energy consumption. 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Eco-efficient and/ Projects for the development and introduction of environmentally sustainable 2,882,315 or circular economy products, with an eco-label or environmental certification, resource-efficient adapted products packaging and distribution. Green buildings Energy efficient buildings which meet regional, national or internationally 2,358,969 recognized standards or certifications such as LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design). Funds allocated to green projects by year Year 2017 2018 2019 Investments in 358,708,347 159,363,416 104,051,666 projects with environmental benefits Source: Investor Relations 196 197 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 7.3 SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Inversiones CMPC S.A. CMPC Celulosa S.A. and CMPC Papeles S.A. and CMPC Tissue S.A. and Inmobiliaria CMPC Papeles CMPC Papeles Inversiones CMPC and its Subsidiaries its Subsidiaries its Subsidiaries its Subsidiaries Pinares SpA Forestal S.A. Tissue S.A. Cayman Ltd. 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD Assets Current Assets 3,625,713 3.893,906 2,460,687 2,317,899 615,320 619,532 814,343 765,245 1,477 1,472 229 255 Property, plant and 7,770,808 7,653,136 5,414,628 5,602,517 865,919 837,620 1,444,465 1,132,873 277 297 equipment Non-current biological 3,041,258 3,073,955 3,041,258 3,073,955 assets 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Intangible assets and others 764,007 569,774 226,940 224,065 22,783 16,322 379,321 192,344 2,779 2,889 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 497,659 497,663 Non-current Assets 11,576,073 11,296,865 8,682,826 8,900,537 888,702 853,942 1,823,786 1,325,217 3,056 3,186 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 497,659 497,663 Total Assets 15,201,786 15,190,771 11,143,513 11,218,436 1,504,022 1,473,474 2,638,129 2,090,462 4,533 4,658 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 497,888 497,918 Equity and Liabilities Current Liabilities 1,501,709 1,481,660 1,454,056 726,836 192,756 200,917 877,241 818,317 1,302 1,273 1,197 1,198 Non-current Liabilities 5,294,787 5,086,546 3,706,757 4,410,304 266,420 222,649 743,535 551,924 1,616 1,835 Equity attributable to owners 5,435,137 5,606,080 5,421,069 5,503,892 1,024,485 1,028,414 1,016,782 719,635 1,615 1,550 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 496,691 496,720 of the parent Non-controlling interest 2,970,153 3,016,485 561,631 577,404 20,361 21,494 571 586 Total Equity 8,405,290 8,622,565 5,982,700 6,081,296 1,044,846 1,049,908 1,017,353 720,221 1,615 1,550 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 496,691 496,720 Total Equity and Liabilities 15,201,786 15,190,771 11,143,513 11,218,436 1,504,022 1,473,474 2,638,129 2,090,462 4,533 4,658 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 497,888 497,918 198 199 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 SUMMARY OF STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Inversiones CMPC Celulosa CMPC Papeles S.A. and CMPC Tissue S.A. Inmobiliaria CMPC Papeles CMPC Papeles Inversiones CMPC CMPC S.A. S.A. and its its Subsidiaries and its Subsidiaries Pinares SpA Forestal S.A. Tissue S.A. Cayman Ltd. and its Subsidiaries Subsidiaries 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD Share capital 399,272 399,272 1,883,299 1,883,299 274,840 274,840 1,298,046 1,030,923 1,558 1,558 8,518 8,518 16,100 16,100 574,265 574,265 Foreign currency (786,218) (690,094) 64 59 (13,590) (13,590) (133,134) (205,150) 124 128 686 971 (36) (36) translation reserve Cash flow 24,748 25,868 35,798 37,791 3,375 6,041 788 1,109 (21) 22 hedge reserve Actuarial net income or (25,110) (19,241) (2,607) (464) (4,202) (3,872) (11,838) (8,760) (loss) on defined benefit plan reserve Other miscellaneous 294,780 294,956 3,001,809 3,001,749 3,264 3,264 (3,277) (3,531) (3) (4) (139) (15) (46,933) (46,933) reserves Accrued profit (loss) 5,527,665 5,595,319 502,706 581,458 760,798 761,731 (133,803) (94,956) (67) (136) (390) (116) (2,259) (1,151) (30,605) (30,576) Equity Attributable to 5,435,137 5,606,080 5,421,069 5,503,892 1,024,485 1,028,414 1,016,782 719,635 1,615 1,550 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 496,691 496,720 Owners of the Parent Non-controlling interest 2,970,153 3,016,485 561,631 577,404 20,361 21,494 571 586 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Total Equity 8,405,290 8,622,565 5,982,700 6,081,296 1,044,846 1,049,908 1,017,353 720,221 1,615 1,550 8,125 8,398 14,367 15,927 496,691 496,720 200 201 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 SUMMARY OF STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Inversiones CMPC CMPC Celulosa CMPC Papeles CMPC Tissue S.A. Inmobiliaria CMPC Papeles CMPC Papeles Inversiones CMPC S.A. and its S.A. and its S.A. and its and its Subsidiaries Pinares SpA Forestal S.A. Tissue S.A. Cayman Ltd. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD Gross Profit (Loss) 1,109,152 1,797,072 469,631 1,181,401 96,279 114,828 549,354 504,583 Other operating income and (837,401) (890,957) (252,671) (240,122) (91,299) (92,013) (551,290) (558,263) 126 149 (274) (116) (443) (1,151) (29) (29) expenses Income (Loss) before Tax 271,751 906,115 216,960 941,279 4,980 22,815 (1,936) (53,680) 126 149 (274) (116) (443) (1,151) (29) (29) Income tax expense (149,040) (382,507) (121,890) (349,058) (2,184) (12,318) (19,143) (28,261) (56) (71) Income (Loss) from 122,711 523,608 95,070 592,221 2,796 10,497 (21,079) (81,941) 70 78 (274) (116) (443) (1,151) (29) (29) continuing operations Income (loss) attributable to 67,789 211,207 95,677 549,425 3,577 11,404 (21,113) (81,950) 70 78 (274) (116) (443) (1,151) (29) (29) owners of the parent Income (loss) attributable to 54,922 312,401 (607) 42,796 (781) (907) 34 9 non-controlling interest Net Income (Loss) 122,711 523,608 95,070 592,221 2,796 10,497 (21,079) (81,941) 70 78 (274) (116) (443) (1,151) (29) (29) 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Comprehensive Income Statement Net Income (Loss) 122,711 523,608 95,070 592,221 2,796 10,497 (21,079) (81,941) 70 78 (274) (116) (443) (1,151) (29) (29) Other compehensive (105,414) (40,003) (4,131) 7,951 (2,996) 2,402 (9,628) (23,424) (4) 19 1 (4) (452) 978 (3) income (loss) Comprehensive Income 17,297 483,605 90,939 600,172 (200) 12,899 (30,707) (105,365) 66 97 (273) (120) (895) (173) (29) (32) Comprehensive income (35,500) 121,827 91,546 557,376 581 13,806 (30,741) (105,374) 66 97 (273) (120) (895) (173) (29) (32) (loss) attributable to owners of the parent Comprehensive income 52,797 361,778 (607) 42,796 (781) (907) 34 9 (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest Comprehensive Income 17,297 483,605 90,939 600,172 (200) 12,899 (30,707) (105,365) 66 97 (273) (120) (895) (173) (29) (32) 202 203 i n t e g r at e d r e p o r t 2 0 1 9 SUMMARY OF CASH FLOW STATEMENT Inversiones CMPC CMPC Celulosa CMPC Papeles CMPC Tissue S.A. Inmobiliaria CMPC Papeles CMPC Papeles Inversiones CMPC S.A. and its S.A. and its S.A. and its and its Subsidiaries Pinares SpA Forestal S.A. Tissue S.A. Cayman Ltd. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD MUSD Net cash flows from (used in) 678,670 1,010,874 603,154 1,147,133 77,828 (40,249) 40,962 (101,460) (33) (138) (27) (27) operating activities Net cash flow from (used in) (747,060) (483,289) (302,950) (215,961) (63,662) 8,959 (408,324) (115,702) 1 7 (1) investing activities Net cash flow from (used in) (277,253) (368,370) (266,936) (936,405) (13,003) 29,520 417,811 85,377 38 131 1 financing activities Net Increase (Decrease) (345,643) 159,215 33,268 (5,233) 1,163 (1,770) 50,449 (131,785) 6 (27) (27) in Cash and Cash Equivalents before the Effect of Changes in the Exchange Rate Effect of changes in the (6,826) (22,080) (8,024) (4,179) (322) (829) 3,720 (886) (6) 1 exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents 967,502 830,367 19,437 28,849 6,013 8,612 52,249 184,920 142 169 at beginning of the period 07 bp eu rs fi noersmsa n c e Cash and Cash 615,033 967,502 44,681 19,437 6,854 6,013 106,418 52,249 116 142 Equivalents at the End of the Period 08 METHO DOLO GY Elaboration of the integrated report 206 207 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 8.1 METHODOLOGY Materiality analysis 2019 An exercise in Materiality Analysis was undertaken over the entire value chain of the three CMPC business areas to update, assess in detail and prioritize the material issues identified in 2018. This process followed the GRI principles for the selection of quality content and was carried out in three steps: Identification, Definition and Prioritization. (102-21, 102-31, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54, 102-56) 1 2 3 CMPC has resolved to issue a sequence of annual Integrated Financial Market Commission (Comisión para el Mercado FiReports for the benefit of its various stakeholders. This fourth nanciero, CMF) under General Common Norm (GCN) No. 30, edition comprises information for the period from January 1st GCN No. 386 and GCN No. 385 on the disclosure of good to December 31st, 2019 covering the Celulosa, Biopackaging corporate governance practices. and Softys business division across the eight countries where CMPC operates. This report was verified by the external auditor KPMG in terms of the 20 sustainability Indicators and the Financial StateIDENTIFICATION ASSESSMENT PRIORITIZATION The company has adopted a number of international stanments attached to this document. The 2019 carbon footprint dards, including the principles of the International Integrated data were verified by the external audit firm Deloitte. Reporting Council (IIRC), the Dow Jones Sustainability Index suite (DJSI) recommendations, and the indicators and exIn addition, CMPC has decided to align its sustainability stratplanations of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), to assess egy and objectives with the United Nations Sustainable DeCMPC impact and contribution on all social, environmental velopment Goals (SDGs) of the Agenda 2030. The company and financial matters. Finally, this report adheres to the esuses these objectives as the framework for its corporate pursential agreement of the latest versions of the GRI Standards pose: Create, Coexist and Conserve. from 2016 and 2018. This document also serves as a Communication on Progress Additionally, it complies with the obligatory regulations for (CoP) for the UN Global Compact, of which CMPC is a memIDENTIFICATIoN annual reports currently in force in Chile established by the ber since 2018. The 2018 materiality analysis followed the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct process, recommended by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). It is a three-step process including: gathering information from CMPC business divisions, environmental analysis by country, and 08 EI NLTAEBGORRAATTEI DO NR EO PF OTRHTE interviews with main executives from the company. Information collection also included secondary sources and a benchmark analysis for each business division, considering the reportability of each indicator. (102-10, 102-48, 102-49) For the context analysis by country, information on critical risks and geographical context was collected by organizThis report restates previously communicated information and contains some ing interviews and roundtables with local experts, authorities, clients and community representative in each country. changes in classification criteria for the purpose of more robust traceability in relation to the company strategy. Any changes will be duly marked as such. Finally, interviews were conducted with line managers from each subsidiary to analyze and cross reference material issues for each CMPC business area and unit. This led to the identification of 30 relevant issues. That is why, some indicators may not be compatible with previous years'. 208 209 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 ASSESSMENT Prioritization The material issues that the above described process identified in 2018 were further assessed for disclosure in The information gathered at the previous stage was analyzed qualitatively within the context of fiscal year 2019 2019. This was done in three steps: and as a result, material issues were reorganized, regrouped or renamed, taking into consideration industry trends, operations management in the three business areas and their unique perspective on economic, social and environmental matters. First step: All material issues y their evolution can be found in the following table Analysis of global sustainability frameworks of reference During this step of the process, the frameworks and standards for susMATERIALITY ANALYSIS tainability of the following organizations and initiatives were assessed: ● CMF: Chilean Financial Market Commission ● CDP: ex Carbon Disclosure Project Identified in 2018 Prioritization 2019 material issues ● GRI: Global Reporting Initiative ● WBCSD: World Business Council for ● IIRC: International Integrated Reporting Council Sustainable Development Culture of integrity Unchanged Culture of Integrity ● SDG: Sustainable Development Goals ● Global Compact Talent attraction, retention and development Renamed Talent attraction, retention and ● DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index development Labor relations Unchanged Labor relations Diversity and inclusion in the workplace Unchanged Diversity and inclusion Second step: Occupational health and safety Modified to include employees and Occupational health and safety Analysis of best practices suppliers within our industry Automation Incorporated into talent attraction and retention A benchmark analysis was carried out during this step, using sustainability and integrated reports by nine comEnvironmental regulations compliance Incorporated into culture of integrity panies, three each corresponding to our business divisions. This analysis focused on material issues, indicators, and other relevant information published. Forest and biodiversity conservation Renamed Ecosystem and biodiversity conservation Climate change adaptation Renamed Climate change 08 EI NLTAEBGORRAATTEI DO NR EO PF OTRHTE Third step: Wildfires Unchanged Wildfires Interviews with executives and an evaluation of Water Unchanged Water the perspectives of each business division Energy Unchanged Energy Greenhouse gas emissions Unchanged Emissions A series of semi-structured interviews were conducted with 36 executives from both the CMPC corporate adminisWaste Unchanged Waste tration and each business division. Sludge Incorporated into waste Additionally, 30 articles from international newspapers were reviewed in order to identify the most relevant news for Community engagement Merged with local development Community engagement and local the company throughout the year. development Transport Incorporated into local supplier and contractor development Local development Merged with community engagement 210 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Indigenous peoples Unchanged Indigenous peoples Chain of custody guarantee Covered by certifications Customer satisfaction Unchanged Customer satisfaction Innovation Unchanged Innovation Product quality and safety Covered by certifications Advertising ethics Incorporated into culture of integrity Brand reputation Incorporated into culture of integrity Personal care and hygiene Incorporated into community engagement and local development Local contractor and supplier development Unchanged Local supplier and contractor development Procurement process Incorporated into local supplier and contractor development Health and safety of contractors and Incorporated into health and safety service providers Labor regulations compliance of Incorporated into local supplier and contractors and service providers contractor development New material issue Sustainable forest management This process determined 18 relevant topics to be included in the Integrated Report 2019. ABBREVIATIONS USED THROUGHOUT THE REPORT ‘000 USD = thousand USD m2 = square meters ha = hectares th. = thousand m3 = cubic meters km = kilometers ‘000 m3 = thousand cubic meters tCO2e = metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent million m3 = million cubic meters GWh = gigawatt-hours ton = metric tons MWt = thermal megawatts ‘000 ton = thousand metric tons TJ = terajoules ADt = Air Dry ton (metric) 09 AP 9.1 STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY .................................................215 9.2 EMPRESAS CMPC DATA BY CHAPTER ....................................216 9.3 OWNERSHIP TABLE ................................................................................236 PEN DIX 9.4 CORPORATE STRUCTURE ..................................................................266 9.5 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT .........................................270 9.6 VERIFICATION LETTER .........................................................................272 9.7 CARBON FOOTPRINT VERIFICATION LETTER ..........................273 9.8 INDICATOR CONTENT INDEX ............................................................485 214 215 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9.1 Statement of Responsibility The Members of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Commission [Comisión para el Mercado Financiero (CMF)], as Empresas CMPC S.A., under oath, do hereby declare themwell as the recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative selves each individually responsible for the veracity of all the (GRI) and the principles of the International Integrated Reportinformation in this present Integrated Report 2019, which ing Council (IIRC). adheres to the standards of the [Chilean] Financial Market Francisco Ruiz-Tagle E. (CEO) 7.052.877-0 Luis Felipe Gazitúa A. Vivianne Blanlot S. Rafael Fernández M. (Chairman of the Board) (Board Member) (Board Member) 6.069.087-1 6.964.638-7 6.429.250-1 Jorge Larraín M. Jorge Matte C. Bernardo Matte L. (Board Member) (Board Member) (Board Member) 10.031.620-K 14.169.037-K 6.598.728-7 09 A P P E N D I X Jorge Marín C. Ramiro Mendoza Z. Pablo Turner G. (Board Member) (Board Member) (Board Member) 7.639.707-4 7.578.740-5 7.056.349-5 216 217 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9.2 Certified third-party forest assets by category in ha EMPRESAS CMPC Country Argentina Brazil Chile Total DATA BY CHAPTER Year 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Third-party forests 0 0 40,996 137,532 23,724 25,117 64,720 162,649 Certified third-party 0 0 40,996 40,768 23,724 25,117 64,720 65,885 forests CHAPTER 2 Certified third-party forests (%) 0% 0% 100% 30% 100% 100% 100% 41% Forest assets Forest assets by category in ha Certifications Country Argentina Brazil Chile Total Sustainable forest management % Plantations 58,220 180,566 449,076 687,862 Share of certified forest assets 90.3% Land to be planted 7,053 8,866 55,978 71,897 Share of certified raw material 97% Right-to-use plantations 21,079 21,017 42,096 Right-to-use land to be planted 1,137 2,358 3,495 Land for administrative use 10,159 14,671 36,200 61,030 Land for protection and conservation 18,865 138,751 165,685 323,301 Chain of Custody and Controlled Wood Total forest land area 94,297 365,069 730,314 1,189,680 Forestry Brazil • Florestal Celulose Riograndense Chile • Forestal Mininco Pulp Brazil • Guaiba, Chile • Laja, Pacifico and Santa Fe Forest certifications Maderas Chile • Sawmills, Millwork and Plywood Biopackaging Chile • Boxboard Maule, Valdivia; Corrugated Tiltil packaging and papers facilities; and Edipac Certified CMPC owned forest assets by category in ha Peru • Sack Kraft Softys Brazil • Caierias, Guaiba, Recife and Mogi Country Argentina Brazil Chile Total Chile • Talagante and Puente Alto Mexico • Santa Catarina and Altamira Year 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 09 A P P E N D I X CMPC owned 94,297 94,297 282,326 282,338 706,728 705,197 1,083,351 1,081,832 forests Certified CMPC 0 0 278,757 279,813 698,173 696,836 976,930 976,649 owned forests Certified CMPC 0% 0% 98.7% 99.1% 98.8% 98.8% 90.2% 90.3% owned forests (%) 218 219 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Certified raw material sourced from third parties by category in ‘000 m3 Number and surface area (in ha) of HCVAs Country Argentina Brazil Chile Total 2017 2018 2019 Year 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Number Area Number Area Number Area Own raw material 679 635 7,044 6,385 10,155 10,663 17,878 17,683 Argentina produced Biological 5 9,430 5 9,430 5 9,426 Certified own raw 0 0 7,044 6,385 10,155 10,663 17,199 17,048 Service material produced Third-party raw 0 0 267 570 2,751 3,220 3,018 3,790 Socio-cultural 1 1 1 4.3 material Brazil Certified third-party 0 0 267 570 2,751 3,220 3,018 3,790 Biological 5 2,339 7 2,947 7 4,091 raw material Service 6 180 7 181 7 181 Total raw material 679 635 7,311 6,955 12,906 13,883 20,896 21,473 (Own + Third-party) Socio-cultural 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total certified raw 0 0 7,311 6,955 12,906 13,883 20,217 20,838 Chile material (Own + Thirdparty) Biological 14 10,220 14 10,212 14 10,964.5 Share of certified 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 97% 97% Service 358 2,455.3 357 3,480.8 371 3,440.0 raw material of total consumption Socio-cultural 27 234.8 27 211.2 27 211.0 Total 416 24,859.1 418 26,462 432 28,317.8 Biological 24 21,989 26 22,589 26 24,481.5 Service 364 2,635.3 364 3,661.8 378 3,621 Socio-cultural 28 234.8 28 211.2 28 215.3 ECOSYSTEM AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION Number of endangered species by extinction risk category Native forests restored by country in ha Category Argentina Brazil Chile Total Critically endangered 1 0 0 1 Country Accumulated Restored in 2019 Total Progress between 2010-2018 accumulated towards goal Endangered 8 3 172 183 to date Vulnerable 12 15 10 37 Brazil 31,648 12,466 44,114 68% Near threatened 7 4 2 13 Chile 1,890 398 2,288 26% Least concern 9 0 5 14 09 A P P E N D I X Total 33,538 12,864 46,402 63% Total 37 22 189 248 220 221 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 CHAPTER 3 CHAPTER 4 LOCAL SUPPLIER 4.1 DEVELOPMENT OUR PEOPLE Average CMPC payment days to suppliers by category Employees by country Business area Celulosa Biopackaging Softys Total Country Female Male Total Average payment 20 54 50 34 days Argentina 185 1,341 1,526 Average payment 13 24 37 25 Brazil 335 2,052 2,387 days to MSMEs Chile 1,340 8,295 9,635 Colombia 147 371 518 Ecuador 74 188 262 Number of suppliers and average payment days by category Mexico 412 1,325 1,737 Peru 196 1,239 1,435 Country Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Mexico Peru Uruguay USA Total Uruguay 55 290 345 Number of MSMEs 767 4,593 115 47 424 552 317 0 6,815 USA 6 8 14 Average supplier 45 31 31 46 63 50 50 40 33 34 Total 2,750 15,109 17,859 payment days Average payment 40 15 13 55 44 39 43 25 days to MSMEs Employees by business area Business area Female Male Total MSME definition by country Celulosa 588 4,482 5,070 Biopackaging 435 2,952 3,387 • Argentina: According to sector (Construction: Sales ARS 568.3 million and 590 employees, Services: Sales ARS 412.8 million Softys 1,534 7,426 8,960 and 535 employees, Retail: Sales ARS 1,431.2 million and 345 employees, Industry and mining: Sales ARS 1,212.8 million Corporate 193 249 442 and 655 employees, Agriculture and fishing: Sales ARS 363.1 million and 215 employees) administration • Brazil: Annual sales under BRL 4.8 million Total 2,750 15,109 17,859 • Chile: Businesses with annual sales under CLF 100,000 09 A P P E N D I X • Colombia: Total assets under UVT 610,000 (UVT=Tax Value Unit for 2019 COP 34,270) and max. 200 employees Note: Corporate administration includes Empresas CMPC and the CMPC Foundation. • Ecuador: Annual sales under USD 5.0 million and maximum 199 employees • Mexico: Annual sales under MXN 1,250 million and up to 250 employees • Peru: Net revenue under UIT 1700 (UIT=”Unidad impositiva tributaria”, tax unit) in the taxable period • Uruguay: Annual revenue under UI 305,000 (UI = UYU 4.0275) 222 223 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Employees by job level Employees by type of contract Share of persons with disability by country 2018 2019 Work Female Male Total Level Female Male Total contract Country Female Male Total Female Male Total Executives 230 858 1,088 Indefinite 2,528 13,913 16,458 Argentina 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Professional and 1,506 4,012 5,518 Fixed-term 222 1,179 1,401 Brazil 3.0% 2.9% 2.9% 3.0% 2.4% 2.5% technical staff Total 2,750 15,109 17,859 Chile 0.8% 1.2% 1.1% 0.8% 1.1% 1.1% Operators 1,014 10,239 11,253 Colombia 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 2,750 15,109 17,859 Ecuador 1.3% 2.9% 2.4% 1.3% 2.7% 2.3% Mexico 0.0% 0.2% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Employees by type of employment Share of women in the Peru 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% workforce by year Uruguay 0.0% 0.6% 0.6% 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% Employment Female Male Total USA 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% type Total 0.8% 1.1% 1.1% 0.8% 1.0% 1.0% Year Percentage Full-time 2,746 15,104 17,850 Part-time 4 5 9 2014 13.3% Share of persons with disability by job level Total 2,750 15,109 17,859 2015 13.4% 2016 13.6% 2018 2019 2017 13.7% Level Female Male Total Female Male Total 2018 14.3% 2019 15.4% Executives 0.6% 0.0% 0.1% 0.9% 0.5% 0.6% Professional and 0.2% 1.3% 1.0% 0.3% 0.7% 0.6% technical staff Diversity and inclusion in the workplace Operators 2.1% 1.2% 1.2% 1.5% 1.1% 1.2% Total 0.8% 1.1% 1.1% 0.8% 1.0% 1.0% Number of women Country 2016 2017 2018 2019 promoted to management Share of persons with disability by business area level positions by country Argentina 4 1 1 4 Brazil 2 4 0 2 2018 2019 Chile 28 25 28 31 Business area Female Male Total Female Male Total Colombia 4 0 0 5 09 A P P E N D I X Ecuador 0 0 1 1 Celulosa 1.1% 2.0% 1.9% 1.2% 2.0% 1.9% Mexico 7 2 4 4 Biopackaging 0.2% 1.2% 1.1% 0.2% 0.9% 0.8% Peru 4 0 0 7 Softys 0.8% 0.5% 0.6% 0.7% 0.4% 0.5% Uruguay 0 0 1 0 Corporate 1.1% 0.0% 0.5% 1.0% 0.4% 0.7% administration USA 0 0 0 0 Total 0.8% 1.1% 1.1% 0.8% 1.0% 1.0% Total 49 32 35 54 224 225 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Legally required minimum of persons with disabilities by country 4.2 2019 Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Ecuador Mexico Peru Uruguay TALENT DEVELOPMENT Private sector N/A 5% 1% of the N/A 4% of the N/A 3% N/A* of the workforce of workforce of companies workforce of companies Training companies with with over with over over 100 de 25 1,001 employees employees employees Employee hours of training by gender and job level Public 4% N/A N/A N/A N/A 5% 5% 4% administration Employees trained Hours of training Percentage of total hours worked Note: In Uruguay, the requirement for the private sector is currently under discussion. In Mexico, 5% for public administration is only applicable to the Mexico City. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Gender Male 13,507 235,130 0.71% Employee Employee distribution Female 2,589 42,083 0.71% distribution by age by generation Job level Executives 733 912 21,025 19,392 1.05% 0.83% Professional and 4,949 4,659 124,530 85,329 1.02% 0.71% 2019 Total technical staff 2019 Total Operators 9,067 10,525 174,392 172,492 0.79% 0.70% Below 30 22% Silent generation 0.06% Total 14,749 16,096 319,946 277,213 0.89% 0.71% Between 30 and 40 37% Baby boomers 17.59% Between 41 and 50 24% Generation X 26.35% Between 51 and 60 15% Turnover rate Generation Y 52.98% Between 61 and 70 3% Generation Z 3.01% Over 71 0.06% Hires 2018 2019 Female Male Female Male Number of hires 715 3,109 689 3,272 09 A P P E N D I X 226 227 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Employees who left the company Organizational climate and turnover rate 2018 2019 Organizational climate Employees Turnover (%) Employees Turnover (%) score by business area Gender Female 715 20.4% 2,767 23.3% Male 3,109 18.6% 640 18.4% Business area 2018 2019 Age Below 30 1,900 32.4% 1,259 31.6% Celulosa 79 79 Between 30 and 60 1,913 39.6% 2,046 19.1% Biopackaging 78 78 Above 60 11 50.7% 102 3.2% Softys 80 80 Total 3,824 18.8% 3,407 19.1% Corporate administration 79 79 Total 79 79 Performance review Performance reviews conducted by job level and business area 4.3 LABOR RELATIONS Business Executives, professional Operators Total area and technical staff Unionized workers and workers covered by collective agreements by country People Share (%) People e Share (%) People Share (%) evaluated valuated evaluated Country Number of Unionized Non-unionized Total workers Unionization Share of Celulosa 1,672 93.04% 485 14.82% 2,157 42.54% unions workers workers to whom covered by workforce union benefits collective covered by Biopackaging 961 63.22% 321 17.19% 1,282 37.85% are extended agreements collective Softys 2,301 80.34% 1,025 16.81% 3,326 37.12% agreements Corporate 346 93.80% 0 0% 346 90.58% Argentina 4 1,112 0 1,112 72.9% 72.9% administration Brazil 5 1,510 480 1,990 63.3% 83.4% Total 5,280 79.93% 1,831 16.27% 7,111 39.82% Chile 38 6,272 70 6,342 65.1% 65.8% Note 1: Executives and professional and technical staff are evaluated through SuccessFactors Operators are evaluated using Openagora or Google Forms, depending on the subsidiary Colombia 1 50 0 50 9.7% 9.7% Note 2: Corporate administration includes employees of Empresas CMPC and the CMPC Foundation. Ecuador 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0% Mexico 3 1,204 0 1,204 69.3% 69.3% Performance review by job level by gender Peru 3 389 0 389 27.1% 27.1% 09 A P P E N D I X Uruguay 1 242 0 242 70.1% 70.1% Categoría Female Male Total USA 0 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0% Total collaborators 2,750 15,109 17,859 Total 55 10,779 550 11,329 60.4% 63.4% Evaluated 1,725 5,386 7,111 collaborators Share of total 62.72% 35.65% 39.82% collaborators 228 229 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Health and safety indicators by job level 4.4 HEALTH AND SAFETY IN INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS Level Accidents Days away Days away Injury Injury Lost-time Hours with days from work from work frequency Severity rate injury rate worked away from due to + days of rate work accidents statutory sick Collaborators pay Executives 1 1 1 1 1 1 1,480,993 Occupational illnesses Occupational illnesses Professional 2 6 6 0 1 1 4,676,747 by job level by business area and technical staff Operators 168 6,558 12,858 12 899 459 14,297,556 Level Occupational Business area Occupational illnesses illnesses Total 171 6,565 12,865 8 629 321 20,455,296 Executives Celulosa 4 Professional and 3 Biopackaging 4 Health and safety indicators by business area technical staff Softys Operators 5 Corporate administration Business Accidents Days away Days away Injury Injury Lost-time Hours Total 8 with days from work from work frequency Severity rate injury rate worked Total 8 away from due to + days of rate Note: All reported occupational illnesses correspond to employees in Chile. work accidents statutory sick pay Celulosa 20 975 6,975 2 678 95 10,292,074 Health and safety indicators by country Biopackaging 63 1,902 1,902 8 247 247 7,714,885 Softys 87 3,687 3,987 50 2,311 2,137 1,725,344 Country Accidents Days away Days away Injury Injury Severity Lost-time Hours worked with days from work from work frequency rate injury rate Corporate 1 1 1 1 1 1 722,993 administration away from due to + days of rate work accidents statutory sick Total 171 6,565 12,865 8 629 321 20,455,296 pay Argentina 15 1,094 1,094 26 1,903 1,903 574,798 Brazil 13 961 6,961 6 3,449 476 2,018,543 Chile 101 3,063 3,138 6 194 190 16,141,814 Colombia 4 100 100 41 1,025 1,025 97,536 Ecuador 47,808 Mexico 21 955 1,180 29 1,607 1,301 734,314 09 A P P E N D I X Peru 16 380 380 21 492 492 772,515 Uruguay 1 12 12 15 177 177 67,968 Total 171 6,565 12,865 8 629 321 20,455,296 230 231 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Contractors 4.5 WATER USE AND QUALITY Health and safety indicators by country Water withdrawal by source and business area in m3 Country Accidents Days away Days away Injury Injury Lost-time Hours with days from work from work frequency Severity rate injury rate worked away from due to + days of rate Business Celulosa Biopackaging Softys Total work accidents statutory sick pay Source 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Argentina 1 22 22 1 14 14 1,557,561 Surface water 170,674,674 171,052,557 6,051,221 6,476,948 11,407,622 10,874,370 188,133,517 188,403,875 Brazil 11 894 894 1 70 70 12,815,744 Groundwater 764,619 1,652,703 7,497,336 7,334,699 6,065,225 5,646,980 14,327,180 14,634,382 Chile 118 4,219 4,219 4 128 128 32,939,135 Provided by a 442,244 479,656 797,852 843,817 2,169,341 2,179,634 3,409,437 3,503,107 third party Colombia 1 60 60 48 2,867 2,867 20,928 Total 171,881,537 173,184,916 14,346,408 14,655,464 19,642,188 18,700,984 205,870,133 206,541,364 Ecuador 5,126 Mexico 12 118 118 204 2,008 2,008 58,752 Peru 3 43 43 45 651 651 66,048 Water discharge by destination in m3 Uruguay 2 18 18 271 2,435 2,435 7,392 Total 148 5,374 5,374 3 113 113 47,470,686 Celulosa Bioackaging Softys Total Note: All contractors are operators. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Surface water 144,759,159 143,328,947 12,630,484 12,516,708 14,857,739 12,644,157 172,247,382 168,489,812 Groundwater 0 0 26,153 6,619 0 0 26,153 6,619 Health and safety indicators by business area Third parties 279,534 262,650 758,754 817,855 3,008,403 2,884,230 4,046,691 3,964,735 Business Accidents Days away Days away Injury Injury Lost-time Hours Sea 188,661 301,567 188,661 301,567 with days from work from work frequency Severity rate injury rate worked Total 145,038,693 143,591,597 13,415,391 13,341,182 18,054,803 15,829,954 176,508,887 172,762,732 away from due to + days of rate work accidents statutory sick pay Celulosa 77 4,073 4,073 2 96 96 42,614,449 Water consumption by business are in m3 Biopackaging 40 1,042 1,042 9 230 230 4,531,607 Business 2018 2019 Softys 31 259 259 95 798 798 324,630 area Corporate administration Celulosa 26,842,844 29,593,319 09 A P P E N D I X Total 148 5,374 5,374 3 113 113 47,470,686 Biopackaging 931,018 1,314,283 Softys 1,587,385 2,871,030 Total 29,361,247 33,778,632 232 233 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 4.6 4.7 ENERGY GENERATION AND EFFICIENCY GREENHOUSE GAS AND OTHER EMISSIONS Energy consumption by business area Total corporate office emissions Energy consumption Celulosa Biopackaging Softys Corporate Total administration 2017 2018 2019 Net energy consumption (TJ) 120,353 7,646 12,945 14 140,957 Total emissions tCO2e/Year 5,892 6,833 7,346 Net energy consumption (GWh) 33,431 2,124 3,596 4 39,155 Net energy consumption (%) 85.4% 5.4% 9.2% 0.01% 100% Annual carbon footprint of industrial operations Energy consumption by business and fuel type in TJ 2017 2018 2019 Fuel type Celulosa Biopackaging Softys Corporate Total administration Scope 1 in t CO2e/year 1,834,294 1,891,066 1,948,516 Scope 2 in t CO2e/year 517,463 425,663 439,143 Biomass 13,937 297 646 14,880 Scope 3 in t CO2e/year 3,757,346 4,213,360 4,314,816 Coal 4,143 4,143 Total t CO2e/Year 6,109,103 6,530,089 6,702,475 Diesel 1,312 26 10 1,348 Natural gas 2,625 1,921 8,303 12,849 LNG 129 253 391 773 Other emissions by type of pollutant type in metric tons No. 4 fuel oil 7 0 7 No. 6 fuel oil 4,011 584 4 4,598 Celulosa Bioackaging Softys Total Kerosene 3 3 Type 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Electricity 13,133 2,617 3,260 14 19,024 of pollutant Black liquor 78,318 78,318 NOx 7,821 7,691 293 284 121 159 8,235 8,134 Methanol 600 600 SO2 871 1,044 628 737 8.7 0.1 1,508 1,781 Steam (purchased) 2,138 1,949 327 4,414 PM 1,209 898 172 100 175 215 1,556 1,213 Total 120,353 7,646 12,945 14 140,957 Electric energy generation and consumption by business area Celulosa Biopackaging Softys Corporate Total 09 A P P E N D I X administration Electricity generation (GWh) 3,096 0.8 279 3,377 Electricity consumption (GWh) 3,648 727 906 4 5,284 Generation / Consumption 84.9% 0.1% 30.9% 0.0% 63.9% 234 235 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 4.8 WASTE MANAGEMENT CHAPTER 5 Certifications Waste by type in metric tons Quality management system, ISO 9001 Environmental Management System, ISO 14001 Celulosa Bioackaging Softys Total Pulp Brazil • Guaiba Forestry Argentina • Bosques del Plata Chile • Laja, Pacifico, Santa Fe Pulp Brazil • Guaiba 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Biopackaging Chile • Boxboard Maule and Valdivia Chile • Laja, Pacifico Chile • Sack Kraft and Santa Fe Non-hazardous 1,647,177 1,668,966 196,021 186,443 418,191 496,072 2,261,390 2,351,481 Peru • Sack Kraft Chile • Pulpa, Papeles Biopackaging Chile • Boxboard, papers Hazardous 2,359 2,048 516 315 709 1,014 3,583 3,378 and Fibras facilities and Fibras facilities Total 1,649,536 1,671,015 196,537 186,758 418,900 497,086 2,264,973 2,354,858 Softys Chile • Talagante and Mexico Puente Alto Occupational Health and Safety Peru Management System, OHSAS 18001 Argentina • Altamira Colombia • Santa Anita Non-hazardous waste by treatment method in metric tons Ecuador • Zarate Forestry Chile • Forestal Mininco Uruguay • Cali and Ganchancipa • Guayaquil Celulosa Bioackaging Softys Total Pulp Chile • Laja, Pacifico y Santa Fe Treatment • Pando method Maderas Chile • Plywood; Coronel and Los 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Angeles millwork facilities; Mulchen, Nacimiento and Reuse 0 0 342 633 431 724 773 1,357 Bucalemu sawmills Energy Management System, ISO 50001 Recycling 132,630 76,140 20,885 30,506 36,096 63,001 189,612 169,647 Biopackaging Chile • Boxboard, Sack Kraft, papers and Fibras facilities Pulp Chile • Laja, Pacífico Composting 464,728 556,010 59,281 61,602 25,390 18,479 549,399 636,091 and Santa Fe Recovery and biological Softys Chile • Talagante and Puente Alto decomposition Peru • Santa Anita Maderas Chile • Mulchen, Coronel, Mexico • Altamira Los Angeles Energy 812,126 929,422 35,665 34,377 0 2,815 847,791 966,613 Argentina • Zarate generation Biopackaging Chile • Sack Kraft Chillan Uruguay • Pando Colombia • Cali and Ganchancipa Sub-total 1,409,484 1,561,572 116,174 127,118 61,917 85,019 1,587,575 1,773,708 Ecuador • Guayaquil Softys Chile • Talagante and Puente Alto Peru • Santa Anita Uruguay • Pando Disposal Final disposal 237,694 107,394 79,848 59,325 356,274 411,053 673,815 577,772 Food Safety Management ISEGA and ISO 22001 ISEGA certification coverage Total 1,647,177 1,668,966 196,021 186,443 418,191 496,072 2,261,390 2,351,481 Pulp Brazil • Guaiba Chile • Laja, Pacifico and Santa Fe 09 A P P E N D I X Note 1: In 2019, Brazil introduced a new environmental regulation which necessitated the recategorization of some of the Guaiba pulp mill’s waste as byproducts, which previously had ISO 22001 certification coverage been considered waste for recycling. That is why there can be observed a 43% decrease in the waste reported by CMPC Celulosa. Note 2: The composting and biological decomposition method is an agglomeration of a variety of treatments that reincorporate carbon and other nutrients into the lifecycle. Note 3: CMPC Celulosa considers reused waste as recycling. Biopackaging Chile • Sack Kraft, Molded pulp Peru and Fibras facilities Argentina • Sack Kraft • Sack Kraft 236 237 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9.3 TABLE OF CMPC HOLDINGS CMPC holdings Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership CMPC Involvement in financial activities, A private limited company. Established by deed 51,661 (2,582) 100.00 Juan La Selva De Juan La Selva De Paula Jimena Cecchini Inversiones de independently or on behalf of third parties dated June 29th, 1992, Argentina. Lisio Lisio Argentina S.A. and their associates. CUIT 30-65451689-4 Forestal Bosques Agricultural forestation and livestock A private limited company. Established by public 162,771 (32,356) 99.9 Raúl Vicente Pezzutti Juan La Selva De Paula Jimena Cecchini del Plata S.A. use of real estate holdings. Purchase deed on August 30th, 1993 and registered at Lisio and sale of real estate, urban or rural. the Argentina Inspector General for Justice on Industrial exploitation of wood, its September 23, 1993, under the name Proyectos serrated fractionation, conditioning and Australes S.A. The Company Name was changed conservation. to Forestal Bosques del Plata S.A. by a decision reached at the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on January 2, 2001, recorded in a public deed dated May 9, 2001 and registered at the Inspector General for Justice on May 22, 2001, Argentina. Forestal Involvement in financial activities, A private company. Established by public deed 158,655 (31,573) 99.9 Raúl Vicente Pezzutti Juan La Selva De Paula Jimena Cecchini Timbauva S.A. independently or on behalf of third parties on August 5, 2011 and registered at the Argentine Lisio and their associates. Inspector General for Justice on August 17, 2011. Tax ID number CUIT currently being processed at AFIP. Naschel S.A. Printing of rolls of paper, polyethylene and A private company. The social statute was 494 19 100.00 Juan La Selva De Juan La Selva De Paula Jimena Cecchini polypropylene. approved by Decree of the National Executive Lisio Lisio Power on November 24th, 1955, granting legal status, transcribed in the definitive public deed dated January 23th, 1956, before the notary public Weinich Waisman, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and later modified by division and reduction of capital by means of a deed dated January 2th, 1996, before the notary don Raúl Félix Vega Olmos, Buenos Aires, Argentina. CUIT 30-50164543-1 Fabi Bolsas Manufacture of paper and cardboard bags. A private company. Established by public deed on 8,019 (1,155) 100.00 Adrian Saj Juan La Selva De Paula Jimena Cecchini Industriales S.A. January 2, 1996, before the Notary Public Raul Lisio Felix Vega O., Buenos Aires, Argentina. 09 A P P E N D I X La Papelera del The manufacture, industrialization, A private company. Approved by the Executive 63,820 (3,166) 99.9 Juan La Selva De Juan La Selva De Alfredo Bustos Azócar Plata S.A. production and marketing of all kinds Power of the Province of Buenos Aires on Lisio Lisio Paula Jimena Cecchini of paper, boxes, cardboard, products September 2, 1929, Argentina. and byproducts thereof in all their CUIT 30-50103667-2 forms. Forestry and timber exploitation, industrialization and marketing of their products. 238 239 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Melhoramentos The manufacture and/or conversion of A private limited company established and 552,984 (18,502) 100.00 Luis Delfim de Gonzalo Darraidou Felipe Arancibia Silva CMPC Ltda. hygiene products, diapers, towels, napkins, registered on August 29, 1974 under the N° Oliveira Díaz Cristóbal Somarriva handkerchiefs, facial wipes and other 35.200.929.860 at the Trade Board of the State Quezada tissue products and the like, finished or of São Paulo, Brazil; under the name dde K.C. do semi-finished. The sale, import, export, Brazil Ltda. The Company Name was changed scheduling, distribution, representation on September 22, 1994, to Melhoramientos and marketing, both independently and Papéis Ltda. During the June 01, 2009 meeting, on behalf of third parties, of the products control of the company was transferred to CMPC listed, as well as spare parts, raw materials Participações Ltda., which was incorporated and equipment. The manufacture, into Melhoramientos Papeis in March of 2010. production, processing and marketing in In Octobre 2019, capital was increased by R$ any of its forms of pulp and its derivatives. 360.000,00. CNPJ 44.145.845/ 0001-40 CMPC Celulose Forestation and reforestation; A company established on 10/15/2009, whose 2,514,072 187,138 100.00 Mauricio Harger Juan Pablo Damián Riograndense industrialization and trade location of social contract is archived at the Trade Board of Rio Errázuriz Guzmán Ltda. forest products, pulp, paper and their Grande do Sul under the number 43.206.502.899, by-products; the exploration of renewable at the 10/19/2009 meeting under the name of energy sources; the exercise of industrial, CMPC Celulosa do Brazil Ltda. The Company commercial and agricultural activities in Name was modified on 6/12/2010 to CMPC general; production, purchase, sale, import, Celulose Riograndense Ltda., record of which export and marketing of products made was filed on 07/20/2010 at the Trade Board of Rio and derived from paper, cosmetics and Grande do Sul under the number 3332804. hygiene products for adults and children, After consecutive alterations in the share utensils and containers for daily use; the capital, the modification number 4754659 dated operation of the port terminal, participation 05/21/2018 changed the General Director and the in other companies and businesses as Administrative Director. The last modification to partner, shareholder or member of the the Social Contract was presented under number consortium, including investment in 5233077 dated 12/20/2019. industry, trade and other areas of the economy. CMPC The production, purchase, sale, import, A established founded on March 5th, 1999 with 24,326 (669) 100.00 Mauricio Harger Juan Pablo Damián Riograndense export and marketing of products made its social contract filed at the TradeBoard of São Errázuriz Guzmán Ltda. and derived from paper, cosmetics Paulo under the number 35.215.672.118 at the and hygiene products for adults and November 5th, 1999 session under the name of children, utensils and containers for daily Boise Cascade do Brazil Ltda. The headquarters use; forestation and reforestation; the of the Company was modified on January 9th, industrialization and marketing of forest 2000 to Rio Grande do Sul, at the July 23rd, 2008 products and pulp; the exploration of session under the number 43.204.523.520. The renewable energy sources; the exercise Company Name was modified on July 23rd, 2008 of industrial, commercial and agricultural to Aracruz Riograndense Ltda., the record filed at activities in general; participation in other the Trade Board of Rio Grande do Sul under the companies and entrepreneurs as a partner, number 3005323. Finally, the Company Name was shareholder or member of the consortium, changed to CMPC Riograndense Ltda. during the including investment in the industry, trade January 20th, 2010 session under the number and other areas of the economy. 352959. The last Social Contract modification 09 A P P E N D I X presented with the number 4823934 on August, 2018. 240 241 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Guaiba A management company for the sole A company established on October 22nd, 2009, 64,166 (1,149) 100.00 Mauricio Harger Juan Pablo Damián Administração purpose of objectives, research and with registered constituent record at the State of Errázuriz Guzmán Florestal Ltda. management. Commerce of Rio Grande do Sul JUCERGS, numbered 43206511251, dated October 29th, 2009, and the last Social Contract modification presented with the number 4827456 on August, 2018. CNPJ: 11.308.600/0001-38 SEPAC Manufacturing and/or conversion of Limited liability company incorporated and 91,359 4,839 100.00 Renato Tyski Gonzalo Darraidou Felipe Arancibia Silva Serrados e Pasta processed and semiprocessed personal registered on October 10th, 1974 under No. Zapszalka Díaz Cristóbal Somarriva e Celulose Ltda. care products, diapers, paper towels, 41201663639 of the Commercial Registry of the Quezada paper napkins, disposable tissue papers, State of Parana, Brazill. Capital of BRL 360,845.00 facil tissue, and other tissue and other billion. similar products. Direct and/or thirdCNPJ (tax ID): 75.655.720/0001-94. party purchase, sale, import, export, consignmnet, distribution, representation and commercialization of the previously named products, as well as spare parts, raw materials and other inputs. Manufacturing, production, transformation and distribution of pulp and its derivatives in any form. CMPC Financial investment activities for holdings A private limited company. Established in Guernsey, 54,740 (26) 100.00 Currently in the Investments Ltd. and subsidiaries. The Channel Islands, England, May 28th, 1991. process of Voluntary Registry office P.O. Box 58, St. Julian Court St. Liquidation. Peter Port. Sequence has been a liquidator since December, 2015. Inversiones Foreign and domestic investment in A private limited company. Established as N° 672 5,435,137 67,790 100.00 Ignacio Goldsack Francisco Rafael Cox Montt CMPC S.A. all moveable intangible goods and, in on the Securities Register. Registered by public Trebilcock Ruiz-Tagle Edwards Guillermo Turner Olea particular, participation as a shareholder deed on January 2nd, 1991, before the Santiago José Antonio Correa in any kind of association and investment, Notary Public, Ruben Galecio G. García domestic or foreign, in immovable goods. R.U.T. 96.596.540-8 Rodrigo Hetz Pincheira Inmobiliaria The acquisition of land, its subdivision, Stock company. Registered by public deed as a 1,615 70 100.00 Alejandro Araya Does not have Does not have Pinares SpA allotment and urbanization, the construction limited liability company on April 29th, 1990, before Yañez a Board. a Board. of council housing, whether independently the Notary Public of Concepcion, Mr. Humberto or on behalf of others, and the disposal of Faundez R. Changed to closed stock company such properties. by public deed on December 20th, 2000 before the acting Notary Public of Concepcion Mr. Walter Otarola A., and the summary was filed on January 24th, 2001. 09 A P P E N D I X This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 19, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed in the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 21, 2019. R.U.T 78.000.190-9 242 243 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership CMPC Celulosa The practice of all forms of investment A private limited company. Established by 5,421,069 95,677 100.00 José Jaime Argüelles Luis Felipe Gazitúa Francisco Ruiz-Tagle S.A. in all types of goods whether tangible publicdeed on May 16th, 2016 before Notary Alvarez Achondo Edwards or intangible, immovable or moveable, Public Eduardo Diez Morello,as CMPC Sur S.A. Osvaldo Burgos transferrable securities or negotiable On August 29, 2016, in accordance with the Schirmer instruments, held in stocks, bonds and agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Bernardo Matte debentures, rights, investments in mutual Shareholders' Meeting before the Santiago notary, Izquierdo funds or participation in any kind of society Mr.Eduardo Diez Morello, were reduced to a public Jorge Matte Capdevila or association, with the power to enter deed, where it was agreed to change the company Jorge Larraín Matte into any kind of act or contract in Chile or name to CMPC Celulosa S.A. . The extract of Patricio de Solminihac abroad that would lead to the fulfilment of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on Tampier such objectives, including even the power September 22, 2016. to buy or acquire other companies in any R.U.T. 76.600.628-0 form, whether currently in existence or to be founded in the future or participate in the establishment of the same, manage them and enjoy the profits thereof; and ii) the provision of any kind of remunerated service, advisory or consultancy, in management, logistics or any other support area. CMPC Papeles The manufacture, import, export and A private limited company. Established by public 1,024,485 3,577 100.00 Jorge Navarrete Luis Felipe Gazitúa Washington S.A. general marketing of paper in all its various deed on April 20, 1988, before Notary Public Achondo Williamson Benaprés forms. Enrique Morgan T. The extract was published in Bernardo Matte the Official Gazette on May 4, 1988, under the Izquierdo trade name CMPC Capital de Riesgo S.A.. On Francisco Ruiz-Tagle July 7, 1998, the Extraordinary General Meeting of Edwards Shareholders was registered by the Notary Public Jorge Matte Capdevila Raul I. Perry P., in which it was agreed to change Vivianne Blanlot Soza the trade name to CMPC Papeles S.A. . The Andrés Echeverría extract of the aforementioned deed was published Salas in the Official Gazette on July 14, 1998. R.U.T. 79.818.600-0 CMPC Tissue The manufacture and/or transformation A private limited company. Established by public 1,016,782 (21,113) 100.00 Gonzalo Hernán Luis Felipe Gazitúa Francisco Ruiz-Tagle S.A. ofsanitized products, diapers, towels, deed on February 24, 1988 , before Notary Public Darraidou Diaz Achondo Edwards servillettes, facial towels and tissues, and of Santiago Mr. Sergio Rodriguez G., under the Bernardo Matte other products made of tissue or similar name Forestal e Industrial Santa Fe S.A. On Izquierdo material, finished or semifinished. January 6, 1998, the Seventh Extraordinary General Jorge Larraín Matte Meeting of Shareholders of the company agreed Pablo Turner González to change the trade name to CMPC Tissue S.A. Jorge Matte Capdevila which was registered/legalized by public deed Verónica Edwards on January 27, 1998 before the Notary Public of Guzmán Santiago, Mr. Raul I. Perry P. 09 A P P E N D I X 244 245 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership CMPC Pulp SpA a) The production, marketing, import and Stock company. Established by public deed 2,899,338 18,919 100.00 José Jaime Argüelles Does not have Does not have export of pulp, paper and their derivatives in on March 31, 1988 before the Notary Public of Alvarez a Board. a Board. all their various forms, as well as any other Santiago, Mr. Enrique Morgan T., under the name operations associated with this objective b) Celulosa del Pacifico S.A. On December the purchase and sale of wood in any state, 31, 1998, the Extraordinary General Meeting of including standing forests c) and owning Shareholders of the company agreed to change shares or investing in companies whose the trade name to CMPC Celulosa S.A. The objective encompasses the aforementioned extract from said deed was published in the Official activities. d) the purchase and sale of Gazette on January 22, 1999. power and electric power. On August 29, 2016, the minutes of the Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting before the notary Eduardo Diez Morello, where it was agreed to change the company name to CMPC Pulp S.A. , is reduced to a public deed. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on September 22, 2016. This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 21, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 96.532.330-9 Forestal Mininco Forestation and reforestation, on company Stock company. Established by public deed on 2,723,532 (92,121) 99.9 Eduardo Hernández Does not have Does not have SpA or third party property; the purchase and July 22, 1949 before the Valparaiso Notary Public Fernández a Board. a Board. sale of land, forests, wood, seeds, plants Ernesto Cuadra M. modified by deed registered and other similar products; the marketing, on September 20, 1949 before the same notary. export and import of wood products and Authorized by State Department Decree No. 8044 their derivatives; and the provision of dated October 20, 1949. forestry, management and other services. This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 21, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 26, 2019. R.U.T. 91.440.000-7 09 A P P E N D I X 246 247 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership CMPC Maderas The exploitation of the sawmill industry, the Stock company. Established by public deed on 342,078 9,740 100.00 Eduardo Hernández Does not have Does not have SpA marketing, export and import of forestry October 28, 1983 before the Santiago Notary Fernández a Board. a Board. products, and the implementation of any Public Enrique Morgan T. On November 27, 2000 kind of operation relating to forestry; the a public deed was registered by the same notary provision of forestry, management and for the Extraordinary Meeting of Shareholders other services; offer, hire, let or sublet any during which the Company Name was changed kind of goods, whether fixed or mobile. to CMPC Maderas SA. The summary of this deed was published in the Official Journal dated December 2, 2000. This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 21, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 26, 2019. R.U.T. 95.304.000-K Cooperativa Perform on behalf of its associates the A limited liability company. Authorized by the 7,278 (472) 75.9 Currently in Agrícola y administration, operation and maintenance Ministry of Agriculture’s Supreme Decree No. 971 liquidation process. Forestal el of the Proboste and Galumavida estates on October 17th, 1958. The statutes in effect since Its administration Proboste Ltda. located in the district of Empedrado and April 28th, 1990, were modified and approved at falls to a liquidation Chanco, Constitucion, especially in terms the General Meeting of Shareholders, this act was board made up of carrying out the work of care, forestation registered by public deed dated April 6th, 2004 of Victor Fuentes, and pine forest or other forest species at the Santiago Notary Public René Benavente Hernan Fournies and located on the aforementioned properties. Cash, summary of this deed was registered in 2004 Fernando Quezada. with the Register of Commerce of the Real Estate Property Registry of Santiago and was published in the Official Journal dated April 17th, 2004. The Department of Cooperatives from the Ministry of Economy, Development and Reconstruction issued certificate No. 529 dated March 31th, 2004, which leaves a record of the minutes of the General Meeting and the company's statutes amendment. R.U.T 70.029.300-9 Bioenergías (a) Production, transport, distribution, Stock company. Company established by public 1,980 1,636 100.00 Enrique Edgardo Does not have Does not have Forestales SpA supply and distribution of energy. (b) deed dated November 22nd, 2011 before the Donoso Moscoso a Board. a Board. Management and operation of energy Santiago Notary Public Raúl Iván Pérez P. generating stations. (c) Provision of services This company was transformed into a stock and performance of any activity associated company in accordance with the agreements with the energy industry. d) Develop adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting projects under the Kyoto agreement or held on December 19, 2018, which was reduced other agreements; e) Buy and sell certified to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The 09 A P P E N D I X and f) participate in companies. extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 76.188.197-3 248 249 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Inmobiliaria y a) The purchase, sale, rental, temporary Stock company. A private company established by 7,378 (1,133) 99.9 Pablo Smith Torres Does not have Does not have Constructora San stoppage and in general the exploitation of public deed dated November 4th, 2014 before the a Board. a Board. Roque SpA any kind of urban or rural real estate b) the Santiago Notary Public Eduardo Diez Morello. construction whether directly or via third This company was transformed into a stock parties of any kind of real estate and c) in company in accordance with the agreements general, the performance of any kind of act adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting and entrance into all types of contracts that held on December 19, 2018, which was reduced might be necessary for the fulfilment of the to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul goal of the company or to run its business Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The operations. extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 76.395.6040 Cartulinas CMPC The production, export, import and Stock company. Established by public deed on 596,400 9,155 100.00 Francisco Does not have Does not have SpA sale of paper or paper products and April 27th, 1995, before the Santiago Notary Public García-Huidobro a Board. a Board. their derivatives, forestry activities, the Raul Perry P. The summary was published in the Morandé exploitation of forests, the acquisition Official Journal on May 16th, 1995 and registered or disposal of any deeds to agricultural with the Registry of Commerce of Puente Alto property and the sale of wood; to this on May 22nd, 1995 in FS. 41 No. 41 by the end, to carry out the activities, perform name CMPC PAPELES S.A. . On June 24th, all the investments or business practices 1998, before the same notary, the Extraordinary and subscribe to all contracts that may be General Meeting of Shareholders, during which the deemed necessary. company name was changed to CARTULINAS CMPC S.A. was registered by Public Deed. This company was transformed into a Stock Company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 19, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T 96.731.890-6 Papeles Cordillera Manufacturing, export, import and Stock company. Established by public deed on 196.633 (734) 100,00 Carlos Eduardo Does not have Does not have SpA* distribution of paper, paper products and March 9th, 1998 before Santiago Notary Public Cepeda Oettinger a Board. a Board. its derivatives, forestry activities in any form Gonzalo de la Cuadra F. Registered in the Registry and investment in company resources, of Commerce on March 13th 1998, in FS. 5993 related to any of the indicated activities. NO. 4812. R.U.T 96.853.150-6 09 A P P E N D I X 250 251 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Forsac SpA The manufacture of paper products and Stock company. On January 21st, 2010, the 37.677 (4.161) 100,00 Fernando José Does not have Does not have materials for packing, wrapping and other Company Name change dated October 4th, 1989, Hasenberg Larios a Board. a Board. purposes, and articles related to paper, as was approved before the Santiago Notary Public well as the purchase, sale, import or export Aliro Veloso M, under the name Forestal Angol of the aforementioned, or similar, products. Ltda. By means of public deed dated April 3rd, 1998, before the Santiago Notary Public Jaime Morandé, the company name and its business were changed to Papeles Angol S.A. dated May 5th, 1998, the First Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, after absorbing PROPA S.A. R.U.T 79.943.600-0. At PROPA's Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of Shareholders on January 21st, 2010, the Company Name change to FORSAC S.A. was approved and registered by public deed on March 10th, 2010 before Notary Public Raul Ivan Perry Pefaur. This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 19, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 79.943.600-0 Empresa The purchase, sale, consignment, Stock company. Established by public deed 16,023 1,320 100.00 Nicolás Sergio Does not have Does not have Distribuidora marketing and distribution, whether for the on December 24th, 1981, before the Santiago Moreno López a Board. a Board. de Papeles y company itself or for third parties, of paper, Notary Public Jorge Zañartu S. as a limited liability Cartones SpA cardboard and other products derived from company. On October 25, 1993, the resolutions pulp and paper. adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting (Edipac) in which the transformation to a Closed Company was recorded were reduced to a public deed. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on November 8, 1993. This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 21, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 88.566.900K. 09 A P P E N D I X 252 253 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Envases Impresos The production of printed and watermarked Stock company. Incorporated by public deed 96,782 (2,244) 100.00 Carlos Eduardo Does not have Does not have SpA corrugated cardboard boxes. dated December 28, 1982, before the notary of Cepeda Oettinger a Board. a Board. Santiago, Don Patricio Zaldivar Mackenna as a limited liability company. On October 25, 1993, the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders Meeting in which the transformation of the company into a Public Limited Company was recorded in a public deed in the Santiago Notary Public Office of Don Raúl Perry Pefaur. The extract from said deed was published in the Official Gazette on November 8, 1993. This company was transformed into a Stock Company in accordance with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 21, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 89.201.400-0. Chilena de Manufacturing and selling wholesale and Stock company. Established by public deed on 36,033 1,859 100.00 Carlos Eduardo Does not have Does not have Moldeados SpA retail the manufacture and wholesale/retail March 31st, 1976, before the Santiago Notary Cepeda Oettinger a Board. a Board. (Chimolsa) sale of export fruit trays, trays and cartons Public Enrique Zaldivar D. This company was for eggs and other products; in general, transformed into a Stock Company in accordance molded packaging of different types, sizes, with the agreements adopted at the Extraordinary and styles; the import, export, purchase Shareholders' Meeting held on December 19, and sale of these same items. 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 24, 2019. R.U.T. 93.658.000-9 Sociedad The recovery of paper and cardboard and Stock company. Incorporated by public deed 20,232 512 100.00 Bernardo José Does not have Does not have Recuperadora the sale and purchase of new or used dated October 1,1979, before the Santiago Serrano Reyes a Board. a Board. de Papel SpA paper, the export and import thereof and notary Don Patricio Zaldívar M. as a limited liability (Sorepa) the recovery of metals, aluminum and company. On June 30, 1993, the resolutions bottles. adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting in which the transformation of the company into a limited company was reduced to a public deed before the Santiago Notary Public of Santiago, Raul Perry Pefaur. The extract from said deed was published in the Official Gazette on July 8, 1993. This company was transformed into a stock company in accordance with the agreements 09 A P P E N D I X adopted at the Extraordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on December 19, 2018, which was reduced to a public deed by the Notary of Santiago of Raul Undurraga Laso on December 28 of 2018. The extract of said deed was published in the Official Gazette on January 25, 2019. R.U.T. 86.359.300-K. 254 255 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Inversiones The realization of all types of investments, Stock company. Established by public deed on 274,562 12,672 100.00 Gonzalo Hernán Does not have Does not have Protisa SpA in particular the buying and selling of shares March 4th, 1998, before the Santiago Notary Public Darraidou Diaz a Board. a Board. or debt, operations on the capital market Gonzalo de la Cuadra F. R.U.T 96.859.760-5 and application of their resources to all types of financial businesses related to their own. CMPC Papeles The realization of all types of investments Stock company.Established by public deed on 14,367 (443) 100.00 Francisco Ruiz-Tagle Tissue S.A. in all kinds of goods, and all acts and November 26th, 2018. Edwards contracts in Chile or abroad conducive to Rafael Cox Montt the fulfilment of this objective. Ignacio Goldsack Trebilcock CMPC Papeles The realization of all types of investments Stock company. Established by public deed on 8,125 (275) 100.00 Francisco Ruiz-Tagle Forestal S.A. in all kinds of goods, and all acts and November 26th, 2018. Edwards contracts in Chile or abroad conducive to Rafael Cox Montt the fulfilment of this objective. Ignacio Goldsack Trebilcock Drypers Andina The production, import, marketing, A limited private company. Established by public 22,113 (3,792) 100.00 Andrés Ortega Gonzalo Darraidou S.A. advertising, sale and export of disposable deed number 0000374 before Notary number 49 Díaz baby diapers and other related consumer in Bogota on February 16th, 1999. The legal entity Felipe Arancibia Silva products. Drypers Andina & Cias S.C.A. was formed. It was Cristóbal Somarriva agreed to change the limited joint-stock partnership Quezada to a private company by way of public deed No 0001598 before Notary 15 in Cali on September 7th, 2001. RUC 817.002.753-0 Protisa Colombia The production, import, marketing, A limited private company. Established by public 64,888 (960) 100.00 Andrés Ortega Gonzalo Darraidou S.A. advertising, sale and export of disposable deed number 0002539 before Notary Díaz diapers for babies, paper products, health 16 in Bogota on October 28th, 2008. The legal Felipe Arancibia Silva products, including but not limited to entity Protisa Colombia S.A. was formed. Cristóbal Somarriva diapers, toilet paper, paper towels, napkins, RUC 900.251.415-4 Quezada general health products (diapers adult, feminine pads, towelettes, protectors, etc.) and other related consumer products. Productos Tissue The manufacture, processing, sales and A private limited company. Established by 22,580 (5,120) 100.00 José Luis Aravena Gonzalo Darraidou del Ecuador S.A. any form of marketing for all types of paper, public deed on April 24th, 2007, before Notary Aguirre Díaz including but not limited to: napkins, paper Forty of the Metropolitan District of Quito. RUC Felipe Arancibia Silva towels, paper tablecloths, disposable paper 1792083354001 Cristóbal Somarriva towels, and in general all types or forms of Quezada paper or paperbased products for which paper is a primary or secondary material. 09 A P P E N D I X 256 257 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership CMPC USA Inc. Marketing and distribution of forest Corporation incorporated on January 9, 2002, 18,314 7,920 100.00 Ryan Wolters Juan Francisco Juan Pablo Pereira products, wood, cellulose, cardboard pursuant to the Georgia Business Corporations Mizgier Rojas Sutil and multiply paper bags; as well as any Code, under the laws of the State of Georgia, USA. Ignacio Goldsack operation approved by the Board that is Trebilcock related to forest products, included in the Francisco GarcíaGeorgia Business Corporations Code. Huidobro Morandé Eduardo Hernández Fernández Jose Antonio Correa García Raimundo Varela Labbé Pablo Navarrete Saffie Vinicius Balogh Tanaka CMPC Europe The promotion and distribution of pulp and Established on January 7th, 1991 under registration 113 (77) 99.9 Kiran Dhanani Guillermo Mullins Ltd. wood products. No. 2568391 of London, England. Lagos Inversiones The realization of all types of commercial A private company established under the laws of 496,691 (29) 100.00 Ignacio Goldsack Rafael Cox Montt CMPC Cayman and financial investments and participation, Cayman Islands, according to record Nº 77890 Trebilcock Andrés Parker Parada Ltd. in particular, as shareholder in all kinds of dated November 21st, 1997, before the Cayman companies. Island's Companies Registry. Grupo ABS Participation in the creation of or investment A Variable Capital Company. Established by public 244,016 7,935 100.00 François Xavier Gonzalo Darraidou Alfredo Bustos Azócar Internacional S.A. in other civil or commercial companies, deed policy number 1,802, on October 31st, 1997, Bouyra Díaz (Member in process de C.V. both domestic and foreign. The acquisition, before Francisco Javier Lozano Medina, Public of change) import, export and marketing of all kinds Broker No. 19, in the city of Monterrey, Nuevo Hernán Rodríguez of raw materials, parts and components to Leon, Mexico. RFC.GAI971031RD7. Wilson (Member in comply with its corporate objective. process of change) Rafael Cox Montt (Secretary in the process of change) Rafael Schmidt (Member in process of change) Absormex S.A. Manufacture of absorbent hygiene items. A Variable Capital Company. Established by public 4,010 223 100.00 François Xavier Gonzalo Darraidou Rafael Schmidt de C.V. The acquisition, sale, import and export of deed policy number 3,532, on November 19th, Bouyra Díaz (Member in process all types of equipment and materials related 1981 before Mario Leija Arzave, Notary Public No. of change) to company business. Representation in 25, in the city of Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Hernán Rodríguez the Mexican Republic or abroad as agent, Changed from Private Company to Variable Capital Wilson (Member in broker, intermediary, factor, representative Company via public deed 1,582 dated May 12th, process of change) and/or consignee/agent for all types of 1982 before Abelardo Benito Rdz de León, Notary Rafael Cox Montt companies and entities. Public N° 13 RFC.ABS811125L52. (Secretary in the process of change) Convertidora de Productos The manufacture of all types of hygienic products, as well as, the import, export A Variable Capital Company. Established by public deed policy number 4,131, on December 1st, (2,191) 68 100.00 François Xavier Bouyra Humberto Narro Flores (Member in Rafael Schmidt (Member in process 09 A P P E N D I X Higiénicos S.A. and marketing of all sorts of products, 1992, before Fernando Treviño Lozano, Notary process of change) of change) de C.V. independently or on behalf of third parties. Public No. 55, in the city of Monterrey, Nuevo León, Alfredo Bustos Azócar Mexico. RFC.CPH921201LE6. (Member in process of change) Rafael Cox Montt (Secretary in the process of change) 258 259 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Convertidora The manufacture of all types of hygienic A Variable Capital Company. Established 2,549 (24) 100,00 François Xavier Humberto Narro Rafael Schmidt CMPC México products, as well as, the import, export by public deed policy number 12,568 on Bouyra Flores (Member in (Member in process S.A. de C.V. and marketing of all sorts of products, December 28th, 2012, before the Licentiate process of change) of change) independently or on behalf of third parties. Carlos Montano Pedraza, Notary Public N°130, Alfredo Bustos Azócar in the city of Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. (Member in process RFCCM1212191KA. of change) Rafael Cox Montt (Secretary in the process of change) Absormex CMPC Manufacturing, conversion, export, import A Variable Capital Company. Established by public 244,531 7,741 100,00 François Xavier Gonzalo Darraidou Rafael Cox Montt Tissue S.A. de and marketing of hygienic products. Import, deed policy number 1,552, on July 17th, 1997 Bouyra Díaz (Secretary in the C.V. export and sale of all kinds of raw materials, before Francisco Javier Lozano Medina, Public process of change) parts and components required to comply Broker No. 19, in the City of Monterrey, Nuevo Alfredo Bustos Azócar with the social object. Leon, Mexico. RFC.IPG970717QU9. (Member in process The representation or agent of all types of of change) commercial and industrial companies and Hernán Rodríguez intervention in the sale and marketing of Wilson (Member in their corporate purpose. process of change) Forsac México Purchase, sale, production and marketing A commercial company, established on January 32,291 (1,681) 100,00 Francisco Javier Luis Llanos Collado Cristian Barrera S.A. de C.V. of goods and products, including those 10th, 2008, in accordance with Mexican laws. Barrera González Almazán related to the paper, wood and other Rolf Zehnder Marchant forestry industries. CMPC Maderas The Company purpose is the purchase, The Company CMPC Woods Mexico was 1,408 288 100,00 Fernando José Juan Pablo Pereira México S.A. de sale, production, exchange, distribution, established on November 22nd, 2016, before Hasenberg Larios Sutil C.V. promotion and marketing of all kinds of Notary Public Vallarta and Associates. Raimundo Varela goods and products, including, but not Labbé limited to declarative form, all goods and José Ignacio Goldsack products related to the forest industry . Trebilcock Rafael Cox Montt CMPC Tissue A holding company for the purpose of Private limited company. Tissue Cayman LTD was 100,00 Ricardo José In accordance with Perú S.A.C. structuring capital expenditure and other redomiciled in Peru and renamed CMPC Tissue Venegas Padilla the bylaws, this investments. Perú S.A.C. by public deed before notary public company does not Eduardo Laos de Lama dated Decemer 27, 2018. have a Board. RUC (Peruvian tax ID): 20604661197. Propa Perú The realization of all types of commercial Private company established under the laws of 40,395 1,674 100,00 Gonzalo Darraidou Felipe Arancibia Silva S.A.C. and financial investments and participation, Cayman Islands, according to record Nº 92447 Díaz Cristóbal Somarriva in particular, as shareholder in all kinds of dated September 9th, 1999, before the Cayman Quezada companies. Island's Companies Registry. 09 A P P E N D I X Productos Tissue Manufacturing, industrialization and A private limited company. Established by deed 182,834 16,813 100,00 Ricardo José del Perú S.A. development of all types of papers, on July 21st, 1995, before the Notary Public Venegas Padilla cartons, cardboards, products and their Gustavo Correa M., Lima Peru. This produced a by-products in all their forms. Forestry and division of the patrimonial block Forsac Peru S.A. wood harvesting, and the industrialization according to record dated October 1, 2002. RUC. and commercialization of their products. 20266352337 260 261 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Forsac Perú S.A. Manufacturing and provision of A private company. Established by public deed on 35,378 1,676 100.00 Eduardo Nicolás Does not have Does not have manufacturing services for multiply paper June 5th, 1996, under the name Fabi Peru S.A., Patow Nerny a Board. a Board. sacks. before Notary Public Gustavo Correa M., Lima, Peru. The Company merged with Forsac Peru S.A. and absorbed the latter, also changing its name Fabi Peru S.A. to Forsac Perú S.A. . This fusion was established by public deed on December 1st, 2000, before Notary Public Gustavo Correa M., Lima, Peru. This produced a division from patrimonial block Forsac Peru S.A. according to records dated October 1st, 2002. On April 17, 2019, the agreements adopted at the General Shareholders' Meeting held on March 14, 2019, in which the transformation of the company to be reduced to public deed before the Lima Notary Public of Lima, Don Eduardo Laos de Lama Closed Corporation without Directory. Softys Arequipa Manufacturing, industrialization, Private limited company. Incorporated with public 14,659 134 100.00 Ricardo José In accordance with S.A.C. development and any kind of distribution deed dated February 9th, 2019 before notary Venegas Padilla the bylaws, this of all types of paper, cardboard, and public Eduardo Laos de Lama. RUC (Peruvian tax company does not boxboard products and their by-products ID): 20604381011. have a Board. in all their versions and forms. Purchase, procurement, gathering, division, processing, handling, recycling, reuse and or marketing of all types of solid waste. Additionally, management consulting, advising and provision of services to third parties dedicated to the manufacturing and/or distribution of paper products. Activar S.A.C. Purchase and sale of movable and Private limited company. Incorporated with public 5,666 242 100.00 Jorge Navarrete Gonzalo Hernán Felipe Arancibia Silva immovable property, shares, participation, deed dated July 10th, 2000 before Arequipa notary García Darraidou Díaz Cristóbal Somarriva securities, credit notes, trademarks and public Carlos Gómez de la Torre Rivera. RUC Quezada patents, possession of movable property (Peruvian tax ID): 20497199221. [Jorge Navarrete's and any other activity that contributes to resignation and the [The Board is the realization of its corporate purpose appointment of the currently in the and objectives even if it is not expressly new CEO, Ricardo process of being indicated herein. José Venegas included in the Padilla, is pending.] Public Registry.] Previous Board: Chair: María Belén Benjamina Marcela Mejía Palacios de 09 A P P E N D I X Bedoya. Members: Gonzalo Alberto Mejía Palacios and Miguel José Francisco Mejía Palacios 262 263 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Country Registered Business Activity General Equity Net Income % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Name Information ('000 USD) (Loss) and Indirect the Board ('000 USD) Ownership Papelera Manufacturing and distirbution of paper, Stock corporation. Incorporated with public deed 10,299 440 100.00 Pedro Alberto Muñoz Gonzalo Hernán Felipe Arancibia Silva Panamericana board, and related and/or derived products dated February 28th, 1980 before Arequipa notary Najar Darraidou Díaz Cristóbal Somarriva S.A. therein. Additionally, purchase and sale of public Carlos Gomez de la Torre. RUC (Peruvian tax Quezada goods and/or services related to the aboveID): 20100189942. [The Board is referenced activities, personal care and any currently in the other industrial or commercial activity that process of being is legal and agreed upon by the Ordinary included in the Shareholder Meeting. Public Registry.] Previous Board: Graham Searles Roden, Carlos Aníbal Armando García Delgado, Mateo Mejía Ricketts, José Antonio Velarde Talleri and Pedro Alberto Muñoz Najar Friedrich Industria Papelera Manufacturing, processing and marketing A private limited company. Established by public 52,027 8,131 99.73 Ricardo Pereiras Gonzalo Darraidou Uruguaya S.A. in all forms of paper and its derivatives, as deed dated January 14th, 1937, in Montevideo, Formigo Díaz (IPUSA) well as those related to the graphic arts. Uruguay. Statutes were approved on April 29th, Felipe Arancibia Silva 1937 by the Executive Power, and entered in the Cristóbal Somarriva Register of Contracts on May 14th, 1937. RUT 21 Quezada 006645 0012 09 A P P E N D I X 264 265 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Associated companies of CMPC, in Chile Country Registered Business General Equity Net % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Activity Information ('000 USD) Income and Indirect the Board Name (Loss) Ownership ('000 USD) Consorcio Production, purchase and sale of A private limited company. Established by public 429 (31) 29,01 Claudio Jorge Serón Ferré Carlos Ramírez de Protección items, and the provision of services, to deed dated 12th November 1992 before Notary Goycoolea Arellano Fitosanitaria protect and improve the cultivation and Public Enrique Morgan T., R.U.T 96,657,900-5. Prado Luis De Ferrari Forestal S.A. development of tree species of any kind; (*) On April 29th, 2014, at the Third Extraordinary Fontecilla production, research and training in forest Shareholders' Meeting, it was decided to change Pedro Villar Aliste resources, and activities related to the the legal name of CPF S.A. to 'Consorcio James Smith Bloom above, and capable of performing all acts Protección Fitosanitaria Forestal S.A. indirectly or directly leading to the fulfilment of said aim. Genómica The realization of all kinds of services A private limited company. Established by public (7) (3) 25,28 Eduardo RodrÍguez Jean Pierre Lasserre Forestal S.A. and activities aimed at the development deed dated October 26th, 2006, in the Santiago Treskow Andrea Rodríguez of forestry genomics through the use Notary Public Iván Torrealba Acevedo. The Sofía Grez of biotechnology, molecular tools and summary of which is registered in sheets 2039 Felipe Leiva bioinformatics; the provision of services v. No. 1705 of the Register of Commerce for the of technology, engineering, biotechnology year 2006 of the Real Estate Property Registry of and bioinformatics; the purchase, sale Concepción and is published in the November and marketing of seeds, tools and all 16th, 2006 edition of the Official Journal. tangible and intangible assets necessary R.U.T 76.743.130-9 to compliance; the management and implementation of projects in Forestry Genomics. Consorcio Develop, obtain and adapt technologies The Consorcio Technológico Bioenercel SA was 8 20,00 Fernando Rioseco Eckart Eitner Delgado Tecnológico that allow for the implementation in established on August 21st, 2009, by way of a Schmidt Eduardo Rodriguez Bioenercel S.A. Chile of a biofuel industry, obtained from public deed issued by Santiago Notary Public Treskow lingocellulosic materials, in addition to Mr. Félix Jara Cadot. Summary of said deed was Jorge Correa developing scientific and technological registered in Sheets 1,560, No. 1572, of the Iván Rubio Huerta research for bioprocesses with the aim Register of Commerce of the Real Estate Property David Contreras of converting lingocellulosic biomass into Registry in Conception, in the year 2009, and Pérez biofuel. published in the Official Journal dated September Germán Aroca Arcaya 15, 2009. Andrés Pesce Aron R.U.T. 76.077.468-5. Joint Business of CMPC, other countries Country Registered Business General Equity Net % Direct CEO Chairman of Directors Company Activity Information ('000 USD) Income and Indirect the Board Name (Loss) Ownership ('000 USD) 09 A P P E N D I X CMPC Europe Marketing and sales promotion of forest Joint Venture established between CMPC Celulosa 657 55.00 GmbH & Co. products. S.A. and Gusco Handel G. Schürfeld + Co. GmbH. KG. Dated July 11, 2019, registered and registered in the trade register of Hamburg, Germany. CMPC Europe Administration of the company CMPC Joint Venture established between CMPC Celulosa 27 55.00 Management Europe Gmbh. & Co. KG., Whose purpose S.A. and Gusco Handel G. Schürfeld + Co. GmbH. GmbH is the commercialization and promotion of Dated July 11, 2019, registered and registered in the sale of forest products. the trade register of Hamburg, Germany. 266 267 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9.4 CORPORATE STRUCTURE Chile Empresas CMPC S.A. 1 Celulosa Business Division Biopackaging Business Division Softys Business Division Others 2 1 2 1 99,9% 0,1% 99,9% 0,1% 48,0663% 0,1% 0,0497% 1 1 1 99,99% 3 CMPC 99,9% CMPC 5 CMPC Papeles CMPC Papeles CMPC 8 1 Inmobiliaria 51,9337% Celulosa S.A. Papeles S.A. Tissue S.A. Pinares SpA 2 Forestal S.A. Tissue S.A. 98,53195% 4 2 2 0,01% 1,41835% 7 0,0013% 6 7 100% 4 6,4217% 7,3883% Forestal Mininco 2 1 CMPC 92,6117% 99,9% Cartulinas CMPC 0,1% Inversiones 99,9987% Inversiones 87,9623 SpA 0,2983 Pulp SpA SpA 2 1 2 Protisa SpA CMPC S.A. 6 5,3042 1 Papeles Cordillera 0,01% 99,99% 9 SpA 2 99,978% CMPC Maderas 0,022% SpA 3 Empresa 0,1% 99,9% 99,9% Bioenergías Distribuidora de 2 Forestales SpA 0,1% Papeles y 3 Cartones SpA (EDIPAC) 99,9% Inmobiliaria y 0,1% Consorcio Constructora San 2 20% Tecnológico Envases Impresos 0,1% Roque SpA Bioenercel S.A. 99,9% SpA 2 18,686513767% 25,1437% 19,600076663% Cooperativa 9 2 Forsac Agrícola y Forestal 74,8385%% SpA 0,0177% El Proboste Ltda. 18,878170319% 1 18,763176388% 10 1 EMPRESAS CMPC S.A. 5 CMPC PAPELES S.A 9 CMPC MADERAS SPA. 3 2 INVERSIONES CMPC S.A. 6 CMPC PAPELES FORESTAL S.A. 10 FORSAC SPA. 09 A P P E N D I X 99,9% Chilena de 0,1% Moldeados SpA 2 3 INMOBILIARIA PINARES SPA. 7 CMPC PAPELES TISSUE S.A. 11 CMPC TISSUE PERÚ S.A.C. 29,0698% Consorcio Protección (CHIMOLSA) Fitosanitaria Forestal S.A. 4 FORESTAL MININCO SPA. 8 CMPC TISSUE S.A. Sociedad 50% 50% Recuperadora 8 25,283 % Genómica de Papel SpA Forestal S.A. (SOREPA) 268 269 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Other countries Empresas CMPC S.A. 1 Celulosa Business Division Biopackaging Business Division Softys Business Division Others 48,0663% 0,1% 0,0497% 1 1 1 CMPC 99,9% CMPC 5 CMPC 8 51,9337% 98,53195% Celulosa S.A. 2 Papeles S.A. Tissue S.A. 2 2 1,41835% 7 100% 4 6,4217% 7,3883% 25,1437% Forestal MIninco 2 1 CMPC 74,8385% Forsac 2 92,6117% Inversiones SpA 0,2983 Pulp SpA SpA 0,0177% 1 Protisa SpA 6 87,9623 5,3042 10 0,02% 1 99,98% CMPC Celulose Riograndense 3 Propa Peru Ltda. (Brazil) 100% 1% CMPC 99% S.A.C. 9 USA INC. 99,9999% 99,9% 29,7% 70% 0,1% 99,9142% 99,9997 % 0,02842% 99,97158% CMPC Maderas CMPC 0,0001% 90% Drypers Andina Grupo ABS Productos Melhoramentos Inversiones 0,1% 99,9% Riograndense Forsac 0,1% CMPC Inversiones 10% 100% México S.A. 9 8 S.A. (Colombia) Internacional S.A. Tissue del CMPC Ltda. CMPC Cayman Ltda. (Brazil) Peru S.A. 10 de Argentina S.A. 2 de C.V. 0,1% 0,1% de C.V. (Mexico) Ecuador S.A. (Brazil) Ltd. 90,0001% 0,0001% 99,999964% 81,0115% 2 11 0,002% 0,0858% 0,0003 % 100% 100% 9,9999% 10 2 2 Forestal 0,000036% Fabi Bolsas 2 Industriales S.A. 18,9791% La Papelara del Protisa 29,9935% 99,999999% Timbauva S.A. Guaiba Plata S.A. Colombia S.A. 70,0005% Sepac Serrados e CMPC (Argentina) 99,9999% (Argentina) Absormex S.A. 0,000001% Pasta e Celulose Investments Ltd. Administração (Argentina) 8 0,002% 0,002% de C.V. (Mexico) Ltda. (Brazil) (Channel Island) 97,506% Florestal ltda. (Brazil) 0,1% 2 11 Forsac 90% 99,999985% Mexico Naschel S.A. 10% 99,9% Convertidora Forestal Bosques CMPC Europe 100% S.A. de C.V. (Argentina) 8 2,494% 99,99993% Productos Tissue 0,00007% de Productos 0,000015% del Plata S.A. Ltd. 4 del Peru S.A. 2 Higiénicos S.A. 8 (Argentina) (United Kingdom) 99,9259% de C.V. (Mexico) 0,000002% 0,0741% CMPC Tissue Peru S.A.C. Softys Arequipa 98,8732719% 55% CMPC Europe 2 11 8 1,126728% 09 A P P E N D I X GmbH & Co. KG. 99,999998% S.A.C. (Peru) Absormex CMPC 0,0000001% (Alemania) 99,999998% Tissue S.A. de 99,7269% Industria Papelera C.V. (Mexico) 8 Uruguaya S.A. 8 Activar S.A.C. 55% CMPC Europe 0,000031% (Peru) 99,999985% Management GmbH 55,0177% Convertidora (Alemania) 44,9823% CMPC S.A. de 0,000015% Papelera 8 C.V. (Mexico) CHILE Panamericana S.A. (Peru) INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 270 9.5 Independent Auditors Report 271 09 A P P E N D I X 272 273 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9.6 9.7 Verification Letter CARBON FOOTPRINT VERIFICATION LETTER Independent Review Report Independent Auditor’s Report Informe de Revisión Independiente “Integrated Report CMPC 2019” “Reporte Integrado CMPC 2019” To the President Señores Presidenteand Directors de of y Directores Empresas Empresas CMPC S.A. CMPC S.A. Santiago, 2nd April, 2020 Hemos realizado una revisión limitada de los contenidos de información y • Entrevistas a personal clave de Empresas CMPC, a objeto de evaluar datoshave We relacionados con los indicadores conducted a limitedGRI 102-8, 102-41, of the204-1, review content205-2,and data el proceso Interviews • de elaboración with de los Empresas contenidos CMPC’s ykey de información datospersonnel, in order to assess 205-3, 303-3, 303-5, 306-2, 307-1, 401-1, 404-3, 405-2, 407-1, 419-1, el relacionados con related to the GRI indicators 102-8, 102-41, número de enfermedades laborales y los indicadores internos CMPC 1, 204-1, 205-2, 205-3, the los “indicadores sujetos preparation process of thereportados a revisión” contents and data related to the Mr. Nicolás Gordon Adam en el Reporte Integrado 2019, la definición de su contenido y los CMPC 303-5, 303-3, 306-2, 307-1, CMPC 404-3, 5, 401-1, 405-2, 7 (en407-1, 419-1, the sistemas de información “indicators to be reviewed” disclosed in the Integrated Report 2019, number 3, CMPC of work 4, CMPC sujetosrelated ill health 6, CMPC anden internal adelante IntegradoCMPC indicators utilizados. Chief Sustainability and Environment Officer “indicadores a revisión”) reportados el Reporte • 1, Verificación decontent definition los contenidos and information de información systems used. y datos relacionados 2019 de 3, CMPC Empresas CMPC CMPC4, al CMPC31 de diciembre 5, CMPC de 2019. 6, CMPC 7 (hereinafter con los• “indicadores sujetos of Verification contents a revisión” and data reportados related to the “indicators to be en el Reporte Compañía Manufacturera de Papeles y Cartones “indicators Integrado 2019 a partir de la documentación de respaldo La preparaciónto de be dichoreviewed”) disclosed de reporte es responsabilidad in lathe integrated Administración de Report proporcionadareviewed” por Empresas CMPC. disclosed in the Integrated Report 2019 through supporting Hand Delivered 2019 of Empresas Empresas CMPC CMPC. Asimismo, for the yeardeended la Administración Empresas December CMPC también 31, 2019. documentation provided by Empresas CMPC. • Análisis de los procesos de recopilación y de control interno de los es responsable de la información y las afirmaciones contenidas en el mismo, • contenidos Analysis de of they collection información process con datos relacionados the quality control of contents and los de la definición Empresas del alcance CMPC’s y de la gestión management y control de los is responsible forsistemas de the preparation and data “indicadores sujetos related a revisión” to the en reportados “indicators to be reviewed” disclosed in the el Reporte Integrado Dear Mr. Gordon, información que hayan proporcionado la información reportada. of the Integrated Report. Additionally, Empresas CMPC’s 2019 de Empresas Integrated CMPC. Report 2019 of Empresas CMPC. Nuestra revisión is management fueresponsible for thecon efectuada de acuerdo contents, normas de affirmations, trabajos de • scope Verificación la fiabilidad de la • deVerification ofinformación utilizandousing data reliability procedimientos analytical procedures, testing on a definition and the management and control of information systems cálculos mediante atestiguación emitidas por el Colegio de Contadores de Chile A.G. Una analíticos y pruebas de revisión en base a muestreos y revisión de sample basis and the review of recalculations. Please find attached our Independent Auditor’s report on Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory 2019 in 43 revisión tiene un alcance significativamente which provided the information reported. menor al de un examen, cuyo re-cálculos. Visitscorporativas to Empresas CMPC’s production facilities and 3 forestry operations of the Compañía Manufacturera de Papeles y Cartones (CMPC), which objetivo es de expresar una opinión sobre el “Reporte Integrado CMPC • Visita a• las oficinas de Empresas CMPCcorporate en Santiago,offices located in Santiago, 2019”. En consecuencia, no expresamos tal opinión. Metropolitan Región Metropolitana de Chile. Region, Chile. considered the business units located in Chile, Peru, Argentina, Ecuador, Brasil, Colombia, Uruguay and Mexico. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation Los contenidosstandards engagement established de información y datos by relacionados the Colegiocon de Contadores los Basados en nuestra revisión, no tenemos conocimiento que: Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe “indicadores sujetos a revisión” reportados en el Reporte Integrado 2019 de Chile A.G. A review is substantially less in scope than• an Los contenidos that: de información y datos relacionados con los de Empresas CMPC fueron revisados tomando en consideración los examination, theenobjective criterios descritos ofpara el Estándar which is the expression la elaboración de Reportes ofdean opinion “indicadores sujetos a revisión” reportados en el “Reporte Scope over the “Integrated Sostenibilidad del Global Report CMPC Reporting Initiative (GRI) yAccordingly, 2019”. los lineamientos we do not Integrado • CMPC Contents 2019”, no related to respaldados datadebidamente andestén con to be reviewed” disclosed the “indicators internos de express CMPC such anyopinion. se resumen a continuación: evidencias suficientes. in the Integrated Report 2019 are not duly supported with sufficient • Los contenidos de evidence. información y datos relacionados con los Compañía Manufacturera de Papeles y Cartones (CMPC) has requested from Deloitte the verification of the • Determinar que la información y los datos relacionados con los “indicadores sujetos a revisión” reportados en el Reporte Integrado Contents and data “indicadores related sujetos to thereportados a revisión” “indicatorsen elto“Reporte be reviewed” 2019 de• Empresas Contents CMPC no and data sidorelated hayan to the elaborados “indicators to be reviewed” disclosed en conformidad Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory 2019 in 43 production facilities and 3 forestry operations. The verification disclosed in the Integrated Report 2019 of Empresas respaldados CMPC were con los Principios in thedeIntegrated Contenido yReport Calidad2019 has notpara been la prepared in accordance with Integrado CMPC 2019” estén debidamente con del Estándar process was based on an analysis of each of the emissions sources defined in the report, which are the following: also reviewed considering the criteria established in the Global Elaboración the evidencias suficientes. de Reportes de on Principles Content del Sostenibilidad andGRIQuality y los as established by the GRI • Determinar que Empresas CMPC haya preparado los Reporting Initiative (GRI) Integrated Reporting Standard as well as contenidos lineamientos internos de Empresas CMPC. Standard and Empresas CMPC’s internal guidelines. fuel consumption in mobile sources, fuel consumption in stationary sources, electricity and steam purchases, Empresas CMPC’s internal guidelines, which are summarized• as El y datos de los “indicadores sujetos a revisión” incluidos en el Reporte Integrado 2019 de Empresas CMPC no cumpla con la • The Integrated Report 2019 of Empresas CMPC’s does not comply with opción de conformidad “esencial” declarada por Empresas CMPC procurement of raw materials and inputs such as chemicals, fuel, containers and packaging, and their transportation Reporte Integrado 2019 de Empresas CMPC, conforme a los to the production facility, shipments to warehouses and domestic customers, exports, waste transportation, follows:principios de Contenido y Calidad del Estándar GRI y los de acuerdo conthe el essential option stated in accordance with the GRI Standard. Estándar GRI. lineamientos internos de Empresas CMPC. •• Determine that contents Confirmar la opción and data de conformidad related “esencial” to the por declarada Atentamente, “indicators business trips and employee commuting. Empresas to CMPC en su Reporte be reviewed” Integrado disclosed in 2019, de acuerdoReport “ Integrated con el CMPC Estándar GRI. KPMG. Auditores y Consultores SpA. 2019” are duly supported with sufficient evidence. KPMG, Auditores y Consultores SpA Determine •Nuestros that Empresas procedimientos CMPC consideraron la has de formulación a la contents preguntasthe prepared and data Dirección, related Gerencias y Unidades de Negocio to to the “indicators de be reviewed”, Empresas CMPCdisclosed Table 1 presents emissions by scope for the year 2019, grouped by business division. involucradas en el proceso de elaboración del Reporte, así como en la in its Integrated Report 2019, in accordance with the realización de otros procedimientos analíticos y pruebas por cómo se Principles describen on Content and Quality as established by the GRI a continuación: Standard and its internal guidelines. Table 1. Emissions by business according to scope, year 2019. • Confirm the essential option stated by Empresas CMPC in its Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Tamara Agnic Integrated Report 2019, in accordance with the GRI Standard. Socio Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions Tamara Agnic Business Partner 2019 2019 2019 2019 Our procedures considered conducting inquiries with Empresas Santiago, 3 de abril de 2020. (tCO2e) CMPC’s management, Business Units and personnel responsible (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) for the preparation of the Report, as well as performing other analytical procedures and tests, that included: Santiago, April 3rd, 2020. Forestry 205,494 620 102,830 308,944 Celulosa 09 A P P E N D I X 1,186,036 89,187 2,376,220 3,651,443 ©KPMG Auditores y Consultores SpA, sociedad por acciones chilena y una firma miembro de la red de firmas Santiago miembro independientes de KPMG afiliadas a KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), una Isidora Goyenechea 3520 entidad suiza. Todos los derechos reservados. Piso 2, Las Condes Biopackaging 168,602 163,722 620,498 952,822 +56 2 2997 1000 contacto@kpmg.com Softys 388,384 185,615 1,215,268 1,789,267 Total CMPC 1,948,516 439,143 4,314,816 6,702,475 ©KPMG Auditores y Consultores SpA, sociedad por acciones chilena y una firma miembro de la red de firmas Santiago miembro independientes de KPMG afiliadas a KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), una Isidora Goyenechea 3520 entidad suiza. Todos los derechos reservados. Piso 2, Las Condes +56 2 2997 1000 contacto@kpmg.com 274 275 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Table 2 presents the results by production facility for the year 2019. Table 2. Emissions by production facility according to scope, year 2019. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Emissions Table 2. Emissions by production facility according to scope, year 2019. Production Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Facility 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 Emissions (tCO2e) (kgCO2e/t) Production Emissions Emissions Emissions Emissions intensity (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) facility 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 (kgCO2e/t) Softys Zárate 42,169 47,800 118,496 208,465 2,102 (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Softys Tortuguitas Forestal Mininco 138,411 452 50,924 189,787 16 44 342 2,354 2,740 386 + Wilde Bosques del Plata 4,592 90 20,934 25,616 30 Softys Gachancipá 14,598 5,889 17,927 38,414 1,333 Plant Forestry Brazil 62,491 78 30,972 93,541 16 Softys Cali Plant 5 502 16,039 16,545 1,448 Mulchen Sawmill 9,146 7,634 59,792 76,572 317 Softys Guayaquil 92 672 23,969 24,733 1,754 Nacimiento Plant 2,366 4,804 71,517 78,687 310 Sawmill Softys García Plant 5 6,851 43,998 50,854 1,238 Bucalemu Sawmill 985 6,093 48,188 55,265 345 Softys Altamira 119,397 29,558 123,219 272,175 2,603 Plant Los Angeles Clear Manufactured 1,032 3,513 16,964 21,510 420 Softys Santa Wood 363 3,575 14,587 18,525 393 Catarina Plant Coronel Softys Caieiras 28,409 21,949 167,904 218,262 1,845 Manufactured 457 3,216 16,357 20,030 485 Plant Wood Softys Recife Plant 48 167 18,131 18,346 1,518 Plywood 3,922 21,559 151,331 176,812 829 Softys Mogi Plant 12,423 4,049 36,919 53,391 969 Santa Fe Mill 267,690 35.372 666,719 969,780 702 Softys Guaiba 44 175 5,893 6,112 715 Plant Pacifico Mill 98,019 975 357,727 456,721 891 Softys Cañete Laja Mill 92,997 1,979 130,344 225,320 634 15,023 11,443 20,400 46,866 1,227 Plant Guaiba Mill 709,422 4,042 857,281 1,570,745 850 Softys Santa Rosa 38,469 24,898 106,818 170,186 8,619 Maule Boxboard Softys Rosales 46,610 106,985 191,326 344,920 951 252 1,841 31,445 33,537 585 Mill Plant Valdivia Boxboard Softys SOREPA 9,408 13,399 45,329 68,136 1,143 227 81 8,055 8,364 114 Mill Perú Forsac Chile 490 748 20,993 22,232 963 Softys Pando 5,582 534 33,124 39,240 1,454 Plant Forsac Perú 897 915 64,510 66,322 2,843 Forsac México 522 1,564 40,012 42,099 1,748 Standards and Assurance Process Forsac Argentina 353 284 11,127 11,764 1,867 EDIPAC 125 122 98,313 98,560 1,219 Our review of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory, period 2019, was conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the GHG Protocol standard and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas statements. SOREPA 694 330 28,623 29,647 114 It should be noted that limited assurance engagement was carried out, this is not an audit and therefore we do not express an audit opinion in this statement. CHIMOLSA 12,164 7 9,111 21,282 1,081 Papeles Cordillera Our revision consisted of collecting official information pertinent to this report, in addition to the application of 87,336 34,836 73,547 195,719 932 Plant analytic procedures and audit tests, as described below: EEII Buin Plant 5,895 2,425 23,808 32,127 423 09 A P P E N D I X  Face-to-face meetings with Ms. Catalina Ebensperger, Sergio Cerda and professionals representing the areas EEII Til-Til Plant 2,608 1,421 6,418 10,446 241 related to the calculation of the carbon footprint for each plant. EEII Osorno Plant 1,501 686 7,381 9,568 349  Collecting consolidated information and calculation tools for each asset (folders with information and Softys Puente Alto evidence of the data that was considered in the calculation), starting in february 2020. 8,986 17,349 131,533 157,868 1,978 Plant  Review of the consistency and coherence of calculations and conversion units for the Greenhouse Gas Softys Talagante Emissions Inventory for 43 plants and 3 forestry operations, 2019. 101,877 1,645 200,523 304,045 2,796 Plant Softys Naschel  Requesting and receiving evidence not included in the verification process of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions 370 6,294 93,935 100,600 1,335 Plant Inventory. Conclusions  There is no evidence to suggest that the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory for 43 production facilities related to the calculation of the carbon footprint for each plant.  Collecting consolidated information and calculation tools for each asset (folders with information and 276 evidence of the data that was considered in the calculation), starting in february 2020. 277  Review of the consistency and coherence of calculations and conversion units for the Greenhouse Gas INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Emissions Inventory for 43 plants and 3 forestry operations, 2019.  Requesting and receiving evidence not included in the verification process of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory. Oficina central Conclusions Rosario Norte 407 Las Condes, Santiago Chile  There is no evidence to suggest that the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory for 43 production facilities Fono: (56) 227 297 000 and 3 forestry operations carried out by CMPC in 2019 had not been prepared in accordance with Fax: (56) 223 749 177 deloittechile@deloitte.com international standards for implementation. Regiones  All inconsistencies found were duly clarified and resolved, therefore, there is no evidence that the Simón Bolívar 202 Oficina 203 information provided for the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory contains significant errors. Iquique Chile Fono: (56) 572 546 591 Fax: (56) 572 546 595 iquique@deloitte.com Av. Grecia 860 Responsibilities of CMPC and Deloitte Piso 3 Antofagasta Chile Fono: (56) 552 449 660 Fax: (56) 552 449 662 antofagasta@deloitte.com  The preparation of the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory 2019, as well as its contents, are the responsibility of CMPC, who is also responsible for defining, adapting and maintaining the internal Los Carrera 831 Oficina 501 management and control systems for obtaining the information. Copiapó Chile Fono: (56) 522 524 991  Our responsibility is to issue an independent report based on the procedures applied in our review. Fax: (56) 522 524 995 copiapo@deloitte.com Alvares 646  This report has been prepared exclusively in the interest of CMPC, adhering to the terms established in the Oficina 906 Viña del Mar Engagement Letter. We do not assume any liability to third parties other than the Company's Management. Chile Fono: (56) 322 882 026 Fax: (56) 322 975 625  The verification findings made by Deloitte are valid for the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory for 46 vregionchile@deloitte.com production facilities of Compañía Manufacturera de Papeles y Cartones (CMPC) located in Chile, Peru, Chacabuco 485 Argentina, Ecuador, Brasil, Colombia, Uruguay and Mexico. Piso 7 Concepción Chile  We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for us to provide a conclusion with a limited level of Fono: (56) 412 914 055 Fax: (56) 412 914 066 certainty on the respective subject areas. Due to this limited assurance engagement, the level of guarantee concepcionchile@deloitte.com that we can provide is less that that of an audit level work. Quillota 175 Oficina 1107 Puerto Montt Chile Fono: (56) 652 268 600 Sincerely, Fax: (56) 652 288 600 puertomontt@deloitte.com Fernando Gaziano www.deloitte.cl Partner Deloitte is leading professional services firms, provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services. Deloitte LLP, an Ontario limited liability partnership, is the Canadian member firm of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. The information contained herein is not intended to substitute for competent professional advice. © Deloitte LLP and affiliated entities. 09 A P P E N D I X 278 279 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9.8 Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page INDICATOR CONTENT INDEX (102-55) Framework Material issue: Ecosystem and biodiversity conservation Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Operational sites owned, leased, 304-1 50 Framework managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Company description value outside protected areas Name of the organization 102-1 x 2 Habitats protected or restored 304-3 2.5.1 50 Location of headquarters 102-3 x 2 IUCN Red List species and national 304-4 51 conservation list species with habitats Location of operations 102-4 x 22-31 in areas affected by operations Ownership and legal form 102-5 x 2 Number and surface area of land CMPC 1 2.5.2 x 50 Contact point for questions regarding 102-53 x 2 for conservation, protection and the report restoration Statement from senior decision-maker 102-14 x 8 Material issue: Wildfires Company history x 12 Number of fire outbreaks and affected 57 surface area (in ha) during the season 2019 milestones x IR 7 16 Amount allocated to fire prevention 59 Scale of the organization 102-7 x IR 4, IR 20 34 and control in USD Activities, brands, products, and 102-2 x IR 3, IR 4, 22-31 Material issue: Climate change services IR19 Cases of tree adaptations to 63 Markets served 102-6 IR 3 36 climate change Ongoing projects x 22-31 Stakeholder engagement Values, principles, standards, and 102-16 IR 1 20 Material issue: Local development and community engagement norms of behavior Number of community engagement CMPC 7 x 70 CMPC corporate purpose 102-16 IR 25, IR 26, 20 programs IR 27, IR 28 Monetary value (in USD) of 3.6.3 72 Value creation model 2.0 IR 19, IR 20, 36 contributions to society IR 21, IR 22 Operations with local community 413-1 4.1.1 72 Forests are our most important asset engagement, impact assessments, Material issue: Sustainable forest management and development programs Forest assets 43 Material issue: Indigenous peoples 09 A P P E N D I X Sustainable forest management CMPC 5 x 44 Number of programs for engagement 84 certifications with indigenous peoples Certified forests (in ha) and 2.8.1, 2.8.2 44 Material issue: Supplier and contractor development percentage of total area Number of suppliers by country 1.7.6 Anexo Certified third-party raw material (%) CMPC 6 2.8.1 x 46 280 281 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Framework Framework Proportion of spending on local 204-1 x 90 Average hours of training per year 404-1 102 suppliers per employee Number and proportion of spend on 1.7.6 90 Percentage of employees receiving 404-3 x 105 MSMEs from total supplier spend regular performance and career development reviews Average payment days to MSME 1.7.6 92 suppliers Social KPI: organizational climate 3.1.1 106 score on pride, credibility, respect, 3.5.4 Corporate citizenship fairness and camaraderie (specific Membership of associations and 102-12, 89 target) external initiatives 102-13 Ratios of standard entry level wage by 202-1 108 Social KPI: number of beneficiaries of 3.1.3 86-88 gender compared to local minimum corporate citizenship programs wage Public policy influence: monetary 1.6.2 86-88 Material issue: Labor relations value and description of 3 largest Collective bargaining agreements 102-41 3.2.3 x 109 contributions Unionization 407-1 x 109 Contributions to political campaigns or 1.6.1 86-88 associations, trade associations and Material issue: Health and safety think tanks Work-related injuries 403-9 3.7.2 110 Donations to third parties including 3.6.3 86-88 the monetary value of the company's Occupational illnesses CMPC 8 3.7.2 x 110 corporate citizenship/philanthropic Injury frequency rate of direct 3.7.3 110 contributions for each of the following employees categories: cash donations, time, product or service donations, and Material issue: Water use and quality management overhead Water withdrawal for the last 2 years 303-3 2.3.4 x 115 Operating responsibly Water consumption for the last 2 303-4 2.3.4 115 Information on employees and 102-8 x IR6, IR13 x 96 years other workers Water discharge for the last 2 years 303-5 2.3.4 x 115 Material issue: Diversity and inclusion Water quality 117 Proportion of women in the workforce 102-8 x 3.2.1 x 99 Material issue: Energy generation and efficiency Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 x 99 employees Energy consumption within 302-1 2.3.3 118 the organization Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 405-2 x x 100 09 A P P E N D I X of women to men Energy intensity 302-3 118 Number of women promoted to 3.2.1 99 Reduction of energy consumption 302-4 120 management level positions Material issue: Greenhouse gas and other emissions Material issue: Talent attraction and retention Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions for 305-1 2.3.1 x 123 Turnover 401-1 x 105 the last 3 years 282 283 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Framework Framework Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 305-2 2.3.2 x 123 Chair of the highest governance body 102-23 x 156 emissions for the last 3 years Nominating and selecting the highest 102-24 154 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 305-3 x 123 governance body emissions for the last 3 years Role of highest governance body in 102-26 154 Other significant air emissions 305-7 125 setting purpose, values, and strategy Green tax paid in USD CMPC 4 x 125 Collective knowledge of highest 102-27 1.17 156 governance body Material issue: Waste management Evaluating the highest governance 102-28 162 Waste by type and disposal method 306-2 x 128 body’s performance Solutions to genuine needs Review of economic, environmental, 102-31 154 Material issue: Customer satisfaction and social topics Customer satisfaction measurement 1.5.1, 3.1.3 142-144 Communicating critical concerns 102-33 154 Material issue: Innovation Remuneration policies 102-35 161 Process for determining remuneration 102-36 161 Innovation approach and projects 136 Diversity of governance bodies and 405-1 x 1.1.4 158 Corporate governance employees Proportion of family owners 102-5 x 1.1.13 148 Table of remuneration by board x 1.1.8 157 Shares held by government entities 1.1.12 150 member and committee 12 main CMPC shareholders x 149 Board meeting attendance and x 1.1.5 157 minimum attendance required Detail of shares held by controllers x 150 Board member tenure x 1.1.6 156 Quarterly share transaction statistics x 151 Material Facts x 159 Dividends per share x 151 Directors’ Committee activities x 162 Share transactions in compliance with x 152 Article 20 of Law No. 18045 Executive remuneration 102-35 167 Organizational chart x 168 Brief description of executives’ x 164 qualifications Governance structure, including 102-18 x 1.1.1 154 independent board members and Shares owned by Board members x 1.1.10 167 committees and senior executives Delegating authority 102-19 154 Material issue: Culture of integrity 09 A P P E N D I X Executive-level responsibility for 102-20 154 Corporate values 102-16 170 economic, environmental, and Mechanisms for advice and concerns 102-17 172 social topics about ethics Composition of the highest 102-22 x 154 y Number of employees trained on 205-2 x 172 governance body and its committees 156 ethics and compliance 284 285 INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Contents 2019 GRI CMF DJSI <IR> Verified Page Framework Framework Confirmed incidents of corruption and 205-3 x 177 Summary of financial statements x 196 actions taken Elaboration of the integrated report Legal actions for anti-competitive 206-1 177 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 206 practices environmental, and social topics Non-compliance with laws and 419-1 1.4.7 x 176 Review of economic, environmental, 102-31 206 regulations in the social and economic and social topics area Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-42 206 Fines over USD 10,000 paid CMPC 3 2.2.4 x 176 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-43 206 Incidents of non-compliance 417-3 176 Key topics and concerns raised 102-44 IR9 206 concerning marketing communications Materiality analysis including issues, 102-46 1.2.2 IR 35, IR 36, 206 a description of the process and IR 37 Non-compliance with environmental 307-1 x 176 stakeholders laws and regulations Process for identifying targets and 102.47 1.2.2 IR 36 206 Corporate risks metrics for material issues Process for identifying and mitigating 102-15 3.3.4 178 Restatements of information 102-48 IR 36 206 sustainability risks Changes in reporting 102-49 IR 36 206 Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 178 environmental, and social impacts Reporting period 102-50 IR 36 206 Effectiveness of risk management 102-30 178 Date of most recent report 102-51 IR 36 206 processes (Board participation in the process of risk assessment) Reporting cycle 102-52 IR 36 206 Nature and total number of critical 102-34 178 Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-54 206 concerns the GRI Standards Main impacts and vulnerable groups 3.3.4 178 External assurance 102-56 x 206 identified in relation to the risks Appendix Identification of 3 emerging risks 1.3.3 187 Integrated indicator content index 102-55 Anexo Business performance Statement of responsibility 102-32 Anexo Green financing 193 Table of CMPC holdings x Anexo Earnings before tax. Reported 1.8.3 192 Corporate structure x Anexo taxes, effective tax rate, income tax 09 A P P E N D I X reconciliation Earnings release x Anexo For countries with operations: 1.8.2 192 Consolidated financial statements x IR 5 Anexo revenue, operating profit and taxes paid Return on environmental investments 2.2.3 194 with 4 years of history Content development: Kellun Design: Mandarina Integrated Report 2019
