The desire to take responsibility for human beings, the environment The BoConcept CSR policy is divided into the following focus areas: and working circumstances is an important element of BoConcept's safe and environmentally friendly production at our own production global brand. facility and at our sub-suppliers around the world and reduction in CO2 emissions related to transportation and logistics. In 2009, BoConcept joined the UN Global Compact and the BoConcept Corporate Social Responsibility policy is based on the 10 The following pages contain an update on developments in our principles relating to human rights, employee rights, respect for the designated CSR focus areas in the 2019/2020 financial year. environment and a prohibition against corruption. It also ties in with the UN global goals for sustainable development. On behalf of BoConcept, I thank you for the interest you are showing in our organisation and our good work in this field by reading this Global Compact report. Peter Linnet CEO BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 2 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 3 BoConcept is a truly global brand and an international furniture At BoConcept, we believe that our success starts from our people. retail chain in the premium segment. The furniture and Each and every one of us, with our varied abilities, strengths and accessories collection is sold through a franchise chain with stores potential. in more than 60 different countries worldwide with BoConcept as designer, business developer, exclusive supplier and international We believe that uncovering that potential is an everyday process. A distributor. journey of individual choices: The day-to-day attitudes we hold. The actions we take. And the habits we form. For us at BoConcept, a culture should be built from the inside out. It's only by being mindful of those choices and building on our Growth, customer focus and performance have many metrics. But individual potential, every day, that we can achieve lasting success we believe the most important is the satisfaction of our people. The – together. feeling of being empowered to produce our best results. That's why we have created a set of values: the foundation of our collective At BoConcept, we believe in empowered people, who have… culture and shared success: We call it The BoConcept Way. D.R.I.V.E Develop yourself Constantly develop and renew yourself so that you are always ready for a new challenge. Reach the goal Decide where you're headed and dedicate yourself to finding the best way to get there. Initiate solutions You can always choose to create your own reality instead of depending on the circumstances. Value differences Seek to understand others' perspectives and use differences to create even better results. Embrace collaboration Respect each other and play together to get the best results for everyone. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 4 At BoConcept it is vital that our CSR policy strikes an obvious and healthy balance between environmental impact and business At present, 1 out of 3 general assembly elected members of the economics. Board of Directors is a woman. The company has therefore obtained equal distribution on gender and hence no new target As an organisation, we wish to ensure that our conduct has the figure has been set. least possible adverse environmental impact; and at the same time we need to be pragmatic and understand that it is impossible to At other management levels, it is the company's objective to avoid such impact altogether. ensure a gender distribution that is representative of the BoConcept A/S group's organisation. Activities for increasing the underrepresented gender include Business Environmental having both genders invited to job interviews, wherever possible. economics impact We encourage current employees to seek management positions within the company on an ongoing basis. At present, the underrepresented gender share is 33% in other management compared to 42% in the total organisation. This compares to an underrepresented gender share in other management of 30% and 47% in the total organisation last year. We acknowledge that the female gender currently is underrepresented in the other management segment and we are working on a more equal distribution of gender. All BoConcept suppliers must follow the BoConcept Code of Conduct in order to ensure that all our products are manufactured in a way that respects the rights of their employees. Our headquarters are based in Denmark and we apply our Danish background in our expectations to our suppliers when it comes to quality, environment and work processes. Over 60 years of experience and know-how provide invaluable benefits for our production facility in Denmark as well as in our close co-operation with our global suppliers. We have carefully selected suppliers that share our commitment to high quality. Together, we work to develop competencies and processes, and to implement initiatives that take responsibility for people and the environment. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 5 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect BoConcept supports the international declared human At BoConcept, we constantly assess the risks we see around the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. rights; and We do not discriminate against any person, regardless of We risk assess our activities and supplier base on an Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit race, sex, colour or religion. ongoing basis. In our supplier base we see the highest risk in human rights abuses. in e.g. the Asian countries. Therefore, our supplier base is divided into three main categories (A, B and C suppliers) primarily based on geographical location. Our high-risk suppliers are subject to more frequent audits than our low Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom BoConcept knows that people make the difference! All risk suppliers. of association and the effective recognition of the employees are encouraged to bring up their ideas to right to collective bargaining; improve workflow, work environment or ideas to improve All suppliers – both highand low-risk are covered by a other parts of the BoConcept business. fixed KPI and audit structure, which focuses on Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced developments in the areas relating to human rights, labour, and compulsory labour; The BoConcept Code of Conduct states that all suppliers environment and anti-corruption. must ensure that basic human rights and basic labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; standards are implemented. If a supplier fails to meet our standards, a detailed action and plan will be prepared and follow-up on this action plan will Further, we have communicated to our present suppliers be a fixed part of the agenda at KPI and audit meetings with Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in that we have enrolled in the UN Global Compact program the supplier in question. respect of employment and occupation. and that we expect they will run their companies applying the same 10 principles as we do. In the 2019/2020 financial year we saw no major incidents of non-compliance with our standards in our supplier base. Principle 7: Businesses should support a At BoConcept, environmental matters are a top priority. precautionary approach to environmental We constantly work to reduce the environmental impact of challenges; our chain and products. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against At BoConcept, we do not accept any form of corruption. Anti-corruption is an integrated part of our Code of Conduct, corruption in all its forms, including extortion and We do not use bribe or extortion in any way. which we ask our suppliers to confirm in writing. bribery. Further, we have formulated an anti-corruption policy applying to all BoConcept employees. The policy helps us make sure that we comply with all relevant legislation and regulations, and that we live up to being a company with high ethical standards. In the 2019/2020 financial year we saw no incidents of noncompliance with the anti-corruption policy applying to all BoConcept employees. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 6 Due to BoConcept's social commitment and sense of responsibility, 12 years ago BoConcept launched the first edition of its Code of BoConcept has joined the UN's Global Compact in its attempt to Conduct. The purpose of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is to build a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. ensure that BoConcept suppliers operate in accordance with internationally recognised standards on human rights, labour, With this partnership BoConcept shows its support of the 10 environment and anti-corruption. BoConcept adheres to the principles of Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, principles of this code and expects the same of its suppliers. The environment and anti-corruption. content is based on relevant ILO (International Labour Organisation) and UN conventions. The following pages contain an update on the areas that BoConcept has designated as its principal focus areas: The aim of the BoConcept Code of Conduct is not to end our business with non-compliant suppliers but to help our suppliers improve their social and environmental standards. BoConcept is therefore willing to work with suppliers to achieve their compliance At BoConcept we have become more globally oriented as a growing with this code. However, we will not conduct business with a share of our products is sourced from all over the world. supplier if compliance with the requirements of the code is deemed We realise that we are able to exert some influence on our impossible. Nor will we conduct business with a supplier engaged in suppliers, and we believe it would be natural to take advantage of violations of fundamental human rights. this to the extent possible. At BoConcept, we visit all our principal suppliers to ensure that At BoConcept, we believe that personal relationships, mutual these comply with the BoConcept Code of Conduct and that action respect, communication and determination are useful drivers for plans are established to deal with the most important issues. growth. With this in mind, we regularly discuss environmental and safety issues with our suppliers, and we have in the past While adherence to the BoConcept Code of Conduct brings our encouraged our suppliers to abide by the 10 Global Compact suppliers up to a certain standard, it basically only sets out our principles, just as we endeavour to do so ourselves. minimum requirements. With this in mind, we work with a 'development wheel' that is used in our ongoing dialogue with suppliers. GLOBAL SOURCING SHARE TREND The model below illustrates how we hold our suppliers to their CSR 45% commitments, and it shows that it is an ongoing process. 40% 35% 30% 25% Step 3 20% Environment 15% al framework 10% 5% 0% 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2018/2019 2019/2020 Step 2 Social Scandinavia Asia Eastern Europe Europe conditions Comments to global sourcing share trend graph: Step 1 From 2018/2019 to 2019/2020 we saw a 9% decline in the total sourcing amount. This is attributable Legal framework to a general decline in sourcing as well as a reduction in the BoConcept safety stock. Further, there has been a shift in the different regions' share of the total sourcing amount. This is primarily due to a change in our accessories sourcing strategy and an increased sourcing of upholstery from Eastern Europe. Also, a change of reporting system from 2018/2019 to 2019/2020 may have affected the distribution across the different regions. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 7 The model below shows a number of parameters that BoConcept requires its suppliers to live up to. BoConcept will not begin collaborating with a company that fails to comply with Step 1. In the 2019/2020 financial year, our own production and office facilities have:  increased focus on the use of virtual meetings rather than physical meetings as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak  radically changed our travel habits due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and revised our travel policy accordingly  ensured that 99% of our wooden raw materials are FSC certified  established a project group with the aim of investigating the possibilities of a full FSC certification of the entire value chain  continued the ongoing shift to more energy-efficient and longlasting LED-lights at all workstations in the production  invested in an additional container emptier at our warehouse in Herning, which ensures a more ergonomic handling for our employees in their day-to-day work  further increased focus on safety and in particular the registration of near-by accidents  launched a project under the Working Environment Organisation with focus on ergonomics. The project has focus on ensuring improved ergonomics at all work stations in production, warehouse and administration. Further, all our working environment representatives have been educated further in the Step 2 states a number of the expectations BoConcept has to established suppliers. A BoConcept supplier should fulfil most of these field of ergonomics expectations. In case there are any remaining issues, a written action plan will be drafted in consultation with the supplier, setting out practical steps for improvement. During the past 12 months, our largest European upholstery Step 3 comprises a number of expectations relating more to management and control issues, and a BoConcept supplier should be able to supplier has: comply with these specifications. Once Steps 1 and 2 have been established, plans will be drawn up for implementation of Step 3.  established a specific program for its employees covering education as well as improved working conditions in general  increased its focus on energy-related investments. E. g. surplus we saw no major incidents of non-compliance with our antiheat from the production equipment is used to heat the In the 2019/2020 financial year, our largest Asian supplier of corruption standards. production facilities upholstery has:  further increased its focus on recycling in the form of waste  invested in upgraded fire doors at its production facility separation  invested in an upgrade of the system used to improve the air  invested in an internal transport system, serving to reduce the quality in the painting shop at its production facility amount of manual lifting in the packing process  upgraded the system used for handling of waste water Our goal for the 2020/2021 financial year is to continue our Global Compact and CSR-related follow-up meetings with all our category In the 2019/2020 financial year, our Asian suppliers have: A suppliers, which account for 86% of our annual buying volume. During the past 12 months we have further increased focus on our  invested in new lighting equipment to improve working accessories sourcing program in India – in particular in the rug and conditions for its employees Moreover, as part of our future strategy we will tighten our textile segments. In addition to meeting the usual BoConcept  had extra focus on the handling of waste water requirements for CSR and CSR-related activities in the selection of supplier requirements (see illustration in the upper-right corner),  established various social responsibility-related and educational new suppliers. This way, we emphasise the importance and BoConcept expects all its rug and textile suppliers to meet a programs for its employees prioritisation of the constant focus on CSR activities in the specific set of CSR-related key requirements such as use of solar BoConcept supplier portfolio. energy, recycling of water as well as establishment of local social Anti-corruption is an integrated part of our audit structure and responsibility-related and educational programs for its employees. supplier dialogue in particular in relation to our high-risk Asian suppliers (category C suppliers). In the 2019/2020 financial year BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 8 The environmental impact of the different engine types appears from the illustration below. As an international company, both with regards to retail and supply chain, transportation and logistics are key aspects of our During the past 12 months, there has been no change in the business. Buying and selling at the right prices is of vital BoConcept sea transport set-up. The shipping lines used by importance to BoConcept. However, it is just as important to BoConcept all have a strong focus on reductions in CO2 emissions maintain a high quality standard and ensure reliable delivery. from their vessels. Many initiatives have been taken in order to move to carbon-neutral shipping. This is done through many BoConcept has its own production facility in Denmark, but technical initiatives and by planning and optimising networks. Test otherwise also purchases goods from the Far East and Europe. of biofuels have taken place and exploration of new fuel together In order for this to be successful, a strict and precise management with knowledge and partners within the shipping/marine industry of logistics and suppliers is required. will continue (alcohol, biomethane, ammonia, etc.) We operate with an asset-light transportation model. Physical transport is 100% outsourced and operated by forwarders using The airlines used by BoConcept have a strong focus on airlines, shipping lines and haulage companies. minimisation of fuel consumption through initiatives such as development of new aircraft types, more efficient aircraft engines For many years, BoConcept has operated with only one weekly and a general optimisation of flight routes. departure to our BoConcept stores in order to ensure direct deliveries and through this reduce both costs and environmental In 2019, BoConcept decreased the air-transported volume by impact. In recent years, the tendency has been to have many 13%. Air transport is only used in special circumstances and not as weekly deliveries. However, so far we have been able to maintain a regular mode of transport. Further, a large share of our forwarders uses the following our present delivery set-up. During the past year we have even initiatives to reduce their environmental impact: reduced the number of departures to some destinations thus Air transport emits approx. 100 times more CO2 per shipment than  Tyre pressure monitoring improving utilisation of containers and reducing our environmental sea transport and 9 times more than cargo transported by road.  Idle-running reductions (truck engines) impact.  Surveillance of consumption and eventual mistakes  Transport reports on each truck/driver When selecting forwarders for our European transport corridors,  Training of drivers the use of the best truck engine type/highest Euro norm (norms 5 Driver bonus schemes (based on the use of diesel per km) 6) is an important parameter.  Change of trucks to better engine types on a regular basis  Test runs with biodiesel Our forwarders' use of the different truck engine types/Euro norms  Investment in projects related to development of new fuel directly affects the CO2 emission levels. Due to changes in like e.g. hydrogen (wind energy) forwarder mix and volume in different transport corridors, we were again this year able to improve the use of the less polluting truck Progress is made by all our forwarders. One of our largest engine types (Euro norm 5-6). This means that in 2019, the share forwarders increased energy efficiency for sea transport by 8%, of Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types improved from 87.3% to road transport by 5% and air transport by 2% in 2019. 91.7%. For the coming year, it is our goal that the share of Euro norm 5-6 truck engine types represents min. 92%. Further, our focus for the coming financial year is to ensure continuous distribution set-up improvements, in addition to which we strive to minimize the impact of our distribution set-up on the environment as much as possible. BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 9 If you have any questions, comments or proposals relating to this report, please feel free to contact the designated contact person: Torben Blindbæk Quality Manager E-mail: boconcept@boconcept.com Telephone: +45 7013 1366 BoConcept – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019/2020 10
