COP 2019 Novitag is continuously adopting the 10 principles of the UN global compact stated in the initial commitment towards the UN, community, employees, and stakeholders as well. I. Human rights principles: a. Assessment, policy, & goals Our hierarchy is flat, where the CEO perceives himself equal in rights and duties of any other employee occupying any junior, mid, or senior role. We believe that equality and fair treatment are essentials for the success of any business. b. Implementation This year, our approach was different, where we outsourced several workshops with “succeed and Lead”. All the employees attained the workshop that were fully financed by the company. In these workshops some group activities were held and some private sessions also took place. In one of these workshops, we were asked to take our shoes and socks off and just dance and yell and explode all of the energy we had together. This event broke the ice between all the employees including top management. Everybody left their ego behind and they just enjoyed the moment. c. Measurement of outcomes We have attained fascinating qualitative results, in other words, the results cannot be measured, yet it can be felt. We were able to see it in the eyes and behavior of the employees after all these workshops. They regained their energy, became more intimate, and became more work oriented; they started loving to come to work. II. Labor principles a. Assessment, policy & goals & implementation At Novitag, there isn’t any kind of discrimination, especially after the workshops that made everybody bond together. Therefore, we didn’t feel any need to lecture or implement any strategy to avoid that from happening. b. Measurement of outcomes The results were always satisfactory and we didn’t witness any act of discrimination III. Environmental principles a. Assessment, policy & goals Although our operations doesn’t have a big impact on the environment, yet we had to do even better. We strongly believe in scarcity and try to avoid using our world resources without any purpose. b. Implementation A new CRM system was implemented and it helped on several levels. Concerning the environment, our agents used to have meetings and flights tickets upon needed to fulfill the requested task. The CRM system helped us better schedule the visits and the trips that were done. So, on one side, we were able to reduce expenses and be more efficient and on the other side we were able to save combustibles by scheduling the meetings that were in a close geographical area to the same agent and the same day. The same thing was done for the flights, where we tried to postpone flights to the same destination to serve 2 goals at the same time. c. Our yearly budget for transportation and travel expenses dropped dramatically, yet the work that was supposed to be done was done properly at a lower cost and at a better impact on the environment. IV. Anti-corruption principles a. Assessment, policy & goals Being a real estate company, agents have to deal with Supply and demand side under the umbrella of the company. Sometimes the deals are big and suppliers try to give a percentage to the agent in order to convince the buyer or for any other purpose. Therefore, the CRM comes again to regulate this matter aswell. b. Implementation The agents became solely occupied of buyer’s side and the the supply side was handled by the top management. Nevertheless, the agents were given access to the CRM and they had to insert all the steps taken with the clients; they had to document meetings, calls, etc. once a meeting is held, the call center agent calls the client to check if everything is okay and if we can do anything else with them. c. Measurement of outcomes Due to a survey we did, we concluded that clients were feeling much more satisfied with the company’s support and agents were not able to manipulate anything no more. Doing that we reach zero to low corruption levels in Novitag Sincerely yours, Moahamad Masri CEO
