Syngenta Sustainable Business Report Syngenta Sustainable Business Report Accelerating innovation in a changing world i Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Contents 2019 in numbers 1 $13.6bn Overview 2019 in numbers i Highlights of 2019 1 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 2 2 Our business model Creating value now Global Sales and for the long term 4 3 Our offer $10.6bn Accelerating innovation in a changing world 6 Crop Protection 10 Seeds 16 Crop Protection sales1 4 $ 3.1bn The Good Growth Plan Delivering our commitments and looking to the future 20 Make crops more efficient 24 Seeds sales2 Rescue more farmland 25 Help biodiversity flourish 26 $1.3bn Empower smallholders 27 Help people stay safe 29 Investment in Research Look after every worker 30 and Development3 Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture 32 5 Our operations Putting sustainability first Overview 0.34 Recordable injury and illness rate4 Enhancing across all our operations 34 99.0% People 35 Suppliers included in Sustainable operations 37 sustainability and fair Business integrity 40 labor programs 6 Our leadership Board of Directors 42 sustainability 8.6m People trained across our Executive Team 44 on safe use5 7 Non-financial performance business Non-financial information 46 1 Including sales to Seeds Non-financial performance summary 48 2 Including Flowers 3 Before capitalized development Independent Assurance Report 52 4 Per 200,000 hours, according to US OSHA definition 5 Includes smallholders reached through training reported under “Empower smallholders” 1. Overview Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 1 Highlights of 2019 Collaborating The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and Syngenta are working together on business practices aimed at improving soil health, resource for sustainable efficiency and habitat protection in major agricultural regions worldwide. This multi-year collaboration focuses on incorporating agriculture sustainability science into Syngenta’s decision-making process and engaging with farmers in new ways. Joining forces for more stewardship Agricultural industry leaders joined forces to further Accelerating improve the way crop protection products are handled in Europe by promoting the use of closed transfer system innovation in a (CTS) technology. The companies are now each piloting the CTS “easyconnect” in selected countries to benefit changing world 50% By 2030, we’ll operators, farmers and the environment. cut our carbon footprint by Responding to 150 Syngenta is accelerating its innovation to address the increasing challenges faced by farmers around the world and the changing views of society. This commitment is the company’s response to more than Recultivating 150 listening sessions worldwide, engaging a broad cross Syngenta commits $2 billion listening sessions degraded section of views. over the next five years to help farmers tackle the increasing land in Brazil threats posed by climate change, Together with TNC and other and to reduce the carbon intensity partners, we are developing of its entire operations by at least a scalable business offer to Protecting 50% by 2030. recultivate around 1 million hectares of degraded $2bn farmers’ pastureland in the Cerrado. Introducing Farmers in the program will a novel seed livelihood be able to increase the value of their land, reverse soil Commitment treatment In Africa and Asia, Syngenta degradation and increase farm productivity. over five years is working with teams on the Syngenta introduced VAYANTIS®, ground to respond quickly a new fungicide seed treatment to the spreading infestation mode of action to control diseases of the difficult-to-control such as Pythium and Phytophthora and highly-destructive Fall for crops with better germination, Armyworm, by providing stronger stand establishment advice and integrated pest and higher yields. It also enables management solutions, reducedand no-tillage cropping including FORTENZA® Duo, systems to protect the soil. BT traits and biologicals. 2 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Chief Executive Officer’s statement Farmers around the world continued to face the increasing challenges of climate change In the face of these challenges, I see Syngenta’s role as two-fold. Firstly, we including extreme weather conditions in 2019. must do all we can to help farmers deal Historic floods in the US meant that only 68 with the impacts of extreme climates today. A year of percent of corn and 46 percent of soybean Secondly, we must find solutions to help crops were in the ground by mid-June. reduce agriculture’s and the food value chain’s Droughts in countries including Australia contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. made it increasingly difficult for farmers to climate extremes achieve even a modest yield with many having To this end, I was proud to announce in no viable crop at all. And according to the October, together with Sally Jewell, CEO of World Meteorological Office, the average The Nature Conservancy, that Syngenta will temperatures for the ten-year period 2010– dedicate $2 billion over five years towards 2019 are almost certain to be the highest innovation specifically targeted at delivering on record. These warmer temperatures also a step change in agricultural sustainability. aided the spread of pests such as the highly We also committed to deliver two destructive fall armyworm. technological breakthroughs to market each year, and to reduce the carbon intensity of our As farmers around the world continue to face the increasing Helping farmers, fighting climate change operations by 50 percent, in support of the challenges of climate change, we must do all we can to help As I speak with farmers and representatives Paris Agreement on climate change. them deal with the impacts of extreme climates today, as well of the food value chain around the world, it is These commitments are the first tangible as find solutions to help reduce agriculture’s and the food clear that agriculture is now at the front line of results of our “Innovation for Nature” global efforts to tackle climate change. value chain’s contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, With Sally Jewel discussing collaborating for more sustainable agriculture at the Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summit Visiting a strawberry grower who is one of our MAP customers in China 1. Overview Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 3 which we announced early in 2019. This truly Commitment to innovation in corn, soybeans, canola, oilseed rape I would like to thank all our teams around the global collaboration promotes soil health, Helping farmers to grow healthy and and cereal crops. VAYANTIS® also protects world, their implementation partners and the resource efficiency and habitat protection in affordable food while taking care of the planet the soil by enabling reducedand no-till many farmers who have helped deliver these major agricultural regions worldwide. remains our focus and we introduced a cropping systems. And we opened the first excellent results. Only by working together can number of new crop protection innovations ever Syngenta Innovation and Learning we deliver such great progress. But this is not Business performance in Center at Eluru, India, which includes a the end of The Good Growth Plan – we have challenging conditions in 2019. New fungicides included MIRAVIS™ Ace in the US, which requires fewer sprays to Seedcare Institute. been working over the last year to develop In 2019, Syngenta teams around the world control Fusarium head blight; and MIRAVIS™ the next phase of the Plan to be launched responded to the impacts of extreme There were a number of Seeds highlights in in 2020. Triple Pack in Argentina where cereal growers 2019 including the European Commission weather conditions by quickly adjusting our now have the leading solutions to control rusts offerings to the immediate needs of farmers. approval of our AGRISURE DURACADE™ Looking to the future and leaf spots. Our new herbicide, TAVIUM® corn trait for import as food or feed. Total sales of $13.6 billion were 4 percent Plus VaporGrip® Technology, launched in the Early in 2020, we announced the formation higher at constant exchange rates (CER) Our innovative ENOGEN® feed corn for beef of the new Syngenta Group. This is an US and Canada for use in soybeans and and dairy cattle now delivers feed efficiency than in 2018. Crop Protection finished the cotton, offers farmers an additional tool to exciting time for our company and will further year at $10.6 billion, up 5 percent CER with gains of around 5 percent meaning less feed strengthen our ability to provide millions of manage herbicide resistance. needs to be grown for the same outcome. a strong performance in Brazil more than farmers around the world with innovation for compensating for a challenging US market. Seed treatment introductions in the US We also introduced E-LUMINATE®, a new more sustainable agriculture. Seeds sales of $3.1 billion were 1 percent included SALTRO® fungicide with its first digital offering that enables our seed advisors lower (CER) than 2018, with the impact of global registration – providing reliable control to quickly assess field characteristics and The fundamental drivers of our business flooding in the US offset by strong growth in of blackleg in canola, bakanae in rice and make recommendations on a field-byremain: the world’s population continues to Asia Pacific. sudden death syndrome in soybeans – and field basis. rise, people need nutritious and affordable VAYANTIS® fungicide for control of diseases food, and the demand for evermore In 2019, we also expanded our farm sustainable practices to help combat climate management system offering with the change is increasing. We are well placed acquisition of Cropio™ making us the only to help farmers and the world meet these agricultural company with access to leading demands now and in the future. farm management platforms in the top four agriculture markets: the US with AgriEdge®, Brazil with Strider®, China with MAP (Modern Agricultural Platform) and now Eastern Europe with Cropio™. The Good Growth Plan: a great result J. Erik Fyrwald We reached a milestone this year with our Chief Executive Officer Good Growth Plan. Launched in 2013, it set measurable stretch targets to be met by 2020. I am delighted to report that we have achieved nearly all of our targets a year ahead of schedule. We have also exceeded a number of our targets, including bringing more than 14 million hectares of farmland back from the brink of degradation and enhancing biodiversity on more than 8 million hectares of farmland. I am particularly pleased that we have now trained over 42 million people in At the opening safe use – more than doubling our target. ceremony of Syngenta’s Seedcare Institute in India 4 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Syngenta plays a vital role in enabling the food chain to feed the world safely and take care of our planet. Our ambition is to be the most collaborative and trusted team in agriculture, providing leading seeds and crop protection innovations to enhance the prosperity of farmers, wherever they are. Our strategy is to grow through customerThis marks a step change in agricultural focused innovation – not just in product sustainability and, together with our Good research and development, but in every Growth Plan commitments, puts sustainability aspect of our business model. We seek new center stage in the way we do business and more efficient ways to use resources, and helps deliver the UN Sustainable to develop and deliver better products and Development Goals. services to farmers, and to create value for our many stakeholders – including employees, If we succeed, we will achieve not only growth the communities where they live and society for our business but also growth for all – at large. creating value that benefits our employees, customers, communities and food chain All this innovation has one focus: a passion partners. Our success will be measured for our customers, the farmers who grow through the benefits we bring to agriculture the world’s food. To make our business work, and the environment. But in a sector as we have to understand their needs and deliver challenging as agriculture, success is not a products and services that provide value given. It will require determined execution. beyond yield. And to make our business We constantly look to collaborate with many sustainable, we have to take the long view: partners to achieve better outcomes and to ensuring that what we do today strengthens earn trust by delivering on our commitments. Syngenta and the food chain for tomorrow – economically, environmentally and socially. That trust depends not just on what we do: the “how” matters, too. So, transparency, Our business model That’s why we are accelerating our innovation ethics, safety and compliance are core to to address the increasing challenges faced by the way we work. In operating our business farmers around the world including changing model, we’re determined to live by the Creating climates and societal preferences. values we have set ourselves – which are emboldened in the paragraphs above. See “Accelerating innovation value now in a changing world” on pages 6-9 and for the long term 2. Our business model Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 5 1 2 3 4 Resources What we do What The value we use we create we provide Research Products, services Sustainable agriculture innovation Financial capital and development Production and solutions for smallto large-scale farms People and the intellectual Crop protection discovery Production of active ingredients Crop protection property they create and innovation and intermediate chemicals Reliable availability and affordability Herbicides of safe, nutritious food and feed Chemical, biological, genetic Advanced seed breeding Formulation, fill and pack Insecticides and computational sciences Addressing insect, disease, weed Production of seeds Fungicides Efficient, effective fiber and fuel Natural resources and environmental stress on crops Production of flowers Seed treatment Facilities and services Tools for grower empowerment Biologicals Local communities and stronger food systems Who we work with Who we work with Crop enhancement Laws and regulations Research institutions and universities Suppliers Sustainable production Farmers and suppliers Toll manufacturers Seeds and supply practices Agricultural extension services Seeds Economic value shared with employees, NGOs Traits suppliers, governments and communities Commercial Supporting activities Grower programs Rural development and collective Product management Product registration and stewardship well-being of communities Marketing and sales Health, safety and environment Digital agriculture management Development of our people Distribution and partners along the value chain Employee engagement Business integrity and Promotion of decent work Who we work with upholding human rights and good governance Growers Multi-stakeholder dialogue Distributors Stimulating research, Demonstration farms sharing data and knowledge Who we work with Processors and the food value chain Industry associations Agronomists Government and regulatory authorities Agricultural extension services NGOs and IGOs Technology providers Communities 6 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Our offer Accelerating innovation in a changing world Today, farmers need to manage climate change, soil erosion and biodiversity loss, as well as changing consumer expectations and views on agricultural technology. There is an urgent need for innovation and more action to address these challenges so that everybody wins – from growers to consumers and the environment. 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 7 Over the last six years, we have made We used feedback from the listening sessions The driving factors a significant contribution to sustainable to define the three focus areas: innovation The key message that emerged from our agriculture – and learned a great deal – guided by society and nature; striving for listening sessions is that the sustainable through our Good Growth Plan. In late lowest residues in crops and the environment; agriculture debate has moved from food 2018, we further stepped up these efforts and investing where it matters to farmers security and yield alone to factors such as loss by holding over 150 listening sessions and nature. of biodiversity; people’s changing expectations around the world with stakeholders who around the food they eat; and, importantly, have influence in the food and agriculture We also announced a global collaboration with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) – climate change. We need to move with value chain. Their combined feedback has people’s changing priorities to stay relevant – given us a much better understanding of a conservation organization dedicated to conserving the lands and waters on which and be part of the solution. what society expects from Syngenta and our industry, as well as what sustainable all life depends. Our multi-year collaboration – After all, our role as a global agricultural agriculture really means to different groups. Innovation for Nature – focuses on promoting business places a responsibility on our One thing is clear: there is an undeniable soil health, resource efficiency and habitat shoulders – especially towards farmers demand for change from all our stakeholders. protection in major agricultural regions and the communities in which they operate. worldwide. We have also committed to invest Agriculture worldwide currently contributes In April 2019, we responded by announcing in solutions that reverse soil erosion and 12 percent of all greenhouse gas emissions. that we will accelerate our innovation biodiversity decline, help farmers become And farmers are already feeling the effects of to address the increasing challenges resilient to changing climates, and adapt global warming first-hand, making their jobs faced by farmers around the world and to changing consumer requirements such ever more challenging. This places farmers society’s changing views on agricultural as cutting carbon emissions. front and center of the climate debate and technology, marking a step change firmly in the public spotlight. in agricultural sustainability. As the environmental challenges facing our planet intensify, society expects companies to invest their resources where they matter most. To move forward together constructively, we must rebuild trust between science and society. If we get it right, our industry can be a net-positive player in the global climate challenge. Alexandra Brand Chief Sustainability Officer 8 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Investing $2 billion in sustainable we collaborated with TNC to develop an mitigate its effect on the food supply and Priority practices for investment include: agriculture innovations investment model that directs resources to provide farmers with the tools they need to products, services, programs, partnerships manage their land within planetary boundaries. UU Integrated pest management Our first target announced under Accelerating Innovation is to invest $2 billion over five and capital expenditures that offer a clearly UU Nutrient management differentiated sustainability benefit or are These investments will be distinct from those years in innovations specifically aimed at we make as part of good practice and will advancing sustainable agriculture. We will use breakthrough technologies enabling a step UU Continuous living cover systems change in sustainability. – wherever possible – benefit large-scale this investment to deliver two technological and smallholder farmers alike and contribute UU Reduced tillage breakthroughs to market per year. Ensuring our investment delivers to meeting the United Nations Sustainable UU Multi-functional field margins By sustainable agriculture, we mean Only investments that contribute to Development Goals. The investment model agriculture that directly benefits farmers, breakthrough outcomes will count towards is backed by a five-step assessment UU Water-use efficiency and effectiveness society and nature today and in the future. our target of $2 billion. We define a process and those that pass the assessment This makes good sense for both the technological breakthrough as innovations we stage are linked to specific practices and UU Integrated crop-livestock systems. environment and our business. To ensure bring to market that are designed to reduce measurable outcomes. this investment delivers these benefits, agriculture’s contribution to climate change, Sustainability investment criteria: Five-step assessment process Determine alignment with priorities UU Practices and outcomes-based investments deliver measurable benefit above and beyond Define the opportunity business as usual, towards implementing or achieving significant sustainability outcomes. Investments associated with research Assess net benefit and development products, mergers UU Operational investments deliver measurable AlI investments must and acquisitions, partnerships, capital progress towards meeting Syngenta’s ambitious demonstrate that they offer a expenditures or programs can be waste-generation, water-use, health-and-safety significant net benefit compared evaluated using this process. and greenhouse-gas targets. with the current alternative. 1 2 3 4 5 Choose assessment path Define alternative (comparable) Investments may contribute to the target via two paths: Is there already a comparable UU Practice or outcomes-based investments contribute product or program on the market? to or facilitate the adoption of the sustainability Investments that are not unique must priorities in Step 3. be compared to existing products or programs in Step 5. UU Operations-based investments help us produce sustainable products to reduce the net environmental footprint. 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 9 Reducing our carbon intensity Putting our commitment into action Moving ahead together by at least 50% We are already collaborating with various We will continue our transparent approach Our second target announced under partners on a wide range of projects that align to reporting as seen in our Good Growth Plan. Accelerating Innovation is to reduce our own directly with Accelerating Innovation’s vision From 2020, we will report on the progress and carbon footprint. In accordance with the and objectives. outcomes against these targets. As we have The Nature Conservancy’s global community’s climate targets signed already achieved most of the commitments collaboration with Syngenta is In Brazil, for example, we are working with at the Paris Agreement, we have committed under the first phase of our Good Growth driven by a shared understanding to reduce the carbon intensity of our entire TNC and other partners on the long-term Plan, we are also working on its next evolution, Reverte program to reverse the degradation that agricultural systems have operations by at least 50 percent by 2030. incorporating and building on our learnings Our commitment and the progress towards of around 1 million hectares of pastureland to date. the potential to address urgent it are validated and endorsed by the Science in the Cerrado by 2025. This involves sustainability priorities. In order implementing new, sustainable rotations We understand that we cannot achieve a Based Targets initiative. We will achieve our on degraded pastures that involve farming step change in sustainable agriculture alone. to achieve our conservation targets by undertaking a range of activities both within the business and in partnership cattle, soybean and corn in integrated Partnership and collaboration will be critical to goals, we need innovation and with our suppliers. crop-livestock systems. We are encouraging the program’s long-term success. With this in investment to deploy a host of new farmers to participate in a scalable business mind, we will continue to listen and respond solutions. Syngenta’s commitments Internally, our efforts to reduce carbon intensity offer that will help to increase the value of to key stakeholders, including the public, in our operations will remain focused on our their land, improve productivity and reverse governments and policy makers, and partner to innovate for nature are six manufacturing sites, which account for soil degradation. with farmers, food companies, academia encouraging and groundbreaking. most of our direct energy use. In the Netherlands, we are working to replace and NGOs. While our collaboration may be Externally, we will partner with our suppliers around 40 percent of gas we currently We are confident that, together, we will unconventional, it is necessary on a range of initiatives that include use to heat greenhouses in De Lier with accelerate the delivery of innovations that have for us to work together to develop embedding sustainability criteria in supplier geothermal energy which is estimated a positive, lasting impact on farming, the food practical solutions. dashboards and in the strategy of our top to reduce the carbon footprint of the site value chain and nature. That’s good for our suppliers; closely monitoring performance; by around 20 percent. We will procure hot business – and good for our planet. Michael Doane communicating internally and externally with water from a geothermal well that is being set Global Managing Director for procurement teams and key suppliers so that up by the Trias Westland Geothermal Project, Sustainable Food and Water they understand our requirements and targets. a collaboration with Dutch Energy and local The Nature Conservancy infrastructure suppliers. 10 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Crop Protection As well as protecting plants from insects and diseases, we provide crop enhancement products that help them tolerate environmental stresses such as heat, cold and drought. We also offer products that increase root Syngenta is a world market leader in crop protection products, mass, boosting crops’ nutrient and water with broad coverage of an extremely diverse market. We uptake and increasing yields – improving develop and produce herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, sustainability by using inputs more efficiently. seed treatments and biocontrols that promote strong and While our principal customers are farmers and healthy plant growth. We complement our offer with digital channel partners, our Syngenta Professional Solutions business adapts our agricultural management and agronomic solutions. technologies to serve professionals in turfgrass management, tree and landscape care, residential and commercial pest management, disease vector control, commercial flower production, and home garden care. Meeting farmers’ needs, now and in the future Farmers today operate in a challenging environment – addressing the needs and expectations of food processors and retailers, consumers, society and our planet, as well as dealing with increasingly volatile climatic conditions. As these needs and expectations become more complex, so do the challenges for farmers. Whether they are smallholders or a large farming business, farmers need to reconcile the imperatives of running a business with their societal responsibilities as stewards of the land. At Syngenta, we apply science and technology to help them meet those complex needs consistently, safely and sustainably. Our products enable farmers to deliver food that is abundant, nutritious and affordable – without using more land or other inputs. 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 11 We recognize our responsibility to develop Expanding the farmers’ toolbox: Disease control With the first launch of ELATUS™ Ace and products that are safe and sustainable, and innovations in 2019 In 2019, use of products based on our broadthe innovative MIRAVIS™ Triple Pack, cereal to steward them carefully. Some 30 percent We focus our innovation on helping farmers spectrum fungicide ADEPIDYN™ continued growers in Argentina now have the leading of our investment in developing each new deal with the impacts of climate change, to spread as we brought new ADEPIDYN™ new solutions to control rusts and leaf spots. active ingredient is spent on product safety. including unpredictable weather patterns based solutions to market. MIRAVIS™ Triple Pack combines ELATUS™ Ace And we also invest substantially in training and increasing pest pressure, and strive to with ADEPIDYN™ fungicide. This technology farm workers to use our products safely, provide farmers with the most comprehensive In the US, we introduced a new product to brings benefits such as a greater greening with some 42.4 million trained since 2013. and flexible toolbox. This means designing control Fusarium head blight in cereals with effect, exceptional control of rust, and a “blockbuster” molecules, along with targeted the launch of MIRAVIS™ Ace, containing our superior control of yellow spot and Septoria In 2019, we announced that we will accelerate active ingredients that meet specific needs ADEPIDYN™ fungicide. MIRAVIS™ Ace delivers in wheat. MIRAVIS™ Triple Pack delivers up to our innovation to address the increasing for a range of crops and locations. In 2019, important benefits to the environment as there 400 kg yield increase per hectare compared challenges faced by farmers around the world we filed a total of 118 patent applications is a reduction in the number of sprays required to commercial standards. Additionally, this and society’s changing views. Syngenta is at (2018: 110) for crop protection innovations. to manage disease, which results in fewer solution shows a longer lasting and higher the forefront of delivering innovations that help We have a strong innovation pipeline across tractor passes over the field and reduces soil level of control against foliar diseases in barley. farmers adapt to changing growing conditions, all our crop protection product lines. Here are compaction. It also has a wider application including reducing carbon emissions and some key examples from 2019. window giving more flexibility to growers. sequestering carbon in the soil. Products containing ADEPIDYN™ fungicide control diseases with fewer sprays, which also When wheat is infected with Septoria, up to 40% of yield can be lost reduces soil compaction from tractors 12 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Weed control We launched the co-pack in China in early Seed treatment The disease is particularly difficult for growers In weed control, the rapid spread of herbicide 2019, targeting those areas where resistance The Syngenta Seedcare team continued to manage as it only appears late in the resistance has required the development of to commonly used herbicide chemistry has to play a frontline role in international efforts season once the crop is close to harvest, new management options. We were proud become a significant problem. to combat the devastating fall armyworm. putting the whole harvest at risk. to launch a new herbicide TAVIUM® Plus Insect control Our FORTENZA® Duo seed treatment provides VAYANTIS® was also a key launch for VaporGrip®1 Technology in the US and Canada effective control against the pest. We are Syngenta Seedcare in 2019. This new for use in soybeans and cotton. TAVIUM® In 2019, Syngenta introduced a new also working with local authorities in affected insecticide, Spiropidion, for use in arable fungicide seed treatment provides outstanding Plus VaporGrip®1 Technology is a premix countries to ensure solutions to control control of diseases such as Pythium and that controls key broadleaf and grass weeds crops such as soybean as well as fruits and fall armyworm are accessible to growers, vegetables. Spiropidion is safe to beneficial Phytophthora in corn, soybeans, canola, in Roundup Ready 2 Xtend®1 Soybeans transferring knowledge from our experts in oilseed rape and cereal crops. It provides and Bollgard II®1 XtendFlex®1 Cotton. insects and pollinators, and can be applied LATAM, where the pest first emerged, to our even when crops are flowering. It protects the better germination, stronger stand technical teams in Africa and Asia. SALTRO® establishment and higher yields, and protects In-licensing allows us to offer an even broader whole plant, including new roots and shoots, received its first global registration in the US portfolio to our customers. We obtained and has shown excellent results against hard the soil by enabling reducedand no-tillage in 2019. Based on our ADEPIDYN™ fungicide, cropping systems. exclusive rights from Corteva to develop a new to control pests like aphids and whiteflies. the seed treatment provides robust, reliable herbicide for early control of weeds as they First launches are scheduled for Paraguay control against blackleg in canola, bakanae emerge in rice by combining Florpyrauxifenand Bolivia in 2021, Brazil in 2022, with other in rice and sudden death syndrome (SDS) in benzyl and Syngenta Pretilachlor herbicides. countries to follow in the future. With a strong soybeans. SDS is one of the most damaging This solution gives growers a new tool to pipeline, we expect to launch a number of and distressing diseases and can cause yield manage resistance issues, providing foliar new insecticides over the next five years. reductions of up to 50 percent. contact and residual weed control capabilities with two distinct modes of action. 1 Registered trademarks of Bayer Group Our new Spiropidion insecticide, which is safe to beneficial insects, can be safely applied Fall armyworm, seen here in corn, causes devastating crop damage even during flowering 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 13 Syngenta Professional Solutions Advanced innovation capability of how these effects can be addressed is the years, to reduce agriculture’s contribution For the second year, the Syngenta With a portfolio of some 200 active development of a novel synthetic compound to climate change, harness its mitigation Professional Solutions business supported ingredients, we regularly revisit our portfolio with biostimulant properties that is designed capacity, and help the food system stay a highly successful malaria education course to ensure we are providing the best solutions to mitigate abiotic stresses including cold, within planetary boundaries. in Bagomoyo, Tanzania, organized by the to farmers. drought and heat stress. These variable climatic conditions are emerging as the largest For many years, we have been Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute in complementing our chemistry portfolio with collaboration with the Ifakara Health Institute. Our work on developing new chemistries unmet grower need, causing crop losses is gaining unprecedented precision. estimated at $200 billion annually. biocontrol products to add modes of action The four-week course is designed to help that enhance resistance management. malaria endemic countries build capacity Scientific insights generated in the field and throughout our R&D cycle inform precise Bringing new technologies to farmers We also offer a range of biostimulant products and knowledge in the prevention and control that protect plants in times of stress such of malaria. Syngenta also continues to be product development. Increasingly, we can We are increasingly an agricultural technology model and design molecules to address business, bringing together chemistry, biology, as drought. This year, we took the step to part of the ongoing reduction in malaria establish a Biologicals business unit with transmission across sub-Saharan Africa specific challenges facing farmers such as digital technologies, new monitoring and resistance management or those associated application techniques, biologicals – and even the aim of expanding our portfolio and through the use of its long-lasting indoor market reach in these rapidly expanding and spray, ACTELLIC® 300CS. with the effects of climate change. An example new breeding technologies – to create novel solutions. We have committed to delivering increasingly important areas of technology. at least two technological breakthroughs We also launched a range of pheromone to market each year over the next five products combined with holistic crop management services to grape growers See “Accelerating innovation in Chile. Pheromones are natural signaling in a changing world” on pages 6-9 compounds that cause specific interactions within certain insect species. We are collaborating with key partners to extend our pheromone offer and complementary crop pest management services to other crops and geographies. Our training helps build capacity and knowledge in malaria endemic countries We’re expanding our biologicals portfolio, and this year launched a range of pheromones to manage insects in grapes 14 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Digital technology is giving us new ways We formed a partnership with Sony that to develop digital solutions to help farmers means we can now offer its Smart Agricultural and their advisors to significantly increase Solution to select retailers and agronomists their productivity, efficiency and profitability, through FarmShots™. The offering uses a while farming more sustainably. drone-mounted camera to generate wholefield maps, allowing growers to detect crop In 2019, we expanded our farm management damage even without an internet connection. system offering with the acquisition of Cropio™ – a digital platform offering We are also looking at new digital ways to operational management solutions for reinforce the efficiency, integrity and security farmers, incorporating imaging, recordof our distribution and supply chain. We are keeping, and equipment tracking functions. piloting an ambitious track and trace program Syngenta is now the only agricultural company that will implement a global, standardized to have access to leading farm management approach to digitizing product identification. platforms in the top four agriculture markets: This will help us to meet future compliance the US with AgriEdge®, Brazil with Strider®, obligations and combat counterfeiting. China with MAP (Modern Agricultural Platform) and now Eastern Europe with Cropio™. Precision agriculture allows farmers to use crop protection with unprecedented efficiency We are currently developing a new agronomic and economy. Advances in sensor technology, digital platform, FieldCompass™, that will equip satellite and drone imaging, as well as data farmers to evaluate the shortand long-term science provide increasingly sophisticated We now offer farm management systems across the US, Brazil, China and Eastern Europe, impact of weed control decisions on a field information to help growers manage their helping farmers optimize their crop management by field basis. FieldCompass™ will integrate crops sustainably. Our R&D teams collaborate data from several agricultural practices such with external partners to evaluate emerging as tillage practices, crop rotation, herbicide technologies and develop products that bring programs and cover crop usage. greater value to customers. The application of crop protection products by drone has grown significantly in some markets such as China. We are working with partners to develop effective solutions with protocols and applications tailored to different crops and geographies. Drone use for spraying continues to spread, particularly in China, and we are tailoring application advice by crop and geography 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 15 Investing in sustainable agriculture are handled in Europe by promoting the use In Brazil, we brought the best innovation manufacturing capabilities with the purchase Syngenta Ventures has a diverse, global of closed transfer system (CTS) technology. and technology closer to farmers when we of a Novartis manufacturing plant near Basel. portfolio of more than 25 companies across The companies are now each piloting the CTS opened our first Syngenta own-store – Atua This multi-purpose plant will support the the agriculture technology landscape, “easyconnect” in selected countries to benefit Agro. Located in Ijuí, the store stocks the full early launch phase of new active ingredients including biologicals, digital, precision operators, farmers and the environment. range of Syngenta products and is staffed by coming through the R&D pipeline. We expect application and seed technologies. specialists who have the first-hand knowledge to complete the ownership transfer towards The easyconnect system comprises a unique to advise farmers on how to sustainably the end of 2020. 2019 saw new investments across the pre-fitted screw cap and a coupler, which ag-tech investment landscape and regions. increase their production. In addition to together allow crop protection products to be providing products, we want to establish a Our key crop protection production site These investments are enabling partnerships directly transferred from their original container at Grangemouth in the UK celebrated its and collaborations to help Syngenta access partnership with our customers to help drive to the spray tank, reducing operator exposure the entire agricultural sector forward towards centenary during 2019. The site employs existing technologies or jointly develop new and environmental risks from splashing or over 350 staff in various areas, including products and solutions. the future of sustainable agriculture. spilling. Feedback from pilot farms has been manufacturing, engineering, scientific Syngenta has joined forces with ADAMA, positive. By 2021/2022, a broad range We strategically invest in our facilities and production support. It has four plants BASF, Corteva Agriscience, Nufarm to further of compatible containers will be offered to to support our ambitious innovation dedicated to manufacturing active ingredients, improve the way crop protection products farmers in a number of European countries. program and ability to supply around the as well as a finished product formulation world. In Switzerland, we will increase our and packaging plant. Our first Syngenta-own store in Brazil offers farmers a range of products and advice on how We celebrated the centenary of our manufacturing site at Grangemouth, UK, this year to increase production sustainably 16 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Seeds The global seed market was estimated at around $46 billion in 2019, with 3 percent forecast annual growth during the next five years. Over half its value comes from corn and soybean, and over 60 percent of sales Syngenta is one of the world’s largest developers and are made in Brazil, China, Europe and North producers of seed for farmers, commercial growers, America. Growth over the next few years retailers and small seed companies. We offer a broad is expected to be driven by Brazil, China and India. portfolio of crops with particular strengths in corn, soybean, sunflower, cereals and vegetables. Syngenta In 2019, the seeds market faced unprecedented challenges on multiple fronts. Flowers, one of the few global players, is a market These included trade issues, historically leader in most key market segments. low commodity prices and the increasingly extreme impacts of climate change, such as floods in the US and severe droughts in Australia. Farmers need support more than ever to enable them to sustainably provide sufficient, nutritious food – and they need choice, high performing products, data to make informed decisions, and deep agronomic advice. Delivering what farmers need In response, we tailor our seeds offering as precisely as possible to help farmers use seeds more effectively in the face of increasingly complex challenges. We develop products and services that enable growers to be more productive, to secure their livelihoods, to manage risks and to grow crops more sustainably. To do this, we strive to know and understand not only growers but also the customers they serve. 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 17 Seed selection is one of the biggest decisions We lead in developing and delivering Fall armyworm (FAW) is another devastating For beef and dairy farmers, our innovative a farmer makes every year. Our sales teams innovations that equip farmers with pest. In 2016, it spread to Africa where it ENOGEN® feed corn delivers feed efficiency and agronomists in the field provide the deep technologies to fight potentially devastating presents a permanent agricultural challenge gains of around 5 percent, as a result specialist advice growers need, using digital insect threats. For example, corn rootworm in 43 countries and has the potential to of improved starch and organic matter seed placement tools to enable data-driven (CRW) is estimated to cost US farmers more put food security and seed security at risk. digestibility. Along with improved farm decisions. We also ensure our R&D teams than $1 billion annually in yield losses and Estimated yield losses in corn are between profitability, ENOGEN® feed corn has the connect closely with farmers, and we bring control measures. AGRISURE DURACADE™ 20-50 percent. In 2018, FAW arrived in potential to contribute to sustainability in customers to our research facilities around features a unique mode of action that controls Asia and is now found in most major grain animal production systems. Improved feed the world to talk to our scientists and plant corn rootworm differently from other traits producing countries in the region. efficiency means less feed is needed to breeders. We have a strong pipeline and on the market. It gives farmers a new trait achieve the same outcome with associated rotational option for CRW management for Our AGRISURE VIPTERA® corn trait is now benefits in improved water use efficiency, ongoing programs in plant breeding and a healthier corn crop and higher yield potential. the only fully-functioning trait against FAW in reduced land, labor and energy involved in biotech innovation to help farmers meet the Brazil and is the best above-ground insect producing feed, and reduced emissions from increasingly complex challenges they face In 2019, the European Commission approved control in the North American corn industry. crop production operations. while also addressing the needs of nature our AGRISURE DURACADE™ corn trait for and society. Our innovations go beyond import as food or feed. In collaboration with universities, we are seed technology to include supporting tools conducting larger-scale feeding trials with the and solutions. aim of bridging the gap between small-scale trials and farm-scale settings. We are also testing ENOGEN® feed corn in swine and poultry diets. We continue to answer consumer demands for a year-round supply of convenient, fresh, healthy, high-quality vegetables. In 2019, we launched the distinctive, purple-skinned YOOM™ cocktail tomato. Developed through a natural-selection breeding program, YOOM™ tomatoes not only have a unique umami flavor but also perform well in terms of yield and shelf life. The product immediately attracted major interest from growing markets across Europe, and we subsequently extended the brand to North America and Australasia. Dairy producer Wally Eachus (center) in New Jersey, US, discussing the benefits of Our new YOOM™ cocktail tomatoes help growers differentiate their offer for retailers, ® ENOGEN feed corn with his son, Eric Eachus (left), and Brent Sutton (right), Syngenta and provide them with an attractive and tasty new vegetable for consumers 18 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 We are also developing vegetables that In 2019, we entered hybrid wheat candidates The technology uses GIS-based mapping for Acquisitions and strategic collaborations help to reduce food loss and waste – an into official pre-commercial registration trials immediate assessment of soil characteristics to meet market needs area of increasing concern as food loss and in France and in Denmark. and provides details specific to weed, Our ambition is to be the most collaborative waste contribute significantly to the world’s disease and insect pressures to generate team in the industry. We continue to make greenhouse gas emissions. Following field Unlocking the power of digital recommendations for seed that performs acquisitions and form strategic collaborations trials in 2018, for example, we brought to Agriculture is arguably the last big industry consistently for each field condition. These that enhance our portfolio and strengthen market a true white cauliflower variety that to maximize the potential of digital technology. seed recommendations reflect actual our pipeline to give farmers the products, produces 100 percent marketable heads Syngenta is investing in new digital tools performance comparisons across varieties, innovation, advice and services they need. compared to around 65 percent in other and platforms to enable farmers to manage by year and region. commercial cauliflower varieties. risk and maximize their investment. A good Germplasm diversity is fundamental to example of this is E-LUMINATE®, an exclusive Digital tools can also help farmers when facing breeding stronger hybrids. Today, as a result As consumers demand uniform vegetables, digital offering that draws upon extensive complex growing conditions, such as the of several collaborations, we have one of the this variety helps to reduce food waste agronomic data to help farmers make extreme floods in the US this year. We issued broadest germplasm pools in the industry. across the food supply chain – from grower more informed seed selection decisions. field guidance on how to use FarmShots™, This will enable us to bring growers stronger to processor to retail and consumer – while E-LUMINATE® enables our seed advisors to an innovator in high-resolution satellite hybrids and offer more choice in existing ensuring the sustainable use of resources quickly assess field characteristics and choose imagery we acquired in 2018, to look for bare and new markets. such as land, water, fertilizer and labor. the best products and management practices ground as flood water recedes, identifying on a field-by-field basis. replant zones and providing tools for spotting Looking ahead, our ambition is to transform nitrogen deficiencies. wheat production, delivering both more efficient and environmentally sustainable wheat through hybridization. Although wheat is among the world’s most important food and feed crops, it is the only major crop that has never been successfully hybridized at scale. Wheat yields are plateauing in many regions in the world, and there is increasing chemical resistance in pests, weeds and diseases. With climate change and other factors putting crop sustainability under increased pressure, it has never been more vital to ensure consistent crop productivity. Our new true white cauliflower variety produces 100% marketable heads compared E-LUMINATE® enables seed advisors and agronomists to make recommendations to a typical 60 to 65% yield from current commercial varieties, reducing waste on seed products and management practices on a field-by-field basis 3. Our offer Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 19 We expanded our Flowers offering with the This highly-automated corn breeding facility Transformative technologies We are building pioneering capabilities in data acquisition of Varinova’s cyclamen business, will help us speed up the flow of new elite corn for the future science. Plant breeding is increasingly designcombining Varinova’s technical strengths and hybrids through our R&D pipeline. One of the most serious concerns facing driven: using quality data and advanced innovative varieties with our global market humanity is how to safely and sustainably analytics through each stage of the R&D access and world-class science that will allow In Enkhuizen, The Netherlands, we opened process, we can understand challenges a new seed innovation center with the feed our growing population. To meet this Syngenta Flowers to reinforce its position in challenge, we need to engage the best minds better, determine optimum solutions and the cyclamen market. aim of accelerating sustainable vegetable create products to match those specifications. breeding. The center – covering more than we can find, and collaboration is critical to innovation. Across the company, Syngenta We can also use mathematical modeling to Investing for growth two hectares with greenhouses, climate cells determine how products are likely to perform and laboratories – makes it possible to double has over 400 collaborations with universities, In the US, our biggest market, we opened a research institutes as well as private in specific environmental conditions and to new Global and North America Seeds office in the speed at which we breed new vegetable identify the right seeds for specific fields. varieties. The opening was part of a phased companies. Thanks to our Chinese ownership, Downers Grove, Illinois in 2019. Located in the we also have the unique opportunity to partner heart of the Corn Belt, the new facility brings investment program at the Enkhuizen site Genome editing is another exciting technology that will equip us to accelerate the delivery with world-leading researchers at a number of where we have been active for over a decade. us closer to corn and soybean customers in Chinese universities and institutes. In addition the US, in a market that is demanding more of innovations in global markets for brassica, Genome editing is a more rapid and precise spinach, peas and beans. to collaborations, we also operate an external process for achieving outcomes essentially innovation and choice more quickly. open innovation model using crowd sourcing the same as those produced over time To bring innovation faster to farmers, in 2019 platforms to attract external thinkers across by conventional breeding. Unlike genetically we also opened our new $30 million Trait multiple disciplines. modified organisms, most forms of geneConversion Accelerator at our Nampa R&D editing do not involve inserting foreign DNA. and seed production facility in Idaho, US. We are applying this technology to accelerate the rate of innovation in major crops including corn, soybean and vegetables. Seeds are fundamental to all life on our planet. At Syngenta, we are working with the latest technologies and partners from many disciplines to bring farmers around the world the seed products they need today and tomorrow, to safely and sustainably feed our growing population. We offer flower growers a broad cyclamen portfolio for the latest consumer The new Trait Conversion Accelerator at Nampa, Idaho, US, will deliver garden trends, with features including disease and weather tolerance new elite corn hybrids much faster than previously done in open field or semi-controlled environments 20 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 The Good Growth Plan Delivering our The Good Growth Plan is a core element of our strategies for both our Crop Protection and Seeds businesses commitments and to ensure their success and long-term viability. It defines six commitments in looking to the future areas where improvement is essential to secure the future of agriculture and our planet’s ecosystems. 4. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 21 When we launched The Good Growth Plan In China, Eastern Europe and Latin America, In 2019, we also started training farmers in 2013, we set hard, stretch targets to be we have seen that real positive change – in safe practices when using drones. met by 2020. By 2019, we have already and scale – is possible when we close the reached most of our goals – a year earlier gaps between factors such as science and See “Safe farming with drone technology” than scheduled. technology, policy and commercial issues, on page 29 Year after year, Syngenta notably financing mechanisms and markets. confirms its commitment to Since embarking on this journey, we have learned some very important lessons For example, in Matto Grosso, Brazil, creating a positive impact in The track record we have established through that will now shape the next evolution of our Soja+Verde project is an environmental The Good Growth Plan has contributed the agricultural sector not only The Good Growth Plan, which we plan partnership involving Syngenta, NGOs towards winning the trust of credible and through its technology but also to announce in 2020. including TNC, as well as the local government. It aims to help farmers comply influential partners such as GLOBALG.A.P., via collaborations. Thanks to which sets voluntary standards for the When we started our Good Growth Plan with the Brazilian Forest Code, a policy certification of safe, sustainable agricultural Syngenta’s commitment, different journey, we did not anticipate how much framework that protects native forest areas products worldwide. communities all around the the world would change within this timeframe: and reforest parts of agricultural lands. political and societal trends, technologies world are able to get first-hand Only by working together can neighboring Through the Plan, we have proved that we in agriculture and even our own business farmers improve the connectivity of their can access and train farmers – with impact. knowledge on safe and sustainable strategy look very different six years on. land for wildlife species and help build more GLOBALG.A.P. recognizes this and now farming practices. So, when it comes to setting future suitable corridors for animals. entrusts us with training farmers in Argentina, Costa Rica, India, Mexico, and the US who Flavio Alzueta commitments, experience has taught In Hungary, our CONTIVO® solution continues are seeking GLOBALG.A.P. certification. Vice President & Chief Marketing Officer us that flexibility is essential and five-year to help farmers to reduce erosion and maintain targets are often the most pragmatic option. This gives us a valuable opportunity to embed GLOBALG.A.P. soil health. a sustainability-first mindset among growers. Capturing the power of partnership See “More efficient practices make Turning data into knowledge One of the most important lessons we have learned is the true power of partnership. for a healthier farm” on page 25 Digital technology is having a transformative We would never have achieved so much impact on agriculture. Since we launched through The Good Growth Plan without the The Good Growth Plan, the use of digital We’ve also partnered with leading policy and technology in agriculture has increased support and buy-in of our partners. We are decision makers, together with the United truly excited by the global “Innovation for exponentially, and it will continue to do so. Nations Convention to Combat Desertification Expanding the use of digital tools when Nature” collaboration we announced together (UNCCD), providing farmers and policy with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) in measuring our progress will be important makers with the support they need to take to ensuring our next Plan keeps delivering 2019. The multi-year collaboration aims to care of their land and their business. promote soil health, resource efficiency and benefits to growers and stakeholders alike. habitat protection in major agricultural regions In China, we have partnered with the National As the first agricultural company to advocate worldwide, and brings together Syngenta’s Agricultural Extension & Service Center an open data approach, we have worked research and development capabilities and (NATESC) and the Ministry of Agriculture and with the Open Data Institute (ODI) over several TNC’s scientific and conservation expertise Rural Affairs (MARA) to train farmers on the years to apply best practice standards to to scale up sustainable agricultural practices. safe use of pesticides and better farming our data, making them more usable by practices. Since 2000, the trainings have other stakeholders. Making it easier to share We know the rich value that derives taken place at farmers’ meetings all over from working with partners in pursuit and access the unprecedented volumes of China, organized by Syngenta and local data we collect through The Good Growth of shared goals. partners. We train farmers how to protect Plan enables academics and other partners themselves while handling and spraying to produce richer, more informed and pesticides, using techniques which conform useful insights. to safety regulations. 22 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Our engagement with the Global Open Data For example, the largest potato grower in Moving ahead will also involve acting on for Agriculture and Nutrition (GODAN) is the US, R.D. Offutt, planted non-productive the feedback from the listening sessions designed to achieve a common metric that corners of its potato fields in Minnesota with we held with a wide variety of stakeholders allows researchers to further sharpen their our Operation Pollinator regionally-tailored in 2018. These sessions were crucial to giving insights by standardizing the way we combine seed mixes to create environmentally diverse us a better understanding of what society and exchange data. wildflower habitats and increase the number expects from Syngenta and our industry, of pollinating insects. As well as substantially and what sustainable agriculture really means Further simplifying and standardizing the way increasing biodiversity, it also enabled to different groups. we source, share and analyze data will provide conversations with the community about farmers with the insight generated and tailored encouraging pollinators in their local area. The commitment we made following the agronomic advice in good time for the current listening sessions – to accelerate our growing season. Not only has The Good Growth Plan innovation and invest $2 billion over five years proved beneficial to farmers and other into technological breakthroughs specifically Building trust, credibility and pride stakeholders, but it has also fostered a sense aimed at advancing sustainable agriculture Thanks to The Good Growth Plan, farmers of pride among employees and, crucially, – will be integral to the next evolution trust us as a credible and reliable source attracted interest from potential recruits. of The Good Growth Plan. of information on how to implement Making a meaningful contribution to society the principles of sustainable farming. in the workplace has become more and See “Accelerating innovation The productivity data generated at farm more important to people. An employer in a changing world” on pages 6-9 level allow them to hold more informed with demonstrable sustainability credentials conversations with their customers further is more likely to win the race for their talent down the food value chain. This has and commitment. As this first stage of The Good Growth Plan contributed significantly towards optimizing draws to a close, we would like to thank all sustainable food production. One example The Good Growth Plan continues to be a key those who have accompanied us along this in the US is where Kellogg’s, The Nature factor in recruiting and retaining the brightest journey to date. They include, among many Conservancy and Syngenta have been people in our industry to keep accelerating others, farmers, employees, national and working to create a more sustainable supply the breakthrough innovations that drive local authorities, food value chain partners, chain by helping farmers document and sustainable agriculture. NGOs and academics. Their expertise, insight demonstrate how conservation practices Looking to the future and energy continue to help us to turn our enhance natural resource management and commitments into real, measurable benefits support water quality both in Saginaw Bay Since its launch, The Good Growth Plan’s for farmers, the people they feed and the and the larger Great Lakes watershed. principles and priorities have become deeply planet we all share. We invite everyone to join embedded in the way we do business. It has us as we continue into the next exciting phase At the same time, Good Growth Plan enabled us to enhance our commercial of The Good Growth Plan. projects have also enabled farmers to hold offer, deliver real and measurable benefits different, more informed conversations within to farmers, rural communities and the their communities. environment. The next step is to build on the progress we have made and the lessons we have learned. 4. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 23 Make crops Rescue Help biodiversity Empower Help people Look after more efficient more farmland flourish smallholders stay safe every worker Increase the average Improve the fertility of Enhance biodiversity Reach 20 million Train 20 million farm Strive for fair labor productivity of the 10 million hectares of on 5 million hectares smallholders and workers on labor conditions throughout world’s major crops by farmland on the brink of farmland enable them to safety, especially in our entire supply 20 percent without of degradation increase productivity developing countries chain network using more land, by 50 percent water or inputs Progress and key achievements 2014–2019 18.8% 14.1m 8.2m 26.5m 42.4m 99.0% Land productivity increase1 Hectares of Hectares of Smallholders reached through People trained on safe use5 Suppliers included in benefited farmland2 benefited farmland2 training and sales3 sustainability and fair labor programs6 28.5% Smallholder land productivity increase4 We have increased We’ve already exceeded Our biodiversity projects We have reached over We have trained We’ve covered reference farm yields our 2020 target by almost around the world 20 million smallholders unprecedented 99 percent of our supply ahead of their 5 million hectares – and continued to deliver and substantially numbers, exceeding chain, and we’re leading benchmarks and we’re continuing to raise measurable benefits to increased their our 2020 target of the industry to increase recorded efficiency awareness for the farmers and their wider productivity, but there 20 million by reaching wages in the seed improvements of more importance of soil health communities is still a way to go 42.4 million people supply chain in India than 20 percent for nutrients and pesticide field application 1 On reference farms compared to baseline 2014 3 In 2019 5 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Includes smallholders reached 2 Cumulative since baseline 2014 4 On smallholder reference farms compared to baseline 2014 through training reported under “Empower smallholders” Additional progress information 6 In 2019 online at www.data.syngenta.com 24 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Make crops in clusters of uniform agro-climatic conditions Reference farms continue to outperform and grower characteristics, and between Crop yields, input use and GHG emissions them grow 19 crops in 39 countries. depend on environmental and market more efficient Reference farms are selected by Syngenta conditions and vary widely from country and recommended to use Syngenta to country and year to year. However, with products and to follow optimized protocols. six years of data now available, we are in Benchmark farms are randomly selected by a position to report robust positive trends. a third-party research agency and represent UN Sustainable Development Goals typical grower practice for each cluster. We achieved significant improvements 2, 12, 17 Aggregated and anonymized data generated against our 2014 baseline when it came on the farms in the network is publicly to GHG emission efficiency (36.7 percent), available on our website as open data to nutrient efficiency (46.8 percent) and pesticide To ensure sustainable food security, within We report the percentage increase achieved enable others to use it, for example, in their field application efficiency (33.4 percent). planetary boundaries, the world needs a in land productivity, nutrient efficiency, own research. Although we recorded an 18.8 percent step change in crop productivity. We are pesticide field application efficiency and improvement in land productivity, this was committed to boost productivity of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission efficiency Farm network 1.2 percentage point short of our ambitious world’s most important crops in partnership across a farm network. In 2019, the network 2019 2018 2017 20 percent target by 2020. with growers without using more inputs like comprised 1,659 reference and 1,928 No. of reference farms 1,659 1,443 1,459 land or water. benchmark farms. The farms are grouped No. of benchmark farms 1,928 2,316 2,630 Land productivity increase1 % 18.8% 2020 20.0 2019 18.8 2018 13.0 Measuring sustainability 2017 10.9 Case study 1 On reference farms compared to baseline 2014 Sustainability increasingly matters to Reference farms continued to outperform consumers, so food processors and the benchmark farms for GHG emission retailers are looking for ways to track and nutrient efficiencies over the six-year their footprint and be transparent monitoring period. Land productivity on about it. For more than five years, reference farms was better than the average Rita Herford, a wheat farmer in Michigan, 12.4 percent increase on benchmark farms. US, has participated in the Great Lakes Origin Project with Kellogg’s, Syngenta Overall, the improvements we saw on and a milling company. She tracks the reference farms were a strong validation of our inputs on her farm using Syngenta’s sustained and continuing efforts to improve farm management software Land.db and crop efficiency. The use of modern crop shares the data with Kellogg’s. The data protection and seeds technologies has had enables Rita to apply inputs very specifically, the biggest impact on increasing productivity. which improves her resource efficiency. This has been particularly noticeable among Kellogg’s, in turn, uses the data to inform its corn growers across the globe and tomato Rita Herford customers – retailers – of the sustainability growers in South America and Europe. tracks and shares of its products such as the carbon footprint. sustainability information with customers 4. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 25 Rescue more Case study More efficient practices farmland make for a healthier farm Soil health is crucial to the longevity of any farm – something UN Sustainable Development Goals that Péter Szabadka pays close attention to on his family 2, 13, 15, 17 farm in Hungary. Péter has been using our CONTIVO® solution since 2015, helping improve the vitality of his soil and prevent it washing away in heavy rain. Now an advocate Benefiting more farmland of conservation agriculture, he has been investing in new Today, over 50 percent of farmland is affected machinery for cover cropping on his farm – further protecting by soil degradation. Our response involves Under our Good Growth Plan, we report on the soil – as well as sharing these experiences with other actively working with farmers to promote the hectares of land positively impacted by farmers. As a sign of healthier soil, Péter is finding more conservation agriculture. As a core element sustainable soil management using practices and more earthworms in soil samples across his farm. in climate-smart farming, it helps sequester such as conservation tillage, crop rotation carbon in soil, prevent land degradation, and permanent ground cover. improve food security, reinforce farm and community resilience, enhance soil health Since 2014, we have implemented 261 and fertility, and deliver better crops to the projects in 44 countries and have benefited value chain. a total of 14.1 million hectares of farmland – surpassing the overall 2020 target of As well as working with farmers, we are also improving the fertility of 10 million hectares of raising awareness of soil conservation among farmland on the brink of degradation. In 2019, value chain partners, academics, government our projects benefited 3.3 million hectares institutions and others. For example, Syngenta of farmland. has been the private-sector partner of the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) for six years, alongside the World Hectares of benefited farmland1 m 14.1m Business Council for Sustainable Development 2020 10.0 (WBCSD). Conservation 2019 3.3 14.1 agriculture keeps Péter In 2019, we co-sponsored the WBCSD Szabadka’s 2018 10.8 Business Day on Soil, Land and Agriculture soil healthy and strong at the UNCCD COP 14 in India. This event 2017 7.5 brought together business representatives 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 and key stakeholders with a collective interest in combating land degradation worldwide. Demand for digital solutions is growing and integrated pest management is helping We also continue to develop sustainable soil The day’s main outcome was the UNCCD strongly worldwide. For the third consecutive growers. SmartBio is a third-party platform and digital solutions across Asia, EAME and Delhi Declaration from Business on focusing year, the SmartBio initiative in sugarcane in developed in partnership with Syngenta that North America. In China, we have seen a perspectives, commitments and policy Brazil was our largest project in the country. allows sugarcane mill companies to map positive trend in the last two years, thanks priorities towards achieving this shared goal. Benefiting 1.9 million hectares, it exemplifies areas susceptible to different stress factors to projects such as soil health training in how the combination of digital agriculture and select the best crop management mix Dingxi and straw incorporation in Qihe. for each of them. 26 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Help biodiversity The sustainability of agriculture relies on margins support sustainable intensification on biodiversity — for plant breeding, pollination more productive land and help reintroducing and food diversity. We are promoting and local species while providing buffers for soil flourish enabling action to increase and connect and water. Other examples of biodiversity habitats that support healthy and diverse enhancement practices include restoration wildlife populations. and maintenance of managed forests and agro-forestry. A key strategy involves managing lessUN Sustainable Development Goals productive farmland alongside fields and Exceeding our biodiversity targets 2, 15, 17 waterways to provide corridors connecting Since 2014, we have implemented 366 wildlife habitats. These multi-functional field projects in 41 countries and benefited a total of 8.2 million hectares of farmland, exceeding our overall 2020 target of 5 million. In 2019, our projects benefited 1.8 million hectares of farmland – more than double last year’s contribution. This increase was primarily Case study Making Bornholm a haven for pollinators driven by improvements made through the Syngenta Sustainable Solutions program in North America. The Danish island of Bornholm is in full bloom. Beginning in 2018, Syngenta, volunteer farmers, and local partner organizations, have been planting flower strips around the island’s farms and fields through the Bornholm Blomstrer (“to bloom”) project – part of our Operation Pollinator™. Now in its second year, we Hectares of benefited farmland1 m 8.2m have planted 8 hectares of flowers to provide habitat and resources for a variety of insect and animal 2020 5.0 species. Participating farms are now seeing more abundant resident wild bee and honey bee populations inside the flower strips than in their unmanaged ditch and fallow spaces. 2019 1.8 8.2 2018 6.4 2017 5.6 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014 EAME and China have also seen increases. In EAME, multi-functional field margins – including riparian forests – are now the most frequently adopted biodiversity measures in our portfolio. In China, the increase was driven mainly by the expansion of our Operation Pollinator™ and Hives on Farm projects. The biodiversity projects we invest in worldwide continue to benefit farmers and their wider communities. For farmers, the positives include better soil nutrient cycling, crop pollination, pest control and water quality regulation. Social gains include enhanced genetic diversity, carbon sequestration One of our and flood attenuation. wildflower strips outside Bornholm Airport 4. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 27 Empower Did you know? Smallholders help feed the world smallholders They produce half of the world’s calories and 80% of the developing world’s food UN Sustainable Development Goals 1, 2, 17 Smallholders produce more than 80 percent Smallholders reached 26.5m 50% of the food consumed in much of the through training and sales m developing world. Their crop productivity lags 80% 2020 20.0 well behind that of larger producers, so closing World’s calories the gap significantly improves food security 2019 6.2 20.3 26.5 and reduces poverty. 2018 6.1 13.4 19.5 Developing world’s consumption Over half of our sales are made in growing 2017 5.6 13.9 19.4 economies where smallholder farmers Training Sales predominate. Our contact with these customers is generally indirect: they buy Through sales, we reached 20.3 million, through local distributors and retailers. an increase of 52 percent on the year before. We work with partners to provide smallholders In China alone, we reached 13.9 million with tools and training that make agriculture smallholders, 82 percent up on 2018, mainly more productive, efficient and profitable. Training on new technology and farming due to increased sales of our seed treatment products MAXIM® and the new product We also report on the average land productivity increase for smallholders. Smallholder land productivity increase1 % 28.5% practices helps smallholders improve their MAXIM® Advance. In 2019, the average increase in land 2020 50.0 yield and access to market. Through our productivity for smallholder reference Through training activities, we reached farms compared to the 2014 baseline was 2019 1.8 28.5 reach, we help restore and maintain vibrant 6.2 million smallholders in 2019. rural communities and enable farmers to 28.5 percent – almost three times better 2018 21.9 This represents 73 percent of the total than the average increase for smallholder progress beyond subsistence agriculture. 8.6 million people we trained globally in 2019 – 2017 21.6 benchmark farms. However, we fell short Expanding our reach through sales which is reported under the “Help people stay of our ambitious target of 50 percent 1 On smallholder reference farms compared to baseline 2014 and training safe” commitment. About 90 percent of the productivity increase on smallholder smallholders we trained are in Asia Pacific. farms by 2020. We found this is because smallholder We report on the number of smallholder farmers we reached through sales as well reference farmers that work with Syngenta as through training. In 2019, we reached a See “Help people stay safe” for many years are already well advanced, on page 29 with above-average baseline productivity. combined total of 26.5 million smallholders through both channels. This represents an This is important since their farms also serve increase of 36 percent on the previous year as demonstration farms for other farmers in and exceeds our 2020 target of reaching their clusters. 20 million smallholders. 28 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Case study Having an impact When Noah Naisali Kadima started farming, he knew little about it and sought advice and recommendations as a smallholder farmer from various sources. Since becoming a reference farmer in Syngenta’s Good Growth Plan in 2015, he has seen growing success on his small farm outside Nairobi, Kenya. After receiving training on how to use crop protection products safely and more effectively, Noah managed to cut his costs significantly while still improving his yields and profits. Noah also encourages other growers in his community to apply good agricultural practices and trains them during demonstration days on his farm. Noah Kadima grows onions, peppers and tomatoes in Kenya 4. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 29 Help people Case Safe farming with stay safe study drone technology As application technology for crop protection products becomes more advanced, farmers need UN Sustainable Development Goals to stay on top of how to safely use these new 2, 3, 17 systems. One of the latest developments is the use of drones to apply crop protection. Shi Lijie is a Syngenta Safe Use Training Ambassador and leader We are committed to helping improve This year’s figure represents a slight increase of the Agriculture Extension Service operating out occupational safety and health in agriculture. compared to 2018, driven mainly by a of Daliutun town in the Liaoning province, China. Ensuring that our products are used correctly significant increase in Asia Pacific that was She has helped us train farmers in the safe and effective is integral to our business model – to protect offset by a slight decrease in Latin America. use of pesticides since 2006. Now, Shi Lijie includes not only the health and safety of farm workers 42.4m People trained safe-use practices for drone application in her training and the public, but also the environment. sessions for local growers. In 2019, she has helped on safe use1 m This is particularly important for smallholders, train more than 3,000 farmers through both online 2020 20.0 telecasts and face-to-face demonstrations. especially those in developing countries, where using crop protection efficiently, 2019 8.6 42.4 responsibly and safely has a big impact 2018 33.8 on rural welfare. 2017 25.5 The benefit for customers comes both from 1 Cumulative since baseline 2014. Includes smallholders reached using our products safely and using no more through training reported under “Empower smallholders” than is necessary, so that they minimize environmental impact and maximize their Asia Pacific accounts for a large part of return on investment. the people we train worldwide. In 2019, Expanding our safe-use we implemented new partnerships with training activities sugarcane, corn and cassava value chains in Thailand. We report on the number of people who may be exposed to crop protection products Latin America reported an overall decrease: – such as farm workers, farm owners, although Brazil trained significantly more smallholders, product distributors and people, this increase was offset in Latin employees – who attended safe-use training America North when we shifted to delivering activities on the responsible handling and safe training directly through Syngenta and less use of crop protection products. through partners. In 2019, we trained 8.6 million people, bringing the cumulative total since 2014 to 42.4 million – exceeding our overall 2020 target of 20 million. Shi Lijie advises farmers in the field on safe and effective pesticide use 30 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Look after the FLA, we convened a multi-stakeholder The percentage of formulation, fill and pack consultation in Hyderabad which, though tollers in the program decreased slightly to it did not lead to consensus among the 83 percent (2018: 86 percent), while the every worker companies, helped Syngenta to develop a percentage of packaging manufacturers six-step action plan to address wage issues increased to 63 percent (2018: 50 percent). and begin pilots in two regions and crops. The results of the pilots are encouraging, and As well as auditing and assessing the FLA has published an independent report performance, our experts support our UN Sustainable Development Goals complete with key learnings on their website suppliers to identify and make the right 2, 8, 17 at www.fairlabor.org. improvements. We also run safety and environmental training programs to help We continue to implement our global address gaps in areas from risk assessment We are committed to ensuring fair labor The areas we report on include the percentage program in line with FLA requirements to emergency management. conditions across our supply chain, and of Syngenta seed producing countries and and are working to obtain FLA accreditation on a country-by-country basis. Through the TfS initiative, we work we recognize our responsibility to ensure our seed supply farms included in the Syngenta collectively with other chemical companies suppliers meet the highest ethical standards. Fair Labor Program. Assessing and improving to drive improvements in the sustainability We report on the coverage of fair labor and Since 2004, we have worked with the Fair sustainability performance of our supply chains. Our membership sustainability programs in our main direct Labor Association (FLA) to develop and roll of our chemical supply chain enables us to access supplier data from procurement activities: seed, chemical out our Fair Labor Program tailored specifically We engage with our chemical suppliers to audits and assessments covering all areas and flowers supply chains. for this complex supply chain. The program assess and drive improvements in their health, of sustainability. In 2019, 99 percent of all our suppliers were assesses labor practices on farms including: safety, environmental and social standards Flowers: meeting growing demand covered by these programs. We recognize health and safety; child labor; awareness through our Supplier Sustainability Program. for Fairtrade products that we cannot achieve 100 percent coverage of workers’ rights; wages and benefits; because of constant changes in our supply working hours; harassment and abuse; This comprises on-site audits by our Reporting areas here include the percentage chains, but we continuously strive to include and discrimination. own auditors, and audits or assessments of Syngenta and third-party commercial flower our entire supply chain. conducted through the chemical farms that hold a valid GlobalG.A.P certificate. In 2019, our program covered 99.3 percent of industry’s Together for Sustainability In 2019, 88 percent of all farms held this Suppliers included all our seed supply farms (2018: 99.2 percent). (TfS) initiative. This program assesses certification (2018: 96 percent). The decrease in sustainability and fair labor programs1 % 99.0% This represents 29 out of our current 33 seed-producing countries. We still need suppliers’ performance against our standards, identifying potential gaps was due to an increase in the overall number of commercial flowers farms that are now in 2020 100.0 to implement our Fair Labor Program and supporting suppliers to make the process of completing certification. 2019 99.0 on 303 farms in the four remaining countries. the required improvements. This year, our Kenya Pollen farm achieved 2018 98.8 The Fair Labor Association accredited our In 2019, 94 percent of our chemical Fairtrade accreditation – our second under Syngenta Fair Labor Program in India in 2015. suppliers were included in our this scheme after our Kenya Cuttings farm 2017 86.0 We were the first agricultural company to earn Supplier Sustainability Program. was accredited in June 2018. We sought 1 The seed supply chain represents about 98% of the suppliers this status, which confirms that a company’s Coverage remained stable during the year accreditation in response to growing demand targeted by our sustainability and fair labor programs systems and procedures have been shown due to natural fluctuations of the supplier in the value chain for Fairtrade products. to successfully uphold fair labor standards base. For instance, we have added new Ensuring fair labor on seed supply farms throughout its supply chain. supplier sites in China after the relocation of manufacturing sites as a result of production Comprising some 42,000 farms, our seed Also at this time, recognizing that minimum suspensions in certain provinces; and supply chain accounts for about 98 percent wage issues affect entire communities of in LATAM following the reprioritization of of the suppliers targeted by our fair labor Indian farmworkers, the FLA and Syngenta our supplier base. There were also some and sustainability programs. sought to raise awareness among peer suppliers that we will no longer audit as companies and began a collective effort they are phased out. to address minimum wages. Together with 4. The Good Growth Plan Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 31 Case study New opportunities for rural After an audit by the Fair Labor Association (FLA), one of the potential areas for improvement we identified in our seed women in Argentina supply chain in Argentina was the employment of more women. We held pilots in 2018, adapting our recruitment to attract more women applicants for roles as field workers and supervisors, and were met with keen interest. In 2019, we expanded this campaign to another seed multiplication site. These developments build on the success of our Argentine seed supply chain, which has consistently maintained excellent levels of compliance with the FLA Code of Conduct. Bringing more women into our supply chain in Argentina 32 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 The Syngenta Foundation works with small-scale farmers in developing countries. We help them increase their productivity, income and resilience. Innovations in many forms play a crucial role. Our aim is to make these available to many more farmers, faster. The Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Raising staple crop yields Agriculture (SFSA) concentrates on three in developing countries thematic areas: Access to Seeds, Risk One important aim for crop breeders is to Management and Agriservices. We support develop varieties that cope well with weather these workstreams with partnerships in extremes. Climate change and increasing Research and Development (R&D) and on weather volatility make this task more crucial Policy. Focusing on a dozen countries in Africa than ever. Modern drought-tolerant crop and Asia, we collaborate with a wide range varieties help farmers achieve good yields of organizations from the public, private and even in dry years. non-profit sectors. However, they are often out of the financial Smallholders’ yields are typically far lower than reach of smallholders. Our partnership on they could be. Improving this situation requires AAA Maize aims to solve this problem. both the development of better crop varieties It brings us together with Syngenta and and other innovations, and their widespread the international R&D organization CIMMYT. use in the field. In 2019, we made significant progress with corn, tef and cassava. Together, they developed drought-tolerant corn that has been available to Indian Accelerating smallholders’ smallholders through local seed suppliers since 2017. Several such companies began ability to benefit from producing and selling AAA Maize in 2019, The Syngenta Foundation helps rural technology does not greatly increasing its availability. The corn communities benefit from technology involve free hand-outs. enables farmers in drought-prone areas to maintain good yields despite low rainfall. In agriculture, properly Turning “Importantly, accelerating smallholders’ ability functioning markets are to benefit from such technology does not the only way to ensure involve free hand-outs”, comments SFSA sustainable improvements. innovations Director Simon Winter. “In agriculture, properly functioning markets are the only way to ensure Simon Winter sustainable improvements.” Director, Syngenta Foundation © Syngenta Foundation Bangladesh into smallholder Tef, the national cereal of Ethiopia, is an orphan crop. Unlike corn, it has received very little attention from the international scientific community. As a result, productivity of this vital income food for the Horn of Africa lags far behind that of many other cereals. Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 33 Local entrepreneurs and international to test, validate and market agri-tech digital tools innovations. Smallholders can therefore Over recent years, SFSA has also access the innovations faster, thus improving pioneered innovations in Risk Management their productivity and income, and reducing and Agriservices. The latter include the their risks. establishment of Agri-Entrepreneurs (AE’s) G.A.T.E. also improves data quality, reporting, in India. feedback and project management, and Our program enables young rural people to keeps partners in touch throughout the build up a business, each serving about 200 process. A technology library connects ideas local farmers. The number of AE’s rose rapidly and partners with local needs and agencies. in 2019, to about 3,000. The program is now “We are already in discussion with a number Cassava planting set for much larger expansion through the of potential users”, says SFSA project lead material prepared for testing joint creation with Tata Trusts of the AgriAndrea Balmer. “The platform is available to by Ugandan Entrepreneur Growth Foundation. anybody exploring agri-tech ideas. By solving specialists We are also promoting the role of AE’s many of the current bottlenecks in technology in specific forms of technology transfer. transfer and adoption, G.A.T.E. will help Our partnership with researchers in Ethiopia Healthier soil brings numerous benefits Over the last 18 months, the entrepreneurs smallholders to access the technologies they and Switzerland has led to the development Good-quality seeds play a central role have helped several agricultural breakthroughs need and deserve.” of new tef varieties. The first of these began to in sustainable agriculture. Increasing from abroad to reach much larger numbers reach significant numbers of Ethiopian farmers smallholders’ harvests and profits, however, of Indian farmers than was typical in the past. in 2019, while further varieties received also requires progress in other areas. registration from the authorities. We are “We look for possibilities in countries with now working to accelerate the adoption In late 2018, SFSA extended its activities highly innovative agriculture”, explains of improved tef across the country. into the area of soil health, initially in Kenya. Baskar Reddy, our Country Director for India. Here we are collaborating with The Nature “One major area for improvement in Indian Cassava is a key staple in several African Conservancy (TNC) in a densely populated farming is water-use efficiency, and there are countries. The usual planting material is bulky, region near Nairobi. numerous other examples. We are delighted however, and vulnerable to disease and to improve our growers’ access to the best pests. Lack of a formal market deters local “An important goal is to help smallholders technological solutions.” companies from supplying smallholders with combine rainwater storage for irrigation better material. with appropriate agronomic advice so they SFSA is also investigating digital options Building a business that serves her community: can earn money with off-season vegetablefor facilitating technology transfer. Using the Indian Agri-Entrepreneur Kavita Patil We are partnering with researchers in Uganda growing”, explains George Osure, our Swiss digital platform Global Agri-Technology and Brazil to tackle this challenge. In 2019, Regional Director for East Africa. “The work Evaluation (G.A.T.E.) makes it much easier our MandiPlus initiative proved the benefits of here also reduces erosion, which benefits planting much shorter pieces of cassava than yields and water quality.” in conventional practice, and of protecting UU A Swiss non-profit, founded in 1981 them against soil-borne pests and diseases. The initiative further includes improvements in soil testing, plant nutrition and Integrated UU More than 200 employees in 10 The new technology’s good performance countries, initiatives in 15 Pest Management. We are now investigating has also attracted interest from other additional soil health work in China, as part of UU Partners with dozens of organizations countries, notably Thailand. SFSA is now the global Syngenta partnership with TNC. around the world focusing on turning the concept into an UU 2019 Syngenta funding $17 million attractive commercial proposition for local companies and their smallholder customers. Additional information online at The MandiPlus initiative is supported by the www.syngentafoundation.org Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. 34 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 In 2019, we completed a major piece of work that will have a significant long-term impact on how we operate as we prepare to make a step-change in agricultural sustainability. We undertook a comprehensive assessment of our environmental footprint. This equipped us to establish a baseline upon which we have now set hard targets to reduce the carbon, water and waste intensity of our operations. Since most of our operational impacts come from our supply chain, achieving our sustainability targets will mean working hand-in-hand with our suppliers to achieve the targets we have set for ourselves. After all: we can only be truly sustainable if our suppliers are as well. Our people remain the source of our competitive advantage, and their attitudes and actions are fundamental to achieving our targets. Engaging and developing our people while fostering an empowering working culture that inspires them to make the best of their talents remains a top priority. With the safety and wellbeing of all our stakeholders in mind, we remain fully committed to achieving our Goal Zero vision of zero harm to people and zero safety incidents. Our operations We continuously strive to maintain the highest levels of ethical behavior and compliance, and apply equally rigorous standards to Putting sustainability first how we manage our relationships with the communities in which we work. By fostering a culture of doing the right thing, we aim across all our operations to manage risk and earn recognition as a trustworthy and collaborative partner at every level – from suppliers and customers to NGOs, policymakers and society at large. To us, doing the right thing also means Securing the long-term viability of our business means using resources playing our part in achieving the UN efficiently – and sustainably – in all our operations. It also means actively Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). reducing adverse impacts on climate, the environment and society. In each area of our operations, we look at how we can best support the SDGs as part of our contribution to leaving a better planet for future generations. 5. Our operations Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 35 People Building a more diverse and Underpinning our work, in 2019, half of our We continue to build employee engagement, inclusive workforce – more agile most senior leaders participated in D&I training and during 2019 made new channels available and customer centric to understand the impact of unconscious bias to reduce the need to travel and continue Total staff numbers increased slightly to and tactics to eliminate it. to foster collaboration. Our new myVideos UN Sustainable Development Goal 8 28,265 in 2019. The attrition rate, representing platform enables employees across the globe A core theme of our 2019 Global Leadership to create and share their own video content, only voluntary leavers, increased to Conference was customer centricity, and 6.4 percent compared to 5.8 percent in the direct from their mobile devices. it became a focus of our cultural shift. previous year. During 2019, we insourced Our approach to addressing some of our We also made significant progress in Our people’s development recruitment to strengthen our capability to more pressing business issues has also addressing the top two issues highlighted attract and retain talent. is a priority; they are our evolved, utilizing agile capabilities and in our Pulse surveys – IT and performance leveraging sprints. This approach has management. We have invested in IT and, competitive strength. We We are committed to increasing diversity in benefited many projects throughout the year, for example, introduced IT Walk-In Centers our workforce and made great strides towards continue to build a diverse delivering our five-year diversity and inclusion starting with pilots in marketing, APAC, and in key sites, provided easier and more secure and inclusive culture, where (D&I) strategy. our Brazil commercial and supply chains. ways to access our network through single people feel they can be the sign-on, and increased our internet bandwidth Our most recent Pulse employee survey Engaging, developing and recognizing in many places. best version of themselves. in 2018 told us that our female employees, our people who constitute about 30 percent of the Our focus on leadership and talent Relating to performance management, workforce, have lower levels of engagement development activities intensified and so this year, we invited employees from across than men. did our investment in this area. In 2019, we Syngenta to help us reshape our performance invested $6.9 million in developing leaders management process by crowdsourcing In 2019, we took steps to address this issue and talent, up 6 percent on the previous ideas. After employees voted on a short list by, among other measures, celebrating year. By extending our talent development of proposals, we introduced a few changes International Women’s Day on March 8 and program portfolio, we increased the number in 2019, and a team is now exploring new dedicating the whole month to highlighting the of people participating in leadership trainings solutions for 2020. role of women in the workplace and in society. and accelerated the development of In addition to gender diversity, we focused emerging leaders. on other key D&I themes: flexible working arrangements, LGBTI, mental health and disabilities. We celebrated Pride The private sector has a crucial month and announced our commitment role to play in respecting and to the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business. With our mental health campaign, supporting the human rights we started the conversation about mental of LGBTI people. The support of health in the workplace – raising awareness Syngenta sends a powerful signal of individuals’ experiences and signposting to the farming and agricultural employees and line managers to further avenues of support available through our innovation sectors and beyond. employee assistance program. Fabrice Houdart We also became the first agriculture company Co-author of the UN LGBTI Standards to join the Valuable 500 – the world’s leading of Conduct for Business companies who are putting disability front Leaders from and center of corporate agendas. around the company gather together annually to discuss strategic priorities 36 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 0.34 We continue to foster a culture of ongoing Recordable illness on safe driving. At regional level, Brazil and In 2019, we completed rolling out the HSE dialogue between employees and line and injury rate (IIR) Argentina introduced a Driver Safety Behavior Management System launched in 2018 managers. Pause2Talk was introduced last per 200,000 hours1 Policy that recognizes individuals for their across all Syngenta sites. The system aims year to encourage every employee to discuss 2019 0.34 safe driving performance while applying to improve health, safety and environmental their contribution, engagement and growth a warning and disciplinary mechanism (HSE) performance by further empowering 2018 0.32 with their manager. for at-risk behaviors. and equipping leaders to take ownership 2017 0.37 of HSE in their areas of responsibility. A recent survey of our employees confirmed As well as influencing people’s behavior and 1 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness that more than two thirds of them are improving their driving skills through training, While HSE is led by leaders, it is delivered benefiting from such conversations. we are also using advanced technology and by all Syngenta employees, every day. Sadly, there were three fatalities in 2019. improved vehicle design to reduce driving To ensure they fully understand their individual Val-You, our peer-to-peer recognition program, One involved a fatal allergic reaction due risks. In Thailand, for example, we installed a HSE responsibilities and accountabilities, allows employees to thank colleagues at any to multiple bee stings in Ethiopia. The other state-of-the-art telematics system in employee we updated our HSE Policy and Standards level across the organization. Since its launch two involved motorbike accidents in India. vehicles that helped to reduce overall driver eLearning. In 2019, 96 percent of employees in 2017, colleagues have used Val-You to risk levels by 40 percent in its first month. completed this refresher training. make almost 80,000 awards recognizing 67 Driving remains our principal employee risk category. We continue to raise awareness In North America, we are combining standard percent of our workforce. Award nominations safety features – such as reverse sensing are aligned with our company values and around this and other safety issues in regular safety and ethics shares in team meetings systems and blind spot information systems – “Determined execution” remains the most with advanced in-vehicle ergonomics. recognized core value. and townhalls. In addition, we held a global Safety Pause in 2019 that focused specifically For the tenth year running, our employment policies and performance earned us external recognition in Science magazine’s annual Top 20 Employers Survey. In 2019, our ranking as one of the world’s leading biotech employers improved from 14th to 10th, and we are the only agricultural company on the list. Case study Turning data into knowledge Keeping our people safe We continuously aim to maintain the highest Dr. Laura Potter is our Global Head of standards of health and safety in line with our Analytics and Data Science, leading a team of Goal Zero vision of zero harm to people and mathematicians, geneticists and genomicists. zero safety incidents. In 2019, our illness and Her team analyzes environmental and biological injury rate remained low at 0.34 recordable data to help breeders make better decisions incidents per 200,000 hours (2018: 0.32). throughout the seed research and development The overall number of motor vehicle incidents process. Using algorithms, they recommend per million kilometers remained stable at 1.6 plant genetics that are better suited to varied (2018: 1.6). Across all regions, 145 of our grower needs, as well as identifying where to production and research and development conduct field trials to best match real growing sites reported a year without a single conditions. Laura and her team are now working recordable incident. This was 19 more than to develop the analytical models that will design the total of incident-free sites in 2018. the plant genetics of the future, serving the needs of tomorrow’s growers. Dr. Laura Potter and her team tailor seed development to grower needs 5. Our operations Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 37 Sustainable We have a vital part to play in making We also committed to a 20 percent reduction agriculture more sustainable. Accordingly, in water intensity and waste intensity; and we strive to use resources more efficiently carrying out biodiversity and soil conservation operations in our operations while reducing potential practices to the highest standards across our environmental impacts. We recognize that seeds supply chain. We aim to achieve these improving our environmental performance targets by 2030. and sustainability delivers far-reaching benefits across the organization. These include greater In addition, we affirmed our commitment to UN Sustainable Development Goals operational efficiency, lower costs, better risk ensuring fair labor conditions, including health 3, 6, 8, 12, 13, 17 management, safer and healthier working and safety standards, throughout our seeds conditions, a responsible and trusted partner and crop protection supply chain networks. in the communities we operate, and enhanced Reducing our carbon footprint We are continually improving employee engagement. Our 2030 target of at least 50 percent the efficiency of our operations, Operating sustainably requires reduction in carbon intensity has been while always seeking to reduce working together validated and endorsed by the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi). This is a joint initiative any adverse impacts. The In 2019, we concluded a major piece of of CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, work aimed at assessing and measuring long-term sustainability of our environmental footprint. This involved the World Resources Institute and World our business also relies on analyzing data collected in 2016 to give Wildlife Fund. Its goal is to enable leading engaging our supply chain us a baseline upon which we have now set companies to set ambitious and meaningful targets. This analysis also provided a detailed corporate greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction in these efforts. targets. Syngenta’s commitment is to stay understanding of the environmental impact of our own operations and those of our well below the Paris Agreement. supply chain. Most of our environmental impact comes from our suppliers. For example, our supply chain accounts for about 90 percent of our carbon footprint, approximately 95 percent of our water usage and up to 80 percent of our waste. Clearly, managing our environmental performance means working closely with our Leadership from the agribusiness suppliers to help them manage their impacts. sector is vital in the fight against Hard targets for our operations climate change, and by setting In 2019, we committed to reducing the these targets, Syngenta is putting carbon intensity of our entire operations by themselves on a pathway to at least 50 percent by 2030 to support the future-proof growth. ambitious goals of the Paris Agreement on climate change. This commitment aligns with Cynthia Cummis our Accelerating Innovation commitment Director of Private Sector Climate Mitigation to invest $2 billion in innovations that help World Resources Institute farmers prepare for and tackle the increasing threats posed by climate change. All sustainable operations performance indicators reported are for our own See “Accelerating innovation operations only. in a changing world” on pages 6-9 38 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 To achieve our 2030 carbon intensity reduction target, we will focus on improving established detailed, real time measurement and analytical data and we are using this Monthey, Switzerland. Irrigation, which is mainly from underground sources, is impacted Hazardous waste intensity g/$ sales 14.7 the efficiency of our manufacturing processes, analysis to initiate improvement projects. by weather – hence fluctuations from year to design and implement site-based energyWe plan to carry out such projects on more year are normal. 2019 14.7 saving programs, increase the share of sites in 2020. 2018 13.9 renewable sources of energy, and partner During 2019, we focused on initiating with our crop protection and seeds suppliers A good example of what can be achieved and driving water resources assessments 2017 14.3 to reduce their carbon footprint. In addition, is our site at Paulínia, Brazil, which is and improvement plans at our key sites. we will further optimize our business travel upgrading its existing system of lighting We also conducted an environmental impact to LEDs and solar LEDs. This will save assessment of our seeds supply chain. We are In 2019, intensity-based and absolute and our logistics network. hazardous waste both increased by 6 percent, 394 MWh of electricity per year and avoided now working on developing improvement mainly due to contaminated construction 120 CO2e emissions intensity the emission of 25.2 tonnes of CO2e per plans to address those areas of our supply g/$ sales year – the equivalent of the annual electricity chain where we can make further progress. waste generated in an expansion project at consumption of 213 Brazilian families. our site in Monthey, Switzerland, and disposal An example of improving water use comes of obsolete equipment and stored waste 2019 120 In 2019, we extended our long-term from our site in Omaha, US. They identified in Huddersfield, UK, as well as increased 2018 117 collaboration with Maersk, a fourth-party that cleaning machinery at changeovers production activities compared to 2018. 2017 120 logistics (4PL) provider. An important focus between formulations used a significant of the partnership is on sustainable logistics, proportion of the site’s water. Through analysis Intensity-based and absolute non-hazardous eliminating fossil fuels in container shipping of how much water was being used – and is waste both decreased by 11 percent. In 2019, intensity-based and absolute and supply chains to reduce CO2 emissions. actually necessary – at critical washing stages The decrease was mainly due to a return CO2e emissions from our operations – to achieve the required cleanout level, the site to normal values after one-off events in 2018, often referred to as Scope 1 and Scope 2 Preserving water was able to pinpoint where they could reduce which included disposal of remaining seeds emissions – both increased by 3 percent, We are targeting a 20 percent reduction their water use. This allowed them to reduce inventory and generation of inert waste due mainly due to increased emissions from our in water intensity by 2030. We will focus the volumes of water used for cleaning by over to construction work. own operations and from purchased energy. on water use and water stress – especially 50 percent. In 2019, we focused our efforts on for irrigation – and will form partnerships to understanding the waste footprint of some The increase in emissions from own Avoiding waste develop more effective processes or redesign of our key products. This analysis included operations was mainly due to an increase our supply chain. We are targeting a 20 percent reduction a full lifecycle assessment across our own of GHG process emissions from our site in in waste intensity by 2030. To reduce our operations and our supply chain. We also 2.3 Huddersfield, UK, and an isolated leak in Water usage intensity waste footprint, we will focus our efforts continued to address waste generation at one of our production units in Green Bayou liters/$ sales on improving process efficiency. This is a site-specific level and through improved Bioscience, US. particularly important when introducing new inventory management. 2019 2.3 products and designing the manufacturing The increase in emissions from purchased energy was mainly due to increased activity 2018 2.3 processes at the product development stage, For example, in Monthey, Switzerland, our at our Swiss sites purchasing steam and the before large-scale production starts. And we active ingredient manufacturing site completed 2017 2.5 implementation of a new methodology to will significantly reduce the volume of waste the installation of a new bromine recovery calculate the greenhouse gases generated packaging, improve the overall environmental and recycling system in 2019 that saved by electricity consumption. This methodology In 2019, our intensity-based and absolute footprint of our packing, and aim to use approximately 3,500 tonnes of bromine uses more accurate market-based emission water usage both decreased by 2 percent. recyclable packaging, with the focus on waste per year. factors, where available. The increase in cooling water driven by reducing plastics. increased production was more than offset In 2019, we carried out several projects by decreases in water used for irrigation and looking into energy consumption. for processing and washing. Cooling water These projects involved key sites for active represents 59 percent of our total water ingredient manufacturing, formulation, fill and usage, excluding the supply chain, and is pack processing, and seeds research and mainly used at our active ingredient site in development. Through these projects, we 5. Our operations Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 39 Biodiversity and soil health In 2019, we updated our Seeds supplier Code We strive to minimize soil erosion and enhance biodiversity at the farms in our seeds of Conduct to better address our standards on issues including child labor, working hours Case study Carbon-friendly flower cuttings from Ethiopia supply chain. So we have set ourselves a and forced labor. In India, we are collaborating target to ensure that 100 percent of our seeds with other Seeds companies to develop a supply chain is carrying out biodiversity and roadmap towards progressing wages in the soil conservation practices by 2030. To help seeds supply chain. This collaboration is achieve this target, we will deploy measures based on the understanding that long-term such as field margins, forests and beehives solutions in this area require collective action to enhance biodiversity, while addressing soil from stakeholders such as industry partners, erosion by, for example, promoting farming farmers and governments. practices that minimize soil disturbance Through Together for Sustainability audits and provide continuous soil coverage. and assessments, we assess the health, To date, we have focused on achieving safety, labor, human rights, environmental biodiversity and soil health improvements and ethical performance of our chemical through our Good Growth Plan. In 2019, and packaging supplier base. For suppliers we completed an assessment of our seeds with significant safety or environmental risks, supply farms to identify opportunities for we conduct our own in-depth audits using introducing best practices in soil conservation our own auditors. Where gaps are identified and biodiversity enhancement. In addition, during these assessments and audits, we we introduced biodiversity measures at several follow up and support our suppliers to make of our facilities, such as Ûberlandia in Brazil improvements. In 2019, we updated our audit and Research Triangle Park in the US. to strengthen the focus on process safety management, one of the critical risk areas Renewable geothermal People: health and safety, for chemical manufacturers. energy keeps and human rights our young In addition to our audit programs, we have plants warm We strive for fair labor and safe working started broadening our engagement with conditions throughout our own operations and chemical suppliers to measure and improve our supply chain network. We aim to have all their carbon, water and waste impacts. our suppliers included in our sustainability and From day to night, temperatures at our fair labor programs. We also further developed and formalized flower-cuttings farm in Koka, Ethiopia, drop our sustainable sourcing process in 2019, so significantly that it is necessary to keep To help achieve this target, we will continue to our greenhouses heated against the low giving training to all our procurement teams enhance our assurance programs and partner temperatures. Historically, we used kerosene, who work with chemical and packaging with our Crop Protection and Seeds suppliers. derived from non-renewable fossil fuels; suppliers. The training provides them We will also focus on human rights and adapt however, in 2005: we switched to geothermal with an understanding of our corporate our assurance procedures to ensure suppliers energy – utilizing the site’s unique situation in objectives, the risks associated with adopt our standards. a volcanically active region. Using renewable purchasing in those categories and the requirements for conducting due diligence geothermal energy reduces the site’s footprint and driving improvement. significantly, saving up to 32 tonnes of carbon dioxide each month compared to historical rates. Likewise, with its remaining electrical demand being met through hydroelectric sources, the site has managed to become largely carbon-neutral. 40 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Business Embedding a culture of doing best approach to tackling similar dilemmas. of Conduct and meet its standards – as well the right thing In 2019, 3,113 leaders were engaged as relevant external regulations on issues such All our stakeholders – from farmers, in compliance sessions (2018: 3,108). as health and safety, the environment, fair integrity governments and research bodies to our labor practices and animal welfare. partners, suppliers and broader society – expect our leaders and employees to act ethically. Earning their trust by doing the right Leaders engaged in leader-led compliance sessions 3,113 Protecting our people, products, and sites thing is fundamental to achieving our goals. 2019 3,113 Our security team works to protect our assets, UN Sustainable Development Goals products, and – above all – our people, 1, 8, 16, 17 The importance we attach to ethical business 2018 3,108 especially in countries with high security risks. practices is reflected in the prominence 2017 2,263 we give to ethical compliance. Our Ethics We proactively provide all Syngenta Board, formed in 2018, oversees policies employees traveling on business with up-toIntegrity is crucial to growing We actively encourage our employees to date information on travel risks and ensure and standards and the implementation of a sustainably successful our compliance framework, decides on raise their compliance concerns with their support if they are exposed to an unexpected business. By fostering a material non-compliance cases and monitors manager directly or by using our confidential security incident on their journey. During compliance helpline. In 2019, the number the year, the team contacted 176 travelers culture of doing the right thing, stubborn or systemic compliance risk areas. of reported cases was 251 (2018: 299). in relation to 28 separate incidents. The compliance dashboard, issued halfwe aim to earn recognition as yearly, gives all leaders a transparent overview What we do is as important to us as the way Counterfeit products can harm users, the a trustworthy and collaborative of the state of compliance throughout we do it. “How matters” is one of our values public, and the environment – and also our partner at every level in the the organization. – and it applies to everyone who works for reputation. In 2019, we intensified efforts to business chain. We strive Our line managers play an instrumental role Syngenta. In 2019, we asked employees to prevent illegal products ending up in regional to preserve the security and in fostering a culture where ethics and safety confirm their commitment to our Code of markets, which resulted in the seizure of Conduct, 99 percent of employees in scope 1,782 tonnes (2018: 1, 657 tonnes) and integrity of our organization, are highly and visibly valued. During 2019, we had signed the code. In addition, we also 1,817 tonnes (2018: 196 tonnes) of illicit crop equipped our line managers with the tools and operations and products, resources to help them fulfil their compliance require our suppliers to sign up to our Code protection and seed products respectively. and to engage actively with responsibilities effectively. the communities in which Throughout the organization, line managers we operate, building mutual include frequent safety or ethics shares understanding and benefit. in team meetings or townhalls. The aim is to embed safety and ethics awareness into our working lives while encouraging people to speak up. Leaders also have regular in-depth discussion with their teams, about both a safety and an ethical compliance issue. Team members discuss actual events, consider their safety or ethical compliance implications, then determine the Every day, we remove $1m of counterfeit products from the market 5. Our operations Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 41 On the one hand, this increase reflects rising levels of organized criminal activity across our sector. On the other hand, it is also Corporate community investment $m $24m Case Taking care of study rural communities down to the strength of our local and global 2019 24 partnerships with law enforcement agencies 2018 24 such as the US Department of Justice, Interpol and Europol, and to a growing 2017 23 awareness amongst our sales force. This year, we particularly focused on engaging and In 2019, we invested $24 million (2018: training our Seeds sales teams. $24 million) in corporate community projects The threat posed by illegal products is likely and through the Syngenta Foundation for to grow as the volume offered for sale online Sustainable Agriculture. We engage with proliferates. In response, we have developed communities worldwide in many different our own machine learning tool that enables ways. Common themes include contributing us to accurately detect illegal online offers in to livelihoods through employment and more than 30 countries, with more to follow in education, sharing our practical skills and 2020. Cyber criminals are also launching fake expertise in improving farming practices, Syngenta websites, apps and social media keeping communities and schools free groups. In 2019, we took down 71 websites, from disease-spreading insects, and 107 apps and 21 social media groups. managing waste. The threats we face are not only online. Recent examples include partially funding Our Security 360° program supports houses for farmers in Vietnam, helping strategic site managers to evaluate and housewives in a community in Indonesia to improve site security. With our increased set up a community business and partnering Children can grow their focus on our Seeds sites, the program with a youth development organization in own produce now covers 148 sites (2018: 131). Canada on an outreach program that teaches at school youngsters about the vital role pollinators play Building understanding and trust with in creating a sustainable food supply. our neighbors We also support employees’ own Growing isn’t just for farmers. Following We recognize that we have a part to play humanitarian fundraising through matching Argentina’s financial crisis in 2001, employees in community life. After all, our sites are an programs and donations. In 2019, these from Syngenta Argentina came together active member of their local communities. focused on providing natural disaster relief to form Cultivando Solidaridad (Growing Engaging with them means we can contribute in Africa and Asia. Solidarity) to collect toys, clothing and food to local needs while also building mutual for children in struggling rural communities. understanding and trust. Their efforts expanded in 2005, when they Syngenta expects every site manager to began restoring school facilities, providing be visible, available and responsive to local learning materials and improving school concerns – whether these relate to the impact vegetable gardens for children to take home of our operations or to community needs that their produce. The program supported 12 we can help address. schools in 2019 – representing around 1,050 pupils in total – and has prompted higher school attendance and lower dropout rates, with a reward system for students registering fewer absences. 42 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 6 Our leadership Board of Directors at December 31, 2019 Syngenta is led by a strong Frank Ning Jürg Witmer Carl M. Casale Hongbo Chen and experienced Board of Chairman of the Board Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Directors. The Board includes Non-executive Director Lead Independent Director and Independent Director Born: 1973 representatives with six Born: 1958 Chairperson of the Committee Chairperson of the Audit Committee Nationality: Chinese nationalities, drawn from Nationality: Chinese of Independent Directors and Member and Member of the Committee Initial appointment: 2017 broad international business Initial appointment: 2018 of the Compensation Committee of Independent Directors Professional background and scientific backgrounds. Born: 1948 Born: 1961 Professional background Nationality: Swiss Nationality: American Hongbo Chen is Executive Director of China Its members bring diversity Initial appointment: 2006 Initial appointment: 2018 National Agrochemical Company Limited Frank Ning was appointed as Chairman of in expertise and perspective China National Chemical Corporation Limited (CNAC) since 2017. to the leadership of a complex, (ChemChina) in 2018. He has also served Professional background Professional background After joining CNAC in 2005, he held highly-regulated global business. as Chairman of the Sinochem Group Co., Jürg Witmer joined Hoffmann-La Roche Carl Casale spent 26 years working for various senior positions, including Deputy Ltd. since 2015. Prior to that, Frank Ning was in Basel in 1978 and subsequently held Monsanto Company, starting as a sales Secretary of the Communist Party of China, Chairman of COFCO Corporation (COFCO) a number of positions including Legal representative in 1984 and after several Assistant President and Chief Strategy from 2004 to 2015 and Vice Chairman and Counsel, Assistant to the CEO, General sales, marketing, business development, Officer (2014–2017), Assistant President President of China Resources (Holdings) Manager and China Project Manager and business leadership roles concluded and Chief Strategy Officer (2011–2014), Co., Ltd. from 1998 to 2004. He also worked of Roche Far East based in Hong Kong, his tenure as Chief Financial Officer. In 2011, and Assistant President and Director of at China Resources in top management Head of Corporate Communications and he left Monsanto to become CEO of CHS, the Planning Department (2008–2011), positions for 18 years. In addition to his Public Affairs at Roche headquarters in Inc. which is the largest farmer-owned Director of the Planning Department functions in Syngenta, Frank Ning holds Basel, Switzerland, and General Manager cooperative in the United States and (2005–2008). From 2000 to 2005, he was the following board memberships: of Roche Austria. From 1999 to 2005, he is a Fortune 100 Company. Senior Engineer and Project Manager at UU Listed companies: Chairman of Far East acted as Chief Executive Officer and from Mr. Casale is a Senior Agricultural Partner the China National Petroleum and Chemical Horizon Ltd., Chairman of China Jinmao 2005 to 2017 as Chairman of the Givaudan at Ospraie Management, LLC, which is Planning Institute. From 1998 to 2000, he Holdings Group Ltd., Chairman of Group in Vernier/Geneva. From 2008 to engaged in ag-tech venture capital and worked at the Planning Department of Sinochem Hong Kong (Group) Co., Ltd. 2012, he was also Chairman of Clariant AG, private equity investing. He is also a coChina National Petroleum Administration Basel. Apart from his functions in Syngenta, owner with his wife Kim of Casale AG, LLC, Authority. From 1994 to 1998, he worked at UU Non-listed companies: Chairman Jürg Witmer currently holds the following the Chinese Ministry of Chemical Industries, of Sinochem Group Co., Ltd., which is a commercial blueberry farming board memberships: operation in Oregon, US. holding positions in the Planning Department Chairman of China National Chemical and the Planning Institute. Corporation Ltd. UU Non-listed companies: Non-executive He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Agricultural Director of A. Menarini IFR, Florence, Economics from Oregon State University He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Fine Frank Ning ranks among China’s most Italy; and Chairman of Montcaud Holding Chemicals and Engineering Management influential business leaders and is Co-chair and an Executive MBA from the Olin School SA, Geneva, Switzerland. of Business at Washington University from Tianjin University and an MBA from of APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC), Tsinghua University in China. Chairman of APEC China Business Council, He holds a Doctorate in Law from the in Saint Louis, Missouri, US. and an Executive Director of the International University of Zurich, as well as a Degree Chamber of Commerce (ICC). in International Studies from the Graduate Institute of the University of Geneva. Frank Ning earned an MBA degree from the Business School of the University of Pittsburgh in the United States and a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics from Shandong University in China. He is a certified Senior International Business Engineer. 6. Our leadership Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 43 Louise O. Fresco Paul Fribourg J. Erik Fyrwald Sophie Kornowski Pedro Pullen Parente Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Independent Director Chairperson of the Executive Director Independent Director Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation Member of the Compensation Born: 1953 the Committee of Independent Directors Born: 1954 for Sustainable Agriculture Committee and the Committee Nationality: Brazilian Born: 1952 Nationality: American of Independent Directors Initial appointment: 2019 Born: 1959 Nationality: Dutch Initial appointment: 2018 Nationality: American Born: 1963 Initial appointment: 2019 Professional background Initial appointment: 2018 Nationality: French Professional background Pedro Parente is currently Chairman of Initial appointment: 2018 Professional background Paul Fribourg is Chairman and Chief Professional background BRF, a leading global food company. He is Prof. Louise O. Fresco is currently the Executive Officer of Continental Grain J. Erik Fyrwald was previously President and Professional background also Chairman of General Atlantic in Brazil, President of the Wageningen University & Company. He has held his current role at Chief Executive Officer of Univar, a leading Dr. Sophie Kornowski is currently Senior a global private equity company, and a Research Executive Board. She combines a Continental Grain since 1997. Prior to that, distributor of chemistry and related services Partner at Gurnet Point Capital, an investment partner in EB Capital, a Brazilian private long academic career as a professor at both he held senior management, commercial (2012–2016); President of Ecolab, a cleaning fund based in Boston, Massachusetts, US, a equity company. He is a fellow of the George Wageningen and Amsterdam universities, and commodity trading roles with the and sanitation, water treatment, and oil wholly owned subsidiary of Waypoint Capital Washington University – the Center for with extensive involvement in policy and company in the United States and Europe and gas products and services provider Group which is the investment fund associated Latin American Studies, in Washington DC. development in Africa, Asia and Latin beginning in 1976. Apart from his function (2011–2012); and Chairman, President and with the Bertarelli family. In her role, she He was the Chairman of the Board of B3, the America. Louise Fresco spent 10 years of in Syngenta, Paul Fribourg currently holds Chief Executive Officer of Nalco, a water provides investment advisory services in the Brazilian stock exchange, among many other her career as Assistant Director-General the following board memberships: treatment and oil and gas products and health-care and life-science sector. listed and non-listed companies. of the Food and Agriculture Organization UU Listed companies: The Estée Lauder services company (2008–2011). He was Most of his early professional experience of the UN. Her work has taken her to more Dr. Kornowski previously served as Executive Companies, Inc., Restaurant Brands Group Vice President of the Agriculture and Vice-President of Roche Partnering and was was in the Brazilian public sector (1971-2002) than 60 countries outside Europe and North International, Inc., Bunge Limited Nutrition Division of the DuPont Company having occupied several positions in Brazil’s America. She is a member of eight scientific a member of the Roche Extended Corporate and Loews Corporation. (2003–2008). He currently serves on the Executive Committee as well as a member of Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Planning, academies, and has served on the boards Board of Directors for CropLife International helping the institutional building in the public of Rabobank and Unilever. UU Non-listed companies: Continental the Board of Chugai, Japan. Prior to that, she Grain Company, Wayne Farms LLC, and the Swiss-American Chamber of led the French affiliate of Roche in France for financial area in Brazil, including the creation Louise Fresco obtained her Doctoral Degree Restaurant Technologies and Castleton Commerce. Apart from his functions in five years. Before joining Roche in 2007, she of the National Treasury Organization. As a with honors from Wageningen University Commodities International LLC. Syngenta, J. Erik Fyrwald currently holds the held several management positions at Merck & Minister of State, he was in charge of the specializing in tropical agriculture. following board memberships: Co. (1996-2007), Sanofi Winthrop (1991-1996), Energy Crisis Committee and was Chief He holds a Bachelor’s Degree from of Staff to President Cardoso. After his She has published both in academic Amherst College and is a graduate of UU Listed companies: Bunge Limited, Abbott Diagnostics and Abbott Pharmaceutical journals and in the popular media, her book Eli Lilly and Company. Products (1985-1991). experience in the public sector, he went to Harvard Business School’s Advanced the private sector, were he was COO or CEO “Hamburgers in Paradise, the stories behind Management Program. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemical In addition to her functions in Syngenta, the food we eat” has been translated into of four major companies in Brazil, including Engineering from the University of Delaware Dr. Sophie Kornowski holds the following Petrobras and BRF. As Petrobras’ CEO he three languages. and completed the Advanced Management board memberships: led the company’s recovery. Apart from his Program at Harvard Business School. UU Non-listed companies: Founder and function in Syngenta, Pedro Parente currently Non-Executive Director of Même holds the following board memberships: Cosmetics, France; Stallergenes Greer, UU Listed companies: BRF S/A. France. UU Non-listed companies: Continental Dr. Sophie Kornowski is also a member of Grain Company, E.bricks Early Stage the Strategic Committee of the Genopole in Consultoria Ltda, EB Capital, Pague France. She holds a Doctorate in Pharmacy Menos S/A, and Prumo Logistica. from the Faculty of Pharmacy Paris V, and an MBA in Marketing and Finance from the He is also the Chairman of OSESP’s board, University of Chicago Booth, Graduate School the Symphony Orchestra of São Paulo. of Business. Pedro Parente graduated in Electronic Engineering from the University of Brasília. 44 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Executive Team at December 31, 2019 Under the leadership of the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Team is responsible for the active leadership and operational management of the Company, and defining and J. Erik Fyrwald Stephen Landsman Jonathan Parr implementing business strategy. Chief Executive Officer Group General Counsel President Global Crop Protection Executive Director Born: 1959 Born: 1961 Nationality: American Nationality: British Chairman of the Syngenta Foundation Initial appointment: 2018 Initial appointment: 2015 for Sustainable Agriculture Born: 1959 Professional background Professional background Nationality: American Prior to his appointment as Group Prior to his current function as President Initial appointment: 2016 General Counsel, Stephen Landsman Global Crop Protection, Jonathan Parr was Professional background was Global Head of Mergers, Acquisitions Chief Operating Officer (COO) EAME & Latin and Integration at Syngenta (2017–2018). America (2015–2016). Before that, he was J. Erik Fyrwald was previously President and Before joining Syngenta, he was Executive Head of Global Crops & Assets for Syngenta Chief Executive Officer of Univar, a leading Vice President, General Counsel and (2014), Regional Director for EAME (2009– distributor of chemistry and related services Corporate Secretary at Univar Inc. 2013), Head of Syngenta Flowers (2007– (2012–2016); President of Ecolab, a cleaning (2013–2017), and Vice President, General 2008), Head of Marketing and Strategy and sanitation, water treatment, and oil Counsel and Corporate Secretary at Nalco (2004–2007) and European Manufacturing and gas products and services provider Company (2003–2013). Mr. Landsman’s Manager (2000–2003). Before joining (2011–2012); and Chairman, President and previous positions in Nalco company were Syngenta, he worked for AstraZeneca as Chief Executive Officer of Nalco, a water Deputy General Counsel and Division VP a Factory Manager (1998–2000), Global treatment and oil and gas products and Mergers and Acquisitions (2000–2003), and Product Manager Fungicides (1996–1998) services company (2008–2011). He was Director of Acquisitions and Senior Attorney and Supply Chain Project Manager (1994– Group Vice President of the Agriculture and (1997–2000). Apart from his function in 1996). From 1987 to 1994, he held project Nutrition Division of the DuPont Company Syngenta, Steve Landsman holds no other and engineering management functions at (2003–2008). He currently serves on the mandates in the supreme executive bodies Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI). Apart from Board of Directors for CropLife International of listed or non-listed companies. his function in Syngenta, Jonathan Parr holds and the Swiss-American Chamber of no other mandates in the supreme executive Commerce. Apart from his functions in He holds a Juris Doctorate from the University of Illinois College of Law, an bodies of listed or non-listed companies. Syngenta, J. Erik Fyrwald currently holds the following board memberships: AB (Artium Baccalaureatus) Degree from He is a Chartered Engineer and also the University of Illinois and is a Certified holds a Bachelor’s Degree with Honors UU Listed companies: Bunge Limited, Public Accountant. in Civil Engineering from the University of Eli Lilly and Company. Southampton, as well as a Master’s Degree He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemical in Management from the University of McGill, Engineering from the University of Delaware Canada, and a Diploma in International and completed the Advanced Management Management from the INSEAD Institute. Program at Harvard Business School. 6. Our leadership Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 45 Mark Patrick Laure Roberts Jeff Rowe Chief Financial Officer Head Human Resources President Global Seeds Born: 1969 Born: 1963 Born: 1973 Nationality: British Nationality: French Nationality: American Initial appointment: 2016 Initial appointment: 2016 Initial appointment: 2016 Professional background Professional background Professional background Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Prior to her appointment as Head Human Prior to his current function as President Officer, Mark Patrick was Head Commercial Resources, Laure Roberts was Head Global Global Seeds, Jeff Rowe was Vice President, Finance at Syngenta (2011–2016). Prior to HR Business Partners (2013–2016) and Strategic Services and Planning at DuPont that, he was Head Crop Protection Finance Head Human Resources for the region Pioneer (2015–2016) and also sat on the (2008–2011 and 2005–2006), Head Finance EAME (2011–2013). Before joining Syngenta, company’s Leadership Team (DPLT). Before, North America Crop Protection (2006–2008), she held a number of different HR leadership he was Regional Director for DuPont Pioneer Head Business Reporting (2003–2005), functions at Air Products and Chemicals, Europe (2011–2015), Vice President Biotech and APAC Regional Supply Finance Inc., a worldwide industrial gases company Affairs and Regulatory (2008–2011), and Head Syngenta in Hong Kong. He joined where her last role was Vice President, Corporate Counsel (2001–2008). He started AstraZeneca in 1993. Apart from his function Human Resources, Europe and Middle his career with Pioneer in 1995 in Supply in Syngenta, Mark Patrick holds no other East (2004–2010). Laure Roberts started Management. Apart from his function in mandates in the supreme executive bodies her career in 1988 with Valeo, a leading Syngenta, Jeff Rowe currently holds the of listed or non-listed companies. automotive supplier. Apart from her function following board membership: He is a Chartered Management Accountant in Syngenta, Laure Roberts holds no other UU Non-listed companies: and also holds an honors degree in Quantity mandates in the supreme executive bodies Wayne Farms LLC. Surveying and a Post Graduate degree of listed or non-listed companies. He has a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural in Economics. She holds a Master’s Degree from the Economics from Iowa State University, Ecole Supérieure de Commerce de Paris a Juris Doctorate from Drake Law School, and an MBA from the University of Aston and a Global Executive MBA from the in Birmingham. NYU Stern School of Business and the London School of Economics. 46 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 7 Non-financial The Chief Sustainability Officer, reporting to the CEO, and the Business Sustainability function UU Relevance to sustainable development: Level of significant impact on global Approach to non-financial reporting The Non-financial performance summary on performance assess, advise and execute our sustainability work, working closely and transparently with sustainable growth determined using The Global Risk Report 2019, The pages 48-51 presents data on our progress towards four goals: governments, NGOs and society to find Earth Security Report 2017 and the solutions we collectively need. Food in the Anthropocene Report of UU The Good Growth Plan: Help shape Non-financial information the EAT Lancet Commission1 the future sustainability of agriculture, Stakeholder engagement and deliver solutions that are better, At Syngenta, non-financial information We regularly assess stakeholder concerns The most important issue identified in our more productive and more beneficial refers to quantitative and qualitative and expectations. We engage with growers, materiality analysis is the global challenge of to rural economies information on strategies, policies or employees, communities close to our providing a growing population with healthy activities pursued towards our business, UU People: Attract and retain talent while operations, industry associations, NGOs, diets from sustainable food production. environmental and social goals. creating an environment that stimulates governments and investors. We used stakeholder feedback to define three focus areas: innovation guided by society and innovation and personal performance Sustainability In late 2018, we held 150 listening sessions nature; striving for lowest residues in crops and development Sustainability is integral to our business. with stakeholders from around the world in an and the environment; and investing where UU Sustainable operations: Manage our Our ambition is to play a vital role in the food effort to build a shared vision for the future of it matters to farmers and nature. environmental footprint and maintain chain to safely feed the world and take care sustainable agriculture. Through continuous of the planet. The Good Growth Plan sets listening and dialogue, we aim to better the highest standards in our operations specific, ambitious and measurable targets understand the role we can play and the Read more on UU Business integrity: Maintain the highest focused on boosting resource efficiency, commitments needed from all sides to help www.materiality.syngenta.com standards across our entire business and rejuvenating ecosystems and strengthening make a shared vision reality. go beyond regulatory compliance, while rural communities. We are also committed We have a strategic collaboration with Recommendations of the TCFD benefiting the communities and economies to developing our people, reducing the The Nature Conservancy that extends our The Taskforce on Climate-related wherever we operate environmental footprint of our operations and doing business responsibly. stakeholder outreach and helps us increase Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established Our non-financial reporting covers the the sustainability of our operations and the recommendations for voluntary climate-related operations of Syngenta AG Group, including resilience of a sustainable agriculture system. financial disclosures to help financial markets Read more on material interactions with selected third parties better understand the material climate-related www.sustainability.syngenta.com Material topics as reported in the Non-financial performance risks and opportunities to which companies Our materiality analysis helps us identify summary. Our non-financial reporting has are exposed, and how companies oversee where we can provide the most value, drive been externally assured and prepared in Sustainability governance and manage them. our strategy, allocate effort and resources, accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative The Board of Directors provides strategic and direct our external communication Syngenta supports the recommendations (GRI) Standards: Core Option. The nondirection regarding all sustainability matters. and reporting. of the TCFD. In 2019, we conducted a gap financial reporting period is October 1 to Louise O. Fresco, who brings extensive assessment on internal practices and external September 30. experience and expertise in sustainable food Material topics presented on page 47 were disclosures, and work is currently underway production, joined our Board of Directors identified using three criteria: to implement the actions identified. We also Read more on in April 2019 reinforcing our commitment participated in the “TCFD Food, Agriculture www.gri.syngenta.com to sustainable and responsible agriculture. UU Importance to Syngenta: Matters that and Forest Products Preparer Forum” The Syngenta Executive Team provides present the greatest risks and opportunities convened by the World Business Council regular updates to the Board of Directors on for Syngenta’s ability to create long-term for Sustainable Development and TCFD to the progress made regarding the company value and achieve our ambition identify good practice, enhance disclosure sustainability commitments. UU Importance to stakeholders: Concerns effectiveness and help companies implement and expectations frequently raised by the TCFD’s recommendations. 1 World Economic Forum, The Global Risk Report 2019, 14th stakeholders about our company, our Edition, p. 5; Earth Security Group, The Earth Security Report industry, agriculture and food systems 2017, p. 6; The Lancet Commissions, Food in the Anthropocene: the EAT-Lancet Commission on healthy diets from sustainable food systems, 2019, p. 6, p. 27 and p. 33–39 7. Non-financial performance Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 47 Syngenta is a signatory to the United Materiality matrix Nations Global Compact. Syngenta’s Sustainable Business Report serves as Medium Relevance to sustainable development High our Communication on Progress (COP) in implementing the 10 principles. 1 Internal controls over Access to seeds Importance to stakeholders 2 non-financial reporting Syngenta’s internal controls over non3 Air pollution 12 financial reporting were designed to provide assurance to Syngenta’s Board of Directors Biodiversity 15 and management regarding the reliability of non-financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the information Business integrity 16 published in the Non-financial performance Importance to Syngenta summary. All internal controls, no matter Climate change 13 how well designed, have inherent limitations mitigation and adaptation and therefore may not prevent or detect misstatements. In designing internal controls Dialogue, transparency The UN Sustainable 17 and partnerships over non-financial reporting, Syngenta used Development Goals the criteria established in COSO’s Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013). Employee engagement 8 Syngenta’s Board of Directors and Human rights and 8 management are responsible for establishing fair and safe labor and maintaining adequate internal controls over non-financial information. The information Innovation in agriculture 2 in the Non-financial performance summary was approved by the Board of Directors Land use changes 2 on February 20, 2020. and deforestation 15 PricewaterhouseCoopers AG, Switzerland, Product responsibility 3 an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an opinion on Syngenta’s 2 Non-financial performance summary, which Resource efficiency 12 is included on page 52 in this Sustainable Business Report. Rural development 1 and poverty alleviation 2 Safe and nutritious food 12 13 Soil health 15 Water conservation 6 48 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Non-financial performance summary The Good Growth Plan Cumulative since Cumulative since Reporting period October 1 – September 30 baseline 2014 2019 2018 2017 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 baseline 2014 2019 2018 2017 Make crops more efficient1 Help people stay safe Total number of reference farms 1,659 1,443 1,459 People trained on safe use (m)3 42.4 8.6 8.3 8.2 Total number of benchmark farms 1,928 2,316 2,630 Countries with established Syngenta product Land productivity increase on reference farms 18.8% 13.0% 10.9% toxicovigilance programs 100 100 100 Land productivity increase on benchmark farms 12.4% 7.0% 7.3% Crop Protection sales represented 93% 93% 94% Nutrient efficiency increase on reference farms 46.8% 30.2% 20.3% Reference farms outperforming benchmark farms 57% 64% – Look after every worker Pesticide field application efficiency increase Suppliers included in sustainability and fair labor programs4,5 99.0% 98.8% 86.0% on reference farms 33.4% 24.7% 14.2% Coverage of Syngenta Fair Labor Program Reference farms outperforming benchmark farms 33% 38% – Syngenta seed producing countries5 88% 88% 68% Greenhouse gas emission efficiency increase Seed supply farms5 99.3% 99.2% 86.0% on reference farms2 36.7% 8.8% 14.0% Of which: farms in Fair Labor Association (FLA)’s Reference farms outperforming benchmark farms 65% 69% – audit scope 100% 100% 67% Of which: farms monitored6 20% n/a 20% Rescue more farmland Coverage of Supplier Sustainability Program Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 14.1 3.3 3.4 3.1 Chemical suppliers7 94% 94% 90% Formulation, fill and pack tollers7 83% 86% – Help biodiversity flourish Packaging manufacturers8 63% 50% – Hectares of benefited farmland (m) 8.2 1.8 0.8 0.7 HSE audits at warehouse/logistics service providers 86 65 117 Commercial flowers farms with valid GlobalG.A.P. certification 88% 96% 90% Empower smallholders Commercial flowers farms with valid G.R.A.S.P. assessment9 100% 44% 32% Land productivity increase on smallholder reference farms1 28.5% 21.9% 21.6% Land productivity increase on smallholder benchmark farms1 11.0% 6.3% 5.1% Smallholders reached through training (m) 6.2 6.1 5.6 Smallholders reached through sales (m) 20.3 13.4 13.9 1 Reference farms were selected by Syngenta and are recommended to use Syngenta products and follow optimized protocols. 3 Includes smallholders reached through training reported under “Empower smallholders” Benchmark farms were randomly selected by a third-party research agency and represent grower practice. Reference and benchmark 4 The seed supply chain represents about 98% of the suppliers targeted by our sustainability and fair labor programs farms are grouped in clusters. A cluster presents homogeneous agro-climatic conditions and contains reference and/or benchmark farms 5 2018 values were restated due to a reporting error with similar grower characteristics. The aggregation of the farm data is aligned with harvest seasons. The latest available progress data is 6 The 2018 figure was not available due to the implementation of a new reporting tool 2018 for clusters located in the Northern hemisphere and 2019 for clusters located in the Southern hemisphere. Evolutions are reported 7 Includes only chemical suppliers or formulation, fill and pack tollers categorized as posing a high or medium sustainability risk for clusters with an established baseline and at least one year of progress data. Figures represent global averages. Details on methodology 8 Includes all packaging manufacturers independently of their level of sustainability risk can be found on www.data.syngenta.com 9 Since 2019, the percentage of commercial flower farms with valid G.R.A.S.P. assessment include only own farms while in previous 2 Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated consistent with Cool Farm Tool methodology using available farm data and proxies years, it also included third-party farms. The assessment proved to be too onerous for third-party farms. Other alternatives to measure where farm data was not available. For US farm data, calculation methodology is consistent with Field to Market: The Alliance performance are being evaluated for Sustainable Agriculture To find out more about our approach to open data or to access the files www.data.syngenta.com 7. Non-financial performance Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 49 People Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2019 2018 2017 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2019 2018 2017 Employment Health, safety and well-being Employees1 28,265 27,732 27,669 Recordable injury and illness rate (IIR) per 200,000 hours5 0.34 0.32 0.37 Europe, Africa and Middle East2 11,860 11,690 12,372 Recordable injury rate per 200,000 hours5 0.31 0.29 0.34 North America 4,091 4,120 4,092 Europe, Africa and Middle East2 0.37 0.39 0.43 Latin America 5,794 5,676 4,907 North America 0.54 0.54 0.64 Asia Pacific 6,520 6,246 6,298 Latin America 0.34 0.18 0.30 Part-time employees 914 912 927 Asia Pacific 0.13 0.14 0.16 Turnover rate3 9.5% 12.8% 11.3% Recordable occupational illness rate per 200,000 hours5 0.03 0.03 0.03 of which: <35 years 34% 33% 42% Europe, Africa and Middle East2 0.03 0.01 0.02 35-50 years 42% 41% 43% North America 0.04 0.07 0.08 >50 years 24% 26% 15% Latin America 0.07 0.03 0.04 Attrition rate4 6.4% 5.8% 5.2% Asia Pacific 0.00 0.02 0.00 Senior managers 292 299 339 First aid cases 404 378 382 Europe, Africa and Middle East2 57% 55% 62% Cases of recordable injuries 142 123 151 North America 23% 24% 17% Bruise, strain, sprain and dislocation 39% 35% 36% Latin America 11% 9% 11% Cut and abrasion 22% 28% 25% Asia Pacific 10% 12% 10% Bone fracture 9% 13% 15% Concussion and internal injury 1% 5% 3% Diversity Multiple injuries 5% 2% 6% Nationalities in senior management 37 36 33 Other 24% 17% 15% Female employees 31% 30% 30% Cases of recordable occupational illness 14 11 12 Female employees in management roles 25% 24% 23% Cases of work-related stress 12 7 7 Female employees in senior management 18% 17% 17% Employee development Leadership and talent development investment ($m) 6.9 6.5 4.2 1 Permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) 2 Includes headquarters (Switzerland) 3 Includes voluntary and involuntary leavers and restructuring 4 Includes only voluntary leavers 5 According to US OSHA definition for injuries and illness 50 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Sustainable operations Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2019 2018 2017 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2019 2018 2017 Energy Water Energy intensity (MJ/$sales)1 0.65 0.66 0.67 Water usage intensity (liters/$sales)1 2.3 2.3 2.5 Energy (TJ) 8,833 8,966 8,484 Water usage (million cubic meters) 30.9 31.4 31.7 Gas (TJ) 3,796 3,926 3,405 Cooling (million cubic meters) 18.3 17.9 19.1 Electricity (TJ) 2,265 2,297 2,387 Irrigation (million cubic meters) 5.0 5.3 4.9 Steam (TJ) 1,445 1,318 1,450 Processing and washing (million cubic meters) 5.7 6.3 5.8 Oil (TJ) 331 310 287 Product ingredient (million cubic meters) 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other (TJ) 996 1,115 955 Sewage and sanitary (million cubic meters) 0.9 0.9 1.0 Other (million cubic meters) 0.8 0.8 0.7 Greenhouse gases Origin of water Total CO2e emissions intensity (g/$sales)1 120 117 120 Surface fresh water (million cubic meters) 20.4 19.7 21.3 Total CO2e emissions (000s tonnes) 1,635 1,585 1,515 Underground water (million cubic meters) 7.8 8.8 7.5 Within direct control Drinking water from municipal network (million cubic meters) 2.6 2.8 2.8 CO2e emissions from own operations (000s tonnes) 548 521 443 Recovered rain water (million cubic meters) 0.1 0.1 0.1 CO2 emissions from company vehicles (000s tonnes) 67 68 70 Within indirect control Wastewater effluents CO2e emissions from purchased energy (000s tonnes) 355 330 353 Industrial wastewater discharge intensity (liters/$sales)1 0.71 0.67 0.72 CO2e emissions from business trips (000s tonnes)2 37 27 46 Industrial wastewater discharge (million cubic meters) 9.7 9.1 9.1 CO2 emissions from distribution (000s tonnes) 628 639 603 Total organic carbon (TOC) (tonnes) 573 490 499 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) (tonnes) 1,687 1,441 1,522 Other air emissions Biological oxygen demand (BOD) (tonnes) 194 162 154 Other air emissions intensity (g/$sales)1 0.066 0.066 0.070 Total suspended solids (tonnes) 277 451 252 Other air emissions (tonnes) 899 900 884 Soluble salts discharged (000s tonnes) 130 146 122 NOX (tonnes) 430 440 410 Direct discharge of uncontaminated cooling water (million cubic meters) 18.3 17.9 19.1 Non-halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 276 276 322 Halogenated VOCs (tonnes) 28 27 17 Particulates (tonnes) 115 105 88 SO2 (tonnes) 35 38 32 NH3 (tonnes) 4 4 5 HCl (tonnes) 11 10 10 1 2018 environmental intensity values were restated due to the restatement of Syngenta AG consolidated sales of 2018 2 Since 2019, the value includes all greenhouse gases and is expressed in CO2e. In previous years, only CO2 emissions were reported 7. Non-financial performance Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 51 Sustainable operations continued Business integrity Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2019 2018 2017 Reporting period October 1 – September 30 2019 2018 2017 Waste Corporate conduct Hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales)1 14.7 13.9 14.3 Compliance cases reported1 251 299 215 Hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 200 189 181 Leaders engaged in leader-led compliance sessions2,3 3,113 3,108 2,263 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 92 87 85 Completion rate2,3 92% 99% 95% Incinerated (000s tonnes) 92 86 81 Employees in scope for Code of Conduct commitment3,4 21,887 – – Landfill (000s tonnes) 1 1 1 Completion rate3,4 99% – – Other (000s tonnes) 15 15 14 Hazardous waste by type Security management Chemical 57% 57% 58% Sites included in Syngenta Security 360º Program 148 131 129 Solvents 37% 35% 36% Product Security cases 981 880 723 Other 6% 8% 6% Suspect counterfeit Crop Protection product seized by authorities (tonnes) 1,782 1,657 541 Non-hazardous waste intensity (g/$sales)1 9.7 11.0 9.4 Suspect counterfeit Seed product seized by authorities (tonnes) 1,817 196 93 Non-hazardous waste (000s tonnes) 132 149 119 Recycled and re-used (000s tonnes) 96 118 87 Animal testing compliance Incinerated (000s tonnes) 6 6 4 Management system audits performed in contract laboratories 7 4 17 Landfill (000s tonnes) 20 17 19 Management system non-compliances found 0 0 0 Other (000s tonnes) 10 8 9 Non-hazardous waste by type Biotechnology and regulatory compliance Plant and seed waste from seed sites 65% 68% 63% Employees completing field trial regulatory compliance training 1,984 1,140 1,426 Inerts 4% 7% 5% Field trial locations planted under country regulatory Packaging materials 5% 4% 5% compliance programs5 475 434 299 Household 4% 4% 5% Other 22% 17% 22% Economic value shared Economic value shared ($m) 13,210 16,298 12,095 Environmental compliance Payments to suppliers 8,659 7,877 7,508 Significant unplanned releases2 5 0 0 Employee wages and benefits 2,847 2,755 3,099 Payments to governments (taxes)6 292 168 241 1 2018 environmental intensity values were restated due to the restatement of Syngenta AG consolidated sales of 2018 Payments to providers of capital 787 4,819 593 2 Since 2019, significant unplanned releases are those classified as high as per the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA)’s standard for the reporting of Process Safety Incidents. In previous years, these releases were classified according to Capital expenditure 601 655 631 a Syngenta internal standard Corporate community investment7 24 24 23 1 Since 2018, the number of cases reported includes all cases managed by Group Compliance: cases reported through the compliance helpline, line management, directly to Group Compliance or other channels. In previous years, the value only included cases reported via the helpline 2 2018 values were restated to represent all 2018 sessions 3 2019 values represent calendar year 2019 4 New KPIs introduced in 2019 to measure the commitment of leaders and employees to lead and represent Syngenta by our Code of Conduct 5 Represents all trial locations covered by country specific regulatory compliance programs whether they require a permit or not 6 Consists of income and other taxes paid, excluding VAT (included in Payments to suppliers) and employment-related taxes (included in Employee wages and benefits) 7 The PwC Independent Assurance Report includes in its scope only the Corporate community investment figure used in the calculation of Economic value shared 52 Syngenta Sustainable Business Report 2019 Independent Criteria The reporting criteria used by Syngenta are A limited assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 (Revised) is substantially less in scope UU Reviewing the documentation supporting relevant data on a sample basis, including Assurance Report described and disclosed on The Good Growth than a reasonable assurance engagement in management and reporting structures Plan Progress Data website and in the internal relation to both the risk assessment procedures, and documentation; on the non-financial reporting non-financial reporting guidelines. These define including an understanding of internal control, those procedures based on the Standards of and the procedures performed in response to UU Reviewing the management and reporting 2019 to the Board of Directors the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) published in the assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, processes. Assessing the consolidation of Syngenta AG, Basel 2016, by which the non-financial performance timing and extent of procedures for gathering process of data at the group level. We have been engaged to perform assurance data are internally gathered, collated sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately and aggregated. limited relative to a reasonable assurance We have not conducted any work on data other procedures to provide limited assurance on the engagement and therefore less assurance is than outlined in the subject matter as defined non-financial performance summary of Syngenta Inherent limitations obtained with a limited assurance engagement above. We believe that the evidence we have AG, Basel, and its consolidated subsidiaries The accuracy and completeness of non-financial than for a reasonable assurance engagement. obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide (‘Syngenta’) included in the Sustainable Business indicators are subject to inherent limitations The procedures selected depend on the a basis for our assurance conclusions. Report 2019 (‘Report’). given their nature and methods for determining, assurance practitioner’s judgement. calculating and estimating such data. Conclusion Scope and subject matter Our assurance report should therefore be read Our independence and quality controls Based on our work performed on the identified Our engagement focused on the following data in connection with Syngenta’s reporting criteria We have complied with the independence Syngenta non-financial reporting 2019 nothing and information for the year ended 31 December (including guidelines, definitions and procedures and other ethical requirements of the Code of has come to our attention causing us to believe 2019 disclosed in the aggregated non-financial on the reporting of its non-financial performance). Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by that in all material respects: reporting of Syngenta: the International Ethics Standards Board for UU The Good Growth Plan guidelines as UU The application of the Syngenta reporting Syngenta’s responsibility Accountants, which is founded on fundamental published on The Good Growth Plan guidelines for the non-financial reporting The Board of Directors of Syngenta AG is principles of integrity, objectivity, professional Progress Data website are not applied; published on The Good Growth Plan responsible for both the subject matter and competence and due care, confidentiality and Progress Data website; and the criteria as well as for selection, preparation professional behavior. UU The internal reporting systems to collect and presentation of the selected information in and aggregate The Good Growth Plan and UU The internal reporting system and procedures accordance with the criteria. This responsibility Our firm applies International Standard on other non-financial performance data are not to collect and aggregate The Good Growth includes the design, implementation and Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains functioning as designed and do not provide Plan and other non-financial performance maintenance of related internal control relevant a comprehensive system of quality control an appropriate basis for the reporting on data on pages 48 to 51; and to this reporting process that is free from material including documented policies and procedures pages 48 to 51; and misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. regarding compliance with ethical requirements, UU The data and information in the Non-financial professional standards and applicable legal and UU The data and information disclosed in performance summary, in all material aspects, Our responsibility regulatory requirements. the Non-financial performance summary on pages 48 to 51, of the Report. Our responsibility is to perform a limited in the Report on pages 48 to 51 do assurance engagement to express a conclusion Summary of the work performed not give a fair picture of Syngenta’s Our assurance procedures do not cover the on positions in the related non-financial Our assurance procedures included, amongst non-financial performance. indicators on payments to suppliers, employee performance summary on pages 48 to 51. others, the following work: wages and benefits, payments to governments PricewaterhouseCoopers AG and providers of capital, and capital expenditure We planned and performed our procedures UU Evaluation of the application of presented in the related Non-financial in accordance with the International Standard group guidelines; performance summary on page 51 of the Report. on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) (Revised) ‘Assurance engagements other UU Visits of different sites and offices for various We have not carried out any work on data than audits or reviews of historical financial areas in UK, Hungary and Spain selected reported for prior reporting periods, nor have based on quantitative and qualitative criteria; Gerd Tritschler Konstantin Meier information’. This standard requires that we we performed work in respect of projections Zurich, 25 February 2020 plan and perform the assurance engagement UU Testing the specified performance indicators and targets. to obtain limited assurance on the identified on a sample basis for evidence supporting non-financial information prepared, in all material the Non-financial performance summary aspects, in accordance with Syngenta’s policies relative to completeness, accuracy, adequacy and procedures. and consistency; Syngenta AG © 2020 Syngenta. All rights reserved. P.O. Box CH-4002 Basel Editorial completion: February 2020 Switzerland Copywriting: Lang Communication, London, UK Sustainability Design and production: Radley Yeldar, London, UK E sustainability.syngenta@syngenta.com ® Registered trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company Media Relations T +41 61 323 2323 ™ Trademarks of a Syngenta Group Company F +41 61 323 2424 E media.relations@syngenta.com The SYNGENTA wordmark, the SYNGENTA logo, THE GOOD GROWTH PLAN and BRINGING PLANT Investor Relations POTENTIAL TO LIFE are trademarks of a Syngenta T +41 61 323 2323 Group Company. F +41 61 323 2424 E global.investor_relations@syngenta.com Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements: This document contains forward-looking Syngenta switchboard statements, which can be identified by terminology T +41 61 323 1111 such as “expect”, “would”, “will”, “potential”, “plans”, F +41 61 323 1212 “prospects”, “estimated”, “aiming”, “on track” and similar expressions. Such statements may be subject to risks www.syngenta.com and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from these statements. For the business year 2019, Syngenta has published the Syngenta supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Through The Good Growth Plan, Syngenta supports the United Sustainable Business Report 2019 which includes information Global Compact through an established commitment to Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Collectively, the about our non-financial performance. It includes quantitative and sustainability and ongoing implementation of policies on human Plan’s six commitments contribute towards delivering the SDGs: qualitative information on policies and actions taken regarding rights, fair labor, environmental protection and anti-corruption. all six commitments contribute directly to Goal 2 (zero hunger) our business and sustainability goals. It also serves as our annual and Goal 17 (partnerships for sustainability), as well as individually Communication on Progress (COP) for the United Nations towards a number of other goals. Global Compact. The Sustainable Business Report was originally published in English. This publication is available on the Internet: www.syngenta.com Read more on sustainabledevelopment.un.org For further information and answers to many “Frequently Asked Questions”, visit our corporate website: www.syngenta.com
