Human Rights Diversity is an important aspect of the corporate management culture, as expressed in Brill’s Core Values, where Brill states the importance of diversity and inclusiveness. Consequently, it is Brill’s objective to achieve a balanced composition of all its governance bodies. As of May 2018, the company’s key management body, the Executive Committee consists of two statutory directors, both male, and a female Chief Publishing Officer (CPO). The extended Management Team (which includes the Executive Committee) consists of seven people of which three are female. The company has a Supervisory Board consisting of four persons, of which one is currently female. Given the current composition of the management layers below the Executive Committee, Brill believes that maintaining this balanced distribution will be feasible in the future. Brill Companies globally have all established, written policies as an Equal Opportunity Employer regardless of age, gender, color, race, creed, national origin, religious beliefs, marital status, sexual orientation or disability. Further, Brill Companies have an established, written policy detailing Standards of Conduct expected from all employees including prohibition of sexual harassment or harassment of any other form. In 2019, the MT paid extra attention to promoting respectful behavior and creating a safe working environment and the Code of Conduct was updated with extra attention to behavioral boundaries. Global Online Access to Legal Information (GOALI) As part of Brill’s Corporate Sustainability program and active participation in the public-private partnership: Research4Life, a new program “Global Online Access to Legal Information” (GOALI), focusing on Global Research for Justice, was launched on 6 March 2018. This is a multi-stake-holder initiative between the International Labour Organization (ILO), academic libraries of Cornell and Yale Law School and academic publishers, among which Brill is the founding partner. This program is helping to implement SDGs 8, 16 and 17, as well as promote and serve Access to Justice and Access to Information, and further the Rule of Law. Brill, under its Law imprint, Brill Nijhoff, is happy to continue to contribute its legal online publications to realize this goal. Brill’s Adopt a Library in Afghanistan Brill’s Adopt a Library Program continues to fill a need and help build partnerships with key research and library institutions in developing countries. The 2019 adoption focuses on Afghanistan and Access to Justice in line with the GOALI Initiative as outlined above. Kabul University (KUA) and the American University of Afghanistan (AUAF) are the primary receivers of this donation. In 2019, efforts were made to ship the books to Afghanistan, but the execution is proving difficult due to the unstable local situation. Brill is continuing its efforts to conclude this donation with the help of the Keihan Foundation, which a.o. seeks to foster academic and cultural relations between the Netherlands and Afghanistan. The adoption of Kabul University comprises of c. 350 books in the following subject areas: History, Culture, Sociology, Anthropology, Religion, Islamic Studies, Language and Linguistics, as well as books on Afghanistan and the Central Asian region. In addition, the Afghanistan Centre at Kabul University (ACKU) have been given complementary access to Brill’s The History of Afghanistan Online in support of their efforts to digitize the history of Afghanistan. The American University of Afghanistan (AUAF) receives a donation of c. 700 books in the subject areas: International law, including Human Rights and Humanitarian Law, Rule of Law, Children’s and Youth Rights and Islamic Law, Gender & Minority rights. This adoption strengthens the Afghanistan Legal Education Project (ALEP), which implements legal capacity building at the American University of Afghanistan in close partnership with Stanford University’s Law School’s Rule of Law Program. In addition, both institutions are eligible to access legal content from GOALI through the Research4Life partnership in which Brill actively participates as an academic publishing partner. In 2020, we will seek new partners for our Adopt a Library program in order to increase our donations and facilitate transport to the selected receiving countries. Research and Human Rights Our core task as academic publisher is to share research and knowledge. This is a key area where we can contribute and make a difference. In 2019, we continued to expand our publications related to the SDG’s. Several new series were set up which strengthen SDG related research notably in the field of Education, which is still a relatively new area within Brill. Relevant new publications in 2019 included (but were not limited to): Book Title No BS (Bad Stats); Black People Need People Who Believe in Black People Enough Not to Believe Every Bad Thing They Hear about Black People (SDG 10) Book Title Decolonization and Anti-colonial Praxis (SDG 10) Book Title Mentoring Students of Color; Naming the Politics of Race, Social Class, Gender, and Power (SDG 4, SDG 10) Journal of Disability Studies in Education, in full Open Access (SDG 4, SDG 10) New series Urban Education, Cultures and Communities (SDG 4, SDG 11) New series Education, Culture, and Society (SDG 4, SDG 11) New subseries Critical Leaders and the Foundation of Disability Studies in Education, main series Studies in Inclusive Education (SDG 4, SDG 10) We will continue to expand the Education list. In addition, our Nijhoff imprint on International Law and Human Rights forms the backbone of our publications on human rights, covering SDG subjects as poverty, climate change and migration. Open Access We recognize the importance of accessibility to our publications. As mentioned above, the Journal of Disability Studies in Education is published in full Open Access. Brill is committed to growing our Open Access program in all subject areas. Brill is one of the largest Open Access publishers in the Humanities and Social Sciences. As an early adopter, starting in 2009, we have published 400 Open Access books, 25 full Open Access journals and hundreds of Open Access articles. It is our ambition to make Open Access publishing possible to authors anywhere in the world, regardless of background or budget. Funding support, institutional agreements, and helping researchers comply with research funder Open Access requirements are at the heart of our Open Access program. An overview of our 2019 Open Access publications can be found here: https://www2.brill.com/OA19 Environment Brill Companies have an active recycling program and encourage its employees to use office resources like paper, plastic utensils, etc. prudently. In 2019, paper towels in the Leiden office were replaced with cotton towels that last longer and can be reused. At the same time, communication went out to all Leiden staff to encourage a reduction in the usage of paper. Marketing Materials In 2019 the marketing department continued to work with sustainable partners for our print materials to ensure the production is CO2 neutral (as reported in the last CoP). Furthermore, we took additional measures to print more materials locally to reduce unnecessary transport and shipping. Local printing partners have been selected in India and China. Their record in terms of sustainability was a key requirement in the selection. We are working actively with these new partners to encourage further regional sustainability measures, including the possibility to produce CO2 neutrally also for materials produced in India and China. This project will continue in 2020. In addition, we stopped producing plastic bags for conferences and are moving to reusable cotton bags. Research and the Environment Our publisher in the Brill Asia office in Singapore launched a new book series that draws academic attention to environmental and sustainable development in Southeast Asia and the wider Asia-Pacific region. The first topical volume was published in January 2019. Political Ecology in the Asia Pacific Region Editor: Ronald Holzhacker This series focuses on environmental and sustainable development in Southeast Asia and the wider Asia-Pacific region, where many scientific, governance, and societal questions emerge at the local, national, regional and global levels. Such questions call for research and publications with theoretical perspectives, as well as studies that provide rich empirical and comparative analysis originated from the region. Labour Brill Companies ensure that its employees are well-informed about their legal rights. Brill USA, for example, does so by having its state and federal labor laws and employee rights prominently displayed within the office, and easily accessible online. Further, Brill Companies have comprehensive, written Employee Manuals which outline employee rights and responsibilities for all its subsidiary offices. Brill Companies offer a variety of employee benefits, including contributions to pensions, medical and dental plans, shortand long-term disability insurance, and maternity leave. Brill is an Equal Opportunity Employer which takes its employees safety and wellbeing very seriously, and assures that its workplace is safe and healthy. Training is (continuously) given on work safety, and in HQ health and safety prevention personnel have been assigned their respective roles and are the first point of referral in case of questions of employees. Research and Labour In 2019 the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) celebrated its centenary, and their anniversary publication on labour and social protection was published by Brill in open access. The ILO @ 100 Addressing the past and future of work and social protection Series: International Development Policy Volume: 11 On the occasion of the centenary of the International Labour Organization (ILO), this 11th special issue of International Development Policy explores the Organization's capacity for action, its effectiveness and its ability to adapt and innovate. The collection of thirteen articles, written by authors from around the world, covers three broad areas: the ILO’s historic context and contemporary challenges; approaches and results in relation to labour and social protection; and the changes shaping the future of work. The articles highlight the progress and gaps to date, as well as the context and constraints faced by the ILO in its efforts to respond to the new dilemmas and challenges of the fourth industrial revolution, with regard to labour and social protection. Anti-Corruption Publishing ethics and policies In 2019, a major effort was undertaken to revise our publishing ethics and policies. In order to ensure the research integrity of our publications, Brill works closely with authors and editors to promote adherence to the core principles of publication ethics as articulated by the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE). We encourage further exploration of COPE’s resources on their website (https://publicationethics.org/). All manuscripts, archival materials, and supporting files (to include but not limited to interviews, images, data, infographics, audio and video, and facsimiles), whether submitted to a peer-reviewed publication (book series, journal, or major reference work) or a primary source online collection, are expected to conform to the standards of ethical behavior promulgated by COPE. Key themes in the revision of our publication ethics included: Breaches of Duty of Care; Including but not limited to the following: breaches of confidentiality without prior consent; failure to disclose and to obtain consent to exposure to risks and dangers – whether physical, emotional, intellectual, or reputational – of participants (including subjects, researchers, and associates) and to provide safeguards against such risks and dangers; failure to observe legal and ethical requirements or obligations of care for human and animal subjects or human organs or tissue, or for the protection of the environment; failure to show due respect in the representation of human remains and sacred sites. Censorship; The suppression of any text, argumentation, supporting materials (audio or visual), data, facts, reporting, citations, or any other materials for reasons of potential personal, professional, institutional, or governmental reprisals and not for reasons of merit or intellectual rigor. Selfcensorship is widely recognized by the academic community as a form of censorship. Conflicts of Interest; Incompatibility of aims, objectives, concerns, priorities, and advantages between parties often due to affiliation or official capacity, particularly when one or more parties stands to benefit materially or reputationally from such incompatibility. Furthermore, the individual with a conflict of interest is unable equitably to manage the actual or potential adverse effects of the conflict of interest on the other parties. Authors, editors, and reviewers have an ethical obligation to disclose conflicts of interest. Discriminatory and Harassing Research Practices and Language; Differential treatment of and conduct toward an individual or group of people based on their race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including pregnancy and gender identity), age, marital and parental status, disability, sexual orientation, or genetic information. Fabrication; Manufacture of information (to include but not limited to data, citations, quotations, transcripts, archival documents, and audio and visual supporting materials) intended to deceptively promote or diminish or otherwise mislead. Failure to Acknowledge Sources; Includes all forms of plagiarism. Also includes intentionally or unintentionally omitting to cite irreproducible sources. Failure to Meet Legal and Professional Obligations; Failure to adhere to the standards and limitations imposed by relevant professional bodies and research funders or Research Ethics Committees (e.g., the European Commission). The revised policies were widely communicated. We organized webinars to internal staff to make sure they are aware and guard these standards. We worked with Michael V. Dougherty, Professor of Philosophy at Ohio Dominican University and publication ethics expert to give attention to this subject on the Brill blog https://blog.brill.com/humanitiesmatter/publication_ethics_michael_dougherty.html. The policy is shared with our authors and editors and can be found in full on the Brill website: https://brill.com/page/ethics/publicationethics-cope-compliance. In 2020, Brill intends to establish a publication ethics committee to address cases of suspected or verified violations. It will involve representative members from both the Brill staff and the external academic community. For information not included in this report, please refer to www.brill.com
