Table of Contents Introduction2 Oleg Popov, CEO of SCM 2 Maxim Timchenko, CEO of DTEK 4 DTEK Group at a glance 8 15 facts about DTEK Group 10 Mission, vision, values 12 Development Strategy until 2030 13 DTEK Group corporate governance structure 16 Key performance indicators of 2019 17 Location of DTEK Group production enterprises 18 Key Events in 2019 20 Top management of the DTEK Group 24 An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 28 Electricity Market 30 Natural Gas Market 40 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators 44 Performance results 48 Production activity 50 Investment projects 62 Analysis of financial results 72 Corporate governance 74 Corporate governance structure 76 Supervisory Boards of the operating holdings companies 77 Risk management system 82 Compliance and corporate ethics 83 Dividend policy 85 Sustainability86 Sustainability88 Environmental protection 92 Society100 Employees110 Annex 1 122 Annex 2 124 Annex 3 128 2 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 3 Introduction Dear colleagues and partners, please find hereby the annual report ted itself to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals. As of DTEK Group. a result, our actions have remain consistent and our commitment to the principles of ESG (Environmental, Social and corporate GovIn 2020, DTEK celebrated its 15th anniversary. This year has been a ernance) unwavering, as we strive to support the interests of sociechallenge for all of us because of the global coronavirus pandemty. For this purpose, we adopted our ESG Strategy. The 12 UN Susic, which has reignited the discussion about the role and purpose tainable Development Goals were subsequently integrated into this of business for society. As a business, we were able to provide a strategy, in addition to measures to monitor progress. This means quick and clear answer — a reliable partner and supporter of the that the interests of employees and residents of the regions where sustainable development of society. The history of DTEK supports the enterprises operate have become the focus of the company's this both with facts and figures. development strategy. Today DTEK Group is a significant player Ukraine’s energy secESG is a value code that determines the level of maturity and social tor. As a leading entity, our responsibility is, first of all, to contribresponsibility of society, business and the state. We have proven ute to the progress of the entire industry through the creation of that SCM is a business that is ready to take responsibility. During new directions, the integration of leading technologies and soluthe coronavirus pandemic, SCM businesses took responsibility for tions, sharing our experience and expertise with other Ukrainithe lives and health of their employees and residents of the cities an companies, engaging in open dialogue with all stakeholders where we operate. regarding further development. All these are components of the Moreover, we began work on the country's economic strategy in country's successful economic development. DTEK's contributhe context of the global crisis, and this initiative was supported by tion to the Ukrainian economy over 15 years is almost USD 23 bln: other businesses and the government. I am sure that both in the USD 10.4 bln was invested in the energy sector, USD 1.5 bln in world and in Ukraine, industrial business will be the main factor in sustainable development, more than USD 11 bln was allocated to overcoming the uncertainty of the economic recession caused by budgets of all levels in Ukraine. the coronavirus, the main driver of growth, and the main fulcrum. Behind these numbers is a team of 70.000 employees who are It is now clearer than ever that the national economy will survive leading experts. After all, the company invests heavily in the develif metallurgy, energy and the agricultural sector survive. They are opment and training of personnel. Our corporate university, Acadthe basis of the Ukrainian economy. Our recovery plan for Ukraine emy DTEK, has been a major success, and has become a tool for is to boost the industry and support the revival of small and medimanaging talent, knowledge and change. um-sized businesses. And we are following this plan. Additionally, residents of the cities where DTEK’s production enI would especially like to thank all DTEK employees for your dediterprises operate form part of our story. From the very beginning cation and work. You have become the foundation of resilience for of the company’s work, we have been guided by corporate social the entire country, helping it overcome the effects of the pandemic. responsibility, implementing local projects aimed at improving the Truly, thanks a lot for your work! quality of life in the cities of our activity. Today, DTEK has commitOleg Popov CEO of SCM Introduction Introduction 4 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 5 Introduction Dear colleagues and partners! strategic goal — to build 1 GW of capacities in renewable energy. In that year, we successfully placed green Eurobonds for the amount I would like to present the results of the DTEK Group performance of 325 mln Euros and thus created an effective financial mechanism in 2019. This year has been the year of ambitious achievements and for Ukraine’s transition to the energy balance with lower СО2. Now, new challenges. the discussion concerning the further support of renewable energy We have achieved our target of 1GW of installed capacity in renewin Ukraine, determining the pace of development of the sector for able energy and have successfully issued green Eurobonds on several years to come, is still ongoing. In this discussion it is imporEuronext Dublin. This is our contribution, and it is a significant one, tant not to lose sight of the main goal — the decarbonisation of the to Ukraine’s transition to low-carbon energy sector. Thanks to enUkrainian economy. ergy reform, and we already started to see the first results in 2019, The Ukrainian energy sector also needs technologies and tools Ukraine has significant opportunities to introduce structural changto accelerate the pace of the gas production industry. Our comes in the industry, with the aim of developing the modern energy pany DTEK Oil&Gas successfully drills deep gas wells, which has sector. become possible because of our investment into advanced equipI would like to tell you about the outstanding events of the year in ment and innovative technologies. the context of our corporate development strategy to 2030. The volume of coal production in the country is predetermined by both — international commitments and the energy balance of Ukraine, reflecting our drive towards energy independence. DTEK Energy sector keeps the volume necessary for complete provision of the company’s thermal generation. The coronavirus pandemic, which emerged in 2019, is the second A familiar industrial world is rapidly changing for the sake of the fuevent that will have a continued impact on the energy sector. The ture. All changes are based on the energy sector; competitive and clean green energy, and new energy efficiency standards. Such experience of fighting against the spread of coronavirus has shown changes require unity to attain our ambitious goals. Consumers, that civil society, the government and business can work in a coorthe state and business should build up relations on a qualitatively dinated and effective way. This approach is required today to recovnew level via dialogue, transparent competition of energy compaer after the crisis and to attain the goals set. nies and market pricing. Two events of 2019 will play a crucial role in further development of the Ukrainian energy sector. The first one is Ukraine’s reform of Customers the energy sector and the establishment of the electricity market in line with the European model. The country has been working towards this reform for almost 10 years. Unbundling was implementDTEK Group has introduced systemic changes into its activity, imMaxim Timchenko ed in order to introduce structural changes: electricity distribution plementing the program of business transformation to create fidufunction was separated from generation and supply. This allowed ciary relations with clients. CEO of DTEK for the formation of liberalised electricity markets, of which the Our company D.TRADING contributes to the development of retail and wholesale segments were respectively established on wholesale segments of the electricity market through involvement January 1 and July 1. Thus, Ukrainian consumers became active of international marketing and trading experience. market participants with the opportunity to purchase electricity We strive to become a benchmark for a client-focused approach in from producers under direct contracts or freely choose their electhe sector and to be the leader in the competitive market. Operatricity supplier. The words ‘client’ and ‘choose’ were introduced tors of the distribution system have become separate companies into the glossary of the Ukrainian energy sector for the first time for electricity suppliers to get equal access to the infrastructure, and provided a real incentive for companies to develop competitive thus ensuring the right of clients to choose any of the suppliers. We advantages and attract investment into business development. have also created a retail brand in the electricity market, YASNO, Green energy has become synomous with modern electricity prowhich aims to ensure the best client service in the sector, to create duction. In 2019, an important step we took was attainment of our a diverse product and solution portfolio, to develop online services. Introduction Introduction 6 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 7 Ukraine “plus” Our unit dealing with innovation management develops the culture It is high time we changed the paradigm for assessing the success integrated 12 UN Sustainable Development Goals into our ESG of open innovations, successfully cooperates with startups, and it of economies and business. Real leaders should set themselves Strategy and undertook the commitment to achieve progress. In has already taken projects with QRSmarty, EverScan, Gnostics, Axthe goal improving the environment where they live, as well as to our strategy, we determined our treatment of the environmental isUkraine is becoming increasingly integrated into the European enDraft, Hepta onto commercial implementation. take care of the wellbeing of both the current generation, and future sues as well as set our principles of social responsibility, business ergy community. Integration takes place at the technical level via generations. administration transparency. the interconnection of the energy systems; at the regulatory level DTEK was established as a company focused on development, Ukraine strives to become a part of Europe via the integration of via the synchronization of our sectoral legislation with European aligning itself with European standards of a socially responsible energy markets, synchronization of the sectoral legislative framecounterparts; and at the technological level via the involvement of People business. With each year of our growth and transformation from a work, and the unity of values and priorities. We, as a business, contechnologies, international expertise and partners. In each case, regional company to a national business, we have scaled up and tribute to the achievement of the country’s goals — our investment we provide an effective support to the country. Today it is safe to say that DTEK corresponds to the best global increased the number of social projects. Each year more and more priorities are influenced by the goal to become a modern sustainSynchronization of the Unified Energy System of Ukraine with the standards in terms of the level of professionalism. For instance, communities of villages and cities where our production enterprisable business, and a leader in the decarbonisation of Central and European energy system ENTSO-E is important from the point of our renewable energy team has successfully implemented proes are located are joining our projects. Now almost 80,000 resEastern Europe. view of the country’s energy security. We promote the implemenjects related to the construction of Pokrovska and Nikopolska solar idents from 62 cities participate in the interregional project “Your tation of this project, and in 2019, several of DTEK Energy’ TPPs power plants with the capacity of 240 MW and 200 MW, Prymorska Hometown Begins with You“, 1,602 schools participate in the inpower units successfully passed a test for conformity with the and Orlivska wind power plants with the capacity of 200 MW and terregional project “Energy Efficient Schools: New Generation”, the ENTSO-E requirements. 100 MW, respectively, in record time. At each stage of the projects, interregional project “Come on, Let’s play!” has attracted 4,500 The best technologies and international equipment producers were the team has shown high professional expertise and efficiency of children to football games, we have implemented 2,310 projects involved in the construction of solar and wind power plants, digitalinteraction, ability to act quickly and efficiently, to integrate technolwithin our social partnership programs. isation of our enterprises. ogies that are new for Ukraine. Our goal is to serve as an example to follow for other Ukrainian We realise that significant progress in the technological and innovaTalent and leadership skills development, and the increased probusinesses in the implementation of socially important projects. In tive eco-systems of the sector should be achieved for business to 2019, we approved a new long-term development strategy based fessionalism of DTEK staff lie within the area of responsibility of further develop successfully. With this in view, in 2019 we initiated on the UN Sustainable Development Goals and corresponding to Academy DTEK. Each year Academy DTEK improves its educathe national project related to the establishment of the Technologthe ESG principles (Environmental, Social, and Governance). We tional programs to meet business needs more accurately. Today, ical oil and gas hub. It will become an effective tool for attracting we focus on innovations and understand that their implementation technologies to Ukraine and, at the same time, a platform for gas requires new skills, views and culture from leaders, to implement production companies to exchange experiences. Thus, we will changes on a business-wide scale. With this in mind, in 2019 we contribute to the development of new trends in the Ukrainian gas launched the flagship program Energy of Innovation: Executive production industry, which will further support the country achieve MBA and project ID.School. energy independence. In 2019, Academy DTEK became the winner of the contest of the For the successful transformation of the Ukrainian energy sector, it best corporate universities of the world, the Global CCU Awards is necessary to rapidly cover the distance separating Ukraine from 2019. Academy DTEK was recognized as №1 in the Corporate Rethe best global practices in the industry. We openly share the exsponsibility category. perience gained with other Ukrainian energy companies, since we view sustainable development not just in the context of our company, but on a broader societal level. Society Efficiency Ambitious projects in production, sustainable development proThe search and introduction of innovations constitute the basis for jects in the regions, educational products for staff, state sector and further development. With this in view the company has established society bring about changes and influence quality of life. The comunits dealing with digital transformation of business and innovapany is implementing all this for the sake of the future, following the tions, creating new sources of our growing efficiency. European choice of Ukraine. Our expert centre of digital technologies is implementing a digital Europe sees implementation of the Green Deal program as an estransformation program embracing both production and managesential part of economic recovery following the coronavirus panrial processes of all business directions. Starting with the first quardemic. It will transform the current economic model for the sake ter of 2019, we have launched 23 projects within the framework of of environmental sustainability. One of the priority tasks of the prothis program. gram is the attainment of carbon neutrality by 2050. Introduction Introduction 8 Integrated report 2019 DTEK Group at a glance 1 15 facts about DTEK Group 2 Mission, vision, values 3 Development Strategy until 2030 4 DTEK Group corporate governance structure 5 Key performance indicators of 2019 6 Location of DTEK Group production enterprises 7 Key Events in 2019 8 Top management of the DTEK Group Section 3 | Performance results 10 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 11 15 facts about DTEK Group DTEK Group is the largest private domestic investor in the Ukrainian energy sector. Our enterprises produce coal and natural gas, generate electricity at solar, wind, and thermal power plants, distribute and supply electricity to consumers, provide energy efficiency services, and develop a network of high-speed charging stations. In each business segment, production enterprises are consolidated into operating holding with separate companies responsible for the management of the day-to-day activities. Since 2007, DTEK represents Ukraine in the UN Global Compact. DTEK Group is a member of SCM, whose shareholder is Rinat Akhmetov. DTEK brings the best global practices to Ukraine to achieve progress. DTEK was founded in 2005. D.Solutions is the electricity supplier for 3.5 mln households and commercial consumers. It was one of the first suppliers in Ukraine to launch a retail brand on the electricity market. Today, the company is the only Ukrainian supplier that offers clients additional green products and services aligned with the principles set out in the Ukraine’s Green Energy Transition Concept by 2050. DTEK employs 70,000 people. DTEK’s enterprises are recognized as the best Ukrainian employers according to surveys performed by international audit firm EY and Ukrainian business press. DTEK Grids recognizes the needs of modern customers. Accordingly, the company is changing the approach in customer service and is offering a European quality of service. The customers Since its formation, DTEK has invested USD 11.9 bln in the energy sector and sustainable development projects. can contact through the service centers, call to contact centers, communicate with the company Through these efforts, DTEK has achieved the growth of its production operations and social development on social networks and instant messaging platforms, and use online services. in the regions where DTEK Group’s enterprises operate: • the production of natural gas increased 3.3 times, • the production of steam coal has doubled, DTEK Oil&Gas was the first among Ukrainian gas production companies to initiate the foundation • 1 GW of capacities were built in the renewable energy sector. of the Oil&Gas Technology Hub. The objectives pursued by the Hub include the engagement of innovations, . state-of-art technologies, international start-ups, and the best experts. These systemic efforts will form new trends in the development of the industry, and Ukraine will gain yet another momentum for its energy ndependence. DTEK pursues the principles of sustainable development and have implemented 2,310 projects within the scope of the Social Partnership Programs. DTEK Renewables has built RES power plants that rank among the largest facilities, both in Ukraine and Europe: Botievska Wind Warm, Nikopolska SPP and Pokrovska SPP. In 2019, DTEK adopted the ESG Strategy that integrated 12 Sustainable Development Goals These plants will promote the global goal of decarbonizing the economy. of the UN Global Compact and made a commitment to achieve progress. DTEK has the best expertise in the sector which allows the Group to implement a large-scale Academy DTEK is a corporate university that provides training to all DTEK Group employees. It has become energy development program. an innovative educational business platform open to business, public sector, and the community. Training of new leaders is one of the goals pursued by DTEK Group to make a contribution to Ukraine’s sustainable To improve Ukraine’s energy sustainability, 16 TPPs power units operated by DTEK Energy with development. a total capacity of 4.1 GW have been upgraded, and a program has been implemented to increase a share of domestic G-grade coal in power plants’ fuel mix. DTEK is a reliable partner of the community. The miners of Samarska mine have successfully driven through the Bohdanivskyy fault, which s the largest Since the outbreak of hostilities in the Donbas region, DTEK Grids has restored electricity supply West Donbas geological fault and where the depth difference between coal seams reaches up to 300 meters. to substations and power transmission lines more than 16,000 times. This included 13,000 repairs To accomplish this goal, a number of various surveys and studies were conducted and a new rock-supporting to 6–10 kV transformer substations, more than 1,600 repairs to restore the damaged sections technology was developed that opened access to 10 mln tonnes of coal. of high-voltage power lines, and more than 1,500 operations to reconnect 35–110 kV substations. DTEK Oil&Gas drilled a 6,750 meter-deep gas well, which is the deepest producing gas well in Ukraine. During the COVID pandemic, DTEK employees’ ensured uninterrupted generation, distribution, Such technological expertise will allow the company to drill gas wells with the depth of over 5,000 meters. and supply of electricity to support the community through this difficult period. Houses, hospitals, in record time. shops, plants had uninterrupted electricity supply, and DTEK is among those who made this possible. Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 12 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 13 Mission, vision, values Development strategy until 2030 Mission Concept of development DTEK will support and develop key success factors: the talents and potential of its employees and the efficiency of production, investments, and management. We are working in the name of progress and social prosperity. Our energy brings light and warmth to people. DTEK will actively develop in Ukraine and enter the markets of neighboring countries as a diversified energy company with DTEK will participate in reforming and upgrading Ukraine’s secured fuel resources. Vision economy, social development of regions where it operates, and promotion of best standards in industrial and environmental safety. DTEK will focus on the sale of electricity to all categories of We are a dynamically developing Ukrainian company that strives for leadership on the European energy markets. Our success is based on consumer while maintaining high standards of service and building people, efficiency, and advanced technologies. a strong retail brand. Values Six vectors of development Professionalism Energy sector Our employees have extensive professional DTEK increases gas production, develops knowledge, carry out their duties responsibly renewable sources of energy and power grids that and diligently, and accomplish their tasks make the foundation for managing electricity in a timely and workmanlike manner. We strive generation and consumption. DTEK excavates to achieve the best results while making the coal to fully meet the demand of its own thermal best possible use of human, natural and financial generation. resources. Unity Customers We value team spirit, unity and solidarity. We can only achieve strong DTEK is implementing a transformation program to build trust among results as a team. We enjoy both working and socializing together. customers, by providing industry-leading service and a diverse portfolio Our common potential comes from a diverse experience and knowledge of products and solutions. DTEK aims at becoming a reference standard of each employee. Our unity comes from common pursuit of same of customer orientation in the sector. ideas and goals while understanding and supporting each other. Responsibility Ukraine “plus” We are building our business on the understanding that all of our efforts should serve DTEK is becoming an international company, creating its own innovation ecosystem the interests of society. We bear responsibility for the quality of our work and the observance and attracting the world's finest technologies, experts and partners to enhance business of corporate standards, for meeting our obligations, for using resources prudently, and for activity in Ukraine. The company is entering international electricity, gas and coal markets protecting the environment. We are responsible for the people who make the success of our by establishing a global trading infrastructure and implementing renewable energy projects. company possible — our employees. Efficiency Openness Production efficiency, investment efficiency, and management efficiency are fundamental principles We are open and keep our employees, partners, shareholders and other external stakeholders informed of DTEK’s operations. Search and implementation of innovations are the pillars for the further company’s about important issues regarding our development, creating a foundation for working together in a spirit development. of trust. We conduct our business based on principles that are clear to our employees and partners. People Customer focus People are the key driving factor of DTEK’s development and a source of its competitive advantage. DTEK heavily invests We build trust with our customers by creating a diverse portfolio of energy products and solutions for them, educating them in advancement of its employees, engages new talents and instills the culture of innovation. about responsible consumption through the provision of energy services. We have created a retail brand to allow everyone access to reliable supply and innovations. Society Pursuit of excellence DTEK is a responsible investor, reliable partner, and largest employer. DTEK contributes to social transformation and development of a competitive economy, acts openly and transparently, and encourages entrepreneurship, cooperation, and innovations. We create right conditions for the development of talents and abilities of our employees, implement the most promising technologies, The company promotes modern international environmental safety standards and the best occupational health and safety practices. and improve production and management processes. As we expand our business, we strive to instill confidence in our employees and contribute to the successful development of Ukraine. Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 14 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 15 Development business strategy: stages and priorities ESG development strategy The long-term corporate development strategy sets out priorities of business, management projects, DTEK is a leader in Ukraine’s environmental modernisation. The company takes responsibility for its and technologies environmental and social impact and cares about the well-being of future generations. Bearing in mind the global trend of responsible investments as well as the magnitude of DTEK’s impact on Ukraine’s progress towards achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the company has integrated the 2015 — 2020 2020 — 2025 2020 — 2030 12 UN Sustainable Development Goals into its ESG Strategy up to 2030. Efficiency Transformation Innovations ESG Strategy priorities: Scaling of LEAN Active development of RES Introduction of robotic technologies projects and gas markets, a transition in manufacturing processes Commitments on air and climate protection targets, specifically into reducing our thermal to the RAB-regulation in the grids generation’s carbon footprint and renewable energy development. A reform of the energy market Reduction of the share of coal Introduction of innovations throughout and introduction of an incentive generation in an energy mix, the entire value chain based regulation tariff transformation of coal regions Core Retail brand development, promotion of new products and services business Follow the circular economy principle, boosting the recovery of industrial wastes. Expansion of the products Automation and digitalisation Large-scale use of digital technologies and services portfolio of business processes and AI solutions Development of a distribution infrastructure Pilot innovation projects Participation in international Sustains biodiversity protection and preservation of ecosystems. innovative projects Compliance with the best ESG practices Foster high social standards and a status as a good “corporate citizen”. Expansion Partnership Diversification Expended asset portfolio Identification and implementation Geographical diversification of strategic partnerships in Ukraine New Gradual expansion Attraction of international Management of the international opportunities and transition to self-financing partners to Ukraine investment portfolio Strive for a safe working environment and a healthcare system for employees. of new businesses Entry into European markets based Business value realization on international trade and implementation of RES projects Follow best corporate governance, risk management and compliance practices. Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 16 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 17 DTEK Group’s corporate governance Key performance indicators structure of 2019 DTEK B.V. 1.7 bln cubic meters Corporate centre of gas produced 24.5 mln tonnes Operating holding companies and areas of operation of coal produced DTEK DTEK DTEK DTEK D.TRADING B.V. D.SOLUTIONS B.V. ENERGY B.V. RENEWABLES B.V. OIL&GAS B.V. GRIDS B.V. Coal production Wind power generation Gas production Electricity Trading electricity, Electricity supply and processing distribution natural gas and gas Solar power generation and grid condensate and coal Energy efficiency: Electricity operation smart home generation solutions at TPPs and CHPP Future innovative Mining machinery solutions: solar manufacturing roofs, energy storage, energy service and energy audit 1.4 bln kWh of electricity generated Fast-charging by WPP and SPP stations network 28.4 bln kWh of electricity generated by TPP and CHPP Key objectives of the Corporate centre: Key objectives of the operating companies: •long-term planning •managing day-to-day operations •developing new businesses •promoting operating efficiency •managing an investment portfolio and raising long-term •implementing investment projects financing •professional advancement of employees •developing the managerial talent pool •developing industry-related expertise •reputation management •interacting with central government authorities 43.7 bln kWh of electricity distributed 36.9 bln kWh* of electricity supplied * To end consumers in Ukraine Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 18 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 19 Location of DTEK Group production enterprises Kyiv and Region: Electricity distribution DTEK Grids: Kyivoblenergo, DTEK Kyiv Grids Electricity supply D.SOLUTIONS: Kyiv Energy Services Mining machinery manufacturing DTEK Energy: CORUM Group Vinnytsia Region: Electricity generation DTEK Energy: DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP, Ladyzhynska HPP, Ladyzhynska SPP Dnipropetrovsk Region Coal production and processing DTEK Energy: DTEK Pavlohradcoal, CCM Pavlogradska Electricity generation DTEK Energy: DTEK Kryvorizka TPP, DTEK Prydniprovska TPP DTEK Renewables: Nikopolska SPP, Pokrovska SPP Electricity distribution DTEK Grids: DTEK Dnipro Grids Electricity supply D.SOLUTIONS: Dnipro Energy Services Donetsk Region: Coal production and processing DTEK Energy: DTEK Dobropilliacoal, Bilozerska Mine ALC, Lviv Region: DTEK Dobropilska CPP, Kurahivska CPP, Electricity generation DTEK Oktyabrska CPP DTEK Energy: DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP Electricity generation DTEK Energy: DTEK Kurahivska TPP, DTEK Myronivka CHPP Odesa Region: Electricity distribution Electricity distribution DTEK Grids: Odesaoblenergo DTEK Grids: DTEK Donetsk Grids, DTEK Energougol ENE, DTEK Power Grids* Poltava Region: Gas production Electricity supply DTEK Oil&Gas: Naftogazvydobuvannya D.SOLUTIONS: Donetsk Energy Services Kharkiv Region: Mining machinery manufacturing Mining machinery manufacturing DTEK Energy: CORUM Druzhkivskyi Machine-Building Plant DTEK Energy: Svitlo Shakhtaria Coal production and processing Wind energy Zaporizhia Region: Gas production Electricity generation DTEK Oil&Gas: Naftogazrozrobka, Mining machinery manufacturing Solar energy DTEK Energy: DTEK Zaporizka TPP Naftogazsystemy DTEK Renewables: Botievska WPP, Prymorska WPP, Orlivska WPP Kherson Region: Gas production Electricity distribution Ivano-Frankivsk Region: Electricity generation Electricity generation DTEK Renewables: Tryfonivska SPP DTEK Energy: DTEK Burshtyn TPP Thermal generation Electricity supply Russian Federation: Luhansk Region: Coal production and processing Electricity generation Mine Office Obukhovskaya JSC, Donskoy Anthracite JSC, DTEK Energy: DTEK Luhanska TPP Sulinanthracite LLC * In connection with the grids located on the controlled territory of the Donetsk Region. Undertakings outside the operational management are not shown on the map. Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 20 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 21 Key Events in 2019 February Lohivska site was granted for 20 years. The site covers the territory of the Chuhuiv, Zmiiv, and Kharkiv districts of the Kharkiv Region. It measures 197.5 km2. Mineral resources include oil, natural gas, DTEK completed unbundling of electricity distribution and supply and gas condensate. functions DTEK Group was among the first to introduce systemic changes in DTEK Prydniprovska TPP: power unit No. 10 was converted to burn its operations and unbundled its electricity distribution operations steam coal instead of anthracite from operations of supplying electricity to consumers within the This is the fourth power unit of the power plant that started firing scope of the energy reform. Operating companies were established G-grade coal. Since 2017, DTEK Energy has been implementing a in each business area, which ensured their independent functioning strategy for converting TPP power units designed to use anthracite within the structure of DTEK Group. to G-grade coal. This efforts help to reduce considerably the use DTEK Grids focuses on electricity distribution and is also of imported coal and thus increase the stability of the Ukrainian responsible for operating the power grids, ensuring reliable power energy system. supply and developing infrastructure. D.SOLUTIONS supplies Moreover, a modern electrostatic precipitator was built at the electricity to households, small non-household consumers, statepower unit. This device will reduce the emission of solid particles financed organizations, and other consumers with contracted into the atmospheric air down to 50 mg/m3 in compliance with capacity under 150 kW. European standards. D.TRADING, which was established in January, is responsible for the development of wholesale trade in energy products both in Ukraine and on international energy markets, and generally April manages the product portfolio of DTEK Group. These changes afforded an opportunity for distribution system DTEK Oil & Gas launched a new deep drilling program at the operators to focus on strengthening safety and quality of operation Machukhske field of power grids. In turn, suppliers were able to offer their clients The company’s long-term strategy is aimed at the transition to services meeting European quality standards. gas extraction from 7,000 meter-deep gas horizons. The program provides for drilling four exploratory holes and two prospecting DTEK Kryvorizka TPP: a test for compliance with ENTSO-E wells to discover new gas reserves. The program was designed standards was successfully passed on the basis of advanced geological and geophysical studies Specialists with NPC Ukrenergo, United States Energy Association that included a wide-azimuth 3D seismic survey, high-precision (USEA), EPRA (Turkey), and DMCC (Ukraine) tested power unit No. gravitational and magnetic exploration that had been conducted by 3 of the Kryvorizka TPP. They examined the power unit’s ability to the company in the course of four years. The first well drilled within comply with the key requirements for synchronized operations with the scope of this program was 5,704-meter deep well No. 53. ENTSO-E, in particular, to reduce or increase its capacity fast and precisely in response to changing frequency in the energy system. The tests demonstrated that power unit No. 3 of DTEK Kryvorizka May TPP and equivalent power units are capable of following the frequency of the European energy system. In 2019, the tests were Academy DTEK was recognized among the world’s best corporate successfully passed by power units No. 1 and No. 2 of Zaporizka universities TPP, and power units No. 5, No. 7, and No. 10 of Burshtyn TPP. Academy DTEK won a 2019 Global CCU Award in the Corporate Responsibility category. The award was made for the Academy’s contribution in enhancing the quality of education for public March officials. Academy DTEK cooperates with almost 30 governmental agencies. Special training programs were developed for public Nikopolska SPP started generating green electricity officials aimed at developing their professional and personal It took the company less than a year to construct a 200 MW competencies. power plant. The EPC contract was made with China Machinery Global CCU (Global Council of Corporate Universities) was Engineering Corporation in April 2018, the first solar panel was established in 2005 and brings together corporate universities installed in October, and six months later the power plant started operated by industry leaders from more than 50 states around generating green electricity. It is expected that the power plant the world. Academy DTEK is the only Ukraine’s representative at will generate 290 million kW⋅h of green energy that will cut CO2 Global CCU. emissions down by 300,000 tonnes. The award ceremony was held in Brazil. Nikopolska SPP comprises of 750,000 solar panels installed on the territory of a depleted ore mining pit. DTEK Group became a controlling shareholder of two distribution system operators DTEK Oil & Gas won the first online auction for a license to develop The Group purchased 68.2949% shares of Odesaoblenergo JSC, mineral resources a distribution system operator operating in the Odesa Region, The company won a lot to purchase a special permit to develop the and 93.9978% shares of Kyivoblenergo PJSC, the Kyiv Region reserves of the Svitankovo-Lohivska site at an auction held by the distribution system operator. State Service of Geology and Mineral Resources of Ukraine. This DTEK Grids has designed a program aimed at the development of was first time that the auction had been held online in Ukraine, and power grids in these regions. The program focuses on systemic the platform was provided by Prozorro.Sale, a national system of digitalization of infrastructure operations, heightened reliability of state electronic auctions. electricity supply and quality customer experience. A special permit to develop mineral resources of the SvitankovoSection 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 22 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 23 June opens new opportunities for cooperation in the area of trading in can adapt to the wind direction and speed were installed at the wind and commercial consumers in Kyiv, Dnipropetrovsk, and Donetsk energy goods and implementation of joint projects on international farm, and a digital substation technology was applied for the first Regions. Apart from supplying electricity, YASNO will develop three markets including investments in power assets. time in Ukraine. product lines: DTEK Renewables borrowed EUR 90 mln to finance the construction of Phase II of Prymorska Wind Farm DTEK commissioned 240 MW Pokrovska solar power plant DTEK reached 1GW of installed renewable energy capacities •YASNO Smart — energy-efficient kits with two-zone meters and A 10-year loan was issued by a consortium of German banks that The power plant ranks second in terms of its capacity among DTEK working in cooperation with Danish company Vestas, a smart light; included KFW IPEX-Bank, ODDO BHF Aktiengesellschaft headed European solar power facilities. Pokrovska SPP is a project global leader in WTG manufacturing, completed the construction of Bayerische Landesbank, and was secured by guarantees issued by implemented by Ukrainian companies and specialists for Ukrainian Orlivska wind farm. The power plant is located on the Azov seashore Euler Hermes and CESCE export credit agencies. This agreement •YASNO Е-Mobility — a network of fast-charging stations for consumers, 16 companies were engaged in the construction in the Zaporizhia Region and comprises of 26 wind turbines with the supports the transformation of the national energy sector while electric vehicles. The new service will offer charging equipment project. The new power plant was built on the territory of a depleted total capacity of 100 MW. The power plant will generate 380 mln aiming toward considerable decarbonization of the sector through for residential buildings and corporate clients; ore mining pit and comprises 840,000 solar panels manufactured kW⋅h of green energy annually that will ensure the reduction of CO2 the development of green power plants. Debt financing raised by by Risen (China). Pokrovska SPP will generate 400 mln kW⋅h of emissions by 400,000 tonnes. DTEK Renewables strengthens its role as a long-term partner for •YASNO Efficiency — roof solar panels, electricity storage green energy annually. The plant will help reduce CO2 emissions by By completing this project, DTEK reached its strategic goal of leading international financial institutions and equipment suppliers. systems, energy audit, energy service, and energy 420,000 tonnes annually, which is an equivalent of emissions from building 1 GW of green generating capacities by the end of 2019. The construction of Phase II of Prymorska Wind Farm with the management over 200,000 cars. The company invested USD 1.2 bln in the Ukrainian RES sector capacity of 100 MW commenced in 2018. and created unique expertise that was applied to implement largeDTEK Kryvorizka TPP: power unit No. 1 was converted to burn scale innovative projects. DTEK Grids commissioned the Naddniprianska substation — one December steam coal instead of anthracite of the most advanced power facilities in Ukraine As the new equipment was installed at a live power unit, it was “Come On, Let’s Play!” DTEK and FC Shakhtar project supported The substation will supply electricity to the entire Dnipro downtown DTEK social projects received the Partnership for Sustainability important to prevent damage to the existing equipment, which by the UEFA Foundation for Children won the More than Football and two new subway stations and will also create new opportunities Award 2019 for the contribution to the attainment of the UN Global increased the complexity of installation operations. 300 MW Award 2019, a European competition of social projects. This for the development of infrastructure of Ukraine’s largest industrial Sustainable Development Goals power unit No. 1 was successfully retrofitted and connected to project gives an opportunity to boys and girls aged 7 to 12 to attend center. 80 projects from four states were submitted to competition the Ukrainian Integrated Power System on October. In general, free football training sessions with coaches. The substation was built in place of illegal dumping. The highannounced by the UN Global Compact Network Ukraine. Two DTEK Energy’s strategy aimed at converting TPP power units to 40 European football clubs entered the More than Football voltage gas-insulated switchgear installed at the substation DTEK projects: “Come On, Let’s Play” nominated in the Society use domestic coal instead of anthracite achieved an increase of Award 2019 competition. Chelsea FC Foundation, Juventus FC, occupies the area measuring mere 80 m2. The comparable old category and TREND nominated in the Economic Development Ukrainian coal-based electricity generation in total production from Rangers Charity Foundation and Shakhtar Social were selected equipment would have required the area measuring at least category were among the winners. TREND project was launched 74.2% in 2017 up to 90.8% in 2019. for the shortlist of the More than Football Award 2019. The award 1,200 m2. The new technology makes the substation suitable for to encourage residents of multi-apartment buildings to implement ceremony was held at Camp Nou stadium in Barcelona large city applications thanks to its compact size. Moreover, the energy-saving solutions by promoting awareness in this area and DTEK joined the World Economic Forum substation is completely automated and is operated remotely. As a providing assistance with raising investments. The World Economic Forum is a global non-governmental DTEK launched a retail brand on the electricity market result, the quality of electricity supply is improved. organization promoting the development of international Under brand YASNO electricity is supplied to 3.5 mln households cooperation. The company will participate in Shaping the Future July of Energy platform by engaging various stakeholders in search for innovative solutions in the energy sector. This platform brings together leaders from the establishment, civic communities, DTEK Oil&Gas intends to develop the Zinkivska area Key events after the reporting period. DTEK who remained at their workplaces due to operational reasons. Site energy technology companies and private investors to develop medical facilities received special information on COVID testing DTEK Oil & Gas was recommended as a winner in Ukraine’s largest governance and policy guidelines and innovative models for Group operations amid the COVID pandemic tendering procedure for production sharing agreements (PSA) and ensured heightened control over the health of the company’s investing in the development of infrastructure and the sector. in connection with the Zinkivska area. DTEK Oil&Gas plans to repersonnel. process and re-interpret the data collected during the earlier The COVID pandemic continues to have a profound impact on To support Ukraine’s efforts aimed at preventing the spread of the global economies and all areas of life. In this situation, every seismic and gas dynamics surveys, carry out a 3D seismic survey November COVID disease, DTEK Group set up the COVID-19 Containment using a wide-azimuth technique, and also drill three exploratory responsible business concentrated its resources to help its Headquarters. The HQ helped to ensure immediate response to wells. Natural gas production is expected to be launched during country deal with the crisis. DTEK Group focused on solving DTEK placed specialized securities to develop renewable energy the situation within DTEK Group and to forge relationships with the second year of the operations. two crucial issues: minimizing as far as possible the risk of the for the first time in the history of Ukraine local headquarters established in several Regions to jointly identify infection spreading among the personnel and ensuring continuous Five-year EUR 325 mln Eurobonds bearing 8.5% interest per the needs for resources. SCM assets were mobilised to meet the operations. The Group provided humanitarian aid to the regions October annum were listed on Euronext Dublin exchange in November. The where its businesses operate alongside all other SCM assets. high demand for assistance at medical facilities. financing will be allocated exclusively between the existing and The crisis provoked by the COVID outbreak demonstrate the extent As a matter of priority, certain measures to protect employees future projects undertaken by DTEK Renewables in the renewable DTEK was selected among the top three distribution companies in were immediately implemented. Office personnel were transferred to which our lives depend on energy. DTEK Group has fulfilled its energy sector. CHARGE Awards 2019 to remote working. Those employed by manufacturing companies corporate mission of bringing electricity and heating to people in Green Eurobonds are a new instrument that can be used by DTEK was nominated as a finalist in the Best Distribution Brand had a special work schedule that varied depending on the nature this extremely demanding situation. companies to attract investments in the development of renewable category alongside two other leaders. During the competition, DTEK The crisis has emphasized the importance of dialogue and joint energy projects. DTEK’s successful bond issuance created an of their functions. These efforts allow continuous manufacturing Grids showcased its systemic communication and multi-channel efforts. The efforts of each individual, community, company, efficient financial mechanism supporting Ukraine’s transition to an operations and thus minimization of the impact caused by the customer information projects: digital solutions for customer energy mix with lower СО2 share. pandemic on Ukraine’s economy. industry, government and the state are required to counteract the services, educational projects to raise awareness about the energy It goes without saying that protective goggles, medical face pandemic. Everyone has mobilised their resources around the market reform and responsible energy consumption, and the Light DTEK completed the construction of 200 MW Prymorska Wind Farm masks, and hand sanitizers were provided to all our employees most valuable asset: human life. Affairs project aimed at making the work of DTEK Grids’ distribution The wind farm comprises of two phases: the first phase is located in system operators transparent and understandable. the Prymorsk district of the Zaporizhia Region, and the second one DTEK team shared their experience of operating on the energy is in the Pryazovsk district. Thanks to strong winds at its location, market during the annual international Charge Energy Branding the wind park will supply 700 million kWh of green electricity to Conference held in Reykjavík (Iceland). the national power system on annual basis. This will help cut CO2 emissions down by 750,000 tonnes per year. DTEK launched cooperation with the Croatian national power The Prymorska Wind Farm became a platform for innovations: company unique technological solutions that allow for the achievement of DTEK and HEP d.d. (Hrvatska elektroprivreda d.d.), the the maximum operating performance of the equipment that was Croatian national power company, signed the Memorandum of installed on site. New-generation GE wind turbine generators that Understanding and Business Cooperation. The Memorandum Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 24 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 25 Top management of the DTEK Group Maxim Timchenko Dmytro Sakharuk Maris Kunickis CEO of DTEK CEO of DTEK Energy CEO of DTEK Renewables Maxim Timchenko has headed DTEK since 2005 Dmytro Sakharuk has headed DTEK Energy since 2017 Maris Kunickis has headed DTEK Renewables since 2020 Under his leadership, DTEK has become the largest national senior auditor position. In 2000, he graduated with honors from the Kharkiv National The former CEO of DTEK Kyiv Grids, Maris Kunickis joined the DTEK investor. He is a member of the Association of Certified Chartered University of Internal Affairs majoring in Law. In 2001, he received team in 2018 as a Development Director of DTEK Grids. Mr. Kunickis Along with 20 other leaders of the world’s largest energy companies, Accountants (ACCA) and the Supervisory Board of the UN Global a Master’s degree in Law Enforcement with honors from the same was responsible for strategic planning, and technology and business Maxim Timchenko was a co-founder and signatory to the Energy Compact Network Ukraine. university. He continued his education at Chicago-Kent College trends research for distribution system operators. for Society, a global initiative of the World Economic Forum. He received a degree in Production Management with honors of Law where he received a Master’s Degree in International Prior to joining DTEK from 2010 to 2018, he was a member of the From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Timchenko worked as a senior manager at from the Donetsk State Academy of Management (Ukraine) in and Comparative in 2002. During his employment with DTEK, board and Chief Operating Officer of Latvenergo (Latvia), as well SCM, where he was responsible for SCM’s energy business until 1997. He continued his education at Manchester University (UK) Mr. Sakharuk successfully completed the Energy of Leader as a deputy member of the board of directors of the Pan-European it was separated into DTEK. He started his career as a consultant and received a BA degree in Economics and Social Sciences with program, a joint program of the London Business School and Association for the Electricity Industry Eurelectric, and vice president at PricewaterhouseCoopers (1998–2002), where he advanced to a honors. Academy DTEK. and member of the board of the Latvian Association of Power Engineers and Energy Constructors. He started his career at Philip Morris Ukraine in 2004, and then Maris Kunickis began his career in 1999 as an electrician at joined an international law firm of Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP Latvenergo VAS. In 2006, he became the executive director of Rigas in 2008. gaisma — Riga municipal service, and in 2008 became its CEO. He joined DTEK team in March 2010 as the Deputy Legal He was educated at the Riga Technical University (Latvia) at the Director, and was promoted to the Legal Director’s position in Faculty of Energy and Electrical Engineering, holds an engineering 2011. Following the introduction of a new corporate governance degree in the area of power plant networks and systems. He received structure, Dmytro Sakharuk was appointed executive director in his second higher education and received a Master’s Degree at August 2014, and then was transferred to acting CEO position at the University of Latvia at the Faculty of Physics and Mathematics, DTEK Energy in October 2016. specializing in Technologies for Sustainable Development. In September 2017, Mr. Sakharuk was appointed as CEO of DTEK Energy. Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 26 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 27 Igor Shchurov Ivan Gelyukh Vitaly Butenko Abdullah Koksal CEO of DTEK Oil&Gas CEO of DTEK Grids CEO of D.TRADING CEO of D.SOLUTIONS Igor Shchurov joined the company in 2011 Ivan Gelyukh has headed DTEK Grids since 2018 Vitaly Butenko has headed D.TRADING since 2019 Abdullah Koksal has headed D.SOLUTIONS since 2019 From April 2013 to September 2016, he was in charge of He joined DTEK team in 2005 and worked head of the investment He has more than 20 years’ experience in the energy sector and He took over the leadership of the Sales and Marketing Department Naftogazvydobuvannya, a key production asset of DTEK Oil&Gas. department from 2005 to 2008. He then moved to the Kyivenergo investment banking, and has been in charge of the company since at DTEK Grids in June 2018. He oversaw the development Under his leadership, the company progressed to a totally new as head of the investment department, in 2011 he headed the its formation in January 2019. of electricity supply and energy efficiency services business level of operations: the annual natural gas production increased Regulatory Policy and Investments Directorate, and the Strategy First, he joined DTEK team as Strategy and M&A Director back in development strategy. In April 2019, Abdullah Koksal was three-fold in short time. Directorate of Kyivenergo in 2012. In September 2013 he was 2007. Later on, in 2014 he was appointed Commercial Director, appointed CEO of D.SOLUTIONS. Before joining DTEK Group, Mr. Shchurov was in charge of appointed Deputy Commercial Director of DTEK Energy, and acted and then oversaw the formation of DTEK’s new international trading He has multi-year experience in consulting and banking sectors. Novatek-Tarkosaleneftegaz where he secured the annual natural as electricity distribution and sales director of DTEK Energy since company, D.TRADING, in 2019. Prior to joining DTEK team, he worked for more than nine years gas production of over 14 billion cubic meters. From 1998 to 2007, March 2017. In 2018, Mr. Gelyukh was promoted to CEO of DTEK D.TRADING promotes the development of Ukraine’s new electricity at Enerjisa (Turkey, a venture asset of Sabancı Holding and he worked at Samaraneftegaz (Yukos Oil Company, Russia), where Grids. Under his leadership, the company successfully unbundled and natural gas markets by engaging global marketing and E.ON), where he held managerial positions and was responsible he successfully traveled the path from an oil and gas production its electricity supply and distribution functions in accordance trading experience while connecting Ukraine with global energy for operations and marketing. He was in charge of electricity operator to the deputy general director. with the requirements imposed by the first stage of the electricity markets. Building on its leading analysis, forecasting and trading procurement, pricing, commercial cycle, and customer experience, He has a degree in Oil and Gas Field Development and a degree market reform. instruments, D.TRADING carries on successful commercial and and headed the reorganization within the scope of unbundling. in Finance and Credit. In 2002, he was awarded a PhD degree in He began his career in 2001 as an economist at Intron company. trading operations and optimizes DTEK’s entire product portfolio In 1999, he received a degree in Mechanical Engineering from Technical Sciences Mr. Gelyukh is a co-chair of Energy Community Distribution System both in Ukraine and on international markets. The company also Middle East Technical University (Turkey). In 2003, he received an Operators in Electricity (ECDSO-E) Coordination Group. engages in trading operations based on external resources. MBA degree from City University of New York (USA). He received a Master’s degree in Finance from the Donetsk Prior to joining DTEK, Mr. Butenko was pursuing a career in National University in 2003. investment banking. Having obtained an MBA degree from the University of Manitoba (Canada) in 1996, he worked at investments banks in Toronto, New York, and Kyiv for over a decade. Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance Section 1 | DTEK Group at a glance 28 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 29 An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 1 Electricity Market 2 Natural Gas Market 3 Ukraine’s macroeconomic indicators Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 30 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 31 Electricity Market risks of production stoppage caused by the shortage of fuel thus strengthening the reliability of operations of the Ukrainian power system. Ukraine from three states: the Russian Federation, the Republic of South Africa, and the USA. The Russian Federation has remained the major supplier as its share in the total coal imports grew from In general, in 2019, Ukraine imported 4.5 million tons of A-grade 85% in 2018 up to 98% in 2019. coal, which is 1.1% less than in 2018. A-grade coal was imported to Electricity balance in 2019, mln kWh (% YoY) Electricity generation Electricity imports Coal consumption by TPPs and CHPPs in Steam coal production in Ukraine in 2019, NPP Slovakia 83,002.7 (–1.7%) 909.8 2019, mln tons (% YoY) mln tons (% YoY) GC TPP Belarus 4.6 (–14.1%) 2.7 (–24.2%) 44,915.1 (–6%) 851.3 A-grade coal State-operated companies CHPP, communal CHPP Hungary and captive power plants 630.1 25.6 24.9 12,638.5 (+1%) (–2.3%) (–9.4%) HPP and HPSPP Russian Federation 7,868.6 (–34.5%) 286.3 20.9 (+0.5%) 22.2 (–7.1%) G-grade coal Private companies RES Romania 5,542.2 (+110.5%) 21.1 Data: Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Data: Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine. Total DixiGroup. Total 153,967.1 2,698.6 (–3.4%) 156,665.7 mln kWh Total Today, coal satisfies more than one third of Ukraine’s demand for and Luhansk regions where all A-grade coal mines are located. (–1.7%) Total (gross) electricity generation. Although thermal generation reduced aggreUkraine ranks seventh in the world in terms of proven coal reserves 150,237.1 6,469.3 (–1.9%) (+5%) gate coal consumption in 2019, G-grade coal consumption demonestimated at 34.4 bln tons, which accounts for 3% of the global coal strates an upward trend due to a strategy for converting power reserves. Steam coal accounts for the major portion of the reserves, generating units. This trend is expected to continue in the future and the share of coking coal is about 30%. The main coal deposits Industry Hungary as Ukraine plans to completely replace A-grade coal with G-grade are located in the Donetsk, Dnieper, and Lviv-Volyn coal basins, as 51,154.6 (–1.7%) 3,927.6 (+9%) coal, the production of which does not face a risk of stoppage due well as in the Dnieper-Donetsk and Transcarpathian coal basins. The Households to hostilities. Starting from March 2017, Ukraine has discontinued deposits have the depth of 500 to 1,000 meters, and thin coal beds 35,235.9 (–2%) Poland coal production on the temporary occupied territories of Donetsk ranging from 0.8 to 1.0 meter. 1,376.8 (–2%) Public utility consumers 15,066.2 (–2.8%) Moldova Transport sector 644.0 (–33%) Production, ICUF*, and specific coal consumption by thermal generation companies 6,603.3 (–5.1) Agricultural consumers Romania 3,710.0 (–4.1%) 402.9 (+969%) Electricity generation, Specific fuel ICUF, % Other Slovakia bln kWh consumption, g/kWh 20,099.6 (+2.7%) 118.0 (–30%) Electricity consumption Electricity exports Companies 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Data: Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, NPC Ukrenergo DTEK ENERGY (TPP and CHPP) 36.0 31.4 35.2 32.9 405.4 405.8 The Ukrainian Integrated Power System comprises of nuclear, no. 535 on Amendments to the List of goods originating from the Centrenergo 8.7 10.2 12.9 15.1 405.2 395.0 thermal, hydraulic, pumped storage power plants and power plants Russian Federation prohibited for import to the customs territory based on renewable energy sources, combined heat and power of Ukraine, which includes fertilizers, was enacted on 1 July 2019. Donbasenergo 3.5 3.4 44.8 43.7 407.4 418.1 plants, as well as transmission and distribution power lines. Central Amid the reduced demand, Ukraine resumed commercial import of dispatch control of the Ukrainian Integrated Power System (IPS) is electricity that had ceased back in 2015, in the second half of the the responsibility of NPC Ukrenergo. All commercial entities whose year. facilities are connected to the Ukrainian IPS must comply with operThese two factors have become the key drivers of the reduced ative orders and instructions issued by the dispatcher. electricity generation in Ukraine, and thermal generation (reduced * Installed capacity utilization factor. In 2019, there was a 2% drop in electricity consumption in Ukraine generation by hydro power plants was mainly caused by a low level ICUF for DTEK Energy is stated without regard to gas and fuel oil power generating units and mothballed power generating units. caused by the reduced demand from main consumer groups. The of water inflow in rivers). TPPs also cut their production by 6% demachine industry reduced electricity consumption by 10%, the fuel spite efforts taken within the ongoing implementation of the strateindustry – by 4%, and the iron and steel industry – by 3% in the gy aimed at replacing A-grade coal in the fuel balance with G-grade industrial consumption sector. The chemical and petrochemical incoal. Four power units of DTEK Prydniprovska TPP, one power unit dustries were the only industries that demonstrated a 20% growth, of DTEK Kryvorizka TPP, two power units of Zmiivska TPP, and two which was mainly due to the suspension of imports of mineral ferpower units of Trypilska TPP were converted to burn G-grade coal tilizers from the Russian Federation. In particular, CMU Resolution instead of A-grade coal in 2017-2019. These measures prevent Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 32 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 33 Industry and pricing regulation This model was a starting point for Ukraine’s transition to a comThe National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission (NEURC) Trends of wholesale market and day-ahead petitive electricity market. On 1 July 2019, the Law of Ukraine No. is a multi-member body, acting independently from governmental 2019-VIII on Electricity Market completed the introduction of a liband local self-government authorities. The Commission’s objecmarket prices, UAH/MWh In 2019, two electricity market models were in operation. During the eralised market in accordance with the applicable European laws tives include state regulation, monitoring and control of commerfirst half of the year, it was a single-buyer model where all market governing the electricity industry. Similarly to European states, cial entities operating in the area of energy and public utilities. In Single buyer model. players interacted within the framework of the Wholesale Electricity Liberalised market. Day-ahead Ukraine launched the following markets: bilateral contracts, daythe framework of a “single buyer” model, the NEURC approved a Wholesale market Market, and SE Energorynok acted as an operator of this market. market price ahead, intraday, and balancing. An ancillary services market had to wholesale market price of electricity, electricity tariffs for certain price First, electricity producers would sell all the electricity generated by be launched as well but since power generating companies failed producers, electricity transmission and distribution tariffs, tariffs for them to the Wholesale Electricity Market, and then suppliers would to certify their equipment in accordance with the Equipment Testhousehold consumers, and electricity pricing methodologies ap2018 HY1 2019 HY2 2019 HY2 2019 buy it to supply to their consumers. ing Regulations in due time, this market’s launch was postponed. plicable to electricity supplied by regulated suppliers. Following the transition to a competitive market, the Regulation on setting fore1,561 1,618 1,575 1,465 cast wholesale electricity market prices was revoked. Due to the transition to the European market model, Oblenergos Burshtyn Post-reform electricity market Energy Island Ukrainian IPS divided their monopolistic and competitive operations by unbunbase dling distribution system operators and electricity suppliers. Simulbase taneously, following their unbundling from Oblenergos, electricity Market of Day-ahead suppliers were entrusted with a function of universal service supFree prices provide an incentive for Intraday Balancing the entry of new producers and bilateral contracts market pliers acting within their defined territories. They act as guaranteed Data: Market Operator SE. market market foster competition on the markets suppliers for residential and small non-residential consumers as well as state-financed organizations regardless of their contracted capacity and consumers with contracted capacity below 150 kW. All large consumers with contracted capacity above 150 kW and Key Regulatory Developments in 2019 connected to the grid had to choose their electricity suppliers by 1 January 2019. If a consumer failed to select a supplier and make a The key objective that the energy sector had to attain in 2019 was relevant agreement, electricity was supplied by the supplier of last to implement the energy reform. Pursuant to the Law of Ukraine resort. The supplier of last resort is a company that may not refuse No. 2019-VIII on the Electricity Market dated 13 April 2017, a liberalto supply electricity to a consumer. Electricity is supplied during 90 ized retail electricity market was launched on 1 January 2019, and days and discontinues at the end of this period. SE Ukrinterenegro a liberalized wholesale market followed on 1 July 2019. However, was appointed by the government to act as the supplier of last rea number of regulations were enacted throughout 2019. sort during the period from 1 January 2019 until 1 January 2021. The NEURC set the tariffs charged by the supplier of last resort, universal service suppliers, and electricity distribution tariffs. •On 27.02.2019, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted Resolution An incentive tariff design (RAB regulation) was expected to be inNo. 140 to appoint Oschadbank an authorized bank of the elecProvides free access to power grids troduced within the scope of the energy reforms; however, it never tricity market starting from 01.07.2019. to all suppliers, thus promoting the Distribution system operators happened despite the adoption of a basic set of regulatory docuemergence of new players on the market ments back in 2013. The RAB regulation envisages that tariffs and a •On 22.05.2019, the Cabinet of Ministers approved Articles of normative rate of return on capital will be set in advance once every Association of two state-operated companies: the Market Opseveral years (a regulated period) for transmission system operaerator and the Guaranteed Buyer. tors and distribution system operators. These measures will create Can sell electricity in any region Suppliers an opportunity for attracting investments into technological devel•On 05.06.2019, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted resolutions to any consumer* opment and introduction of new technologies to improve the quality required to introduce the new electricity market starting from of services provided to consumers. 01.07.2019, in particular: to approve a regulation on imposing PSO to supply electricity to the population; Electricity sales structure on wholesale to approve a regulation on electronic auctions to sell electricity under bilateral contracts between state-operated companies. markets, % A retail market is in the process of •On 12.06.2019, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted resolutions formation 1 42 required to introduce the new electricity market starting from Intraday market Bilateral contracts 01.07.2019, in particular: (PSO)* Total to appoint the CEO of the Market Operator and the Guaranteed 4 Buyer state-operated companies; Balancing market to approve amendments to the regulation on imposing PSO to bln kWh supply electricity to the population; 22 31 to approve the distribution balance sheet of SE Energorynok. Large consumers may buy Bilateral contracts Day-ahead market electricity directly from producers at free prices •On 21.06.2019, the Transmission System Code was amended (NEURC Resolution No. 1120). Data: Market operator, Ukrainian Energy Exchange, NPC UkrenerAll consumers can freely choose their electricity suppliers* go, DTEK’s assessment. •On 24.06.2019, the following resolutions were adopted by the NEURC to facilitate efficient full-scale introduction of the new * A public service obligation (PSO) means an obligation imposed electricity market: on electricity market players to provide a service of general inter* Other than household consumers, since the electricity tariffs for them are set by the NEURC at a fixed level. to amend Resolution No. 307 of 14.03.2019 re-enacting the Marest. This mechanism helped avoiding an increase in the electricity ket Rules; tariff for residential consumers that has remained unchanged since to amend Resolution No. 308 of 14.03.2019 re-enacting the Day2017 and allowed financing the purchase of electricity from RES Ahead and the Intraday Market Rules. producers selling electricity under feed-in tariffs. Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 34 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 35 The adverse impact caused by these resolutions was the introducNo. 1003 on Amendments to the Procedure on imposing spetion of price caps on the day-ahead, intraday, and balancing marcial obligations on electricity market players to secure public kets in accordance with the amended Market Rules. interests during the functioning of the electricity market. As a result, the Guaranteed Buyer received access to additional sources of financing. •On 10.07.2019, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted Resolution No. 677 to approve a regulation on the construction of gener•On 19.12.2019, the Verkhovna Rada adopted the Law of Ukraine ating capacities and demand management (the regulation has No. 2490-1 amending some laws of Ukraine to secure constito foster a favourable environment for investments in the contutional principles in the energy and public utilities sectors. The struction of new electricity generating capacities). Law provides for new powers of the NEURC and introduces new principles of its operation. •On 18.07.2019, the NEURC adopted Resolution no. 1525 amending the Retail Electricity Market Rules to settle some is•On 26.11.2019, the NEURC passed Resolution No. 2485 sues of the retail market. amending the Market Rules, in particular, amending price caps on the balancing market, which subsequently created an op•On 18.09.2019, amendments to the Law on Electricity Market portunity for market players to perform certain manipulations were adopted to permit electricity imports from Russia and Beon the day-ahead market because prices on the balancing larus. As a result, electricity imported from the Russian Fedmarket were lower than the day-ahead market prices during eration and Belarus was dumped on the market causing the certain periods. price collapse on the day-ahead market. Ukrainian electricity producers suffered considerable losses. •The positive factors include the adoption of amendments to the Key objectives and challenges in 2020 Transmission System Code (NEURC Resolution No. 2267 of 05.11.2019 providing for a transition period on the ancillary serTo continue industry reforms which requires: vices market). A declaratory procedure for obtaining compliance certificates for ancillary services (simplified certification for market players) allowed launching this market segment. •the introduction of a balanced economic model of operations in the energy sector; •On 04.12.2019, amendments to the Law of Ukraine on Electricity Market were adopted to partially restrict electricity imports from Russia and Belarus. Also, this Law granted the NEURC •the replacement of the commodity PSO with the financial PSO with powers to set price ceilings on the market for the first time and gradual removal of cross-subsidies while making prices ever. However, a number of restrictions were imposed as well: (tariffs) charged to end consumers economically sound; a price ceiling can be set only in case of considerable price volatility on the day-ahead, intraday, and balancing markets, •the settlement of debt accrued on the Wholesale Electricity in accordance with the methodology introduced by the ReguMarket by 1 July 2019, as well as after the transition to a new lator, and provided that the price ceiling has minimum impact electricity market model; on the formation of a free (market) price. The Regulator has to review the rationale for establishing price ceilings and their •the removal of artificial price restrictions such as price caps on level at least every six months. It should be noted that the meththe day-ahead and intraday markets; and odology has never been approved, and the price ceilings are established on a permanent basis. •the transition to incentive pricing by the distribution system op•On 09.12.2019, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted Resolution erators. Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 36 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 37 The renewable energy industry for 25% in the primary energy consumption by 2035. On one hand, this is conducive to the increased investments in the sector, while on the other hand it requires a more sensible approach to balancing the Ukrainian power system and state support to the RES sectors, in particular, by introducing green auctions in compliance with the global best practices. Installed capacity of the facilities operating under a feed-in tariff, MW TOP-10 regions in the RES sector at the end of 2019, MW SPP Total 6,378.5 WPP 4,924.6 Other Total Total 2,117.2 1,374.7 1,388.3 1,169.9 741.9 465.1 532.8 167.7 202.1 284.0 2017 2018 2019 Source: NEURC. Information is provided for facilities located in mainland Ukraine, excluding households. Dnipropetrovsk, Mykolaiv, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson RES electricity generation, mln kWh regions were the leaders in terms of the growth of green capacities in 2019. They accounted for almost SPP Total 60% of the country’s total growth, mainly due to the 5,605.4 WPP development of solar projects. Other Total 2,792.0 2,932.4 Total 2,086.3 2,021.7 1,181.1 970.5 1,101.2 710.7 651.3 405.1 509.7 Household Regions WPP SPP Other Total SPP 2017 2018 2019 Kherson 337.7 406.0 33.2 3.9 780.8 Zaporizhzhia 497.8 288.9 5.6 3.7 796.0 Data: The State Agency on Energy Efficiency and Energy Saving, the Ukrainian Wind Energy Association (UWEA), NEURC. Information does not include households. Odesa 32.7 430.0 21.1 1.2 485.0 Mykolaiv 118.9 592.6 16.3 13.6 741.4 At the end of 2019, solar generation accounted for increased efficiency. The other important factor contributing to the Lviv 33.9 328.7 18.6 3,0 384.2 78.9% of the installed capacities in the RES sector while growth was an active stance taken by the Ukrainian state-operated its share in the electricity generation was 52.3%. A banks and international financial institutions on the investments in Vinnytsia 0.0 336.5 17.9 40.9 395.3 situation in the wind energy sector is quite the opposite: the RES projects. In 2019, such companies as NBT (Norway), Guris Khmelnytskyi 0.0 275.9 23.0 25.1 324.0 it accounts for 16.5% of the installed capacities and for (Turkey), Scatec Solar (Norway), TIU Canada (Canada), Modus 36.1% of the electricity generation. Energy International (Lithuania), and EMSOLT (Turkey) entered the Dnipropetrovsk 0.0 1,013.8 70.6 29.8 1,114.2 Ukrainian renewable energy market. According to the Bloomberg Kirovohrad 0.0 298.4 31.9 19.3 349.6 The solar energy has remained the leader in terms of the growth of New Energy Finance data, foreign investments made in the Ukrainits installed capacities which is attributable to the increased availian RES sector totalled USD 3.5 bln. Donetsk 13.5 0.0 9.4 5.5 28.4 ability of construction technologies and flexibility in managing the Ukraine ranked 8th among 104 world’s states in Climatescope 2019 rankings climbing 55 positions (previous year ranked 63rd). Other 7.1 952.3 305.4 138.5 1,403.3 size of power plants. The majority of the RES market players operate in this segment: 600 companies out of more than 760. The focus should also be made on rapid development of the renewFor two years in a row, the wind energy has been demonstrating the able energy sector on the level of households. In Ukraine, there are Data: NEURC, UWEA, excluding NCT (138 MW of RES capacities located in Donetsk and Luhansk regions). highest growth rates of the installed capacities in the past 10 years. almost 22 thousand of households that have already installed solar 637 MW were commissioned, which is almost ten-fold higher than panels, and two thirds of these panels were installed in 2019. the previous year’s indicator. A considerable growth of generating capacities made possible an In general, 2019 set a new record in terms of capacity growth rates almost 4% increase of the green energy share in the total electricity in the green energy sector: more than 4.1 GW of capacities were generation by the end of 2019. According to the forecast balance of commissioned improving the 2018 results almost six-fold. The key electricity in the Ukrainian IPS, it is expected that in 2020 11,375 bln development drivers included a favourable investment climate, effiof green kWh will be generated accounting for 7.9% of the total gencient incentive programs supporting the development of the reneweration. At the same time, the Energy Strategy of Ukraine sets even able energy sector, as well as technological developments and their more ambitious long-term goal: the green energy has to account Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 38 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 39 Regulatory Environment producers or consumers that obtained a feed-in tariff and the Guaranteed Buyer. •The Law No. 1210 of 30 August 2019 introduced amendments The development of the renewable energy sector remains one to the Tax Code of Ukraine by revoking a zero VAT rate on of Ukraine’s strategic priories in the industry. However, a steep the imports of solar panels, inverters, and wind turbines. The growth of RES capacities throughout 2018 and 2019 provided President signed this law in 2020. Earlier, the zero VAT rate a rationale for regulatory initiatives aimed at improving the efficiency applied to equipment imported for RES projects over the period of RES integration into the national power system while introducing from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2022, but its effect was incentive market regulation to support the development of the green limited until May 23, 2020 the date of its entry into force. energy. In the first half of 2019, there was a number of important regulatory developments that introduced a new competitive model •In December 2019, the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory of support to renewable energy sources compliant with European Commission (NEURC) approved amendments to Resolution best practices. The second half of the year was also characterized No. 641 of 26 April 2019 and introduced changes to the by certain regulatory initiatives some of which were quite chaotic Regulation on the purchase of electricity under a feed-in tariff. or even demonstrably discriminatory by their nature. The majority The most important changes are the following: of these initiatives have never been seen through to the end, and a dialog on the regulation facilitating the development of the green •the Regulation covers the purchase of electricity generated by energy sector has continued in 2020. renewable energy sources both under a feed-in tariff and by auctions; In 2019, there were considerable regulatory developments in the •dispute resolution by international arbitration; sector: •payments to an arbitration fund of the Guaranteed Buyer; •The Law No. 2712-VIII on Amendments to some laws of •introduction of a public register of RES electricity producers; Ukraine to ensure competitive conditions for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources entered into force •changes in the procedures for signing PPA contracts, as well as on 22 May 2019. Later on, this Law introduced a program of forecasting and balancing. state support to commercial entities operating in the RES sector through quota trading auctions and secured conditions •The same month, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted for completing RES projects and obtaining a feed-in tariff Resolution No. 1175 on the Introduction of competitive conditions subject to the execution of pre-PPA contracts. for promoting the production of electricity from alternative energy sources dated 27 December 2019. The Resolution sets out •Starting from 1 July 2019, a new electricity market comprising a procedure for holding auctions to distribute support quotas of the balancing market, ancillary services market, the dayand a procedure for selecting electronic auction platform ahead market, and intraday market was opened pursuant to operators. ProZorro.Sale State-Operated Company was the Law of Ukraine on Electricity Market. Pursuant to parts 2, 3, appointed an administrator of a trading platform for auctions. and 9 of Article 65 of the Law of Ukraine on Electricity Market, The procedure for auctions to distribute support quotas the Cabinet of Ministers appointed a state-operated company governs the following aspects: (1) the formation of annual to act as the Guaranteed Buyer to facilitate the implementation quotas of support to commercial entities generating electricity of state guarantees under which all electricity generated by the from renewable energy sources; (2) the operation of an facilities operating on the basis of renewable energy sources electronic trading system; (3) the preparation of auctions; (including hydro energy generated only by micro, mini, and (4) the conduct of auctions; (5) the determination of winners small hydro power plants) would be purchased at a feed-in following an auction; (6) the execution and publication of tariff or at auction prices. Pursuant to CMU Resolution No. a sale and purchase agreement in the electronic trading 324 of 17 April 2019, the Guaranteed Buyer state-operated system; (7) the submission and return of a bank guarantee; company was established on the basis of the Guaranteed (8) requirements for banks issuing bank guarantees; and (9) a Buyer branch of SE Energorynok. Following the launch of the payment procedure and fees charged by automated electronic new electricity market, the sales of electricity under a feedplatform operators, as well as other aspects of auctions. in tariff have been made under bilateral contracts between Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 40 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 41 The natural gas market The price of natural gas for consumers in 2019, UAH/thsd cubic meters 11,833.2 11,458.8 Natural gas balance in 2019 the rate of natural decline in production due to the depletion of the 9 792,0 reservoir is lower. 8,548.9 8,337.6 In 2019, Ukraine significantly increased its imports of natural gas. 7 707,6 Indigenous natural gas production covers 69.5% of total consump6,727.2 6,549.6 7,755.6 7,755.6 Private consumer companies and traders increased purchases by 6,244.8 6,244.8 tion in the country (in 2018 the coverage was 65%). 8,548.9 8,548.9 8,548.9 97.2%. At the same time, since 2016, gas imports have increasingly In 2019, state-owned companies reduced production by 3.9%, 7,479.6 7,556.3 come from Europe. 7 019,9 while private producers increased production by 4.5%. It is worth 6,222.6 6,214.4 Household 5,912.5 5,715.8 5,444.1 5,448.9 noting that most private companies are working on new fields, so consumers Non-household consumers Natural gas revenues, bln cubic meters (% by 2018) Jan Feb March Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Natural gas production Imports of natural gas Data: NJSC Naftogaz of Ukraine, prices include VAT. UkrGasVydobuvannya Naftogaz of Ukraine 14.9 (–3.9%) 7.2 (+2.8%) Until May 2019, the tariff set in November 2018 was Regulations on public special duties; VAT. Simultaneousvalid for the population. Starting from May 1, Ukraine ly, tariffs for distribution services are different for each changed the tariff system for household consumers regional gas distribution system operator. and introduced a monthly tariff revision. Currently, the The price lists of NJSC Naftogaz of Ukraine serve as a Private companies Other companies final tariff has four components: tariffs for natural gas price reference for the market. 4.6 (+4.5%) 7.1 (+97.2%) transportation and distribution services; trade margin of the supplier, the maximum amount of which is set by the Ukrnafta 1.2 (+9.0%) The average price of imported natural gas in 2019, USD/thousand cubic meters Total Total 48.8 bln cubic meters 20.7 14.3 (–1.4%) (+5.3%) (+34.9%) Volume in the UGS on 01.01.2019 13.1 (–10.8%) Use of natural gas, bln cubic meters (% by 2018) 317.9 290.9 263.1 233.5 215.2 196.4 188.5 178.3 174.7 199.5 177.4 176.7 Jan Feb March Apr May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Volume in UGS on 01.01.2020 18.9 (+36.9%) Data: Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. Industry and Population TCC for Other TCC commercial (direct use budget 1.2 (0%) In 2019, Ukraine continued to import natural gas excluis increasing every year: 76 companies supplied gas to consumers and TCC) organizations sively from Europe. Direct delivery from Russia has not Ukraine in 2019 against 65 companies in 2018. 14.4 (+1.4%) 12.6 (–18.2%) 1.6 (–45.5%) been carried out since 2016. The number of importers Data: NJSC Naftogaz of Ukraine, Ministry of energy and environment protection of Ukraine, State Statistics Service. Ukraine consumed 29.8 billion cubic meters of natural gas in 2019, same time, 44% more natural gas was consumed for heating. This which is 7% less than in 2018. The significant reduction in demand is due to several heat producers transitioning from coal to gas and is primarily due to warmer weather in the winter months. At the alternative energy sources. Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 42 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 43 Regulatory environment Unbundling and the new tariff of the gas transmission system (GTS). In 2019, five rounds of online auctions were held, as a result of In accordance with the requirements of the Third EU Energy Packwhich investors purchased 19 oil and gas blocks with a total area age, one of the stages of the reform of the Ukrainian natural gas of almost ​​ 3.000 km2. The state-owned JSC Ukrgasvydobuvannya market has been completed unbundling has been carried out. became the record holder for the purchased special permits, with From January 1, 2020, the GTS Operator of Ukraine, which is com14 victories, another one from the domestic companies DTEK Oil&pletely separate and independent from NJSC Naftogaz of Ukraine, Gas, Burisma Group, Nadra Carbon, the United Oil and Gas Comstarted operating. pany and the foreign company Nafta RV. For domestic gas production enterprises, the National Energy and As a result of open bidding, the state budget of Ukraine was replenUtilities Regulatory Commission (NEURC) has set tariffs for natural ished by UAH 358 mln, which is almost twice as much as the initial gas transportation services for 2020-2024: UAH 101.93 per 1.000 offers for these sites. m3 per day tariff for GTS entry points; UAH 124.16 per 1.000 m3 per day tariff for exit points from the GTS. Competitions for concluding production sharing agreements. Coefficients will be applied to the tariffs depending on the period After a five-year break, Ukraine has resumed the practice of conof ordering capacity for natural gas pumping. For internal entry ducting tenders for the conclusion of agreements on the distribuand exit points from the GTS, the coefficient for the quarter is set tion of hydrocarbon production. In 2019, 13 oil and gas blocks with to 1.02, for the month 1.04, for the day ahead 1.1. These ratios a total area of ​​almost 25.000 km2 were put up for tender. However, take effect in stages until the beginning of the next gas year. the winners of only nine competitions were approved. As a result of these competitions, two large foreign players were Reboot of the State Service of Geology and Subsoil of Ukraine. attracted to the Ukrainian market: the Canadian company Vermilion In 2019, the subsoil use reform took place. Among the already imEnergy and the American Aspect Energy. Together with other winplemented changes in the regulator's activities were simplification ners — leading domestic companies Ukrgasvydobuvannya, DTEK of access to geological information, creation of an investment atlas Oil&Gas, Ukrnaftoburinnya, Geo Alliance Group and Zakhidadarof the subsoil user and work on the introduction of an electronic service — they have committed to invest in the development of subsoil user's office. these blocks in the next five years from USD 430 mln to USD 1.5 bln The preparation of a new version of the Subsoil Code was launched. and drill at least 39 exploration wells. It should be in line with world best practices and eliminate all existing archaic barriers to increase the efficiency of subsoil use for the growth of the Ukrainian economy. In 2020, Ukraine should receive Data: The Association of Gas Producers of Ukraine an updated version of the Subsoil Code, which will be the only codified document in the field of subsoil use. Modernized and adapted to world standards rules will protect the interests of the state and each subsoil user. Update of the relevant legislation. 13 important amendments to sectoral legislation were approved by the Verkhovna Rada and the Government in 2019. Their implementation will contribute to the development of the industry and increase natural gas production. Access to the development of minerals of national importance has been significantly simplified due to the exclusion from the draft text of the agreement on the distribution of environmental impact assessment products, the abolition of the need to coordinate with regional councils for subsoil use, and improving the procedure for obtaining land for use. A pilot project for the sale of special permits for subsoil use through the state auction platform ProZorro.Sale has proven to be an effective mechanism for attracting investors. In order to improve it, changes have been made that allow foreign companies to participate in auctions directly without creating a legal entity in Ukraine. In addition, re-bidding will reduce the starting price for the plot, which was not sold at previous auctions. The Government voluntarily liquidated the Subsoil Use Commission at the State Service of Geology and Subsoil, without which no special permits were issued. Online auctions for licensing the development of hydrocarbons. The oil and gas industry is the only subsoil industry that has initiated changes and abandoned all ways to obtain special permits outside auctions. For the first time in Ukraine, the practice of trading through the online platform ProZorro.Sale, which belongs to the Unified system of electronic government trading in Ukraine, to issue special permits for the use of subsoil for the development of oil and gas fields. Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 44 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 45 Macroeconomic indicators of Ukraine Industrial and consumer price index, % in 2019 117.4 98.1 110.9 GDP dynamics 107.9 Industrial price index Real GDP change, % Consumer price index 104.1 103.1 GDP, UAH bln * Consensus forecast of the Ministry of Economic GDP, USD bln +3.2 Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine +3.4 dated 10.08.2020 3,561 131 3,975 154 3,964 147 * Consensus forecast of the Data: State Statistics Service of Ukraine. Ministry of Economic Development, –6.0 Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine dated 10.08.2020. According to the results of 2019, consumer inflation ground of a moderate change in housing and utilities sector tarfell to 7.9%, and producer inflation to 4.1%, due to the iffs has reduced the number of households that have applied for tight monetary policy of the National Bank of Ukraine, subsidies to reimburse the cost of housing and utilities services. Data for 2019 are given at the rate of UAH 25.9 per USD 1, for 2018 UAH 27.2 per USD 1. improving household expectations and strengthening the According to the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, in December hryvnia exchange rate. 2019, 3.3 mln households received subventions (3.9 mln houseThe NBU has set the inflation target range for 2020 at holds in December 2018), and the average amount of subvention According to the National Bank of Ukraine, GDP growth international markets caused by the lifting of restrictions imposed 5% ± 1 percentage point and maintains the validity of this per household decreased from UAH 713 per month in 2018 to UAH in 2019 was due to an increase in domestic demand due to quarantine. forecast. The National Bank predicts that in the second 639 in 2019. amid rising wages and high levels of investment, which In 2019, enterprises and organizations directed UAH 584.4 bln to half of 2020, the Ukrainian economy will recover from the In 2019, the volume of industrial production decreased by 1.8%, affected growth in the trade, transport and construction capital investments, which is 11.0% more than in 2018. At the same pandemic; a rapid rise in prices will not occur due to a primarily due to deteriorating foreign economic conditions a sigsectors. time, the structure of funding sources has not changed significantdecrease in aggregate supply and demand. The average nificant decline in steel and iron ore prices on world markets in the ly: own funds of enterprises and organizations remain the main annual consumer price index is expected to be at 103.1 III-IV quarter, intensification of trade wars and trade restrictions by According to the consensus forecast of the Ministry of Economic source of funding with a share of 68.1%, budgets of all levels acand the producer price index at 98.1. This is partly the Russia, strengthening the hryvnia exchange rate. The decline in Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, which was pubcount for 14.6%, bank loans – 7.0%, household deposits – 5.6%, result of the strengthening of the hryvnia in the second demand and competitiveness of Ukrainian enterprises in the field lished on August 10, a significant decline in real GDP is expectfor foreign investment – 0.6%. Thus, in 2019, the share of own half of 2019. of metallurgy and mechanical engineering led to a reduction in proed in 2020. A fall of 6.0% is foreseen, although according to the funds of enterprises decreased by 3.2 percentage points, and the duction in 2019. previous forecast, a decline of 4.2% was expected. The Ministry share of budget funds increased by 1.9 percentage points. The average nominal salary of full-time employees in December The wholesale and retail trade sector accounts for 13.1% of revised the GDP growth rate due to the introduction of quarantine In the industrial sector, capital investments were distributed as fol2019 amounted to UAH 12.264, which is 14.8% higher than in the Ukraine's GDP value added structure. Growing domestic demand in Ukraine from March 2020 to May 2020, in response to the corolows: a fall of 44.7% in the processing industry, 29.2% – in the extractive industry and 24.4% – in energy supply. Investments were same period of 2018. According to the State Statistics Service of and investment helped to increase the volume of trade in 2019. The navirus pandemic. First of all, a significant decrease is expected in directed to tangible assets, mainly to the purchase of equipment Ukraine, household incomes increased to UAH 3,699.3 bln followgrowth was primarily due to demand for non-food products, while the service sector, due to a decrease in demand in the domestic and improvement of engineering structures. ing to wage revisions. The increase in income against the backretail sales of some groups of food products decreased. market. A decrease in production and export of industrial products is also expected due to a significant slowdown in world economic The net inflow of foreign direct investment is USD 3.3 bln, while last growth and a reduction in international trade, which was a conseyear it amounted to USD 2.9 bln. USD 2.9 bln was sent to equity quence of the pandemic and volatility in the commodity markets. In capital in 2019, primarily in the real sectors of the economy – indusIndex of industrial production and physical volume of retail trade turnover, % the second half of the year, the economy is forecasted to recover try, trade, transport, IT. due to the revival of consumer demand both in the domestic and 110.5 106.2 Structure of capital investments, % 8.5% 34.1% 39.7% 10.2% Industrial production index 101.6 Transport, warehouses, Industry Industry Construction 98.2 postal activities Retail index 92.1 9.9% 526.3 584.4 9.5% * Consensus forecast of the Ministry of Economic Construction UAH bln UAH bln Agriculture Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine dated 10.08.2020; the adjusted forecast of the trade sector is not given. 12.5% 35.0% 33.9% 7.1% Agriculture Other Other Transport, warehouses, 2018 2019 postal activities Data: State Statistics Service of Ukraine. Data: State Statistics Service of Ukraine. Industry, construction, retail trade and agriculture are volume of construction work performed increased by the basic industries on which the level of Ukraine's GDP 23.0%, the trade sector — by 13.6%, and agriculture — depends the most. According to the results of 2019, the by 1.3% (8.5%, 3.3% and 5.7%, respectively, in 2018). Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 46 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 47 Ranking of countries in total foreign trade in goods in 2019, USD mln Balance of payments, USD mln Current account Capital transactions Financial account Balance of payments Data: National Bank of Ukraine. 5,980 Share in total,% Export Import 2,877 38 PRC 12.1 3,522 8,899 –1,322 37 RF 9.2 2,642 6,794 –4,367 Germany 7.1 1,769 5,581 –7,207 Poland 6.1 2,540 3,718 –7,264 Belarus 5.1 1,506 3,715 Data: National Bank of Ukraine. At the end of the year, the current account deficit renewable energy in Ukraine. Turkey 4.8 2,585 2,310 amounted to 0.9% of GDP (3.6% in 2018).The deficit Attracting debt capital from non-residents and purchasing foreign decreased to USD 1.3 bln (USD 4.4 bln in 2018). The currency on the market allowed the National Bank of Ukraine to growth rates of exports and imports were 7.2% and increase international reserves by 22% and as on January 1, 2020 USA 4.1 956 3,251 7.5%, respectively (9.8% and 12.8% in 2018), and the they reached USD 25.3 bln. This amount covers 3.8 months of reduction of the current account deficit was achieved future imports and is sufficient to meet Ukraine and the due to an increase in primary and secondary income. implementation of current operations. Italy 4.1 2,286 1,910 In response to the improvement of the macroeconomic situation, The inflow of capital on the financial account in 2019 was observed strengthening of the hryvnia exchange rate and reduction of primarily in debt capital in both the private and public sectors. In inflation to the target level, the National Bank of Ukraine gradually India 2.6 1,960 732 particular, due to the strengthening of the hryvnia in mid-2019, reduced the discount rate from 18.0% set in September 2018 to there was an increase in demand from non-residents for hryvnia 13.5% to the end of December 2019. In 2020, the discount rate OVDPs – net purchase amounted to USD 4.4 bln. In addition, a continued to decline, but already under the influence of changes in number of Ukrainian companies issued Eurobonds totaling USD macroeconomic indicators. In June 2020, it was set at 6%, which Netherlands 2.4 1,713 745 2.1 bln, of which USD 363 mln was attracted by DTEK Group was an all-time low. through the placement of green Eurobonds for the development of Total 45,421 57,628 Public and state-guaranteed debt at the end of the year, USD bln The overall level of exports of goods and services in 2019 trial products increased significantly by 21.1%, 20.6% and 13.6%, amounted to USD 63,421 mln, imports – USD 75,804 respectively. At the same time, according to the NBU report, the 50.5 48.9 mln. Exports increased by 7.2% compared to 2018, while volume of energy imports decreased by 7.3%. External External imports increased by 7.5%. The negative balance of In 2019, the basis of Ukrainian exports were food products 48.7% Cumulative Cumulative foreign trade amounted to USD 12,383 mln. of the total, metallurgical products — 22.0%, mineral products — 78.3 84.4 9.7%. Export growth was significantly affected by grain sales, due USD bln USD bln The geographical structure of imports of goods and services mainto the high harvest in 2019, while lower world prices for iron ore and tains the trends gained in 2015 – a decrease in the share of trade in metallurgical products led to a decrease in exports of ferrous and 27.9 35.4 the CIS countries and a reorientation to European and Asian marnonferrous metals by 12.0%. Internal Internal kets. Most Ukrainian products enter the markets of the EU and Asia – 2018 2019 In 2019, the largest increase was seen in imports of goods and ser43.1% and 23.2%, respectively, in the overall structure of exports. vices from Asia — 20.4%, which reached USD 17.619 mln. Imports According to the consensus forecast of the Ministry of EconomData: Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. from EU countries in 2019 amounted to USD 32.650 mln, which is ic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the export of 9.0% higher than in 2018. Imports of goods from Russia decreased goods and services in 2020 will be reduced by 13.2% due to a deby 14.4% and amounted to USD 7.821 mln. crease in demand caused by the coronavirus infection pandemic Public debt and state-guaranteed Ukraine in 2019 in dolto GDP in 2019 fell to 54.8% – primarily due to real GDP Imports of goods are dominated by products of the machine-buildand lower prices in commodity markets. The volume of imports of lar terms increased by 7.8%. But the ratio of total debt growth and the strengthening of the hryvnia. ing industry — 33.6% of the total, mineral products — 21.1%, goods and services is projected to decrease by 17.2%, mainly due chemical and related industries 18.9%. Under the influence of to a decrease in domestic demand, primarily for consumer goods, stable domestic demand, imports of engineering, food and indusand lower prices in energy markets. Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators Section 2 | An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators 48 Integrated report 2019 Performance results 1 Production activity 2 Investment projects 3 Analysis of financial results Section 3 | Performance results 50 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 51 Production activity DTEK Energy: Coal Production, In 2019, DTEK Group produced 24.5 mln tonnes of coal (–9.8% YoY) and 1,659.3 mcm of natural gas Thermal Energy, Mining Engineering (+0.7%). 29.8 bln kWh (–14.2%) of electricity was supplied to the United Energy System of Ukraine. 43.7 bln kWh of electricity (–0.1%) was distributed to customers. End consumers on the domestic market DTEK Energy has created a complete cycle in electricity generation: Main factors driving performance indicators: received 37.0 bln kWh of electricity. the enterprises produce coal and generate electricity. The company operates mines that produce G-grade coal. Coal •Coal production by DTEK Pavlohradcoal has been reduced by is mostly enriched on its own CPPs. Mining engineering plants 9.0%, or 1,804.1 thousand tonnes due to reduced demand are integrated into the production chain, which allows to respond from thermal generation. At the same time, the company DTEK Group Key Performance Indicators efficiently and quickly to the needs of production from the creation maintains high labour productivity indicators of 109.0 tonnes of new equipment to the provision of spare parts. per worker per month. The company generates electricity at eight thermal power plants Indicators UoM 12 mo. 2019 12 mo. 2018 Change (+/–) Change (%) and one combined heat power plant. TPPs and CHPP provide heat In 2019, DTEK Energy’s power engineers provided 28.4 bln kWh for Coal production thous. tonnes 24,511.0 27,185.9 –2,674.9 –9.8 to the cities in which they are located. Ukraine’s power system. This is 16.6%, or 5.6 bln kWh, lower than To ensure Ukraine’s energy sustainability and independence, DTEK Including: in 2018. Excluding Kyiv TPP-5 and TPP-6, the lease agreement of Energy increases the share of domestic coal in the fuel balance of which was terminated in 2018, the decrease is 12.4%, or 4.0 bln power plants — the company re-equips power units to switch from G-grade, DG (Ukraine) thous. tonnes 22,425.0 24,131.6 –1,706.6 –7.1 kWh. anthracite to G-grade coal. A-grade (Mine Office Obukhovskaya)* thous. tonnes 2,086.0 3,054.3 –968.3 –31.7 700 million tonnes are the industrial reserves of G-grade Main factors driving performance indicators: Coal concentrate coal. thous. tonnes 10,621.6 12,355.5 –1,733.9 –14.0 production 13.5 GW is the installed capacity of TPPS and CHPPs. •In Q4 2019, the company’s enterprises cut down electricity generation by 39.9%, or 3.8 bln kWh compared to the same Including: period of 2018. The number of operating power units during In 2019, DTEK Energy miners extracted 22.4 mln tonnes of G-grade coal, which is 7.1% or 1.7 mln tonnes less than in 2018. the day decreased to 20 (30 in the fourth quarter of 2018), at External CCM (Ukraine) thous. tonnes 423.2 1,361.8 –938.6 –68.9 The company’s internal and third-party coal processing plants have night to 18 (27 in the fourth quarter of 2018). This is due to processed 15.7 mln tonnes of ROM coal; while coal concentrate the import of 1.8 bln kWh of electricity, a reduction in domestic Mine Office Obukhovskaya* thous. tonnes 1,457.0 1,936.8 –479.8 –24.8 production amounted to 9.2 mln tonnes. The share of raw coal demand by 2.3 bln kWh and artificial restrictions on heat Electricity generation processing and coal concentrate production by third-party plants generation; mln kWh 29,832.3 34,753.6 –4,921.3 –14.2 (supply) reduced to 5.1% and 4.6% respectively, due to the implementation of a comprehensive program to modernize internal CPPs. •The lease agreement to manage Kyiv CHPP-5 and CHPP-6 Including: expired on 31 July 2018 (1,615.0 mln kWh was generated in 2018). TPPs and CHPPs mln kWh 28,435.3 34,076.6** –5,641.3 –16.6 WPPs and SPPs mln kWh 1,397.0 677.0 +720.0 +106.4 DTEK Energy implements a comprehensive program to increase the share of domestic G-grade Electricity distribution mln kWh 43,654.0 43,684.8 –30.8 –0.1 coal in the fuel balance of power plants, % of total production Electricity supply to the domestic mln kWh 38,568.8 43,684.8 –5,116.0 –11.7 market Electricity supply to foreign markets mln kWh 5,829.7 5,825.6 +4.1 +0.1 Electricity import mln kWh 368.6 0 +368.6 +100.0 Coal export*** thous. tonnes 740.1 486.3 +253.8 +52.2 Coal import thous. tonnes 1,893.6 2,662.6 –769.0 –28.9 Natural gas trading Mcm 2,132.7 1,931.5 +201.2 +10.4 Natural gas production Mcm 1,659.3 1,648.5 +10.8 +0.7 Gas condensate production thous. tonnes 63.7 51.5 +12.2 +23.7 * From 1 September 2016, DTEK Energy ceased consolidating the indicators of Mine Office Obukhovskaya into its statements, as the Company’s management has been transferred to Strategic Holding DTEK B.V. This transaction has been carried out as part of the restructuring of DTEK Energy’s loan portfolio, aimed at balancing the asset development capacity with the loan servicing capabilities. ** On 31 July 2018, the management contract of Kyiv TPP-5 and TPP-6 was terminated. Their supply amounted to 1.6 billion kWh in 2018. *** Including trading operations outside Ukraine. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 52 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 53 DTEK Energy’s production balance for 2019 Run-of-mone coal Use of coal products ICUR*, % Electricity generation shipment to end from DTEK Energy’s and supply, users, ths tonnes TPPS & CHPP, ths tonnes mln kWh Run-of-mone coal production 6,196.5 DTEK Energy 6,325.4 DTEK Myronivka CHPP 22.4% by enterprises, ths tonnes TPPs and CHPP 188.1 128.9 (G, DG) 225.2 185.6 SCM 170.6 170.6 DTEK Pavlohradcoal enterprises (G, DG) Electricity output 68.9 Other DTEK Kurahivska TPP 44.1% 3,706.2 by enterprises, industrial 129.2 (G, DG) 60.3 mln kWh consumers 5,919.9 5,260.1 DTEK Myronivka CHPP 18,207.7 (G, DG) 185.6 DTEK Luhanska TPP 516.7 20.0% (T, А) 1,838.9 1,613.6 Run-of-mone coal shipment to concentration DTEK Eastenergy 6,873.7 4,217.3 plants, ths tonnes (G, DG, А, T) 760.1 DTEK Prydniprovska TPP (G, DG, T, А) 39.2 24.2% DTEK Dobropilliacoal including 150.9 1,818.0 1,565.9 Bilozerska mine 11,277.2 (G, DG) DTEK Energy 3,482.5 DTEK Dniproenergy 8,046.3 2,269.3 (G, DG, А, T) DTEK Zaporizka TPP 50.6% (G, DG) 207.1 498.5 Independent 178.8 5,534.9 5,120.7 399.8 CCMs 214.2 DTEK Westenergy 13,315.6 DTEK Kryvorizka TPP (G, DG) 42.6 (G, DG, T) 8.3% 595.2 1,510.3 1,359.8 Run-of-mone G — G-grade coal coal DG — long-flame 15,694.4 processing, 971.6 G-grade coal ths tonnes DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP T — lean coal (G, DG) 71.4 48.5% А — anthracite Shipment 114.3 2,166.8 1,951.9 of concentrate, ths tonnes Coal concentrate 2,098.0 production, ths DTEK Energy DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP 36.0% 9,164.7 8,102.5 (G, DG) 33.6 tonnes TPPs and CHPP 29.2 3,779.2 3,464.7 SCM 183.0 enterprises 4,220.4 DTEK Burshtyn TPP 42.6% (G, DG) 150.4 Other industrial 948.0 147.8 consumers 8,820.5 7,899.1 (Coal grades used) DTEK Energy The average ICUR Generation in 2019 was 32.9%. Other producers Output (Ukraine) * The ICUR is specified without Import taking into account oil/gas units and those are in conservation. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 54 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 55 Production capacity of DTEK Energy as of January 1, 2020 Production capacity of DTEK Energy as of January 1, 2020 Date of in-service/ Date of in-service/ Power unit Installed Power unit Installed last overhaul repair or Running time, hours Overhaul repair/reconstruction last overhaul repair or Running time, hours Overhaul repair/reconstruction No. capacity, MW No. capacity, MW reconstruction reconstruction DTEK Kurahivska TPP DTEK Kryvorizka TPP 3 200 1972/2018 305,175 reconstruction was completed in 2017; increase in installed capacity by 33 MW. In 2019, there was a change 1 315 1963/2017 304,172 in the specified fuel —from anthracite to combustion of 4 210 1973/2018 277,671 G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2009; increase in 2 300 1964/1998 313,767 5 222 1973/2015 257,172 installed capacity by 12 MW major repair is planned for 2020 reconstruction was completed in 2013; increase in 3 300 1965/2013 277,333 installed capacity by 18 MW reconstruction was completed in 2013; increase in 6 225 1973/2019 256,913 4 300 1966/2005 253,224 installed capacity by 15 MW 5 282 1967/1994 304,903 reconstruction was completed in 2010; increase in 7 225 1974/2016 269,483 installed capacity by 15 MW; major repair is planned for 8 282 1969/1996 267,041 2022 10 300 1972/2017 210,269 reconstruction was completed in 2012; increase in Total: 2,079 8 225 1974/2017 266,540 installed capacity by 15 MW DTEK Prydniprovska TPP reconstruction was completed in 2015; increase in 9 225 1975/2015 265,610 installed capacity by 15 MW major repair is planned for In 2017, the specified fuel was changed — switched 7 150 1958/2013 346,337 2021 from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal In 2017, the specified fuel was changed — switched Total: 1,532 8 150 1958/2014 372,463 from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal DTEK Luhanska TPP reconstruction was completed in 2012 without increasing installed capacity. In 2018, the specified fuel 9 150 1959/2012 339,832 9 200 1962/2017 332,977 was changed — switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2012; increase in 10 210 1962/2018 327,106 In 2019, the specified fuel will be changed — switched installed capacity by 35 MW 10 150 1960/2019 334,893 from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal 11 200 1963/2004 318,289 In 2021, it is planned to change the specified fuel — to 11 310 1962/2016 266,455 switch from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal reconstruction was completed in 2012; increase in 13 210 1967/2014 310,300 installed capacity by 35 MW Total: 910 14 200 1968/2018 294,224 DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP 15 200 1969/2018 308,474 5 100 1960/2018 354 652 Total: 1,220 6 100 1961/2015 351 260 DTEK Zaporizka TPP 7 150 1963/2019 364 868 reconstruction was completed in 2014; increase in reconstruction was completed in 2014; increase in 1 325 1972/2019 301,362 8 160 1964/2014 339 951 installed capacity by 10 MW; major repair is planned installed capacity by 25 MW for 2020 reconstruction of the electrostatic precipitator is Total: 510 2 300 1972/2018 292,563 planned in 2024 DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP reconstruction was completed in 2014; increase in 3 325 1972/2014 298,625 installed capacity by 25 MW major repair is planned for 1 300 1970/2018 264,621 2021 2 300 1971/2009 262,598 major repair is planned for 2021 major repair and reconstruction of the electrostatic 4 300 1973/2016 275,531 3 300 1971/2011 254,760 major repair is planned for 2022 precipitator are planned for 2022 4 300 1971/2019 247,781 5 800 1975/1995 148,998 unit fired by fuel oil and gas. 5 300 1971/2003 223,785 mothballed 7 800 1977/1992 133,190 unit fired by fuel oil and gas. 6 300 1971/2004 230,276 mothballed Total: 2,850 Total: 1,800 Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 56 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 57 Production capacity of DTEK Energy as of January 1, 2020 DTEK Renewables: Renewable power Power unit No. Installed capacity, MW Date of in-service/ last overhaul repair or Running time, hours Overhaul repair/reconstruction generation reconstruction DTEK Burshtyn TPP DTEK Renewables is the largest investor in renewable energy in Main factors driving performance indicators: Ukraine. Since its inception, the company has invested USD 1.2 bln in the construction of wind farms and solar power plants. 1 195 1968/2017 311,324 •Two solar and three wind power plants with the aggregate In wind energy, the company owns the largest operating stations capacity of 740 MW were commissioned during a year. New in Ukraine. These are Botievska WPP and Prymorska WPP with 2 185 1965/2014 298,239 power plants supplied 777.5 mln kWh of green energy to the a capacity of 200 MW each, as well as the Orlivska WPP with a Ukrainian National Power Network of Ukraine in 2019; 3 185 1966/2019 310,267 capacity of 100 MW. In solar energy, the pilot project was implemented in 2017. The •Trifanovska SPP supplied 12.4 mln kWh of green energy to the 4 195 1966/2018 333,304 construction of the Trifanovska SPP with a capacity of 10 MW Ukrainian National Power Network meeting the plant’s target showed the prospects of this direction. In 2019, the Nikopolska indicators; reconstruction of stage I was completed in 2013, SPP and Pokrovska SPP with a total inverter capacity of 440 MW 5 215 1967/2013 325,411 stage II— in 2016; increase in installed capacity by 20 were put into operation. MW •Botievska WPP generated 607.2 mln kWh of green energy, which is 8.6% lower YoY, due to restrictions imposed during №1 on investments in green energy. repair and maintenance work, and also by UES operator. The major repair was completed in 2015; increase in 6 195 1967/2015 326,415 950 MW of installed capacity. installed power by 10 MW availability indicators of wind turbines and infrastructure remain Environmental impact of green power plants work high, and conform to the wind farms best global standards of reconstruction was completed in 2012; increase in reduction of CO2 emissions by 2.6 mln tonnes per year. 98.02% and 99.64% accordingly. 7 206 1968/2012 310,557 installed capacity by 21 MW In 2019, 1.4 bln kWh of electricity was supplied by the company 8 195 1968/2009 322,884 to the Ukrainian National Power Network. This is 106.4% or 720 million kWh, higher than in 2018. 9 195 1968/2016 307,453 reconstruction was completed in 2018; increase in 10 210 1969/2018 317,622 installed capacity by 15 MW DTEK Renewables’s production volumes in 2019, mln kWh 11 195 1969/2011 288,666 Botievska WPP Nikopolska SPP Prymorska WPP Pokrovska SPP 12 195 1969/2018 278,724 Orlivska WPP Trifanovska SPP Total: 2,366 DTEK Myronivka CHPP ТГ №2 100 1953/2004 285,814 under repair ТГ №3 60 1954/1998 335,195 mothballed in 2017, the specified fuel of boiler No.10 was changed — switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade ТГ №5 115 2004/2019 84,307 coal; in 2018, the specified fuel of boiler No.9 was changed — switched from anthracite to combustion of G-grade coal Total: 275 Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 58 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 59 DTEK Oil&Gas: Production of Natural Gas DTEK Grids: Electricity Distribution and and Gas Condensate Grid Operation The unbundling of electricity distribution and supply to consumers DTEK Grids supplied 43.7 bln kWh of electricity to their clients in is the first stage of energy reform, which was completed in 2018 in 2019, which is on par with 2018. accordance with the Electricity Market Law. Due to these changes, distribution system operators are separate companies that provide electricity suppliers with equal access to electricity grids, so Main factors driving performance indicators: customers can choose any supplier. Distribution system operators are also responsible for the operation of networks, ensuring reliable •DTEK Dnipro Grids and DTEK Power Grids cut down electricity electricity supply and infrastructure development. distribution by 23%, or 7 bln kWh. This is due to a decrease number of customers, as the territories of licensed activities of DTEK Grids focuses on electricity distribution. Its enterprises were revised as part of the energy reform. distribution system operators serve 5.5 million customers in Kyiv, Kyiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk •The acquisition of Odesaoblenergo and Kyivoblenergo, whose and Odesa regions. Clients include metallurgical performance indicators have been consolidated since May and machine-building plants, mines and factories, 2019. The enterprises distributed 7.5 bln kWh of electricity in enterprises, social facilities and the population. May — December period. Efficiency of DTEK Grids distribution system operators in 2019 Electricity distribution in 2019, mln kWh 1 class. 2 class. Clients, connected to Clients, connected to Enterprises Total Losses, % networks with a voltage networks with a voltage up to of 27.5 kW and more 27.5 kW DTEK Dnipro Grids 17,270.4 9,848.3 7,422.1 5.4 DTEK Kyiv Grids 9,272.6 242.5 9,030.1 6.3 Stable increase of gas production in Ukraine is only possible under 1,659.3 mln cubic meters of natural gas and 63.7 thousand tonnes the condition of intensive development of depths over 5-6 km. of gas condensate were produced in 2019, which is 0.7% and DTEK Power Grids 6,293.7 5,990.9 302.8 0.9 DTEK Oil&Gas successfully drills gas wells to great depths, which 23.7% higher YoY accordingly. has become possible thanks to investments in modern equipment Kyivoblenergo 3,851.8 461.2 3,390.6 15.1 and innovative technologies. The accumulated experience allows us to consider the transition to drilling wells deeper than 7 km. Main factors driving performance indicators: Odesaoblenergo 3,623.3 342.0 3,281.3 12.4 The main production asset is PJSC Naftogazvydobuvannya. The company produces gas and gas condensate in the licensed areas •The drilling of four wells was finished at the Semyrenkivske DTEK Donetsk Grids 2,926.3 325.0 2,601.3 16.7 of Semyrenkivske and Machukhske fields from a depth of more than Field: well No. 61 with the depth of 5,456 m and horizontal 5 km. Naftogazrozrobka LLC was established to study and put the displacement of 380 m, well No. 43 with the depth of 5,605 m DTEK Energougol ENE 415.9 249.6 166.3 0.7 new sites into operation. The company specializes in conducting and horizontal displacement of 370 m; 5,420-meter-deep well Total 43,654.0 17,459.5 26,194.5 7.4 geological exploration works and conducts development of No. 72 and 5,470-meter-deep well No. 75. Khoroshevo field in Kharkiv Region. DTEK Oil&Gas is exploring opportunities to expand its business. •The drilling of 5,704 m deep well No. 53 was completed at the The development strategy envisages both participation in auctions Machukhske Field. for subsoil use and acquisition of existing promising assets. DTEK Oil&Gas is also ready to use its experience and expertise to manage •The use of innovative technologies reduced drilling time by 3.5 other companies’ projects. months. •The overhaul of wells and implementation of measures aimed №1 on natural gas production among private at intensifying production rates on the existing well stock have enterprises. been ensured. 37.4 bln cubic meters — natural gas reserves of category 2P of the international classification SPE-PRMS. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 60 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 61 D.TRADING: electricity trading, gas and D.SOLUTIONS: gas condensate, coal Electricity Supply In 2019 Ukraine switched to a new model of the electricity D.TRADING carries out electricity, gas and gas In the new model of the electricity market, supplier companies are energy services. The company also operates a network of fast market. The new model introduces segments of organized and condensate, coal wholesale trade in the Ukrainian and endowed with the function of universal service providers for a twocharging stations for electric vehicles under the brand name unorganized electricity trade. The market of bilateral agreements foreign markets. year period. Universal service guaranteed supply of electricity to YASNO E-mobility. concluded directly between the participants belongs to the budget organizations, household, small non-household consumers unorganized segment. While the markets for the day ahead, and other consumers with a contractual capacity of up to 150 kW. intraday and balancing organized segments, where relations are Electricity export and supply to the domestic YASNO is the first retail brand in Ukraine on the Electricity is supplied at the tariff set by the regulator. built according to the rules established by the regulator. market Kyiv Energy Services, Dnipro Energy Services, and Donetsk Energy electricity market In the market of bilateral agreements D.TRADING specializes in Services supply electricity to consumers in Kyiv, Dnipropetrovsk the supply of electricity to large industrial consumers and universal 5.8 bln kWh of electricity was exported in 2019 under foreign and Donetsk regions under the YASNO brand. 18.5 bln kWh of electricity was supplied to consumers in 2019 by service providers, as well as in export operations. In addition, economic contracts, which is on par with last year. The electricity To date, D.SOLUTIONS has launched three product families that universal service suppliers operating under YASNO retail brand. D.TRADING will be an active participant in the day-ahead and was exported to Hungary, Poland, and Moldova. focus on working with end consumers. YASNO Smart specializes balancing markets. Ukraine switched to a new model of model the electricity market in providing energy-efficient solutions for households. YASNO 12 high-speed charging stations were installed at Kyiv — Odesa, In the natural gas and coal markets, the company manages the in 2019, according to which all industrial enterprises and large Kyiv — Lviv, and Kyiv — Poltava motorways in 2019. The company Efficiency complex solutions for the installation of roof solar energy resources portfolio of the DTEK Group and conducts non-household consumers must choose their electricity supplier panels, energy storage system, as well as energy audits and now operates 23 charging stations in total. operations with Ukrainian and imported resources. In 2019, our company supplied 20.1 bln kWh of electricity to non residential end consumers including major industrial companies, distribution system operators, and traders. D.SOLUTIONS electricity supply in 2019, mln kWh Total Dnipro Energy To the enterprises Dnipro Energy D.TRADING electricity supply in 2019, mln kWh Services 7,203.6 Services 2,810.1 Kyiv Energy Kyiv Energy Domestic market 24,186.5 Services 8,043.4 Services 3,285.8 including: Donetsk Energy Donetsk Energy End consumers 18,451.7 Services 3,043.6 Services 1,099.6 Other 5,734.8 Foreign market 5,829.7 Including: Poland 1,376.8 Moldova 644.0 Hungary, Slovakia, Romania 3,808.9 Coal export and supply to the domestic market thousand tonnes of coal products, including from Colombia and Export operations are carried out exclusively from Mine Office South Africa. In general, the company reduced its purchase of coal Obukhivska. In 2019, 740.1 thousand tonnes were supplied on foreign markets by 28.9%, or 769.0 thousand tonnes, including to foreign markets, which is 52.2% or 253.8 thousand tonnes due to the implementation of DTEK Energy’s strategy to upgrade more than in 2018. The main consumers of coal products are anthracite thermal power plants to use domestic G-grade coal. metallurgical, ferroalloy and soda plants in Europe, Canada and A total of 1,723.4 thousand tonnes of coal was supplied to Ukrainian India. The company reduced the supply of coal products to the industrial consumers from its own and third-party resources. Ukrainian market by 43.0%, or 651.5 thousand tonnes, to 863.3 To the Dnipro Energy To the budget Dnipro Energy Natural gas supply on the domestic market thousand tonnes. This was due to the lack of quotas for coal population Services 3,393.1 organizations Services 1,000.4 exports, which caused the cessation of shipments from June 1, The company increased the sales of its own and third-party natural and utilities 2019. gas purchased on the domestic market up to 2,132.7 mln cubic Kyiv Energy Kyiv Energy To ensure the operation of Ukrainian thermal power plants and meters (+10.4% or 201.2 mln cubic meters YoY) thanks to the Services 2,649.1 Services 2,108.5 industrial consumers, the company imported a total of 1,893.6 growing sales to industrial and electricity sector enterprises. Donetsk Energy Donetsk Energy Services 1,457.8 Services 486.2 Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 62 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 63 Investment projects DTEK Energy: coal production, thermal generation, mining machinery manufacturing The key task of the energy sector continues to be the reduction of the share of imported energy In 2019, DTEK Group allocated UAH 23 bln for the construction and modernisation of its operational resources in the national fuel balance and integration of the Ukrainian energy system with the ENTSO-E. companies, up 17% year-over-year. The investment made allowed DTEK to build wind farms and solar DTEK actively supports such steps intended to enhance the energy security of Ukraine. power plants, drill gas wells, as well as continue conversion of its thermal power plants to G-grade coal to enhance the resilience of the Ukrainian energy system. Key coal production and processing projects Key electricity generation projects in 2019 in 2019 Investments, UAH mln (IFRS, net of VAT, excluding costs for intangible assets) •DTEK Prydniprovska TPP: converted Unit 10 to G-grade •equipment replenishment: DTEK Pavlohradcoal replenished domestic coal. It is already the fourth plant’s unit re-engineered 2018 2019 Variance, +/– Variance, % its equipment fleet with six shearers and seven roadheaders, to burn G-grade coal instead of anthracite. The unit was whereas DTEK Dobropilliacoal with three shearers. The new equipped with the electrostatic precipitator to reduce dust DTEK Energy 6,037* 5,186 –851 –14.1 equipment has better operational parameters compared to the emissions to below 50 mg/m3 to meet the European standards; old one. It helps maintain high rates of coal production in the Coal production and processing 4,061 3,804 –257 –6.3 •DTEK Kryvorizka TPP: converted Unit 1 from anthracite to deteriorating mining and geological environment; G-grade coal. The modified unit was put back into operation in Electricity generation 1,408 1,099 –309 –21.9 •upgrade of the coal processing plants: DTEK Pavlohradska October. Kyivenergo 103 – –103 –100 CPP completed the retrofit of the unit for hydroclassification Since 2008, the company retrofits the existing or builds new of coal sludge and screw separation waste. It will reduce electrostatic precipitators during the upgrade or retrofit of Others 465 283 –182 –39.1 its energy generating units to comply with the emission limit the volume of accumulated waste, as well as improve the DTEK Grids 1,932 3,525 +1,593 +82.4 environmental situation in the region. In general, the project values set out in Directive 2001/80 / EU. will help upgrade the closed loop water sludge system whose DTEK Renewables 9,556 10,968 +1,412 +14.7 •Unit 3 of DTEK Kryvorizka TPP, Units 1,2 of DTEK Zaporizka commissioning has since forbidden the use of the sludge pond. TPP and Units 5,7,10 of DTEK Burshtyn TPP were successfully DTEK Oil&Gas 1,685 2,559 +874 +51.8 In turn, it enabled early reclamation of the land intended for disposal of coal processing waste. The reclamation of the 173 tested for compliance with the ENTSO-E requirements; D.TRADING – 4 +4 +100 ha land parcel is underway. •DTEK Kurahivska TPP successfully tested its units for D.SOLUTIONS – 261 +261 +100 compliance with the requirements of the ancillary services DTEK Zhovtneva CPP procured the equipment for processing DTEK Group 19,878 23,180 +3,302 +16.6 of 1-13 mm run-of-mine coal in heavy medium hydrocyclones. market. Permanent certificates were obtained in the first quarter Construction and installation of the equipment are scheduled of 2020. The introduction of the ancillary services market for 2020. became possible as a result of the energy market reform. The market is one of the key tools used by the Transmission System * Excluding UAH 1,550 mln investment in the electricity distribution considered as a separate stream. Operator to maintain the power quality required to ensure DTEK Dobropilska CPP completed the second stage of the rock dump having enough capacity to accommodate coal reliable operation of the United Energy System of Ukraine. processing waste for the next ten years. The innovative «green» dump construction technology was used to reduce the environmental footprint. In particular, the technology assumes no coal burning in the rock dump and no contact of the coal processing waste with the environment. DTEK Energy managed to rehabilitate 4 GW of its installed capacity with the upgrade of its TPPs and CHPPs 2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 DTEK Kurahivska TPP №5 №7 №8 №6 №9 DTEK Luhanska TPP №10 №13 DTEK Zaporizka TPP №1 №3 №7* DTEK Prydniprovska TPP №9 №9* №10* №8* DTEK Burshtyn TPP №7 №5 №6** №5 №10 DTEK Kryvorizka TPP №3 №1 №1* DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP №8 DTEK Myronivka CHPP №10* №9* Upgraded Converted from anthracite to G grade coal * Major overhaul and uprate. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 64 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 65 DTEK Renewables: renewable energy DTEK Oil&Gas: natural gas and gas condensate production DTEK Group’s ESG strategy enshrines the goal to reach carbon neutrality by 2040 and development of The Company strategy assumes transition to new development trends and an increase in gas the renewable energy will contribute to that. DTEK Renewables implements the advanced systems of production to 5 bln cubic meters of gas per year in 2025 In order to achieve the goal, DTEK Oil&Gas generation forecasting in order to efficiently integrate the renewable facilities into the energy system deploys the innovative technologies at every stage of operations and enables development of the technological ecosystem in the gas sector. This is yet another Company’s contribution to Ukraine’s Key 2019 projects on IIEC 61850 protocol. energy independence. The environmental impact of the wind farm is revealed in the annual reduction of СО2 by 700—750 thousand tonnes. •Nikopolska SPP (installed inverter capacity: 200 MW). The For achievement of the strategic goals, DTEK Oil&Gas implements Key projects for 2019 project was implemented in the shortest possible time. The and uses the advanced technologies at all production stages: •Orlivska WPP (installed capacity: 100 MW). The wind farm was exploration, drilling, extraction and hydrocarbon processing. One number of the solar panels installed within a day could reach designed and constructed in the shortest possible time less •three deep Wells #61, #72, #75 were drilled in the 15,000 panels as a result of the right solutions taken by the of the Company’s major tasks is to achieve 100% digitalization. than a year from the date of signing the general contractor Semyrenkivske Field; design team. For this purpose, we created the Technology Centre intended agreement On-site location of the bulk material storage and to improve the efficiency of the oil and gas business by systemic Starting from 1 March the solar plant has been feeding the concrete mix plant providing the concrete for wind turbine •the implementation of a new drilling program at the Machukhske United Energy System of Ukraine. It will annually generate 290 search for, adaptation and implementation of the innovative foundations helped optimize the construction time. 26 wind Field has been started, according to which Well #53 has already mln kWh of green energy that reduces СО2 emissions by 308 technologies. Today, DTEK Oil&Gas is the only Ukrainian gas turbines will annually generate 380 mln kWh of green energy, been drilled and wells #54 and 55 are being built; thousand tonnes per year. producer with its own Technology Centre. thus, reducing the greenhouse gas emissions by more than In 2019, the Company established the Expert Council aimed at •booster compressor stations and nitrogen plants were •Prymorska WPP (installed capacity: 200 MW). The wind farm 400 thousand tonnes a year. implementing the best world practices to enhance the efficiency of constructed on the Semyrenkivske Field to enhance the was constructed in two phases one after another. With business processes. The Council members are leading international recovery and quality of the commercial gas; each of the new task completed we improved the interaction •Pokrovska SPP (installed inverter capacity: 240 MW). The solar experts including the representatives of the following companies: between DTEK Renewables’ team and representatives of the plant is equipped with 874 thousand panels manufactured Miller and Lents, RPS Energy, Baker Hughes, Schlumberger, PA •a subsoil license for the Svitankovo-Logivska Site (Kharkiv General Contractor and suppliers that was extremely important by Risen (China) which are located on the re-cultivated land Belorusneft, Target, WellPath, etc. region) was acquired. The Company acquired the licence at the as 500 specialists participated in the project. Daily meetings of a former manganese quarry. New solar plant will annually To lay a solid foundation for DTEK Oil&Gas’ long-term development, open online auction held by the State Service of Geology and and constant coordination allowed us to achieve high level of generate 400 mln kWh and reduce СО2 emissions by 420 it is necessary to progress with the technological and innovation Subsoil of Ukraine; organization of both construction and commissioning works. thousand tonnes. ecosystems of the sector. This is why the Company started to Prymorska WPP has become a ground for testing new This was the first project implemented by the Company without implement a nationwide project creation of the Oil and Gas •the Company also won the largest tender in Ukraine’s history for involvement of an EPC-contractor. Poyry and Tractebel Technology Hub, which will systematically attract innovations, technologies in Ukraine. We installed the digital substation entering into production sharing agreement for the Zinkivska modern technologies, international start-ups and prominent where the data exchange between the internal elements and international agencies highly praised the work of DTEK Area (Sumy and Poltava regions). experts to Ukraine. This will set new trends in the development external systems as well as control of its operation are based Renewables team.. of the oil and gas industry in Ukraine and give a new impetus for Ukraine to achieve energy independence. DTEK Renewables provides green electricity to 1, 244, 259 households in 202 Successful examples of DTEK Oil&Gas’ digital transformation inspire new projects Prymorska WPP 360,214 3-D modelling for the most efficient field development Botievska WPP 327,287 Well telemetry system a remote control of work and prompt response to any changes Pokrovska SPP 204,268 Automatic emergency shutdown system Orlivska WPP 192,988 Nikopolska SPP 153,150 System of early emergency detection Tryfonivska SPP 6,352 Proprietary automated dispatch control system (ADCS) developed by the company experts. The automated dispatch control system collects data from the wells, hydrocarbon metering units, gas processing facilities, gas detection systems, early emergency detection and alarm system. The system automatically generates reports for technological parameter analysis and sends the information to the According to NEURC, the average power consumption by one household averaged 1,986 kW/year in 2018. end users. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 66 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 67 DTEK Grids: electricity distribution and grids operation Key 2019 projects substations to increase grid capacity to be able to connect new facilities; launched a new online grid connection service. Now •DTEK Dnipro Grids: built and commissioned the Naddniprianska customers can submit a connection request, obtain technical DTEK Grids’ goal is implementation of the Smart Grid programmes, which, in turn, requires technical substation, one of the most advanced energy facilities in the specifications, pay for connection and monitor the status of upgrade of the networks. It will enable Ukrainian consumers to benefit from the modern energy supply city of Dnipro. The substation will supply power to 300 thousand request through the company’s website. It saves customers people living in the central city districts and two metro stations system. under construction; time and makes the connection process more transparent. The pilot project will be rolled out to the other licensed areas of advances innovative technologies: uses drones for inspection DTEK Grids’ distribution system operators. of the overhead power lines and analyses drone data to predict potential outages. It collected data on the 150 km overhead •Odesaoblenergo: completed the retrofitting of the Yuvileina power lines in Dnipropetrovsk region and developed a software substation powering Odesa’s historical centre; product for analysis of the collected data. started implementation of the IT systems: SCADA (supervisory control system) and GIS (geographic information system). •DTEK Donetsk Grids: established the Central Dispatch Service in the town of Kramatorsk to improve management of the energy infrastructure of Donetsk region; System average interruption frequency index completed technical re-equipment of Misto 2 substation to (duration > 3 minutes) enhance the quality of power supply to Mariupol. •DTEK Power Grid: completed technical re-equipment of the Novoraiska substation to improve power transmission to the northern part of Donetsk region, while enhancing the reliability of power supply to the towns of Kramatorsk and Druzhkivka. •DTEK Kyiv Grids: started preparation for smart grid implementation, namely installed the telemechanics systems at over 300 substations and distribution stations. The innovative SAIDI (System Average Interruption Duration Index) is the ratio of technologies will ensure full automation of the energy the total number of customers to whom the service was unavailable infrastructure management to improve reliability and stability as a result of all long power interruptions during the reporting period of power supply. to the total number of customers. SAIDI is measured in minutes. The data does not include Odesaoblenergo and Kyivoblenergo. •Kyivoblenergo: completed retroffiting of the Irpin and Petrivtsi Grid connections in 2019 The investment programmes of DTEK Grids' distribution system operators are intended to improve welfare in towns and villages Standard connection of the companies' operations through reliable power supply. The upgrade of the electrical networks also prevents electricity shortage associated with urban development and reduces power losses in distribution. Category I Category II Non-standard 187 292,3 km is the total length of DTEK Grids' overhead power lines Companies (below 16 kW), (16-50 kW), connection connections connections 864.8 km of cable and high-voltage overhead power lines was built, 584.8 km retrofitted and 12,275.6 km repaired in 2019. urban rural urban rural 38,398.9 MVA is the total capacity of DTEK Grids' substations DTEK Donetsk Grids 957 492 460 174 165 27 substations, 526 transformer substations and distribution DTEK Kyiv Grids 344 0 378 0 134 substations were built or retrofitted in 2019. Besides, 12,348 facilities were repaired. DTEK Dnipro Grids 5,305 1,771 2,108 1,490 1,603 DTEK Grids provides services to 5,531,696 customers DTEK Power Grid 0 0 0 0 44 72% is the customer satisfaction index (СSI), which is an average CSI value across European companies. DTEK Energougol ENE 0 0 1 0 3 661,000 smart meters covering 12% of customers were installed in the networks of the distribution system operators as of the end of 2019. It clearly shows that DTEK Grids is one of the national leaders in terms Odesaoblenergo 2,043 1,951 1,251 1,096 238 of smart meter installation. 31,128 new customers were connected in 2019. DTEK Grids facilitates the role of prosumers providing them with transparent access to the grid thus contributing to Ukraine's achievement of its economy Kyivoblenergo 2,325 2,863 1,342 2,415 175 decarbonisation goals. As of the end of 2019, 5,861 prosumers were connected to DTEK Grids' DSOs. Total 10,974 7,077 5,540 5,175 2,362 DTEK Grids completely changes the customer experience by assuring European quality of service, as the company is well aware of the modern customer needs and can meet them with its unique solutions. If customers have any questions or comments regarding power supply, they can visit customer service centres, call contact centres or contact the company through social networks or messengers. The company launched online services and simplified the grid connection process to make it clear and understandable for customers, while continuing with smart meter installation. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 68 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 69 D.SOLUTIONS: supply of electricity, provision of energy efficiency and e-mobility solutions D.SOLUTIONS, today, is a supplier of energy products for 3.5 million customers. Under the YASNO brand, the company develops three product families that help customers to reduce electricity costs. YASNO More than 656 thousand customers visit the energy offices of the companies united under the YASNO brand annually. In 2019, five energy offices were renovated and opened in a new format, and in 2020, it is planned to create a network of 65 energy offices in three regions. For visitors’ convenience, we started to service B2C and B2B customers separately, allocated separate areas for express servicing to deal with prompt and typical matters, installed self-service terminals for submitting meter readings, arranged comfortable areas for filling in the documents and children play areas. In each region of the Company operations there are contact centres which receive more than 1.3 mln calls. Based on the year results, the average wait time practically halved. Uniform customer satisfaction standards and sale quality standards were applied. Centralized system for work quality control and all service and sale channels management is in place. In 2020, the company continued to create an integrated system of energy solutions licenses to supply natural gas to customers were obtained. YASNO E-mobility In 2019, a network of STRUM fast charging stations was renamed YASNO E-mobility and the range of rendered services was expanded. In addition to fast chargers, car owners can acquired charging stations for homes or offices. YASNO E-mobility network grew from 10 stations in Kiev to 23 stations on the highways Kyiv — Lviv, Kyiv —Odesa and Kyiv — Poltava. YASNO Smart It offers energy efficient and smart solutions for households, which help to reduce the electricity bills. 15 thousand Ukrainian households acquired YASNO Smart energy efficiency kits in 2019, so over 35 thousand families use them. YASNO Efficiency Above UAH 1.3 bln is the total amount of the energy service contracts concluded with YASNO Efficiency, a unit delivering comprehensive energy efficient solutions. Its portfolio includes 72 projects implemented for the industry and public sector, which allow the customers to reduce electricity consumption by 126 mln kWh/year, natural gas consumption by 1.1 mln cub.m/year. In 2019, the unit implemented 25 energy service projects for the industry, which are estimated to result in annual energy savings of 104 mln kWh. The completed projects made it possible to improve the equipment reliability and occupational safety as well as employees’ working conditions. In 2019, the Company implemented 17 energy efficient projects in the public sector, which are estimated to result in annual energy savings of 1.8 million kWh. In particular, heating systems in the public sector institutions’ buildings (children educational establishments, schools, hospitals and clinics) in Kyiv, Zaporizhia, Brovary, Skvira, Bakhmut, Pokrovsk, Soledar were retrofitted. All completed projects resulted in achievement of comfortable room temperatures and a reduction in the heat energy consumption by 20-45%. Company’s key task is to manage the business transformation in order to achieve better commercial efficiency, strong brand awareness, improve sales and marketing opportunities, deliver new goods and services, and adopt the best customer relation management practices. The strategic goal is to establish customer-oriented, diversified retail business. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 70 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 71 Innovations and digitalization of the companies Innovation DTEK: integration of the innovative solutions Innovation DTEK seeks for innovative solutions in three horizons DTEK Group is transforming its production to be effective in tackling the global challenges faced by the energy sector — to be clean, efficient and customer-focused. Business Digital Transformation and Search for innovative solutions aimed at improving safety, business efficiency Innovation Unit was established to search for and implement new solutions and technologies. and environmental friendliness of production. MODUS: digital transformation of the business Solutions to adapt to changes in the energy sector. MODUS, DTEK Group’s expert centre, implements digital transformation programme. The programme covers both production and administrative processes in all business areas. In the next three years MODUS will focus on 11 key areas. The first wave Modules: ˝Digital Mine˝, ˝Digital Thermal Power Plant˝, 23 projects started and are being Creation of new non-energy businesses and business models. 2019 ˝Digital Grids˝, ˝Digital HR˝, ˝Digital Logistics˝ implemented The second wave Modules: ˝Digital Analytics˝, ˝Digital Procurement˝, Preparation for the start and 2019 ˝Digital Field˝», ˝Digital Office˝ implementation from 2020 The third wave Modules: ˝Digital Customer˝, ˝Digital Renewables˝ Setting a vision for digital 2020—2021 transformation under those modules and listing a set of digital initiatives Key modules projects: Digital Mine. Wi-Fi network was deployed at the 500m horizon in the Yuvileina mine. Actually, this is the first such project in Ukraine and one of the first such projects in Europe. Wi-Fi communication offers a new range of opportunities from on-line inspections to remote control in the mine. However, the key is to create a network of new projects aimed at improving miners’ occupational safety and implementing the digital ecosystem. Approximately 130 km of fiber-optic and power cables, as well as more than 400 base stations and access points were used for the project. Digital Logistics. A model optimising the railway logistics was implemented to improve the transportation management and thus to reduce losses from railway cars’ idle time. Route optimisation and on-line updating of the information about empty cars resulted in saving of 1.5% of the total coal transportation costs over 10 months. Digital TPP. The Operation Mode Control project is in progress. The system automatically determines the optimal operating mode for the energy generating units and produces real time recommendations for the operational staff on adjustment of the operation parameters. For testing and implementation of the pilot project, specialised devices and coal scales were installed, a software was developed and a model was built to determine the quantity and characteristics of the fuel in real-time mode. The data needed to build AI capabilities, as well as to generate operator recommendations is collected and stored in cloud environments. The project was partially implemented at DTEK Burshtyn TPP. After improvement, it is going to be rolled out to DTEK Zaporizka TPP. In 2019, Innovation DTEK signed the agreements for commercial of this technology resulted in an improvement of measurement Digital grids. Digital diagnostics of the overhead power lines using drones, laser scanning and 3D modelling (neural networks) project launch with QRSmarty, EverScan, a-Gnostics, AxDraft, accuracy by 4-6% and a reduction in the work execution time from help to predict the potential vulnerable sections, which are likely to fail, in order to avoid potential outages and guarantee the Hepta. several hours to 15-20 minutes. uninterrupted power supply to the customers. QRSmarty. Using a mobile app one can track down commodities a-Gnostics. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence-based and materials flows at the enterprises: to trace them at all stages of system to be used for hourly prediction of power consumption. Digital Mine, Digital Thermal Power Plant, Digital Grids. Traditional approaches to inspections and repairs of mine the lifecycle, confirm installation or dismantling of the spare parts Average hour accuracy: 96%. equipment, thermal power plants and grid’s components are replaced with the automated systems to be operated by during repairs, monitor operations during the warranty period by companies’ specialists through tablets with the relevant software installed. means of unique marking. Hepta. LIDAR scanning of overhead power lines with the help drones to detect potential line breakages and failures caused by EverScan. LIDAR scanning with the help of drones makes it growing vegetation. possible to estimate coal stocks and receive digitized data. Use Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 72 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 73 Analysis of the financial results Income Income of DTEK Group is formed on the basis of the wholesale trading in the electricity market, sales of coal, gas and gas Operating Expenses and Income Based on the 2019 results, general administrative expenses condensate, as well as electricity distribution to the end consumers. increased by 32.0% and were UAH 4,793 mln. The main item of In 2019, in the consolidated revenue, income from the electricity the general and administrative expenses are staff costs, including The consolidated revenue of DTEK Group for 2019 amounted to UAH 137,742 mln. Cost of sales went sales to the end consumers in Ukraine and exports amounted to payroll taxes, which are 68.9% of total general and administrative down to UAH 108,570 mln. Based on the annual results, net income amounts to UAH 12,592 mln. 47%, from the wholesale trading in the electricity market — 25%, expenses in 2019. from the electricity distribution services — 9%, from gas and gas Sales costs increased by 35.7% and amounted to UAH 2,624 mln Net operating cash flow for 2019 amounted to UAH 24,476 mln (in 2018 UAH 29,326 mln). Capital condensate sales — 9%, from coal sales — 5%. due to a rise in transportation costs. DTEK Group in the internal Ukrainian market generated the main Other operating expenses are UAH 6,886 mln. A change in the expenditure increased by 16.6% to UAH 23,180 mln. amount of income — 90% of consolidated revenue (including level of other operating expenses is mainly due to the accrual of compensation of difference in tariffs for heat). Share of income provision for the impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, from the exports in consolidated revenue is 10%: based on the as well as the accrual of provision for other liabilities. Consolidated financial indicators of DTEK Group, UAH mln* 2019 results, income from the export sales increased by UAH Other operating income increased by 306.0% and amounted to 2,416 mln compared to 2018 — to UAH 14,026 mln. UAH 2,318 mln. An increase in other operating income is mainly The following changes of income occurred in the key segments of due to amortisation of the accounts payable and an increase in fair Indicators 2018 2019 Change, +/Change, % the business: value of the financial instruments. Revenue 157,619 137,742 –19,877 –12.6 •In 2018, income from the electricity distribution and supply Assets in the internal market was UAH 63,310 mln, including income The assets of DTEK Group in 2019 increased by 13.7% compared Cost of sales (121,273) (108,570) –(12,703) –10.5 to 2018 and amounted to UAH 168,251 mln. The book value of from the electricity distribution comprising UAH 8,060 mln and income from the electricity supply to the end consumers fixed assets increased by 14.1% up to UAH 120,077 mln. Current Operating income 571 2,318 +1,747 +306.0 comprising UAH 55,250 mln. In accordance with a new mode assets increased by UAH 5,397 mln from UAH 42,777 mln in 2018 of the electricity market, the distribution and supply functions to UAH 48,174 mln in 2019. Operating expense (13,211) (18,510) +(5,299) +40.1 were divided into separate areas to ensure independence of the activities. In 2019, income from the electricity supply to the Liabilities and Equity EBITDA 42,897 32,768 –10,129 –23.6 end consumers reduced by 2.1% YoY and amounted to UAH At the end of 2019, the equity amount was UAH 30,175 mln and 54,078 mln, income from the electricity distribution increased included: share premium comprising UAH 9,909 mln, other reserves EBITDA margin 27% 24% −3 pp −11.1 by 51.5% YoY and amounted to UAH 12,211 mln. comprising UAH 19,619 mln, accumulated losses comprising UAH 9,980 mln and minority share comprising UAH 10,627 mln. EBIT 28,303 19,129 –9,174 –32.4 •In 2018, income from the electricity generation was UAH 59.389 Amount of credits and loans reduced from UAH 77,983 mln at the mln. Due to the introduction of a new model of the electricity end of 2018 to UAH 77,031 mln at the end of 2019. In 2019, DTEK EBIT margin 18% 14% −4 pp −22.2 market, as from 1 July 2019, the ‘single buyer’ model according Group restructured a significant part of the bank loans comprising to which all participants interacted only through the Wholesale UAH 5,796 mln by signing additional agreements, new facility Electricity Market was no longer in force. In 2019, income from agreements and conversion of some loans into Eurobonds. Net profit 12,373 12,592 +219 +1.8 generation, including income from the electricity generation In 2019, DTEK Group also took out several loans for financing of the from the renewable sources, and wholesale electricity sales to renewable projects. UAH 2,025 mln at the interest rate EURIBOR Assets 147,971 168,251 +20,280 +13.7 the consumers amounted to UAH 39,681 mln; +1.95% maturing in 2029 were raised from the consortium of German banks for construction of the second stage of Prymorska Capital investments 19,878 23,180 +3,302 +16.6 WPP. In addition, a loan amounting to UAH 555 mln at the interest •Income from gas and gas condensate sales reduced by 21.9% and amounted to UAH 12,469 mln compared to UAH 15,971 rate of 7% per annum maturing in 2025 was raised from Ukrgasbank Taxes paid in Ukraine 26,724 23,394 –3,330 –12.5 mln in 2018; for construction of Orlivska WPP. In 2019, DTEK Group placed the Green Eurobonds at Euronext Dublin for the amount of UAH 8.525 •Income from the coal sales reduced by 5.6% and amounted mln (EUR 325 mln) maturing in 2024 at the interest rate of 8.5% to UAH 6,511 mln compared to UAH 6,901 mln of the previous per annum. * All data in the section “Analysis of the financial results” are provided on the basis of the consolidated statements of DTEK B.V. year. Income from the coal exports amounts to UAH 1,734 mln In 2019, long-term financial liabilities reduced by 30.8% or by UAH compared to UAH 1,641 mln in 2018. 1,622 mln, and amounted to UAH 3,644 mln. Based on the 2019 results, accounts payable of DTEK Group increased by 13.9% from Cost of Sales UAH 16,168 mln to UAH 18,413 mln. As of 31 December 2019, the In 2019, cost of sales reduced by UAH 12,703 mln and amounted prepayments received increased by 15.6% and amounted to UAH to UAH 108,570 mln. A decrease in cost occurred due to reduction 8,846 mln. of expenses for the energy resources purchase in the external markets caused by a decrease in the electricity sales in 2019 Cash flows compared to the previous year and implementation of TPPs unit In 2019, net cash flow from operating activities reduced by UAH transition programme. 4,850 mln and amounted to UAH 24,476 mln. At the same time, Based on the 2019 results, gross profit is UAH 27,716 mln, which is cash flow from investing activities in 2019 increased by UAH 19,122 by UAH 6,044 mln below the 2018 indicator. Gross margin reduced mln compared to 2018 and amounted to UAH 35,141 mln. from 21.4% in 2018 to 20.1% in 2019. Net cash flow from financing activities in 2019 was UAH 8,023 mln. Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 74 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 75 Corporate governance 1 Corporate governance structure 2 Supervisory Boards of the operating holdings companies 3 Risk management system 4 Compliance and corporate ethics 5 Dividend policy Section 3 | Performance results Section 3 | Performance results 76 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 77 Corporate governance structure Supervisory Boards of the operating The corporate governance system of DTEK Group is based on the principles of disclosure and holdings companies transparency. It provides respect for the stakeholders' interests, ethical decision-making, efficiency at all level of the governance system. This approach allows meaningfull cooperation with investors, The Supervisory Boards are charged with ensuring strategic management in each business area and partners and employees supporting implementation of the long-term development goals and increasing also exercise control over the activities of management. Face-to-face meetings with management the investment attractiveness of DTEK Group in the international capital markets. are held on a regular basis, during which plans and reports on the implementation of decisions are presented. DTEK Group constantly develops its corporate governance system in order to consider changes in the business and society needs. DTEK Group accepted division of the strategic planning and operational management functions. This approach allows for the equal development of new and existing business areas in line with the long-term development strategy and the achievement of goals set forth in ESG Strategy of The personnel composition of the Supervisory Boards DTEK Group. DTEK ENERGY B.V.: Oleg Popov, Damir Akhmetov, Sergey Korovin, Iryna Mykh, Johan Bastin, Robert Sheppard, Catherine Stalker DTEK B.V. Corporate Centre Registered in the Netherlands. It is a parent company of DTEK Group. DTEK RENEWABLES B.V.: Oleg Popov, Damir Akhmetov, Sergey Korovin, Iryna Mykh, Johan Bastin It determines strategic development areas of DTEK Group and provides methodological support to operating holdings companies. DTEK OIL&GAS B.V.: Oleg Popov, Damir Akhmetov, Sergey Korovin, Iryna Mykh, Robert Sheppard DTEK GRIDS B.V.: Sergey Korovin, Iryna Mykh, Johan Bastin, Catherine Stalker Highest governing body D.TRADING B.V.: Sergey Korovin, Iryna Mykh, Johan Bastin General Meeting of Shareholders Makes decisions on the approval of performance results, distribution and payment of dividends, appointment of members of the Management Board, proposals for candidates for the position of members of the Supervisory D.SOLUTIONS B.V.: Sergey Korovin, Iryna Mykh, Johan Bastin Boards of operating holdings companies. Corporate Secretary of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V. (non-voting) – Oleksiy Povolotskyi. Collective executive body Management Board It ensures unified approach concerning strategic priorities and issues considering the interests of all business areas of DTEK Group. Operating holdings companies 100% of shares is owned DTEK DTEK DTEK DTEK by DTEK B.V. Registered D.TRADING B.V. D.SOLUTIONS B.V. in the Netherlands. ENERGY B.V. RENEWABLES B.V. OIL&GAS B.V. GRIDS B.V. It is a parent holding for the respective operational company in Ukraine. Oleg Popov Damir Akhmetov General General General General General General Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Meeting of Meeting of Meeting of Meeting of Meeting of Meeting of Highest governing body Shareholders Shareholders Shareholders Shareholders Shareholders Shareholders DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., and CEO of SCM JSC Chairman of SCM Advisors (UK) Limited Supervising body It is in charge of strategic planning; oversees actions Oleg Popov graduated from Donets’k Polytechnic Institute in 1991 In 2010, he graduated from Sir John Cass Business School (City, undertaken by the top management; approves and from Donets’k State University in 1996. University of London) with a MSc in Finance. and reviews the From 1991 to 2000, he worked in various state institutions. Since February 1, 2013, he has been working at SCM Advisors (UK) Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory Supervisory performance results; and In 2020, Oleg Popov was invited to join SCM JSC as the Deputy Limited, and currently holds the office of Chairman. Board Board Board Board Board Board determines the key performance indicators. General Director. From 2001 to 2006, he held the office of the ExecDamir Akhmetov is also member of the Supervisory Board of MetinMore than 10 years the utive Director. He has been CEO of SCM JSC since January 2006. vest B.V. practice of attracting the He is also the chairman of the Supervisory Boards of Shakhtar FC independent directors to the Supervisory Boards and FUIB PJSC and sits on the Supervisory Board of Metinvest B.V. has implemented. His duties include approval of the key financial, investment and personnel decisions related to both the management company and SCM assets, and assessing the performance of the heads of these Collective executive body assets. It is in charge of the development strategy Management Management Management Management Management Management implementation and the Board Board Board Board Board Board current activity management. Section 4 | Corporate governance Section Section14| |DTEK Corporate Groupgovernance at a glance 78 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 79 Oleksiy Sergey Korovin Iryna Mykh Johan Bastin Povolotskyi Chairman of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK GRIDS B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Corporate Secretary of the Supervisory Boards of D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., Member of the Supervisory DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., D.TRADING B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., D.SOLUTIONS B.V., Director of DTEK FINANCE PLC and DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V. Senior lawyer of SCM JSC DTEK INVESTMENTS Limited, Managing Partner of Iveaghouse D.SOLUTIONS B.V., Director of Corporate Governance, Capital Investment Advisors Risk Management and Compliance at DTEK LLC, Lawyer In 1993, Sergey Korovin graduated with honors from the DepartIryna Mykh graduated from the law school of Ivan Franko State Uniment of Applied Mathematics and Cybernetics of the Lomonosov versity in Lviv, Ukraine, in 1994. She later studied at the Osgoode Dr. Bastin holds a MSc in Urban Planning from the Eindhoven UniOleksiy Povolotskyi graduated from the law school of the Kharkiv Moscow State University. Hall Law School, York University, Toronto, Canada. versity of Technology in the Netherlands and Ph.D. in Regional University of Internal Affairs, Ukraine. Late on, he obtained a MasIn 2002—2008, he worked at Danish and Russian offices of McKFrom 1996 to 2006, she was a senior lawyer at Silets’kyi and PartPlanning with a specialty in public administration and finance from ter’s Degree in the Scarman Centre at the University of Leicester, insey & Company international consultancy. ners law firm, an affiliate of Squire Sanders & Dempsey LLP, where the University de Montreal in Canada. He also attended the MBA UK. Since 2008, Sergey Korovin has been responsible for working with she became a partner in 2006. programme at McGill University in Montreal. Before becoming a lawyer at Squire, Sanders & Dempsey LLP, an telecommunications companies and served as member of the From June to October 2008, she was a legal adviser to Ukrainian From 1985 to 1992, he served as Resident Team Director at Harinternational law firm, he taught law and held the position of the diBoard of Microsoft office in Russia. Agrarian Investments Group owned by Renaissance Capital. She vard University’s Institute for International Development in Indorector of international relations department at the Kharkiv UniversiIn 2010—2017, he was Director of Energy Business Development then worked as Head of the Legal Department of Klub Syra Ltd. unnesia, providing advice to Indonesia’s Minister of Finance on inty of Internal Affairs. at SCM JSC. til June 2009. She held the office of Senior Attorney at the Voropaev frastructure investment, fiscal decentralization and privatization of He has been working in DTEK since 2010. Currently, he is responand Partners law firm until 2017. state-owned companies. From 1993 to 2002, he held several senior sible for the development and maintenance of the corporate govCurrently, Iryna Mykh holds the office of Senior Attorney at SCM management positions with the European Bank for Reconstruction ernance system throughout the DTEK Group, the development of JSC. and Development in London, UK, latterly as Business Group Direca centralized risk management system, the implementation of comtor responsible for loans and equity investments in infrastructure, pliance functions and anti-corruption policies, as well as building transport and energy utilities, municipal and environmental serbusiness continuity and business process management functions. vices and energy efficiency across the entire EBRD’s geography. He is a member of the Board of the Professional Association From 2002 until 2009, Dr. Bastin was Managing Director at Darby Private Equity, a major private equity fund manager and subsidiary of Franklin Templeton Investments, providing finance to companies in Central and Southeast Europe. From 2009 until 2015, he was CEO of CapAsia, an international fund and asset management company headquartered in Singapore and focusing on private equity investment in the infrastructure and energy sectors in Southeast and Central Asia. Since mid-2015, Dr. Bastin is a managing partner of Iveaghouse Robert Sheppard Catherine Stalker Capital Investment Advisors, a Netherlands based investment boutique, advising an international energy companies on corporate strategy, investment finance, renewable energy and M&A. Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., Member of the Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., Independent Director and Chairman DTEK GRIDS B.V., Independent Director of IPM Advisors Catherine Stalker graduated from Heriot Watt University in EdinIn 1972, he graduated from the University of Wyoming, United burgh, UK, with a Bachelor’s degree and obtained her Master’s States, and has a Bachelor’s Degree in Physics and Mathematics. degree from the London School of Economics. He graduated from the Columbia Business School in 1991 with an She began her career in 1991 at the Bank of England as a research Executive MBA degree. analyst and banking supervisor. From 1995 to 2007, she worked He began his career in the oil industry at Amoco in 1972. In the midat PricewaterhouseCoopers in Moscow and Berlin, where she was 1980s, Robert Sheppard worked at Amoco Exploration as a Vice the Partner in charge of the client practice for HR management in President. He was an Executive Director at GUPCO (Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company) from 1992 to 1995. Robert Sheppard was the the CEE-CIS region. She led client projects on executive compenPresident and General Director of Amoco representative offices in sation, organisational restructuring, and human resource manageArgentina and Egypt from 1995 to 1998. He worked as a Chief Opment. erating Officer, and then, as President of Sidanco from 1998 until it Catherine Stalker is now based in the UK where she advises a range merged with BP. From 2002 to 2004, Robert Sheppard was a Senior of companies on corporate governance, with particular focus on Vice President at BP responsible for overseeing assets in Russia. the efficiency of their boards. Later on, he was appointed as General Director and then Non-Executive Director of Soma Oil and Gas. Currently, Robert Sheppard is Chairman of IPM Advisors consulting company. Section 4 | Corporate governance Section Section14| |DTEK Corporate Groupgovernance at a glance 80 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 81 Committees under the Supervisory Nominations, Remunerations and Corporate Governance committees under the •assessing senior executive performance on an annual basis and proposing remuneration levels to the Supervisory Boards; Boards Supervisory Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V. •monitoring policies for motivating, assessing and remunerating senior executives; •reviewing succession plans for key senior executive positions, Chairman: and overseeing management development; There are advisory bodies that are called committees under the supervisory boards. The task of the C. Stalker (DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V.) Committee Members: committees is to consider specific issues and recommend solutions, provide support and advice to help •agreeing the people strategy to underpin the business strategy; O. Popov (DTEK ENERGY B.V.), the boards carry out their mission and tasks. Each committee holds regular meetings during the year. S. Korovin (DTEK GRIDS B.V.) •monitoring and evaluating management’s approaches to HR management and employee engagement, development of an Main tasks: ethical and effective corporate culture based on DTEK Group's Audit Committees under the Supervisory Labour Safety and Environmental Protection values; Boards of DTEK ENERGY B.V., committees under the Supervisory Boards DTEK RENEWABLES B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., of DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., •ensuring the application of appropriate standards of corporate •overseeing social initiatives and partnerships. governance in the company’s jurisdictions and, additionally, DTEK GRIDS B.V., D.TRADING B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V. overseeing compliance with internal corporate governance Number of the Committee in-person D.SOLUTIONS B.V. standards of DTEK Group; Chairmen: meetings: Chairman: R. Sheppard (DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V.), •developing recommendations for the structure of the SuperviS. Korovin (for all Supervisory Boards) J. Bastin (DTEK GRIDS B.V.) sory Board and its committees, as well as the approach to corCommittee Member: Committee Member: porate governance; I. Mykh (for all Supervisory Boards) I. Mykh (DTEK ENERGY B.V., DTEK OIL&GAS B.V., DTEK GRIDS B.V.) •evaluating candidate profiles and providing recommendations Main tasks: to the Supervisory Boards on appointments to vacant positions Main tasks: on senior executive candidates; Participation in meetings by the Committee members: 100% •supervision the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, internal and external audit. The Com•identification of occupational safety and environmental protecmittee develops and provides recommendations for improving tion risks and the development of measures to minimize them; the operation of control systems and audit functions; •determining strategic initiatives and targets to improve the oc•reviewing the validity and reliability of financial and other recupational safety and environmental protection, monitoring ports, including annual financial statements; progress on implementation; •ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; •reviewing the analysis of all serious incidents and remedial measures that have been taken; •providing recommendations to the supervisory boards on the selection of an external auditor; •reviewing the system of employee incentives to comply with the occupational safety procedures and standards with regard to •evaluating the quality and independence of internal and exterremuneration; nal audit. •preparing and approving emergency response exercises at Number of the Committee in-person DTEK Group enterprises. meetings: Number of the Committee in-person meetings: Participation in meetings by the Committee members: 100% Participation in meetings by the Committee members: 100% Section 4 | Corporate governance Section Section14| |DTEK Corporate Groupgovernance at a glance 82 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 83 Risk management system Compliance and corporate ethics DTEK Group is continuously developing and improving its risk management system, which enables DTEK Group conducts its business activities in full compliance with the regulatory requirements of timely risk and opportunity identification and management. This allows for a quick response to changes the jurisdictions where its enterprises and companies operate. The ethical business operations is a in the internal and external environment, while maintaining operation efficiency and productiveness. fundamental position of DTEK Group to be complied with by every employee. DTEK is a pioneer in risk management in Ukraine, launching a risk decisions to ensure and improve its efficiency. Such a multi-level A special division has been operating at the Corporate Centre since the operating companies for efficient management of compliance management practice in its activity in 2007. In 2018, it was decided management system enhances operational security, increases 2010 — the Compliance Service. It is headed by a Compliance Ofrisks at their assets in accordance with uniform standards and to apply a centralized approach to risk management; involving transparency and improves communication. ficer, whose areas of activities are permanently updated to comply methodology of DTEK Group. The Compliance Coordinators report internal controls and insurance to improve the risk management Basic principles of risk management: with the changes in external environment. As of today, the following to the Compliance Officer of the Corporate Centre. system. This approach ensured creation of a single center that areas fall under responsibility of the Compliance Service: developThe Compliance Service is under management of the Director of builds and integrates the risk management system into the cor•timely identification, assessment and management of risks and ment of methodology and implementation of internal controls sysCorporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance, which porate culture of DTEK Group, increasing the efficiency of all key opportunities; tem for management of corruption risks, economic sanctions risk is directly subordinate to the CEO of DTEK and accountable to the processes. Risk management is concentrated in the function of the and insider information. Decisions and recommendations made by Supervisory Boards of the operating holdings companies. •ensuring that decisions are made taking into account the risks, the Compliance Service are mandatory for all employees of DTEK An active support provided by the Supervisory Boards and ManCorporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance. opportunities and established risk appetite; Group. agement of the operating holding companies for the initiatives of In order to transition to a centralized risk management system, In 2019, the organisational model of the Compliance Service was the Compliance Service facilitates the strengthening of compliance a new model of interaction of all system participants has been •support and improvement of the internal control system, proreformed with positions of Compliance Coordinators launched at culture. approved, while a program of key initiatives and projects has been motion of the culture of detection and declaration of control developed and is currently being implemented, the regulatory and deficiencies and identification of the root cause for their elimmethodological documents for the analysis of the full range of risks are also being adopted. In addition, business planning processes ination; Business Ethics and approaches to business process model management, financial •creation of an effective insurance protection system. reporting are being updated, new tools for risk analysis and management, methods for monitoring and testing of internal controls In order to create an effective insurance protection system, an DTEK Group pays special attention to the development of compliance culture, so it openly states on its are being implemented. interaction vertical for DTEK Group's risk management on insuranti-corruption standards and unacceptability of violation of economic sanctions. The risk management system is based on the conceptual foundaance issues was built, the functionality was distributed at all levels tions of COSO ERM and ISO 31000 international risk management of corporate governance. Created insurance programs meet the standards, and also follows the requirements of the world's best requirements of the legislation, contractors and the actual needs DTEK Group continues to improve and enhance the effectiveness es and companies of DTEK Group are registered and operate. In practices of risk management in the energy sector. The function of each business. As part of the development of the DTEK Group's of the system of internal controls and mechanisms aimed at counaccordance with the approved risk appetite, every single business regularly evaluate the effectiveness of the risk management and insurance protection system, the world's best practices and trends tering corruption. In order to develop the provisions of the Code of partner shall be subject to vetting for sanction risk regardless of internal control system, as well as monitors the implementation of are used. Ethics and Business Conduct, a new Anti-Corruption Program was the amount and nature of the agreement. The identification of the approved in 2018. The program is developed in accordance with sanction risk of the business partners shall be conducted on a daily the best international practices and standards of corruption risk basis through automated screening that compares the databasCentralized risk management model of the DTEK Group management, taking into account the provisions of ISO 37001:2016 es of the DTEK Group's counterparties with the database of the Anti-bribery management systems, anti-corruption legislation and third-party specialised provides that aggregates sanction lists of all international acts on combating corruption of extraterritorial accountries and companies. Moreover, the sanction risk is identified As part of risk management, a unified classification and a unified account the characteristics and requirements of each business tion (including the FCPA and the UKBA). In addition, the section on through the vetting of the counterparty, their ultimate beneficiary, register are used to analyze and flexibly manage the identified or process. This approach allows for the development of areas of rechecking business partners for the corruption risk has been finaldirect and indirect shareholders, executive body to identify any implemented changes. An owner is appointed for each category sponsibility and monitoring risks at all levels of management, as ized and takes into account the recommendations of the Transparalarm signs of sanction risk. of risk, and the terms and tasks analysis are determined taking into well as to develop targeted response plans. ency International and the World Economic Forum. DTEK Group does not operate in jurisdictions that have been subCompliance with the Anti-Corruption Program is mandatory for all ject to extensive US and EU sanction-based restrictions. In DTEK employees and representatives of DTEK Group. The Program diGroup, it is impossible to conclude transactions with contractors 1st line of defense (business functions) Top risks Risk management system rectly prohibits any manifestations of corruption, including comthat have a medium sanction risk without complying with the recOperational management, which is responsible for processes mercial bribery or remuneration for the simplification of formalities. ommendations of the Compliance Service for risk minimization. assessing, regulating and minimizing risks, as well as Strategic In establishing business relations, preference is given to partensuring an effective internal control system. (geopolitical, business environment, 1. Management and culture ners who share the principles of DTEK’s Anti-Corruption Program reputational, strategy failure) 2. Strategy and goal setting and those who have an effective internal system of anti-corrup2nd line of defense (monitoring functions) Financial tion measures. All contractors that have the right to act on DTEK Departments that provide and monitor the implementation (reporting unreliability, budget, liquidity, 3. Activity efficiency Group’s behalf or represent its interests before any third parties, of effective risk management practices, internal controls, non-fulfillment of financial obligations, compliance with laws and administrative rules/internal market) 4. Monitoring and implementing are subject to mandatory verification for corruption risks. At the regulations, and the investigation of fraud. changes same time, it is prohibited to cooperate with contractors or public Operating organizations which were determined by the Compliance officer as 5. Information, communication (technological, IT, violation of business having high corruption risk. Transactions with contractors that have 3rd line of defense (independent function) and reporting process continuity, incorrect process Internal audit based on a risk-based approach provides design, controls, security, fraud) a moderate corruption risk can only be carried out, if recommentop management with a conclusion on the accuracy dations from the Compliance Service to help minimize the risk have of risk assessment, risk management effectiveness, including an assessment of the effectiveness of the first and Regulatory and compliance been implemented. second lines of defense Special attention is paid to compliance with economic sanctions imposed by the UN, the USA and countries, where the enterprisSection 4 | Corporate governance Section Section14| |DTEK Corporate Groupgovernance at a glance 84 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 85 Key mechanisms of DTEK Group' compliance system •Approval of the policies and procedures. Participation of the •Approval of agreements and transactions which potentially Compliance Officer is mandatory for approval of the local docucan carry high corruption risk. It is demanded that a compliments related to business processes (policies, regulations and ance officer should approve transactions related to sustainaprocedures) carrying compliance risks. ble development, charity, sponsorship, donations, provision of a non-reimbursable financial assistance, merger and acqui•Assessment and management of compliance risks. The methsition transactions. Obtaining an approval from the Compliodology for identifying and evaluating compliance risks is in ance Service is also required to enter into agreements on repplace, for the management of which standard activities are resentation of DTEK Group interests before any third party and identified and the risk appetite is regularly reviewed. issuance of power of attorneys. •Monitoring and testing of the compliance controls. The effi•Assessment of the corruption risks and conflict of interests of ciency and sufficiency of the compliance controls are regularly employees. The risks are identified when a person is employed audited by the Compliance Service and the Corporate Internal or transferred to another position or DTEK Group company. Audit Department. The audit findings are used for revising the Besides, from 2011 we have operated an automated system of compliance programme and updating the policies, regulations self-declaring of employees' potential conflict of interests and and procedures, and improving the automated controls in the conduct annual declaration of conflict of interests aimed at mitcompany's business processes. igating the risks of such conflicts. •Management of the sanction and corruption risks in joint ven•Approval of business gifts and business hospitality. There is a tures, merger and acquisition transactions. Prior to concluding system in place for recording and approving business gifts and a transaction, a compliance officer conducts a comprehensive business hospitality, which was automated in 2016. The Ethics check of an acquisition target, a seller and partner in joint busiand Business Conduct Code, Anti-Corruption programme, and ness to identify the corruption and sanction risks, and after eninternal Regulations impose restrictions on receiving and pretering into transaction – to eliminate violations and risk of violasenting business gifts and hospitality. tions as well as to integrate an acquisition target into the unified compliance system of DTEK Group. •Abuse reports and corporate investigations. DTEK Group employees and any third party has an opportunity to call to SCM •Interactions with counterparties and intermediaries. Identificahotline to inform about violations of the Ethics and Business tion and assessment of risks is based on the risk appetite and Conduct Code. The Compliance Service takes part in the cordue diligence metrics, sanction and corruption risks of busiporate investigations of some categories of such information ness partners. Anti-corruption and anti-sanction clauses are (as part of an investigation team or as an expert). included in all contracts with counterparties that is common practice in the international companies but not so common •Training of the employees in the ethics and anti-corruption in local business. The clauses reflect the recommendations standards, fundamentals of the sanction compliance. Startof both domestic and international legislation, international ing from 2017, these topics are included in the training proprinciples and the best international practices and the expegrammes for all employees. The relevant e-learning course rience of enforcement of international sanctions regimes and was developed. Moreover, some categories of managers and anti-corruption legislation. employees receive monthly training. Insider information management DTEK’s debt securities (Eurobonds of DTEK Finance Plc and The register of insiders, in which persons who have access to Green Eurobonds of DTEK Renewables Finance B.V.) are listed insider information by virtue of their position or professional on two global stock exchanges, the Irish Stock Exchange and activity, is regularly updated. Maintaining this register allows Euronext Dublin, which imposes a commitment to comply the Compliance Officer to inform insiders promptly about obliwith listing and disclosure rules. As a result, DTEK Group has gations, responsibilities and prohibited practices, which simpliestablished rules for handling the insider information. In parfies the process of monitoring and supervising compliance with ticular, the criteria for assigning information to the insider one information disclosure rules and transparency rules established have been determined, the procedure for forming and updatby foreign regulators. ing insider lists has been approved, and insiders are required to observe rules and restrictions on disclosing the insider information and conducting the Eurobond transactions to prevent offences in the securities market. Dividend policy DTEK Group's dividend policy is based on the principle of mainto participate in the distribution of profit. This approach is a detaining a balance between the need to invest in the development cisive factor in the long-term growth of the shareholder value of of production capacities and the respect for shareholders' right DTEK Group's operating holding companies. Section 4 | Corporate governance Section Section14| |DTEK Corporate Groupgovernance at a glance 86 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 87 Sustainability 1 Sustainability 2 Environmental protection 3 Society 4 Employees Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 88 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 89 Sustainability Sustainable development goals of the UN Global Compact in the context of Ukraine and DTEK Group From the very beginning, DTEK has adhered to the principles of social partnership. Our experience shows that large projects are successfully implemented in a relationship based on trust, which is why development of cities and regions in which DTEK Group enterprises operate is fundamental. In order to safeguard long-term balancing between business development and the interests of society, the DTEK Group has integrated the UN Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals into its strategy. Throughout its 15-year history, DTEK has implemented sustainawith ESG principles. In the new strategy, we seek to meet the interble development projects that have attracted tens of thousands of ests of society in a broader context. That is why DTEK Group's susUkrainians and have been recognised nationally and internationally. tainable development efforts are aimed at reducing environmental “Energy efficient schools”, “Come on, Let’s play!”, “Your hometown impact and resource management, improving industrial safety and 17 goals were approved by world leaders at the UN summit and officially entered into force on January 1, 2016. begins with you”, Academy DTEK are just some of our initiatives, maintaining staff health, conducting business ethically and adherand they are all based on ESG principles. These projects have ing to anti-corruption standards, and having an open dialogue with taught us to listen to the needs of communities and employees; resociety and employees. This approach is applied throughout the In 2016, Ukraine began adapting the Sustainable Development Goals to its context in order to create a national spond to their needs; and to change for the better together. value chain and at all levels of business management: DTEK Group strategy framework document until 2030. This allowed indicators to be set for each goal to further monitor 2020 was the year for DTEK Group to launch a new long-term stratcompanies and enterprises are guided in their activities by the ESG progress. egy based on the UN Sustainable Development Goals and in line Strategy and the SCM Sustainable Development Policy. DTEK Group is committed to the 12 Sustainable Development Goals, which are most critical in the day-to-day operations of its enterprises and companies. DTEK Group's ESG Strategy priorities Commitments on air and climate protection targets, specifically into reducing our thermal generation’s carbon footprint and renewable energy development. DTEK Group implemented 12 UN Sustainable Development Goals in its ESG Strategy and is committed to making progress Following an open innovation approach with Investing in employee health and providing Follow the principles of the circular economy, boosting the recovery of industrial wastes. an emphasis on energy storage, artificial access to high quality health care. intelligence and robotics. Ensuring a significant decreasing the Guaranteeing continuous learning, company’s impact on the environment and implementation of educational programs for contributing to the development of cities and external and internal clients. Sustains biodiversity protection and promote the conservation of ecosystems. regions. Providing equal opportunities for all Implementing the circular economy employees regardless of gender to unlock approaches to recover a significant share of their full potential. the company’s wastes. Follow high social standards and be a responsible corporate citizen . Strongly committing to the Paris Agreement Stabilising water consumption despite goals and Ukraine’s greenhouse gas expansion of business operations. targets. Strives for a safe working conditions and a holistic system of employee health care. Planting trees and remediating sites with Leadership in the Ukrainian renewable a focus on promoting biodiversity and energy market. protecting the ecosystem. Enhancing public-private partnerships to Pursuing zero fatalities and ensuring safe assist Ukraine in achieving Sustainable Follow best practices in corporate governance, risk management and compliance. working conditions. Development Goals. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 90 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 91 Sustainability management The main awards in the field of ESG for 2019 The Sustainability Committee of DTEK, the Regional Policy Function of DTEK Energy, the executive At the competition of the best corporate universities in the world conference was organised by the journal Labor Protection with Global CCU Awards 2019 in the nomination Corporate Responsibilthe support of the State Labor Service of Ukraine, State Institution office of DTEK Renewables, DTEK Oil&Gas, DTEK Grids plan and implement projects in the field of ity, Academy DTEK was recognized №1 Kundiiev Institute of Occupational Health of the National Academy sustainable development. The victory was awarded for DTEK’s contribution to improving the of Medicals Sciences of Ukraine and the International Labor Organquality of education of employees of government agencies and inization. stitutions. Academy DTEK cooperates with almost 30 government Interaction with stakeholders is an important component of susTasks of the committee: agencies. Special training programs aimed at the development of DTEK Renewables received the Eco-Oscar for the construction of tainable development. DTEK Group adheres to the principle of inprofessional and personal competencies have been developed and solar and wind power plants formation transparency and provides stakeholders with full infor•approval and updates to the strategy, as well as policies in the taught to their employees. Thanks to development of RES the company reduce emissions by mation about its activities. Partnerships and constructive dialogue field of personnel management, including the concept of corGlobal CCU (Global Association of Corporate Universities) was es2.6 mln tonnes of CO2 per year, which is equivalent to emissions of are conducted on a systematic basis, which allows timely receipt of porate culture, recommendations for consideration of internal tablished in 2005 and unites corporate universities of leading com1.3 mln cars. information about the interests and expectations of stakeholders. candidates for participation in successor training programs for panies from more than 50 countries. Academy DTEK is the only The award was received during the business forum of green changkey positions; representative of Ukraine in the Global CCU. es ECO transformation 2019. This project was created to promote Stakeholders: the formation of a new system of values in the business environ•assessment of the labor protection management system; Project of DTEK and FC Shakhtar Come on, Let’s play! is the best ment and to support the leaders of the business community who •employees and their families; in Europe and Ukraine form a caring attitude to the land and care for the conservation of •identification of challenges and approval of strategies for so In the pan-European competition of social projects More than Footnatural resources. •residents in areas where the company operates; cial development for the regions of enterprises’ activity; ball Award 2019, Come on, Let’s play! , which is implemented with the support of the UEFA Foundation for Children, was recognized •NGOs; •coordination of environmental strategy; the best project. Thanks to this project, boys and girls aged 7 to 12 Membership in associations, international and national play football with coaches for free. organizations •local governments, regional and central executive bodies; •consideration of non-production issues that could significantly #Morethanfootball Action Weeks gives clubs the opportunity to inDTEK is a participant of the UN Global Compact and affect the performance of the company's business objectives. form the European football community about their social activities. a member of the UN Global Compact Network Ukraine. •international organizations and investment communities; 40 European clubs took part in the More than Football Award 2019 DTEK is a member of the World Economic Forum and Tasks of the function and executive offices: competition. participates in the Energy Futures Initiative (EFI). •experts and think tanks; Come on, Let’s play! also received the Partnership for SustainaDTEK is a member of the European Business Association, •planning, implementation, monitoring of social projects and bility Award 2019 for its contribution to achieving the UN Sustainthe European-Ukrainian Energy Agency, the U.S.-Ukraine •academic circles and the scientific community; evaluation of their efficiency; able Development Goals. 80 projects from four countries were Business Council (USUBC), the U.S.-Ukraine Foundation submitted to the competition, initiated by the UN Global Compact (USUF) and the Norwegian-Ukrainian Chamber of Com•media; •interaction with stakeholders; Office in Ukraine. merce (NUCC). DTEK is a member of the professional associations: the •the population of Ukraine as a whole. •promoting the development of corporate social responsibility Two DTEK Group companies have become the best in the field of European Association for Coal and Lignite (EURACOAL), in Ukraine; labor protection the Union of the Electricity Industry (Eurelectric), the DTEK Dnipro Grids and Mine Office Pershotravens’ke won the Best European Energy Forum (EEF), the European Federation •participation in Ukrainian and international initiatives to dissemEnterprise for Risk Management System nomination. The award of Energy Traders (EFET), the European Distribution inate their experience and attract new practices in the field of ceremony took place within the framework of the VII International System Operators for Smart Grids (E.DSO). sustainable development. Scientific and Practical Conference Labor Protection 2019 . The Since its foundation, DTEK Group has invested UAH 19.5 bln in sustainable development Environmental Labor protection and Maintenance of protection, excluding Social partnership Employee training industrial safety social facilities environmental tax UAH 9,670.6 mln UAH 4,989.3 mln UAH 3,534.4 mln UAH 868.8 mln UAH 451.4 mln Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 92 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 93 Environmental protection Environmentally-related expenditure of the DTEK Group, UAH mln Capital Operating Additional Total investments expenses expenses The strategic objectives of DTEK Group include the introduction of modern technologies and best practices which minimize the impact of its production. 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 DTEK Energy* 319 244.5 371.8 730.9 1,009.7 930.6 44.8 60.2 48.8 1,094.7 1,314.4 1,350.1 The UN Sustainable Development Goals in the field of environmental protection, which the DTEK Group has implemented in its ESG Strategy and is committed to making further progress. DTEK — — — 0.2 0.7 0.8 — — — 0.2 0.7 0.8 Renewables Tasks of the UN goals relevant to DTEK Group commitments at the level of UN goals and overall objectives DTEK Oil&Gas 29.3 55.2 — 0.8 2.2 2.9 0.5 0.03 0.03 30.6 57.4 2.9 the activities of the DTEK Group the ESG Strategy Ensure availability and 6.3. Reduce the discharge of untreated The DTEK Group is focused on the rational and DTEK Grids 0.05 0.3 — 0.5 2.1 3.8 0.8 2.4 3.5 1.3 4.8 7.3 sustainable management of wastewater, primarily through innovative efficient water usage by all its production facilities. water and sanitation for all. technologies of water purification at the Existing and future projects aim to improve water national and individual levels. management to ensure optimal water consumption * From 2019, the data of machine-building enterprises, in particular Corum Miner’s Light JSC and Corum Druzhkivskyi Machine-Building on a continuous basis. Plant LLC, are consolidated. Ensure access to affordable, 7.1. Expand the infrastructure and modIIn order to maintain the environmental balance, reliable, sustainable and ernize networks for reliable and sustainthe DTEK Group systematically upgrades its facilimodern energy for all. able energy supply through the introducties to ensure production reliability and compliance tion of innovative technologies. with European environmental standards. 7.2. Ensure diversification of the supply of DTEK Group is also developing new lines of primary energy resources. business to reduce its impact on the environment 7.3. Increase the share of renewable and contribute to the fight against climate change. energy in the national energy balance, DTEK is increasing its energy production from in particular through the introduction of renewable sources, as well as implementing proadditional capacities at facilities that programs and measures to improve energy efficiency. Implementation of environmental protection •auditing the environmental management system; duce energy from renewable sources. standards •identification and assessment of environmental risks and opEnsure sustainable con12.4. Reduce the amount of waste The DTEK Group is working on the implementation portunities, development of measures to manage them; sumption and production generation, and increase recycling and of the circular economy approaches for the patterns. reuse through innovative technologies disposal of a significant part of industrial waste. All enterprises of the DTEK Group are required to adhere and com•development and implementation of environmental programs and production. ply with the requirements and provisions of DTEK's Environmental (annual and prospective) in the field of atmospheric air protecPolicy in their environmental activities. The document defines the tion, rational use of water resources, regulation of waste qualfollowing long-term goals in relation to environmental protection: ity and groundwater in the areas hosting production facilities, Take urgent action to com13.1. Limit greenhouse gas emissions in The DTEK Group makes significant efforts to minibat climate change and its the economy. mize the negative impact on the environment at all waste management and land reclamation; impacts. stages of the production process. •protect the environment, including the prevention of polluProduction facilities are being systematically modtion, rational use of resources, reducing the impact on climate •conducting annual environmental trainings for all employees of ernized to preserve the ecological balance, ensure change, protecting biodiversity and ecosystems; enterprises; the reliability of production and guarantee compliance with European environmental standards. •develop renewable energy and modernize thermal generation; •work with contractors and suppliers, in particular contracts with contractors must have a clause on their compliance with enviProtect, restore and promote 15.3. Restore degraded lands and soils DTEK Group's activity in the field of environmental •comply with mandatory legal and other requirements adopted ronmental legislation. sustainable use of terrestrial through innovative technologies. protection is focused on preventing and minimizing by DTEK; ecosystems, sustainably the negative impact on biodiversity and the wider In 2019, DTEK Group's enterprises continued to implement internal manage forests, combat environment. DTEK plants trees and rehabilitates •ensure the environmental safety of enterprises; regulations to meet the requirements of the ISO 14001:2015 standdesertification, and halt and areas with an emphasis on the protection of biodireverse land degradation versity and ecosystems. ard, as well as conducted a series of audits for compliance with the •constantly improve the environmental management system to standard. and halt biodiversity loss. improve environmental performance. Thus, in 2019, supervisory audits of environmental management systems at DTEK Eastenergy, DTEK Dniproenergy and DTEK WestDTEK Group’s approach to Environmental energy were successfully passed. For the first time, DTEK MyronivThe table contains targets under the SDGs identified by Ukraine as the priorities in the Sustainable Development Goals: Ukraine. ka CHPP was certified and TÜV SÜD Management Service GmbH National report 2017”. Impact Assessment received a 3-year certificate. Preventing and minimizing the negative environmental impacts of In addition, the audit companies confirmed that the environmental DTEK Group operations is one of the main priorities of the organimanagement systems at Wind Power, Prymorska WPP, Prymorska zation’s environmental activities. The structure of responsibility for WPP-2, Wind Tech, Naftogazvydobuvannya, DTEK Dnipro Grids, the environmental management system is defined, the main eleDTEK Donetsk Grids, DTEK High Voltage Grids and DTEK Kyiv Grids ments of which are as follows: meet the requirements of international standards. All employees of these companies are included in the certification. During 2020, it is planned to conduct a certification audit for com•implementation, operation and improvement of the environpliance with ISO 14001:2015 Kyivoblenergo, Odesaoblenergo, as mental management system in accordance with ISO 14001; Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 94 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 95 well as three DTEK Renewables enterprises: Orlivska WPP, Solar The project consists of five functional blocks: control over the state •DTEK Burshtynska TPP reconstructed the drinking water pipePavlohradska CMM and DTEK Dobropilska CMM by 37.5% (from Pharm-1 and Solar Pharm-3. of flue gas monitoring systems; control over the condition of ash line of the main building of the boiler-turbine shop. As a result, 1,452,000 cubic meters in 2017 to 907,000 cubic meters in 2019). and slag pipelines, and ash dumps; informing about environmental the loss of drinking water in the main building was reduced by DTEK Group enterprises monitor their environmental emergencies; management of inspections of compliance with envi10,000 cubic meters per year; Wastewater discharges impact in accordance with the requirements of current ronmental legislation; and calculation of eco-tax. DTEK Energy's enterprises continuously monitor the quality of legislation. DTEK Oil&Gas has set up a local regime monitoring network to •DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP started the second stage of reconwastewater, implement projects to modernize treatment facilities For this, a control system has been built that covers the monitor the quality of soils, groundwater and ground gases at the struction of the water deironing station, during which new filters and reuse wastewater in technological cycles. entire production cycle: emissions and discharges pass Semyrenkivske and Machukhske fields. The necessary information for water purification were purchased and installed. The design DTEK Energy TPPs monitor the quality of discharged wastewater laboratory tests; waste accumulation sites are assessed is constantly collected and analyzed, which makes it possible to result of the stage is to reduce the discharge of wash water by and the status of groundwater to control the impact on surface and for their impact on soil and air; atmospheric air and identify and prevent the negative impact of production activities on 95% and increase the productivity of the station. The end of the groundwater. Also, all TPPs monitor the quality of wastewater and groundwater at the border of enterprises’ environmental the environment. On a quarterly basis, the company provides water second stage is scheduled for 2020. groundwater in the area where ash dumps are located and work on protection zones are taken for quality control; and and soil sampling, static water level measurement in observation the treatment of cooling reservoirs from bottom sediments. environmental facilities and cleaning equipment are wells and ground gas samples at the permanent control points Rational use of water by mining and concentrating enterprises of The main activities aimed at prevention and minimization of wastechecked for compliance with technical conditions. of the observation network. In addition, DTEK Oil&Gas conducts DTEK Energy is ensured by the reuse of mine water for production water discharges implemented by DTEK Energy TPPs in 2019: Monitoring data make it possible to determine the degree water and soil research at points identified jointly with the communeeds and circulating water supply systems. of impact of production on the state of the environment nities of the settlements where the company operates. For example, in 2019, DTEK Pavlohradska CCM continued to im•reconstruction of industrial drainage system was continued and to make timely management decisions aimed at DTEK Oil&Gas also takes atmospheric air samples at the border of prove the closed water-sludge scheme of the enterprise, the introat DTEK Prydniprovska TPP (completion of works is planned preventing and reducing the impact on the environment. the sanitary protection zones of its industrial facilities as part of its duction of which precluded the use of a sludge accumulator. The in 2021). The implementation of the project will ensure the environmental monitoring. According to the results of many years factory has completed the reconstruction of the hydroclassification collection and supply of industrial water to treatment plants with of research, there is no negative impact of enterprises on the enviunit of coal sludge and screw separation waste, which allows to their subsequent use in a closed hydro ash removal system. DTEK Energy's electricity generation enterprises ensure the operaronment. reduce the volume of their formation and improve the state of the tion of the Automated System of Environmental Indicators project. environment in the region. In order to maintain the required water level in the reservoirs, inThe full closed cycle of the water-sludge scheme has also been crease the reliability and safety of their operation, DTEK Kurahivska implemented at DTEK Dobropilska CMM — water is returned to TPP has built an additional gateway regulator of the open discharge the enrichment process, and waste is taken to the waste heap. The channel. implementation of such projects has reduced water use at DTEK Water resource To ensure optimum water consumption, DTEK enterprises reuse water and use circulating water supply systems. The largest volumes of water are used by the electricity generaWater consumption tion enterprises of DTEK Energy. Most of the companys power DTEK Group focuses its water resource management efforts plants reuse industrial water in the production cycle, working with around economic and efficient use at all its production facilities. a circulating cooling system in their main and auxiliary equipment. Emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere electrostatic precipitator and a system of continuous monitoring of exhaust gases were installed. The implementation of this project allowed for the increase of the degree of flue gas cleaning to 99.8% and the reduction of dust emissions into the atmosphere to All DTEK Group enterprises have received permit documents for Water withdrawal by DTEK Group's enterprises, mln cubic meters emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere and operate in accord50 mg/m3, which in line with European standards. ance with their conditions. Water supplied by Since 2012, DTEK Energy has been reconstructing electrostatic Surface water Other sources Underground water Total utilities system filters when upgrading and reconstructing power units to achieve In 2018-2019, DTEK Prydniprovska TPP installed two a residual dust content of exhaust gases no more 50 mg/m3, as reautomatic stations for continuous monitoring in order to quired by Directive 2001/80/EC of the European Parliament and of control concentrations of dust, carbon monoxide, sulfur the Council on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into dioxide and nitrogen of atmospheric air at the border of 2017 the air from large combustion plants. its sanitary protection zone. 1,581.7 69.0 51.3 1.6 1,703.6 Exhaust gas monitoring systems have been installed on the gas cleaning equipment of the modernized power units for continuous DTEK Oil&Gas twice a year monitors compliance with the standcontrol of pollutant emissions into the atmosphere. Also, all power ards of maximum permissible concentrations of pollutants at the plants have video surveillance systems installed that provide operboundaries of sanitary protection zones and once a year moni2018 ators with additional operational information about the combustion tors emissions of pollutants at emission sources in accordance 1,298.5 69.0 6.5 1.1 1,375.2 modes in boilers. with the conditions of permits for emissions into the atmosphere. In 2019, during the reconstruction of the gas cleaning equipment According to the results of the measurements, the emissions do not of DTEK Prydniprovska TPP power unit No.10, a new modern exceed the permissible norms. 2019 1,238.2 68.4 7.3 0.7 1,314.6 The exceptions are DTEK Zaporizka TPP and DTEK Prydniprovstive-pure. ka TPP, which operate on a once-through water supply system. In 2019, the company's power plants implemented a number of Almost the entire volume of industrial wastewater from thermal measures in the field of rational use of water resources and water power plants is heat exchange water, which belongs to the normatreatment: Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 96 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 97 Gross emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, thousand tonnes Sulfur oxides Nitrogen oxides Carbon monoxide Solids Total (SOx) (NOx) (CO) 2017 Conservation and restoration Nikopol district of the Dnipropetrovsk region. In addition, 835 pro118.3 489.3 85.2 6.5 863.8 tective umbrellas (caps) for insulators of high-voltage power lines of biodiversity have been installed in Dnipropetrovsk and Donetsk regions. 2018 Ornithological safety of electrical equipment still remains a new issue for Ukraine's energy sector. If earlier power engineers only Every year, DTEK Grids experts monitor the appearance 112.6 431.4 78.2 5.1 771.8 cared for the protection of power lines from damage and emergenof new stork nests on pylons during the inspection of cies, but special attention is now paid to cooperation with ecolopower lines in order to equip them in the future. gists and ornithologists. In 2019, DTEK Dnipro Grids and DTEK Donetsk Grids 2019 transferred 32 white stork nests to special artificial According to research, birds are making increasingly use of power 99.2 401.5 67.2 5.2 723.1 line pylons for nesting, used by them instead of trees in the open. platforms. DTEK Kyiv Grids installed platforms in Kyiv for White storks, stock dove, saker falcons, etc. all have been nesting the first time, and currently three platforms have been on these structures. According to ornithologists, more than 50% of installed. A total of 157 nests have been transferred the white stork population nests on power lines — highlighting the since 2013. comfort level of birds as they rest and look for prey. In addition, in 2019, DTEK Dnipro Grids inspected five DTEK Group's distribution system operators were among the first to artificial sockets previously installed on the pylons of introduce ornithological safety programs for power lines. In 2013, power line for the stock dove (Columba oenas), a species bird protection devices were installed for the first time. This measlisted in the Red Book of Ukraine. Two nests are already ure makes it possible to address the issue comprehensively: not inhabited. only to protect birds, but also to increase the reliability of electricity supply to consumers. After all, birds can cause short circuits, which DTEK Dnipro Grids involves children and youth to the proteclead to power outages in settlements and industrial facilities. tion of white storks, conducting the annual regional competition In addition, distribution system operators are implementing a numGreenhouse gas emissions and climate Gross greenhouse gas emissions by ber of projects to conserve rare bird species in protected areas. For Leleka since 2015. In 2019, the winners of the competition were 13 children. The company also focuses on motivating employees to change DTEK Group enterprises, thousand tonnes example, since 2015, together with the Dnipro-Oril Nature Reserve, engage with environmental activities. Employees of the three strucDTEK Dnipro Grids has been monitoring the impact of power lines on the aerial wildlife in the Dnipropetrovsk region, which primarily tural divisions were awarded the transition cup The Best in Taking Nitrous Carbon involves the protection of white storks. Monitoring allows to identify Care of Nature and monetary prizes. DTEK Group makes significant efforts to minimize the negative imMethane oxide dioxide Total areas for the installation of bird protection devices. DTEK Renewables continuously monitors populations of birds, bats pact on the environment at all stages of the production process. emissions Systematic ecological modernization of facilities ensures the reemissions emissions 205 km of power lines have already been inspected. In addition, and vegetation, annually exploring the impact of wind turbines on liability of production and meeting the requirements of European in 2019, on the territory of the ornithological reserve Bulakhivsky the environment. The monitoring covers the sites of all wind powenvironmental standards. Lyman 2.5 km of power lines are equipped with special markers. er plants of the company: Botievska, Orlivska, Prymorska and Markers with a light reflective element, which are visible at a disPrymorska-2. From 2018, ornithological monitoring is carried out 2017 in accordance with the recommendations of the Scottish Natural tance of up to 15 meters (for two years of the project markers are 0.5 158.4 40,162.2 40,321.2 installed during 5.3 km of power lines). This allows birds to safely Heritage, the Equator Principles and the standards of international In 2019, DTEK Group enterprises emitted greenhouse bypass power lines at dusk or in bad weather. Studies by ornitholofinancial companies. gases in the amount of 35,382.3 thousand tonnes in СО2 gists conducted in 2019 confirmed the effectiveness of the installed DTEK Group enterprises also take care of the protection of water equivalent*, which is 12% less than in 2018 — 39,610.5 devices. fauna: special equipments have been installed at thermal powthousand tonnes. One of the main factor for the reduction 2018 234 casings (a cap made of insulating material covering the insuer plants to protect fish and fry and to ensure the size of the fish of greenhouse gas emissions is the increase RES elec0.5 139.0 35,586.0 35,725.5 lator and sections of wire on the sides) have been installed on the population. In 2019, DTEK Luhanska TPP and DTEK Kryvorizka TPP tricity generation. territory reserved for the Orilsky National Nature Park and in the upgraded and overhauled fish protection devices at water intakes. DTEK Energy's enterprises implement measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, DTEK Pavlohradcoal Stepova mine 2019 together with REGEN company implement a methane utilization 0.5 145.1 31,194.9 31,340.5 project by high-temperature oxidation on the basis of a 1.6 MW Caterpillar cogeneration unit. The implementation of this project will reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere by *In calculating greenhouse gas emissions, global warming poten57 thousand tonnes of СО2 equivalent. The commissioning of the tial coefficients were used in accordance with the Fifth Report of cogeneration unit is planned for 2020. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): methane — 28, nitrous oxide — 265. In 2018, the following coefficients were DTEK Renewables is one of the largest investors in the Ukrainian used for the calculation: methane — 21, nitrous oxide — 310. renewable energy sector. Each project of the company contributes to the achievement of Ukraine’s strategic targets of the economy’s be reduced by 2,650,000 tonnes per year. decarbonisation. In 2019, the company reached its portfolio of To promote green energy and environmental education, implemented projects to 1,000 MW of RES installed capacity. This DTEK Renewables has been implementing the Industrial Tourism means that every year about 2,500 mln kWh of green electricity program since 2016. About 50 excursions to wind and solar powwill be generated by the company — the equivalent of Ukraine’s er plants were conducted, which were visited by more than 1,000 consumption for seven days. It also means that СО2 emissions will Ukrainian and foreign tourists during 2019. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 98 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 99 tion and contact of coal waste with the environment, while water tal safety of equipment and eliminate possible oil spills. will be diverted to the pond and reused in production. In 2019, In 2019, DTEK Donetsk Grids, DTEK Energougol ENE, OdesaDTEK Dobropilska CMM performed construction and installation oblenergo, Kyivoblenergo joined the project of the Global Environworks on the second stage of construction of the “green dump”. ment Facility and UNIDO “Environmentally sound management and Implementation of the project provides authorized and environfinal disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in Ukraine”. In mentally safe disposal of coal waste. total, six distribution system operators became partners in a proDTEK Energy also continues to reclaim land of ash dumps: in 2019, ject aimed at investigating the possible content of PCBs in oil-filled 300 trees were planted at DTEK Prydniprovska TPP near the ash equipment for cleaning in case of detection. Within the framework Waste management and land sections of ash and slag lines are being replaced at thermal powdump and sludge storage in the Shiyanka River Strait, and 1,000 of the project in 2019, 286 samples of transformer oil were taken, er plants. In 2019, a total of 3.6 km of ash and slag lines were rereclamation placed, in particular DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP — 600 meters, DTEK trees were planted at DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP near the ash and slag and in 2020 it is planned to take more than 3 thousand samples. dump. Enterprises are also replacing mercury-containing energy-savPrydniprovska TPP — 950 meters, DTEK Zaporizka TPP — 270 meIn 2019, DTEK Grids distribution system operators also planted 245 ing lamps with LED ones. After the decommissioning of mercury More than 99% of waste generated during the production activities ters, DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP — 516 meters, DTEK Kurahivska TPP trees and 835 bushes. lamps, safe LED lamps are installed for replacement. In particular, of DTEK Energy's enterprises is safe, but requires free land for dis— 741 meters; DTEK Kryvorizka TPP — 145 meters, DTEK MyronivIn the field of natural gas production, DTEK Oil&Gas apply modern in 2019, 25 LED lamps were replaced at renewable energy facilities, posal. Therefore, one of the key tasks of the company in the field ka CHPP — 350 meters technologies for the utilisation of waste products arising from the 12,552 lamps were replaced by thermal generation enterprises, of environmental protection is to increase the use of heavy waste drilling of wells, which minimises the impact on the environment. and 14,833 lamps were replaced by distribution system operators. — rocks and ash and slag materials (ASM), which enterprises are In 2019, the volume of utilization of ash and slag materiPreviously, drilling waste — sludge and wastewater — was collectformed during coal mining and its combustion for electricity proals reached 1,532.5 thousand tonnes. Such a significant duction. amount of utilization is due to the intensive use of ASM ed in special waterproofed sludge barns, and after the completion Waste management, thousand tonnes of well construction work, the waste was subject to neutralization ASM can be used in the construction industry for the production of for the own needs of the enterprises (increase of ash and disposal at well construction sites. cement and concrete, which will help reduce the use of natural raw dumps, etc.), for which DTEK Energy TPPs used Since 2017, DTEK Oil&Gas has been applying high environmental Volume of materials and decrease greenhouse gas emissions. In Ukraine, the 1,169.3 thousand tonnes. In addition, 363.2 thousand The amount standards and using a sumpless drilling method, which significantly The amount of utilization and demand for secondary materials is insignificant and construction tonnes were transferred to external consumers for furof waste reduces its impact on the environment. The sumpless drilling methwaste disposal processing of companies use only an average of 5-10% of the amount of waste ther use of ASM as a secondary raw material. generation od involves cleaning the sludge with special equipment. The comwaste generated at thermal power plants. In European countries, this figThanks to these measures, the total volume of utilization pany provides treatment of the entire volume of drilling mud, after ure can reach 95%. of ash and slag materials in 2019 amounted to 39% of the which the waste is transferred to licensed organizations for further All DTEK Energy TPPs are implementing programs to increase the volume of their formation this year. treatment outside the fields, and the cleaned drilling mud is reused use of fly ash and slag materials. During 2017-2019, two stages 2017 during drilling. of the project “Technical re-equipment of the electrostatic filter Another promising area for use of ash and slag materials is In 2019, DTEK Oil&Gas used the NDDM non-dispersive drilling fluid of DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP power unit No. 1” were completed. road construction. Expert opinions on the feasibility of using system for the first time, which reduced the total amount of drilling 13,831.3 10,214.8 3,107.2 The project is aimed at increasing the collection of dry ash in the DTEK Energy TPPs (DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP, DTEK Burshtynwaste generated by almost 30% and made it possible to completely amount of up to 50 thousand tonnes per year. Also, a project to ska TPP, DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP, DTEK Kurahivska TPP, DTEK avoid discharges of excess drilling fluid and avoid diluting it with organize the collection of dry ash has been launched at DTEK PrydKryvorizka TPP and DTEK Prydniprovska TPP) in road construction water. niprovska TPP power unit No. 10: in 2019, technical documentation 2018 have been developed. The conclusions were approved by Shulgin After the construction of wells, the land is subject to reclamation for the construction of a pneumatic ash removal system has been State Road Research Institute. and returned to the owner in a condition suitable for its intended developed, and in 2020 the project will be implemented. In order to 13,811.3 9,938.1 3,363.2 In 2019, cooperation with the research institute was continued use. In 2019, the company reclaimed 5.8 hectares of land. accumulate dry ash, improve its technical characteristics and fur— a memorandum in support of pilot road construction in Ivather use the material in a number of infrastructure and construction no-Frankivs’k region with the use of ash and slag materials was Handling and optimizing the use of hazardous substances and maprojects at DTEK Burshtynska TPP, silos are being reconstructed. signed. The project is planned for implementation during 2020. terials Completion of the project is scheduled for 2020. 2019 This project will make it possible to replicate the use of ASM durOne of the key initiatives of DTEK Group's enterprises is optimiIn order to prevent the allocation of new lands for the disposal of ing the construction, reconstruction and overhaul of state and local zation of the use of hazardous substances and materials. In 2019, ash and slag waste, thermal generation enterprises are increasing 13,685.4 7,563.4 5,915.3 roads. continued work to reduce the use of asbestos-containing materidams of ash dumps using this material. In particular: als. Thus, the thermal generation enterprises performed partial DTEK Pavlohradcoal reclaims lands damaged in a result replacement of asbestos-containing materials with alternative subHazardous waste generated as a result of economic •DTEK Zaporizka TPP: the procedure of environmental impact stances and materials during repairs, bricklaying and insulation of activity of enterprises is not more than 1 percent of the of mining operations annually. Reclamation is carried out assessment was passed and a positive conclusion was obequipment. total amount of generated waste and is transferred to in the method of backfilling rocks with sagging surface. tained about the possibility of further expansion of the ash In addition, distribution system operators been replaced 347 units specialised enterprises that have a license for hazardThen a fertile layer is applied to the plot and biological dump. At present, exploration works have been carried out, deof oil-filled equipment by hermetic oil transformers that do not reous waste management. DTEK Group companies do not reclamation is carried out: organic and mineral fertilizers sign and estimate documentation has been developed for the quire maintenance or by vacuum, gas-insulated, or with dry dielecimport, export (including international transportation) or are applied, land reclamation is carried out and agriconstruction of the dam of the 3rd and 4th tiers of the ash dump tric. These measures make it possible to increase the environmenprocess hazardous waste. cultural crops are sown to restore fertility of the soil. In and work has begun on the construction of the 3rd tier of the 2019, the technical stage of reclamation was completed ash dump using 761.5 thousand tonnes of ash slag; with the application of a conditionally fertile layer on the territory of 14.3 hectares, and the biological stage of •DTEK Burshtynska TPP: works on increasing the section No. 1 reclamation was performed on the area of 10.7 hectares. of the 10th tier of the ash dump No. 3 were performed, 348.5 In addition, the company annually carries out compensathousand tonnes of ash slag were used. The procedure of entory deforestation, replacing plantations damaged in the vironmental impact assessment was passed, a positive conprocess of mining operations. In 2019, the Pavlogradska, clusion was obtained about the possibility of increasing ash Ternivska, Blahodatna and Samarska mines planted 13 dumps No. 1 and No. 2; hectares of forest. •DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP: the environmental impact assessment procedure was completed and a positive conclusion was obCoal processing enterprises have switched to using an innovative tained on the possibility of further expansion of the 3rd tier of “green dump” technology in the construction of waste dumps. Clay the ash dump. banking is built for each tier of a dump as well as an internal drainage system and a fire-prevention protective layer. This approach To prevent ash and slag waste from entering the environment, reduces the environmental burden by eliminating the combusSection 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 100 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 101 Society Social Partnership Programs international donor organizations. Social Partnership Programs consist of interregional and local projects. Interregional projects are large investment projects imCooperation with the territories where DTEK Group's production facilities operate through the implementation of Social Partnerplemented at the territorial level that unites several cities where ship Programs is a tool for achieving the sustainable development DTEK Group companies operate. These projects solve common A social partnership with the communities is a prerequisite for DTEK Group companies and enterprises, issues across all the territory involved. The task of local projects is goals. Projects are developed jointly with local authorities, experts with the aime of building relationships based on trust. Enterprises implement Social Partnership and the general public. On one hand, it both involves and unites to match the activities of enterprises and the needs of local comPrograms to improve the quality of life through sustainable social, economic and cultural development people in solving acute and urgent issues of sustainable developmunities. This approach makes it possible to take into account the of communities. ment. On the other hand, this approach allows communities to raise needs of each community as closely as possible and thus reduce funds for projects from business and public funds, as well as from social risks. The UN Sustainable Development Goals concerning social partnerships, which the DTEK Group has implemented in its ESG Strategy and is committed to making further progress. Investments in the areas of Social Partnership Programs, UAH mln 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Tasks of the UN goals relevant to DTEK Group commitments at the level UN goals and overall objectives the activities of the DTEK Group of the ESG Strategy Socially significant infrastructure 34.2 34.4 13.9 10.9 40.9 63.6 38.1 Ensure healthy lives and 3.4. Reduce premature mortality from The DTEK Group pays significant attention to promote lifelong well-being non-communicable diseases. healthcare issues, ensuring that all employees Increasing the activity of local 5.5 3.8 3.3 9.2 39.8 58.8 40.8 for all at all ages. have access to timely and quality medical care. communities Energy efficiency in the utilities sector 45.9 25.7 12.7 23.1 86.6 38.5 11.4 Ensure inclusive and 4.5. Increase the prevalence of DTEK Group supports a number of projects equitable quality education knowledge and skills required for decent aimed at improving access to education. Healthcare 32.2 11.1 10.1 1.5 3.3 6.4 4.2 and promote lifelong learning jobs and entrepreneurship among the Academy DTEK are implemented educational opportunities for all. population. programs for external and internal stakeholders. Business environment development 12.8 2.6 0.9 0.8 2.0 2.1 0 Promote sustained, inclusive 8.3. Increase the employment. The DTEK Group promotes full employment and Total 130.8 77.6 40.9 45.5 172.6 169.3 94.4 and sustainable economic 8.5. Promote a safe and secure working decent work for all employees, as well as the growth, full and productive environment for all workers, including by provision of reliable and safe working conditions. employment and decent work applying innovative health and industrial for all. safety technologies. In 2019 was created, repaired, landscaped Number of projects under the Social and equipped Partnership Programs 2019 Build resilient infrastructure, 9.1. Develop quality, reliable, sustainable DTEK Group implements social partnership promote inclusive and and accessible infrastructure based programs to ensure sustainable development. Institutions in the field Socially significant sustainable industrialization on the use of innovative technologies, The programs have five main directions: energy of education 70 infrastructure and foster innovation. including environmentally friendly modes efficiency in the utilities sector, health care, of transport. development of socially significant infrastructure, Children's playgrounds and Increasing the activity sports grounds 56 support for the business environment and of local communities increasing communities activity. Utility networks (heat, water Energy efficiency in the and gas pipelines, lighting) 55 Make cities and human 11.2. Ensure the development of DTEK Group establishes stable social partnerutilities sector settlements inclusive, safe, settlements and territories exclusively ships with communities and local authorities in resilient and sustainable. based on the principles of integrated the regions where its enterprises operate in order Parks and recreational areas 22 Healthcare planning and management with the to improve the standard of living those residents. participation of communities. Strategies for social and economic development 11.5. Reduce the adverse impact of are a tool for achieving goals in sustainable Health facilities 18 Total pollutants, including on the urban development. environment, in particular, using DTEK Group raises awareness of energy efficienSports facilities and innovative technologies. cy and promotes a responsible attitude towards establishments 9 In 2007–2019, 2,310 projects were implemented under consumption. the Social Partnership Programs, in which the Strengthen the means of 17.3. Develop partnerships between DTEK Group develops partnerships with DTEK Group invested UAH 1,302.6 mln. Since 2013, social partnership strategies have been implementation and revitalize government and business to achieve the international donor organizations and state implemented. This has made social investment effective. the global partnership for sustainable development goals. funds for the implementation of joint sustainable sustainable development. development projects in territories where its enterprises operate. DTEK is also a member of the UN Global Compact and provides an annual report. The table contains targets under the SDGs identified by Ukraine as the priorities in the Sustainable Development Goals: Ukraine. National report 2017”. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 102 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 103 Your Hometown Begins with You interregional project Energy Efficient Schools: New Generation interregional project The main goal of the project is to develop public activity and initiative among the residents, to involve Energy Efficient Schools: New Generation is an innovative educational program on energy efficiency them in solving the problems of the territories. Thanks to the project, each resident has the opportunity for schoolchildren in grades 4-11, aimed at educating environmental values, responsible attitude to to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life in their districts, cities and villages. By supporting energy consumption and the formation of skills for rational energy use. The program is on the open the initiatives, the DTEK Group helps everyone understand their importance in ensuring sustainable online platform energyschool.org.ua which has provided equal access to modern teaching methods development. for both urban and rural schools. Only 6 rural schools took part in the project in 2015, and their number increased to 195 in 2019. Your Hometown Begins with You is a competition of minigrants, This competition has achieved important changes: the relations to which residents can submit their project for the improvement between the participants of the projects have become a true partUnder this project, schoolchildren already study three courses — Development Institute (Ukraine). Now Bulgarian schoolof local facilities. Local communities are involved in the selection nership, a systematic approach to planning and organizing joint Fundamentals of Energy Supply and Energy Saving , Alphabet children together with Ukrainian peers will learn to save of the best projects: on the social partnership program website work for the implementation of the project is being built. of Housing and Utilities Management and My Energy Efficient energy for the future. DTEK is committed to sharing spp-dtek.com.ua online voting on each project is opened. Every If at the first stages of the competition residents submitted proposHome”. The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine has ratexpertise and supporting the Energy Efficiency Center in year, more and more residents participate in the selection of proals for the improvement of surrounding building grounds, recently ified all these courses, wich were developed with the company’s implementing the project in Bulgaria. jects. For example, in 2019, almost 104 thousand residents took they are offering more projects for the arrangement of urban space. involvement. And in 2018, educators began selecting schools to part in the voting, which is 70% higher than the figure in 2018. Therefore, a large grant competition is held separately. In 2019, the participate in a national experiment aimed at implementation these In 2019, the company introduced two new criteria for selecting competition covered 15 territories, whose communities submitted The implementation of the project on an open online platform alcourses in the compulsory school curriculum. This three-year exlows to create virtual classes where schoolchildren from different winning projects. The first is Smart City, which aims to encourage 45 ideas to change the public urban space. According to the results periment started in the 2019-2020 school year, it was attended by cities and regions study. In the 2019-2020 school year, 30 interrethe use of modern technologies to improve the quality of life. The of online voting, the 15 best projects were selected, with each pro24 schools in Dnipropetrovsk region. gional classes were created, not only allowing students to successsecond is the development of cooperation between cities and rural ject representing its territory. In addition, in 2019, several novations were introduced for the defully study, but also took part in the online game Smart Home . areas. Also, in order to expand the target audience, additional benvelopment of the project. For the first time, a pilot course on energy Also, participants of interregional classes at the beginning of the efits were provided for initiative groups that applied for minigrants in the areas of Energy Efficiency and Ecology . efficiency was tested for a primary school, which was joined by 20 school year traveled to partner cities, where they competed in the schools. An independent learning format has also been introduced, brain-ring on energy efficiency and organized together eco-actions which allows students to study online courses without the involvededicated to the International Earth Day. ment of school leaders. The new format of education covered more Your Hometown Begins with You has become a systemic project that teaches residents to work than 1,500 schoolchildren. The interregional training format of Energy Efficient Schools: New Generation received support for further development through together to improve the quality of life a Memorandum of Cooperation for the implementation of the program Let's change the country together . The company signed In 2019, the project became international thanks to this Memorandum with the governors of Ivano-Frankivsk, Lviv, Indicators 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 a Memorandum of Cooperation concluded between the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and all parties confirmed their intenNumber of settlements that took Energy Efficiency Center (Bulgaria) and the Municipal tion to jointly develop the project in its interregional format. 18 19 15 38 42 55 62 part in the project Number of residents who took part in the project 5,600 6,535 5,918 7,222 16,000 16,400 20,050 Energy Efficient Schools: New Generation : schoolchildren from 500 localities joined the study Number of applications for minigrants submitted by the 262 401 396 500 539 647 809 commissions 1 wave 2 wave 3 wave 4 wave 5 wave 6 wave 7 wave Number of winning projects by 105 167 140 210 268 305 263 minigrants Number of schools The maximum size of the minigrant 11 55 150 79 858 1,257 1,602 20,000 20,000 30,000 30,000 50,000 55,000 80,000 from the company, UAH Number of applications for Number of localities maxigrants submitted by the — — — — 154 45 45 commissions 1 20 11 32 475 476 500 Number of winning projects by maxigrants — — — — 15 15 15 Due to the implementation of the project on an open online platform, the number of rural schools that have joined it is increasing every year. In 2019, they accounted for 36% of the total number of schools. The maximum size of the maxigrant 200,000 — 200,000 — 200,000 — — — — — from the company, UAH 500,000 700,000 700,000 The project’s methodological and organizational support is provided by the All-Ukrainian Charitable Organization Municipal Development Attracting community co-financing, Institute . The Institute estimates that each thousand schools participating in the project can save up to 5,200 MWh, which reduces CO2 1.4 1.2 2.0 2.3 6.0 7.3 5.9 emissions by 4,742 tonnes. UAH mln Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 104 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 105 In Ukraine, such unique initiatives are only possible with the support fields, 10 of which were opened in the cities where DTEK Group of big business, because they require the development of sports companies operate. During the entire implementation of the proinfrastructure. In such projects, business becomes a partner to ject, 18 football fields Come on, Let’s Play! were opened with the society and local communities in creating new opportunities for all support of the DTEK Group. children regardless of where they are from. DTEK Group supported this project because it is convinced that mass children's football is useful not only for sports, but also for Come on, Let’s Play! received two awards in 2019. social development. From an early age, children cultivate team valThe project became the best in the competition More Interregional project Come on, Let’s Play! ues, acquire the habit of leading a healthy lifestyle and are inspired than Football Award 2019, passing almost 40 European to further self-realization. football clubs. The award ceremony took place at Camp Project Come on, Let’s Play! open to all children aged 7 to 12 Nou Stadium as part of the 13th European Football for years. Children are trained in football for free, providing all the Come on, Let’s Play! is a joint project with FC Shakhtar, which aims to develop mass children's football Development Network conference. necessary equipment. They practice three times a week with qualThe second prize was awarded to the Partnership for and promote a healthy lifestyle. This is a project in which there is a place for boys, girls, children with ified volunteer coaches. DTEK and FC Shakhtar jointly organise Sustainability Award 2019, which is held by the special needs. regular competitions for young players and professional training, UN Global Compact in Ukraine. Come on, Let’s Play! internships and master classes with European specialists for their became the best in the category Society . coaches. In 2019, more than 4,500 children played football on 66 football Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 106 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 107 •Shyshatskyi district (Poltava region): modernization of Shyquality water to local residents. shatskyi district hospital was continued. In 2019, the facade and ramps of the children's department were overhauled, as •Rainivka village (Zaporizhzhia region): the village club was well as medical equipment was purchased. In recent years, overhauled and a playground was installed. DTEK Oil&Gas has financed a comprehensive reconstruction of the district hospital by UAH 8.3 mln. Thanks to this, the chil•Oleksiivka village (Dnipropetrovsk region): the dining room and dren's ward of the hospital has created a quality medical base kitchen in Oleksiivska Secondary School were renovated. and comfortable conditions for the simultaneous treatment of 5 key areas of Social Partnership Programs 19 patients under the age of 15. •Pokrovske village (Dnipropetrovsk region): a minibus was purchased for sports teams of the local children's and youth sports •Kovalivka, Solontsi, Kovanchyk (Poltava region) villages: three school, as well as a tractor for the needs of the village. outpatient clinics of primary medicine have been arranged. DTEK Group implements Social Partnership Programs in 56 territories where its enterprises operate. •Velykosorochynska United Territorial Community (Poltava Social investments are allocated in five key areas: energy efficiency in the utilities sector, health care, 3. Development of socially significant infrastructure region): the dining room of Velykosorochynska Secondary development of socially significant infrastructure, development of the business environment, increasing DTEK Group supports projects aimed at improving the quality and School of the 1st – 3rd grades was overhauled. local community activity. accessibility of social services, solving acute problems of important infrastructure elements, and improving access to education •Savyntsi village (Poltava region): the external drainage system and leisure. of Savyntsi Secondary School of the 1st – 3rd grades was re1. Energy efficiency in the utilities sector comfort. constructed. Energy efficiency is a driver of sustainable economic development Under the DTEK Oil&Gas social partnership program, it financed The most significant projects in 2019 were: in Ukraine. DTEK Group invests in projects aimed at improving the the replacement of windows for schools in the Machukhiv United 4. Increasing the activity of local communities energy efficiency of the utilities sector and social infrastructure, territorial community in the Poltava region. Schools in the villages •Burshtyn (Ivano-Frankivsk region): thanks to the efforts of DTEK It is important for the DTEK Group to promote the development which is an important factor in the quality of life of communities. Ploske and Poluzirya, with more than 150 students, have 70 new Energy, Burshtyn City Council and the EU ULEAD Program, the of community initiatives in public, artistic and sports life, as the windows. The replacement of windows in schools is a project that building of the old pharmacy was reconstructed into the Center change in quality of life depends on the activity and initiative of The most significant projects of 2019 were: has been implemented since 2018 for the community. Creating for Administrative Services. More than 35,000 city residents will everyone. In Kamianka-Buzka district of Lviv region, three social institutions comfortable learning conditions is necessary. In the Machukhbe able to receive passport office services, register their place were reconstructed. In the premises of the Center for Children iv secondary school, for example, where more than 280 children of residence or business, resolve issues with their rent or the In 2019, the key became citywide events of various formats of and Youth Creativity, where more than 600 children study, a modstudy, the windows have not been replaced since the school’s conprivatization of property, etc. in the new comfortable premises. socio-cultural and sports, including: ular boiler room with a remote data transmission device via GPRS struction in 1987, while in the village Poluzirria, the school has unwas installed and connected to the heating network; in the music dergone maintanance since 1993. •Dobrotvir urban-type settlement (Lviv region): the premises of •Ladyzhyn (Vinnytsia region). For the first time in the Vinnytsia school, where 200 children study, separate boiler rooms have been the Strumochok kindergarten, which is attended by more than region, the International Festival of Wooden Sculptures Laoverhauled and new gas boilers have been installed; in the territo2. Health care 150 children, have been overhauled. Renovations were made dyzhynsky Grove 2019 was held, to which 5 master sculptors rial center, which serves more than 400 residents of the city and DTEK Group pays great attention to health care issues so that emin the children's bedrooms, playrooms and bathrooms, as well from Ukraine, Lithuania and Belarus were invited. Their sculpsurrounding areas, the replacement of furnace heating with a boiler ployees and residents receive timely, high-quality medical care. To as new furniture for kids. Thanks to the project, the best living tures adorned the local arboretum. room. this end, investments are systematically directed to the reconstrucconditions have been created in the kindergarten, which should During the festival, the sculptors showed their skills at the show In 24 condominiums in Dobropillia, Donetsk region, buildings were tion of medical facilities and the purchase of modern equipment. also have a positive impact on the quality of children's upbringspeed-carving — in 1.5 hours they created 5 sculptures up to scanned and with the help of the TREND 1.0 software package, ining. 1 meter. All works were sold at a charity auction, and the funds formation materials on the condition of buildings, possible measThe most significant projects in 2019 were: raised were donated to the treatment of two schoolgirls from ures to reduce energy consumption, necessary investments, and In addition, a new modern boathouse was built for Dobrotvir Ladyzhyn. the expected savings effect were prepared. Energy certification of children's and youth sports school, where ten boats for kayakResidents of the city not only observed the work of master •Vinnytsia: a mobile X-ray machine was purchased for the Vinbuildings was conducted for 4 condominiums — certificates aping and canoeing will be stored; reconstructed gazebo in the sculptors at the festival, but also took part in the arranged locanytsia Regional Children's Clinical Hospital, where more than proved by the State Agency for Energy Efficiency and included in form of a wrought-iron ship, which is located on the banks of tions: 211 schoolchildren attended excursions-lectures to the 16,000 children are treated annually. The device is needed the online database of energy certificates. the Western Bug, and it will be an interesting object in the vilmember of the National Union of Architects of Ukraine and art by the hospital to provide highly specialized emergency and planned medical care, surgical practice of minimally invasive lage for the development of tourism. critic Inna Berezina, 15 creative groups of Ladyzhyn fair 17 masmethods of surgical interventions. The advantage of this device ters held 16 art master classes. The project covered almost 10 The country's housing and communal services sector is the reduction of radiation exposure when examining children. • Dobropillia (Donetsk region): the roof of the House of Culture, thousand people (residents and guests of the festival). faces the challenge of meeting modern needs and the only cultural center in the city, which is visited by more than creating a culture of energy efficiency. In 2018, the An automatic coagulometer was purchased for the Podilsk Re3,000 children annually, has been repaired. •Dobrotvir urban-type settlement (Lviv region). The children's DTEK Group launched the TREND project to create gional Oncology Center, where more than 10,000 patients are and youth sports contest United Country gathered more than effective energy saving tools for residents. treated annually in inpatient departments and almost 6,500 • Pryvovchanske village (Dnipropetrovsk region): reconstruction 400 athletes. This event has been held in the village annually The project has a single algorithm for all cities due surgeries are performed. of Central square has started — the only place for recreation since 2015 and has already become a tradition. In 2019, chilto the implementation on the online platform TREND and cultural leisure of 900 inhabitants of the village. This prodren from 24 energy cities of Ukraine and Poland took part in 1.0, energytrend.org.ua, which is the author's •Kamianka-Buzka district (Lviv region): the Medical Care Center ject is co-financed by the company, and its value lies in the joint the Games. But most participants came from Burshtyn, Enerdevelopment of the Institute of Local Development. was overhauled, and an automatic biochemical analyzer and a work of business, community and local government to improve godar, Shchastia, Kurakhove. Young athletes competed in two The platform includes services for monitoring and set of reagents were purchased for the clinical-diagnostic labpeople's living conditions. sports: football and kayaking and canoeing. managing energy consumption, technical, economic and oratory of the Central District Hospital, which is designed for financial modeling of apartment building management, •Tryfonivka village (Kherson region): the first stage of lighting re•Zelenodolsk (Dnipropetrovsk region). The traditional festival 250 patients. implementation of energy efficiency measures and construction was carried out on four main streets of the village. ENERGYFEST: new generation took place. It is annually visitmanagement accounting, as well as distance learning ed by 5–7 thousand residents and guests of the city. The main •Prymorsk (Zaporizhzhia region): The Central District Hospital programs. •Chkalovo village (Dnipropetrovsk region): the second stage of task of the festival in 2019 was the integration into the program is provided with computer equipment and working conditions reconstruction of the water supply network was carried out, of social activities — sports, educational, health and entertainhave been created with the central database of the electronic now even more villagers are provided with drinking water. ment to attract guests to active participation. For this purpose, In secondary schools in the village of Pivdenne and the village of health care system. a water parade, sports competitions, master classes for chilPrimiske in the Dnipropetrovsk region, old windows and doors have •Prymorsk (Zaporizhzhia region): the water supply system with dren and adults were held. In addition, art spaces, photo zones, been replaced with energy-saving ones, and in the school in the •Prymiske village (Dnipropetrovsk region): windows and doors a length of more than 1.3 km was overhauled with the replaceecolocations, a musical evening with the group TamerlanAlena village of Oleksiivka the heating system has been overhauled. Now in the rural outpatient clinic have been replaced with enerment of the asbestos-cement pipeline. This allowed to provide were organized. more than a thousand children will be able to study in warmth and gy-saving ones. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 108 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 109 •Halytskyi district (Ivano-Frankivsk region). Two ecological proand medium-sized businesses are supported to stimulate the creation jects have been implemented — a bicycle route has been laid of new jobs and attract investors to the regions. This will help increase and an observation point for rare birds has been set up. tax revenues to local budgets. In order to increase the tourist attractiveness of small towns of The implementation of projects aimed at attracting financing and Ivano-Frankivsk and Lviv regions, an ecological bicycle route creating opportunities for business development in the cities where with a total length of 42 km has been laid, which runs in KamianDTEK Group companies operate has continued. ka-Buzka district along the Western Buh River and around the In 2017, a pilot project was launched — the Center for EntrepreBurshtyn Reservoir. As part of the second project, an artificial neurship Support, which was opened in Dobropillia (Donetsk rebird mini-bridge and observation point (a wooden house with gion) in order to provide expert support to local businesses. an area of 10 m2) was set up at the Burshtyn Reservoir, 4 inThis project has become relevant and in demand by the commuformation stands and a booklet about birds were created. This nity. In 2019, the Center provided local entrepreneurs with about project covered almost 200 ornithologists, researchers, popu137 consultations on the preparation of business plans for submislarized new birdwatching routes, as well as carried out a numsion to competitions of international donor organisations. One of ber of events to form the ecoculture of the local population. them received a grant of UAH 249.8 thousand from UNDP, which will create four jobs. Another project won the competition of the In5. Development of the business environment ternational Organization for Migration and received a grant of UAH DTEK Group enterprises operate mainly in single-industry town. For 80,000. The Center also helped develop more than 20 business the development of economically self-sufficient communities, small plans for the development of small and medium enterprises. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 110 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 111 Employees People are our main value and the source of DTEK Group's competitive advantage. Only a team of professionals can perform ambitious tasks, that is why the DTEK Group actively develops key success factors — the talent and potential of its employees through investments in the development and implementation of an innovative culture in production and management. A system of continuous personal development has been created for each employee, and personnel management processes are trained by managers at all levels. This supports a constructive work environment that enables effective work and self-realization in the profession. The UN Sustainable Development Goals for Human Resources Management, which the DTEK Group has implemented in its ESG Strategy and is committed to making further progress. Tasks of the UN goals relevant to DTEK Group commitments at the level UN goals and overall objectives the activities of the DTEK Group of the ESG Strategy Ensure healthy lives and 3.4. Reduce premature mortality from The DTEK Group pays significant attention to promote lifelong well-being non-communicable diseases. healthcare issues, ensuring that all employees for all at all ages. have access to timely and quality medical care. • Implementing health improvement programs for employees and members of their families, voluntary health insurance is also provided. • Implementing current occupational safety measures. • Promoting a healthy lifestyle and responsible health behavior. Ensure inclusive and 4.5. Increase the prevalence of DTEK Group supports a number of projects equitable quality education knowledge and skills required for decent aimed at improving access to education. and promote lifelong learning jobs and entrepreneurship among the Educational programs for external and internal opportunities for all. population. stakeholders have been implemented. Employees, under the development of professional competencies, are given free education opportunities in the Academy DTEK. Achieve gender equality and 5.6. Expand economic opportunities for DTEK Group provides a level playing field for empower all women and girls. women. all employees to reach their full potential and promotes career development regardless of gender. Promote sustained, inclusive 8.3. Increase the employment. The DTEK Group promotes full and productive and sustainable economic 8.5. Promote a safe and secure working employment and decent work for all employees, growth, full and productive environment for all workers, including by as well as the provision of reliable and safe employment and decent work applying innovative health and industrial working conditions. for all. safety technologies. The table contains targets under the SDGs identified by Ukraine as the priorities in the Sustainable Development Goals: Ukraine. National report 2017”. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 112 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 113 Total number of DTEK Group staff in 2019, persons Permanent Temporary Full-time Total Men Women Part-time employment employees employees employment Approaches to HR management are being formed. Since 2017, APA applies to employees of working professions. For a more objective assessment of employees of production enterDTEK Group's HR management system is harmonized with the prises, the coefficient of labor contribution (CLC) is used. CLC is 71,694 51,215 20,479 69,801 1,893 70,785 909 legislation of Ukraine, industry regulations and internal rules. a personal contribution of each employee to the overall result of the unit, on the basis of which an individual assessment is formed. Criteria for calculating CLC include performance of work duties, The HR management strategy aims to: compliance with occupational safety and health requirements, as Professional experience in the DTEK Group, Gender aspect: experience in the • ensure equal opportunities for all employees; well as competence. • attract the best specialists in the labor market; % of the total number (persons) DTEK Group, % to its gender • ensure a decent level of remuneration and reward of employees; 9.1% (6,479) The Regulation on the Management of Employees’ Women 71.6 • develop the potential of employees; 66.4 Remuneration unifies the basic benefits and the social From 3 to 5 years • cultivate a unified corporate culture. Men package for staff. A system built in this way is an effective tool that proIn 2019, the salaries of all employees were increased and vides opportunities for employee initiative. 25.2 the social package was fully retained. 19.0 8.5 9.4 DTEK Group respects the right of employees to form trade unions 20.8% (14,785) 70.1% (49,890) and other associations representing their interests. Operating comSocial payments and benefits provided to Less than 3 years More than 5 years panies cooperate with these organisations and have an open diaDTEK Group employees in 2019, UAH mln Less than 3 years From 3 to 5 years More than 5 years logue with them. This ensures that potential problems are identified and resolved in a timely manner. Another guarantee of protection of the interests and rights of workers — collective agreements. The Social package 573.8 Age structure of staff, % of the total number Gender aspect: age structure, % to its agreements contain provisions on remuneration, social benefits, benefits for non-working pensioners, and obligations in the field of (persons) gender labor protection and staff training. Each year, senior management 62.4% (44,382) reports on compliance with the terms of the agreements. Improving living conditions 166.9 Women 62.1 62.5 To maintain a permanent bilateral dialogue, a number of mechaFrom 30 to nisms are used to convey the views of employees to senior man50 years Man agement: Support for retirees and veterans 154.3 29.8 •interaction with trade unions and regular meetings with trade 21.1 union leaders; 14.1% (10,010) 23.6% (16,762) 16.5 8.1 Voluntary health insurance 150.9 Less than 30 years More than 50 years •meetings of enterprises’ heads and profile directorates with labor collectives; Less than 30 years From 30 to 50 years More than 50 years •meetings of company leaders with public opinion leaders; Financial aid 145.5 •personal reception of employees by the enterprise director and Categories of staff, % of the total number Gender aspect: organizational position, HR-manager; One-time bonuses to employees 126.9 (persons) % to its gender •HR days, where HR-managers meet with employees directly at the workplace and answer questions, inform about projects, in20.4% (14,543) Specialist Women 74.8 itiatives, HR activities, as well as provide feedback on the status Corporate events 42.3 Men of issues received at previous meetings; 44.4 46.7 •sociological surveys of employees; 1.8% (1,313) Others 8.3 Manager 12.9 10.9 •organization of collection of appeals, comments and sugges5.9 2.9 1.4 10.9% (7,776) 66.8% (47,522) tions of employees. Involvement of employees Head Worker Head Manager Specialist Worker Payment, remuneration and benefits Need for employees planning, personnel recruitment, as well as personnel administration are carried out in accordance with the One third of DTEK Group employees obtained a higher In the first quarter, employees undergo the Annual Performance legislation of Ukraine, the collective agreement, provisions on pereducation, of which 23 employees have a degree. Appraisal (APA), which determines the prospects for career growth sonnel selection, internal labor regulations, the Code of Ethics and and the amount of remuneration for the reporting period. In addiBusiness Conduct, instructions On the procedure for issuing sick tion, the tasks, training and development program for the next year leaves and On the procedure vacation schedule and granting Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 114 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 115 leave to employees . Collective agreements stipulate a minimum period within which From a corporate university to an innovative for managing talent, knowledge and change. Due to the desire to Primarily, internal recruitment is used for personnel search and reemployees must be notified of future changes. This period improve and attract the best international practices in corporate cruitment for the vacant position; employees are informed about corresponds to the statutory two months, and for coal enterprises educational business platform education, Academy DTEK is today an innovative educational open vacancies. Applicants can send their resume and interview — three. business platform open to business, public sector and the public. for a vacancy according to qualification requirements and individual The leading role in education and staff development belongs to the qualities. External staff selection is carried out through employment corporate university — Academy DTEK, which has become a tool centers, online recruitment on specialized job search resources and other sites. Forecast for retirement of empoyees, % In 5 years 2010 Academy DTEK was established. Approach to responsible restructuring and Men Women retirement of employees 2011 The corporate university has joined the international business education associations CEEMAN and EFMD. In the same year, cooperation with business schools KMBS (Ukraine) and INSEAD (France) was launched, In 2019, DTEK Group companies did not lay off staff due to a change which marked the beginning of training for middle and senior managers in MBA programs. Today the in the organization of production and labor. 5.2 8.0 partners are IE Business School, Thunderbird, Coursera, HRCI. Enterprises use the following mechanisms of personnel In 10 years restructuring: Men Women 2013 The training centers of the enterprises became branches of the Academy DTEK, which allowed them to cover all categories of DTEK Group employees, as well as to unify the knowledge base and training •derivation of non-core functions in outsourcing and insourcing; programs. Today, 12 branches implement a comprehensive training system, which includes mandatory training in accordance with industry regulations, training in professions and training in the needs of •transfer of social facilities to communal ownership; operating companies. 6.6 8.2 •natural reduction of staff (retirement, dismissal of their own volition or by agreement of the parties, etc.). 2014 The Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine has approved the standard for the profession Underground Miner , developed by DTEK, as the state standard of vocational education. In total, DTEK has developed 56 corporate professional standards in order to synchronize the development of production with the requirements for the knowledge and skills of employees. Most of DTEK's standards have become the basis for the training of state-run vocational education institutions. Thus, the systematic work of the company in this direction has a positive impact on the education system and allows to reduce the gap between the theoretical knowledge of students and the practical requirements of employers. In 2020, it is planned to complete the development of standards for 64 professions and further focus Staff training and development •development and planning of employees’ career map — Peron the development of standards for integrated professions. sonnel Reserve and D.Talent Managers; DTEK Group is focused on its growth and innovation. This re•Executive MBA and Executive Development Programme to 2015 The corporate university opened its doors to external clients — more than 30 thousand participants quires professional and enterprising employees who are ready to develop managerial and leadership skills of managers. The were trained in the first year. learn and grow throughout their work. To provide this opportunity, programs are developed and implemented by Academy DTEK DTEK Group has adopted a training system that covers all staff — all in partnership with the following universities and business categories of employees, regardless of gender, age, specialization schools: Lviv Polytechnic (Ukraine), KSE (Ukraine), INSEAD 2017 and organizational position are trained at the corporate university The project State and Society was launched. The essence of the project is to train employees of (France), IE (Spain). public institutions in new skills and approaches to work. After all, representatives of public sector need Academy DTEK or external providers. This approach ensures the not only to maintain narrowly specialized professional competencies, but also to develop general skills development of competencies and knowledge of employees in acin communication, public speaking, creativity, teamwork and more. Today, DTEK's experts cooperate cordance with business needs, and gives employees the opportuDTEK Group's investments in employees with 27 state institutions of Ukraine, and 5,000 employees have already been trained in this program. nity to be realized in the profession and grow in their careers. Training and development include: training and development, UAH mln 2018 Academy DTEK has opened its doors on the territory of UNIT.City — a space that is equipped with the •development and implementation of corporate standards for latest technology and creates an atmosphere for the development and generation of new ideas. key production professions; The campus, where the office is located, meets the standard of green building of the American LEED system. •compulsory professional training, including simulator training in certain specialties; 2019 The practice of open lectures of world business experts has been implemented. W. Chan Kim •promoting a culture of professional competence through skill (INSEAD Professor and Blue Ocean Author), Declan Fitzsimons (INSEAD Professor), Daniel Laya competitions; (IEBS Professor and Talent Specialist), Masaaki Hasegawa (Creativida Founder), Alina Gratschner (managing partner of Apora Ventures and co-founder of Accelerate Korea), Barbara Oakley (Professor at the University of Auckland and author of a popular Coursera course), Mike Hannan (Professor at the University of Southern California, one of the authors of the book of The CIO's Guide to Breakthrough Project Portfolio Performance: Applying the Best of Chritical Chain, Agile, and Lean), Alexandros Psychogios (Professor of Birmingham Business School) gave lectures at Academy DTEK. Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 116 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 117 Industry standards by professions prepare DTEK Group's top managers for new challenges and deamong students, partner schools are tailoring their educational to join the project. The DTEK Group develops corporate standards for its enterprisvelop breakthrough project skills to facilitate business innovation. programs so that future energy professionals can combine study Two more educational institutions — Druzhkivka Professional Lyes in order to synchronize the development of production with the Throughout the course, its participants will work on a team busiand work. ceum and West Donbass Mining Lyceum — in partnership with requirements for the knowledge and skills of employees. Most of ness project to implement a new idea and implement its prototype. Six production enterprises of DTEK Group in partnership with nine DTEK Energy will train highly qualified workers under dual prothese standards have become the basis for the preparation of state Thus, the program is focused on practical training and obtaining educational institutions — Dobrotvirsk Lyceum №47, Lviv Lyceum grams. As students admitted to enterprises master the practical standards in vocational education, which will ensure curriculums the necessary knowledge in the process of working on the project. №20, Pershotravensk Mining Lyceum, Burshtyn Energy College, part of the curriculum with the help of specialists, it significantly taught in educational institutions matches the requirements of the The uniqueness of the program also lies in the synergy of the expeKyiv Electromechanical College, Kamiansk State Energy Technical increases the level of their training and opportunities for future embusiness world. Thus, students acquire practical knowledge that rience of Ukrainian leading professors, DTEK experts-practitioners School, NTU Dnipro Polytechnic, National University of Food Techployment. will be needed in the profession. and representatives of reputable international business schools. nologies, Pryazovskyi State Technical University — in 2019, taught To develop this line of work, DTEK has joined a permanent collegial The program modules cover a wide range of topics that managers 119 students in dual form. body at the National Qualifications Agency, which is authorized to need to understand how to manage the environment, organization, implement state policy in the field of professional qualifications and relationships and change. The modules explore cases from interDTEK Group companies actively use the transition to standards. As part of the agency, the Procedure for Accreditation national and Ukrainian companies, including DTEK's industrial and the dual form, which allows them to be experts and In 2019, the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung in Ukraine noted of Qualification Centers was developed. This document has already post-industrial experience. participate in the development of state acts such as the DTEK Grids for assistance and active participation in the been submitted for mandatory public consultation. It is planned that in the future this program will be open to external Regulations on the dual form of education in professional implementation of the dual education system. In addition, in 2019, representatives of the DTEK Group together participants, as the training of new leaders is one of the tasks of the education and the Regulations on the dual form of eduwith colleagues from the European Training Foundation (ETF) parDTEK Group for the progressive development of the country. cation in professional pre-higher and higher education. The first projects showed a high interest of educators in cooperaticipated in the development of procedures and methods for the In addition, in 2019 the ID.School project was launched. Its goal is tion in this area. Seven institutions — Donbass State Engineering preparation of professional standards and standards for the asto develop and train leaders in innovation transformation who will In addition, a representative of DTEK Energy was selected to the Academy, NTU Dnipro Polytechnic, Odessa National Academy of sessment of professional qualifications, which will be applied at the enter the technology community and be willing to take responsiFood Technologies, Nikopol Technical School of the National MetSectoral Expert Council at the National Agency for Higher Educastate level. Under this project, trainings were organised and conbility for both project implementation and the introduction of new allurgical Academy of Ukraine, Kryvyi Rih National University Polytion Quality Assurance in the field of Mechanical Engineering. Repducted and consultations were provided to employers, professiontechnologies into business. This will reduce the way of implementtechnic College, Nemishayev Agrotechnical College and Kyiv Elecresentatives of the DTEK Group also work in the Sectoral Expert al communities, educational and scientific institutions. ing an innovative project by creating a favorable culture in the comtromechanical College applied to DTEK Grids production facilities Council in the field of Electricity. pany to accept change and train leaders on whom business can rely Profile schools for professional growth in the implementation of innovative projects. The training consists DTEK Group's companies have specialized profile schools, whose of three modules and focuses on the development of employees main task is to give each employee the opportunity to realize their involved in innovative or transformational projects, skills of develpotential in the profession through professional development in Staff training and development in 2019 in numbers opment and integration into the business of such projects. accordance with the update of internal and external requirements. The education combines direct communication with teachers and modern distance formats: online courses, trainings, videos. Professional contests and competitions In order to promote high standards of skill among employees of 18 74 7 leading technical competitions of professional profile schools operate In addition, there is a permanent “workplace mentorship” program, manufacturing enterprises, operating companies annually hold universities of Ukraine skill were held among at DTEK Group enterprises under which young professionals receive practical skills from emcompetitions in key manufacturing specialties. are DTEK partners employees ployees of enterprises and experts who have already retired. The DTEK Energy Youth movement, which was launched in 2019, is Moreover, in 2018 DTEK Energy developed the Experience program building work in the following areas: aimed at disseminating and preserving the professional experience and technical expertise of specialists in scarce and narrow specializations. For the development of the program, a YouTube channel •social sector — participation of young workers in social pro17,485 25,748 grams; facts of engineering facts of workers’ training Experience was created, where educational videos on scarce and technical workers by internal trainers professions are posted in free access. In 2019, this initiative was training by internal •production sector — development of projects aimed at improvsupported by DTEK Grids colleagues, who created the DTEK TV coaches ing production, labor protection systems, etc .; YouTube channel to develop industrial training. This channel also has free access to educational videos on scarce professions in the electric power industry and employees of narrow specialties share •sports sector — development of programs to engage young 58,166 people in healthy lifestyle; facts of learning their experience. •cultural sector — organization of cultural events. 4,877 DTEK Oil&Gas satisfies the need of employees in inEmployees of 26 enterprises — more than 800 activists — take part facts of engineering facts of workers’ training creasing the professional expertise by involving its best in the Youth Movement. Winners in the nomination Best Leader of and technical workers by external trainers specialists in the creation of trainings and educational training by external the Year have the opportunity to receive higher education with the programs. The fact is that the Ukrainian market does not coache financial support of the company, if the chosen specialty is relevant have specialists in the oil and gas industry with a level to the needs of the company. of qualification sufficient for the needs of the company. Today, DTEK Oil&Gas is the leading Ukrainian natural Work with Universities 32,341 763 gas company in terms of equipment, technology and Since 2009, the DTEK Group has been implementing a program of 36,806 employees of operating middle managers and expertise. The company's specialists have become leadcooperation with higher education institutions. This program takes employees took electronic managers were trained companies studied according ing experts and share their experience at professional and video courses in specialized programs into account the staffing needs of enterprises in the short term and to professional programs conferences and seminars to promote the development helps to prepare the necessary specialists. DTEK Group is formed of the entire industry. in universities from promising thirdto fourth-year students who are In 2019, the company began to create a knowledge base, trained in additional programs that take into account the specifics which will include a series of trainings, video lessons, of their future profession. webinars with the participation of directors, heads of In 2019, the system of dual education was actively implemented, departments, heads of divisions. according to which the theoretical part of the training takes place on the basis of the educational organization, and the practical part In 2019, Academy DTEK launched a new flagship program Ener— on the working place. This form of education is introduced in gy of Innovation: Executive MBA. This flagship program aims to vocational, technical and higher education. As it gains popularity Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 118 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 119 Occupational safety, industrial safety and Certification in the field of LP and IS health care At the DTEK Group's production facilities, the LP and IS manageIn the field of labor protection and industrial safety, DTEK Group ment system operates or is implemented in accordance with interhas built an organizational structure that covers all levels of govnational standards. ernment. Labour Safety and Environmental Protection committees In 2019, DTEK Eastenergy, DTEK Dniproenergy, DTEK Westenergy, under the Supervisory Boards are the main tool for analysing the DTEK Service successfully passed a supervisory audit of the ocexisting management system. Sustainable Development comcupational health and safety management system for compliance mittee of DTEK regularly evaluates the management system and with the requirements of OHSAS 18001:2007. In the future, elecprepares recommendations for improvement. In each area of busitricity generation companies plan to pass a certification audit of the ness, health and safety functions have been created. They are rehealth and safety system for compliance with the requirements of sponsible for the implementation of systemic approaches and the the standard ISO 45001:2018. implementation of decisions. In 2019, Wind Power passed the second supervisory audit for comThus, the management system of labor protection and industrial pliance with ISO 45001:2018. In addition, certification audits for safety (LP and IS) is integrated into the daily activities of all entercompliance with ISO 45001:2018 were conducted in December at prises and is a prerequisite for defining and achieving strategic the new stations of DTEK Renewables – the Prymorska Wind Powgoals. Priority areas of investment in LP and IS: er Plant and the Prymorska Wind Power Plant-2; the Orlivska Wind Power Plant and the Nikopolska Solar Power Plant in accordance with this standard implemented an integrated management system with LP and IS. •regular certification audits for compliance of the LP manageSince 2015, Naftogazvydobuvannya has been conducting an annument system with national regulatory requirements and interal supervisory audit for compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007. The national standards ISO 45001 and OHSAS 18001; company plans to move to the new ISO 45001 standard by 2021, and to this end, a recertification audit has already been passed and •implementation of comprehensive measures to improve workfive employees have been trained in the field of lead auditor . ing conditions; •continuous improvement of working places to increase occupational safety and improve the working environment; DTEK Grids occupational safety specialists are certified members of the European Society of Occupatioal Safety •purchase of overalls, footwear, personal and collective protecand Health (ESOSH). tion equipment, fire protection equipment; DTEK Donetsk Grids, DTEK Dnipro Grids, DTEK Kyiv Grids passed •compliance with regulatory requirements for sanitary condisupervisory audits according to ISO 14001:2015 and certification tions; audits for compliance with the requirements of the international standard ISO 45001:2015. Certification of new assets of Odesao•conducting primary, periodic and extraordinary medical examblenergo and Kyivoblenergo is planned for 2020, in 2019 the new inations of staff; assets were integrated into the general system of LP and IS and their employees were trained according to the requirements of cor•training and raising the level of knowledge of staff in order to porate standards. form a conscious attitude to personal safety and the safety of According to the auditors' report, management systems in enterothers; prises are fully effective. 100% of employees are in the scope of certification. •taking measures to prevent injuries among the population. Comprehensive measures in the field of LP and IS DTEK Group's investments in labor protection and industrial safety, UAH mln Fostering a culture of self-care and attention and the safety of the people around requires a correction in thinking, consistent implementation of knowledge and principles that underlie any production action. To this end, DTEK Group companies develop internal regulations, which are then agreed with trade unions and put into production practice. The Occupational Safety and Health section is a mandatory clause in the collective agreements at all DTEK Group production facilities. This clause includes the obligations of the administration and trade Section 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 120 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 121 unions to fully implement the legislation in this area. According to •leadership and personal participation of the leader in ensuring mental safety. In addition, in 2019 DTEK Grids took part in the VII Inallows to increase the productivity and reduce the financial losses the collective agreement, DTEK Group companies undertake: occupational safety. To create a spirit of rivalry, a ranking systernational Conference “Industrial Safety. Best practices — 2019 . of DTEK Group more effectively. tem of enterprises based on the achieved results has been deThe production facilities of DTEK Energy and DTEK Grids also inveloped and implemented. In addition, the evaluation system of clude occupational health and safety programs in sanatoriums. The •to carry out attestation of workplaces, including laboratory rethe first managers on labor protection continues to operate at Occupational health and occupational medienterprises annually allocate and direct financial means for the orsearches; enterprises. It is an effective tool for quantitative and qualitative cine ganization of rest and improvement of both workers, and members •provide employees with the necessary tools, overalls, footwear, evaluation of the effectiveness of work in this direction. of their families. The organization is held jointly with trade union personal and collective protection; DTEK Group implements comprehensive programs in the field of committees. For the development of this program in 2019, the introduction of occupational medicine. They control the dynamics of two medical •not to invite minors to undertake hard work; a risk-oriented approach was initiated, as well as the LOTO blockand social indicators: the incidence rate and the health index. This ing system. •to ensure stable operation of surface and underground health centers with constant staffing with medicines and equipment; In order to implement a risk-oriented approach, coal Key facts about occupational health and occupational medicine •conduct periodic medical examinations, provide emergency production and processing enterprises have developed medical care; special training programs, which have been trained by Centralised control apparatus pilot sites at enterprises. The program's provider, TacMorbidity with temporary loss of ability to work is the Common standards of medical care only basis for monitoring the health of employees Medical insurance for all employees •to compensate the damage caused to the employee as a result tise, conducted a Risk Control training for coal mining and the activities of medical facilities: Prevention of occupational diseases of an industrial injury or occupational disease; executives. Certification of workplaces •provide accident insurance to members of volunteer fire briContractors operating at DTEK Group's production facilities gades and drivers; must also adhere to the adopted LP and IS approaches. Each of DTEK Group’s operating companies has developed a provision on •conduct professional training and education on labor protecapproaches to contractor safety that takes into account the spetion and industrial safety; cifics of the activity and unifies the requirements for occupational employees’ reviews safety, industrial, fire and general safety. In case of violation of the before the shift •inform employees about occupational health risks and take measures to minimize and eliminate such risks; requirements, appropriate measures are applied up to the prohibition of work and termination of the contract. 31 health centers, 17 of them are underground, •materially and intangibly encourage employees who take an all centers work round the clock active part in measures to improve the level of labor protection Training in the field of LP and IS employees were provided and industrial safety. with emergency medical care This section also outlines the responsibilities and responsibilities of A training system has been developed to maintain the required lev450 el of qualification of employees and readiness to perform profeshealth workers, employees for compliance with health and safety regulations. sional duties in compliance with safety requirements. Training and including 42 doctors testing of knowledge is carried out on a regular basis by all production facilities of DTEK Group. Also, all employees during their work 20.7 thousand consultations were conducted DTEK Group has adopted zero tolerance for occupational must be trained in occupational safety, fire safety, civil protection by full-time psychologists injuries in order to preserve the life, health and ability to work of the employee in the course of all work activities. and technical operation, as well as trainings on LP and IS. 28 specialists (psychologists, All enterprises perceive their activities in the field of labor protection as integral to production and mandatory In 2019, 41 thousand employees underwent training in LP psychophysiologists, specialists in psychophysiological 6,949 employees and members of their in achieving strategic goals. examination) families rehabilitated in and IS, UAH 5.4 mln was invested in training. In case of employee’s injury at work, a commission, Basic approaches to labor protection and safety training: DTEK Service sanatoriums which involves representatives of control bodies, is set • use of visualization tools during training sessions up and an external and internal investigation is conduct(demonstration of educational films and slides); ed. Based on the results of the investigation, corrective • conducting video briefings (introductory, initial and measures are being developed to prevent similar cases repeated, which are updated annually); in the future. • differentiation of employees by level of qualification and specialization; 10.12 51.0 is the level of morbidity with temporary disability health index in 2019 (in 2018 the health index — At the enterprises of coal mining and enrichment, as well as ther• involvement of all sttaff in the training process; in 2019 (10.16 — per employee of industrial the percentage of employees who were not sick mal generation in 2018, the Program of labor protection initiatives • multilevel control of knowledge. enterprises in 2018) during the year — was 53.0) was adopted, the priority areas of which were: To increase efficiency, procedures were developed for conducting •introduction and functioning of the algorithm of dangerous acbriefings, training and testing of knowledge, which identified the tions management with the use of the system of continuous types, frequency and procedure for organizing and conducting improvement Novator . The project created a system of motithese activities. In addition, technical, organizational and trainvation for submitting ideas for safe organization of work; ing measures are taken to protect against natural disasters at the DTEK Group's enterprises: flood protection, lightning protection •compliance with the principle of application of the Cardinal and fire automation, personal protective equipment and protective Rules. The main purpose of introducing such rules is to instructures. crease the personal responsibility of each employee for comThe second important area that supports the motivation for safe pliance with safe working conditions. Failure to comply with the work is competitions of professional skills and profile conferencrules will necessarily raise the issue of dismissal; es. For example, DTEK Oil&Gas annually organises a scientific and technical conference on labor protection, industrial and environSection 5 | Sustainability Section 5 | Sustainability 122 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 123 Annex 1 Primorskaya WEP-2 LLC Orlovka WEP LLC Wind Tech LLC Solar Farm 3 LLC 5. Gas production Tryfanovka Energy LLC On the report and the process of non-financial The report is the seventh integrated report and the tenth report Solar Farm 1 LLC Naftogazvydobuvannya PJSC disclosing information about the DTEK Group’s activities in the field reporting of sustainable development. The previous report was published in 2019 and contained information on activities in the 2018 calendar This report, including the «Sustainability” section (hereinafter year. Grounds for excluding organizations from Essential topics referred to as the “Report”), reflects material facts about the reporting scope sustainable development activities of the DTEK Group in the 2019 The report was prepared using: In assessing how essential the topics for non-financial reporting calendar year (from January 1 to December 31), as well as some The reporting scope does not include companies whose impact is objectives are, the DTEK Group relies on the principles of facts of 2020 which have a direct relationship with the activities •indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in the field of insignificant in terms of GRI indicators, companies and enterprises expediency and relevance in the Ukrainian context. Following conducted in 2019 by the DTEK Group or which are important from sustainable development; operating outside Ukraine, enterprises and assets of enterprises an audit of informational materials in the media, social climate the point of view of understanding the sustainable development over which no operational management is carried out. research at DTEK Group enterprises, analysis of the content of objectives. •content of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. non-financial reports of leading energy companies, content of dialogues with stakeholders, the following substantive topics were determined for the Report (based on the expert evaluation of DTEK GRI Compliance Level management): С С+ B B+ A A+ Context Marginally essential Moderately essential Highly essential Self-declaration International •Benefits of various tariffs for •New philosophy: social and •Modernization of power Third party verification consumers customer-oriented power systems and restoration of GRI verification •Safety of network industry fixed assets (Eastern Europe) infrastructure for the •Promoting responsible •Combined use of fuels, population energy consumption renewable energy •Scientific R&D •Investment in new development Boundaries and Scope of Reporting The structure is presented in the “About the DTEK Group” section •Interaction with contractors technologies •Energy efficiency and on page 16. Non-financial reporting includes quantitative and •Interaction with customers reduction of greenhouse gas qualitative (descriptive) elements by the DTEK Group activities that emissions The report reflects the scale of DTEK Group’s activities, approaches have the most significant impact on the economy, ecology, and •Management of in the field of management and stakeholder engagement, social aspects. environmental impacts performance indicators in the economic and environmental spheres, personnel management, interaction with society, Ukraine •Conservation of biodiversity •Risk of monopolization of the • DTEK Group strategy and customer-oriented activities. •Labor remuneration system Ukrainian market investment directions at DTEK Group enterprises •Improving the environmental •Improving the standard of •Quality of education and monitoring system living of the population of the Organizational boundaries of non-financial reporting health services •The need for a national territories of enterprises •Development of social strategy for sustainable •Miners work safety 1. Electricity generation: TPPs and CHPP Pershotravneve Mine Office SIU entrepreneurship development •Restructuring of the coal •Waste management until full industry and the energy DTEK Skhidenergo LLC, including: DTEK Dobropolyeugol LLC, including: disposal sector as a whole DTEK Kurakhivska TPP Dobropilske Mine Office SIU DTEK Luhanska TPP Bilozerske Mine Office SIU DTEK Dniproenergo JSC, including: DTEK Dobropilska CEP PJSC Calculation of indicators gas emissions. At present, there is no calculation of the amount of indirect greenhouse gas emissions due to their extreme DTEK Kryvorizhska TPP CCM Pavlogradska LLC insignificance compared to the volumes of direct emissions. DTEK Zaporizhska TPP CCM Kurahivska LLC Data was taken from official reporting forms, which are submitted DTEK Prydniprovska TPP DTEK Oktyabrska CEP PJSC annually to the state statistical bodies. A number of indicators are To calculate the turnover rate, the average number of full-time collected and calculated in accordance with the forms of internal employees is used. DTEK Westenergy JSC, including: 3. Electricity distribution reporting, which are verified by the responsible representatives of A detailed description of the methodology for calculating indicators DTEK Burshtynska TPP companies as part of internal audit procedures. was presented in the “Report on the sustainable development DTEK Dobrotvirska TPP DTEK Power Grid LLC Data on greenhouse gas emissions include only direct greenhouse activities of the DTEK Group for 2008-2009.” DTEK Ladyzhynska TPP DTEK Energougol ENE PrJSC DTEK Kyiv Grids PrJSC DTEK Myronivka CHPP LLC DTEK Donetsk Grids JSC DTEK Dnipro Grids JSC 2. Coal production and processing Odesaoblenergo JSC Kyivoblenergo PrJSC PrJSC DTEK Pavlogradcoal, including: Ternivske Mine Office SIU 4. Renewable energy: WPP and SPP Pavlogradske Mine Office SIU Geroiv Kosmosu Mine Office SIU Wind Power LLC Dniprovske Mine Office SIU Primorskaya WEP LLC Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 124 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 125 Annex 2 Total water consumption for own needs by source, thousand of cubic meters Water supplied to Year Surface water Groundwater utilities and other Other sources Total DTEK Group Quantitative Performance Indicators enterprises 2017 1,578,146.5 951.2 50,117.8 13,386.2 1,635,908.7 Economic 2018 1,298,518.0 594.3 5,888.5 5,751.8 1,307,477.9 2019 1,234,964.8 511.5 5,854.4 6,455.7 1,247,786.5 The DTEK Group economic performance indicators are given in the sections “An overview of Ukraine’s industries and macroeconomic indicators”, as well as in the section “Performance results” hereof. Waste treatment methods, tonnes Ecological Volume of utilized, Gross greenhouse gas emissions, thousand tonnes Year Storage volume Submitted by third parties recycled waste Total Carbon dioxide CO2 equivalent, 2017 13,831,285.3 709,980.7 3,107,214.1 17,648,480.2 Year Methane Nitrous oxide (N2O) Total (СО2) tonnes 2018 9,938,133.1 509,963.6 3,363,227.5 13,811,324.2 2017 158.3 40,080.9 0.553 40,239.8 43,598,174.9 2019 7,563,404.2 429,075.3 5,915,277.8 13,685,438.9 2018 139.0 35,586.0 0.544 35,725.6 38,763,963.4 2019 145.1 31,194.9 0.467 31,340.5 35,382,267.3 Land reclamation, ha Emissions of ozone-depleting substances: N2O, hexofluoride, tonnes Year Area of land to be reclaimed at the Area of land to be reclaimed at the Area of land reclaimed in the beginning of the year end of the year reporting year Carbon 2017 295.2 198.7 39.3 HydrochlorofluoroChlorofluoroTrichloroethane tetrachloride Year Halons 2018 480.5 480.5 10.9* carbons (HCC) carbons (CFC) (С2Сl3H3) (tetrachloromethane) 2019 645.5 713.9 20.1 2017 10.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.018 * Completion of the technical stage of reclamation 2018 0.088 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.018 2019 0.079 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.018 Occupational Safety and Health The content of pollutants in wastewater, tonnes Injury rates Oil Suspended Solid Ammoniacal Indicator 2017 2018 2019 Year BOD* Chlorides Sulfates Iron total Nitrates products substances residue nitrogen Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate (LTAFR) 0.570 0.580 0.516 2017 183.8 5.3 705.2 89,200.1 27,567.8 21,467.6 8.5 3.0 47.9 Suffered non-lethal injuries, persons 285 246 286 2018 202.3 6.1 762.0 109,976.0 38,262.0 22,990.0 8.8 3.4 64.9 Fatal Accident Frequency Rate (FAFR) 0.010 0.021 0.011 2019 135.3 5.8 719.5 101,275.5 35,738.8 22,600.0 10.0 2,3 34,8 Suffered lethal injuries, persons 5 9 6 * Biochemical oxygen demand. The total volume of water recycled and reused, thousand of cubic meters Year Indicator 2017 6,050,243.6 2018 5,209,024.5 2019 4,004,474.5 Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 126 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 127 Personnel Position within organization including from The total number of personnel as of December 31, 2019, persons Head internally appointed Manager Specialist Worker candidates Percentage of Percentage of 6,574 910 716 5,548 38,067 employees who employees who Permanent Temporary retire within 5 retire within 10 Total Full-time Part-time Women Men years years personnel personnel women men women men Basic tools of occupational health and industrial safety 71,694 69,801 1,893 70,785 909 20,479 51,215 8.0 5.2 8.2 6.6 Coal •Monitoring the psycho-physiological state of staff production •Video instruction before shifts and •Training and knowledge testing on the basis of the PROTEK program processing •Registration and monitoring of critical risks DTEK Group employees by gender, 2019 •Algorithm for managing hazardous activities using the Novator continuous improvement system •Cardinal Rules •Evaluation of senior managers on occupational health and industrial safety Women, persons •“Line of trust” on occupational health and industrial safety •Incentives for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible and intangible rewards Age Years spent in the company •Professional skills contests Less than 30 From 30 to 50 More than 50 Electricity •Own training and production centers with the right to issue a state diploma Less than 3 From 3 to 5 More than 5 years years years generation •Training and knowledge testing on the basis of the PROTEK program years years years of TPPs •Training ground for the preparation of certified electric welders, certified in Paton Electric Welding Institute 1,636 12,579 6,034 5,095 1,713 13,441 and CHPP •“Training ground of the power unit of 200, 300 MW” for testing operations which eliminate abnormal and emergency modes •Virtual reality training module «Taking 6 kV switchgear cells out of service for repair», the operation of which is associated with an increased risk or with high costs Educational background •Incentives for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible and intangible rewards •Emergency and fire training higher education scientific degree •Professional skills contests 9,586 5 •Annual occupational safety days including employees’ family members Renewable •Monitoring compliance with the requirements of occupational and industrial safety at wind and solar power energy plants •Bringing fixed assets into compliance with the requirements of regulatory legal acts in the field of occupational Position within organization and industrial safety •Workshops and trainings on the provision of domestic medical care and readiness to respond and manage including from emergencies Head internally appointed Manager Specialist Worker candidates Natural gas •Twenty-four-hour monitoring of compliance with industrial safety requirements production •Automated emergency response and fire safety systems 1,202 245 597 8,995 9,455 •Control of production culture, technological discipline •Incentives for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible and intangible rewards •Emergency and fire prevention trainings Men, persons •First aid training •Professional skills contests •Annual conference on occupational safety, industrial safety and environmental protection Age Years spent in the company Electricity •Providing crews with video recorders for recording workflows to monitor the quality of targeted briefings Less than 30 From 30 to 50 More than 50 Less than 3 From 3 to 5 More than 5 distribution •Remote access to video cameras control points years years years years years years •Програма ЄСМ для обліку аудитів робочих місць 9,690 4,766 36,449 •Stimulation for the performance of occupational health and safety indicators: tangible and intangible 8,374 31,803 10,728 rewards. A system of ratings based on occupational safety indicators has been introduced, which is used to rank structural units at companies. All employees of the structural units included in the top 3 are rewarded quarterly •Fire and object training Educational background •Professional skills contests •Annual occupational safety days which include employees of medical institutions, traffic police, the MES higher education scientific degree 14,526 18 Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 128 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 129 Annex 3 GRI 102-11 Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach (an organization’s approach to risk management in operational planning, or when 82-84 developing and introducing new products) Table of Standard Reporting Elements and Indicators of the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines GRI 102-12 Externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 10; 89; 91; 116-117 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses and UN Global Compact GRI 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or 91 GRI, UN GA Page/references to international advocacy organizations reporting Description additional information element sources/direct answer GRI 102-14 A statement from the CEO about the relevance of sustainability to the organization 4-7 and its strategy for addressing sustainability GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 10 GRI 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 29-47 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 16 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters 18-19 GRI 102-16 A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of 12-13; 14-15; 83-84 behavior, such as codes of conduct and ethics GRI 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries 18-19 where it has significant operations and/or that are relevant to the sustainable GRI 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics: 83-84 development topics covered in the report a. the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice about ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity; GRI 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 10, 16; Annex 1 b. the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and organizational integrity GRI 102-6 Markets served (including a geographic locations where products and services are 18-19 GRI 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 76-77 offered; sectors served; and types of customers and beneficiaries) governance body GRI 102-7 The scale of the organization, including: 16-17; 50; 72-73; 112 GRI 102-19 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from 80-81; 90; 118 total number of employees; the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees total number of operations; net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector GRI 102-20 Executive/executives, responsible for economic, environmental, and social topics 24-27; 77-79 organizations); total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt GRI 102-21 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body 90; 101; 113 and equity; on economic, environmental, and social topics quantity of products and services provided GRI 102-8 The reporting organization shall report the following information: 112, Annex 2 GRI 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees, including: 77-81 a. total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), a. executive and non-executive; by gender; b. independence; b. total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), c. tenure on the governance body; by region; d. number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the c. total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by nature of the commitments; gender; e. gender; d. whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by f. membership of under-represented social groups; workers who have legal status of self-employed persons or private entrepreneurs, g. competencies relating to economic, environmental, and social topics; or persons who are not members of the company’s permanent or temporary h. stakeholder representation personnel, including permanent and temporary personnel of the company’s GRI 102-23 Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer in the none subcontractors; organization (and, if the chair is also an executive officer, describe his or her function e. an explain any significant variations in the numbers of personnel reported (such as within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries); f. an explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions GRI 102-24 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body, including: 76; 80-81; Annex 2. made a. whether and how stakeholders are involved; Guidelines for b. independence; top management GRI 102-9 A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they 51-53; 57-61 c. gender; recruitment are in relate to the organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services d. expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental, and social topics place in the DTEK Group GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, 57-61; 72-73; including: Annex 1 GRI 102-25 Conflicts of interest: 84 changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, a. processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are closings, and expansions; avoided and managed; changes in the share capital structure and other actions formation, maintenance and b. were conflicts of interest disclosed to stakeholders or not? alteration operations (for private sector organizations); changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 130 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 131 GRI 102-26 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, 80-81 GRI 102-36 Process for determining remuneration, and whether remuneration consultants are 81; 113-114 approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, The development, involved in determining remuneration Process for strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental, and social approval, and updating determining topics of DTEK’s purpose, remuneration is based value or mission on the evaluation of statements of the the approved strategic company, strategies, objectives and KPI policies, and goals related to economic, GRI 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in the remuneration process: how stakeholders’ views are 113-114 environmental and sought and taken into account regarding remuneration; if applicable, the results of Process for social impacts votes on remuneration policies and proposals determining are made with the remuneration is based involvement of the on the evaluation of Supervisory Boards the approved strategic objectives and KPI GRI 102-27 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective 90 knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102-38 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual No evaluation was in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for performed during the GRI 102-28 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with CEO, Director all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country reporting period respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics, including of sustainable independence of evaluation and its frequency; actions taken in response to development and GRI 102-39 Ratio of the percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s No evaluation was evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance Regional Development highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median performed during the Director have percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the reporting period performance indexes highest-paid individual) in the same country established in respect of economical, environmental and GRI 102-40 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 90 social aspects. GRI 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements No evaluation was The performance performed during the is controlled by the reporting period Supervisory Boards GRI 102-42 The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage 90, Annex 1 GRI 102-29 Highest governance body’s role in identifying and managing economic, 80-83; 90 environmental, and socia topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities; the use GRI 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 90 of stakeholder consultation engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation GRI 102-30 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s 82 process risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 90; 100-108 GRI 102-31 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, Within the scope and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns and social topics and their impacts, risks, and opportunities of activities of GRI 102-45 Legal entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements: Annex 1 committees under a. legal entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or Supervisory Boards equivalent documents; GRI 102-32 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the CEO b. whether or not any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material topics are covered statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report GRI 102-46 The process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries Annex 1 GRI 102-33 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 76-82 GRI 102-47 A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content Annex 1 GRI 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns: 49-73 GRI 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the Standards update a. total number and nature of critical concerns that were communicated to the reasons for such restatements to GRI 4 version highest governance body; in accordance b. mechanism(s) used to address and resolve critical concerns with https://www. globalreporting.org/ GRI 102-35 Remuneration policies: Process for standards/ a. remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives determining b. how performance criteria in the remuneration policies relate to the highest remuneration is based GRI 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and Annex 1 governance body’s and senior executives’ objectives for economic, environmental, on the evaluation of topic Boundaries and social topics the approved strategic GRI 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided Annex 1 objectives and KPI GRI 102-51 The date of the most recent previous report Annex 1 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) Annex 1 Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 132 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 133 GRI 102-53 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Director of sustainable GRI 203-2 Significant identified indirect economic impacts of the organization, including 100-108 development, positive and negative impacts and significance of the indirect economic impacts in Director of Corporate the context of stakeholder priorities Communications, PolyakovaMG@dtek. GRI 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 108 com GRI 205-1 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption 83-84 GRI 102-54 The claim of report in accordance with the GRI Standards The claim of report in and the significant risks identified accordance with the GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 84 GRI Standards GRI 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken None registered GRI 102-55 Покажчик змісту GRI Annex 3 GRI 102-56 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external This Integrated GRI 206-1 Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding None registered assurance for the report Report was prepared anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in in accordance with which the organization has been identified as a participant GRI 4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI 301-1 Total weight or volume of materials that are used by non-renewable materials and Annex 2 — self-declaration of renewable materials GRI 4 Comprehensive GRI 301-2 Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s Annex 2 application. primary products and services Non-financial reports of DTEK Group before GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization No analysis was made 2012 were subject to the independent audit GRI 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organization 29-42 GRI 103-1 An explanation of the material topic and its Boundary (an explanation of why the Annex 1 GRI 302-3 Energy intensity No analysis was made topic is material, where the impacts occur; the organization’s involvement with the GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 68-69; 103; 106-107 impacts), why each topic is material and topic Boundary GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 68-69; 103; 106-107 GRI 103-2 The topic management approach and its components: Annex 1 а. an explanation of how the organization manages the topic; GRI 303-1 Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by sources 94-95; Annex 2 b. a statement of the purpose of the management approach; c. policies, commitments, goals and targets, responsibilities, resources, grievance GRI 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water by the organization 94-95; Annex 2 mechanisms, specific actions and initiatives included in the management approach GRI 303-3 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization Annex 2 GRI 103-3 How the organization evaluates the management approach, including the Annex 1 mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach, the GRI 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 97 results of the evaluation of the management approach and any related adjustments areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas to the management approach GRI 304-2 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 98-99 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 72-73 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 201-2 Risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate No data is available substantive changes in operations, revenue, or expenditure (including a description GRI 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 98-99 of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other; GRI 304-4 Total number of the IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 97 a description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity; the financial with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization implications of the risk or opportunity; the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity) GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 96, Annex 2 GRI 201-3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement 114 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 96, Annex 2 obligations GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 96, Annex 2 GRI 201-4 Financial assistance received by the organization from any government during the The Company does not GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 96, Annex 2 reporting period received any financial assistance from the GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Annex 2 government GRI 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Annex 2 GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage No evaluation was performed during the GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Annex 2 reporting period GRI 306-1 Total volume of discharges with indication of quality of water discharges and 94-95, Annex 2 GRI 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant No evaluation was receiving facility, including planned and unplanned water discharges by destination locations of operation performed during the and quality of water; whether the water was reused by another organization. reporting period Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used GRI 203-1 The development and impact of infrastructure investments and pro-bono services, 100-108 GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste, with a breakdown by type and disposal methods, and how the Annex 2 including positive and negative impacts on local community and whether these waste disposal method has been determined investments are commercial or for the public good GRI 306-3 Total number and total volume of recorded significant spills Irrelevant Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 134 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 135 GRI 306-4 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Irrelevant GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child Irrelevant under the terms of the Basel Convention, Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor, Child and forced labor transported waste shipped internationally including: are prohibited under a) operations and suppliers that employ child labor and young workers (under the Ukrainian law GRI 306-5 Identity, size, protected area, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related 98-99 age of 18 years) exposed to hazardous work; The Company does habitats that are significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of water and b) operations and suppliers that employ child labor by type of operation and not operate in the runoff supplier, and by countries or geographic areas of operations and suppliers countries exposed to GRI 308-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria No analysis was made risks of such violations of human rights GRI 308-2 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified in the No analysis was made supply chain and actions taken GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced Irrelevant or compulsory labor either in terms of type of operation and supplier; countries or Child and forced labor GRI 401-1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and total number and rate of employee No analysis was made geographic areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk; measures taken are prohibited under turnover, by age group, gender and region by the organization intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Ukrainian law compulsory labor The Company does GRI 401-2 Benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not No analysis was made not operate in the provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation countries exposed to risks of such violations GRI 401-3 Total number and percentage of employees that returned to work after parental No analysis was made of human rights leave ended, and percentage of employees retained by the organization after GRI 410-1 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies No analysis was made parental leave ended, by gender; total number of employees that returned to work or specific procedures that are relevant to operations after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender; return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental GRI 411-1 Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous The Company does leave, by gender peoples and actions taken not operate within the territories of GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes and whether the notice 114 indigenous peoples period is specified in collective agreements GRI 403-1 Percentage of workers whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, 118-121; Annex 2 GRI 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights No analysis was made that are represented by formal joint management-worker health and safety reviews or impact assessments committees GRI 412-2 Total number of hours devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures No analysis was made GRI 403-2 Type of injury and injury rates, occupational diseases rate, lost days rate, and Annex 2 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations absentee rate, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender GRI 412-3 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts No analysis was made GRI 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 118-121 that include GRI 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 118-120 GRI 413-1 human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening 100-108 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training that the organization’s employees have undertaken during 117, Annex 2 GRI 413-2 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Irrelevant the reporting period, by gender and employee category assessments, and development programs GRI 404-2 Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and 114-117 GRI 414-1 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local No analysis was made the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of communities employment GRI 414-2 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social criteria No analysis was made GRI 404-3 Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a 113 regular performance and career development review during the reporting period GRI 415-1 Total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and The Company does not GRI 405-1 Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies and Annex 2 indirectly by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary provide aid to political percentage of employees per employee category by gender, age group, and other parties indicators of diversity GRI 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety 103; 106-108 GRI 405-2 Ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee No analysis was made impacts are assessed for improvement category, by significant locations of operation GRI 416-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary No such incidents were GRI 406-1 Non-discrimination No data on such codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their registered situations was received life cycle, by type of outcomes GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association The right to freedom of GRI 417-1 Types of information required by the organization’s procedures for product and Irrelevant or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken associations is set forth service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product or service Pursuant to the by the organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise in collective bargaining categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures sanitary standards, freedom of association and collective bargaining agreements electrical equipment Employees have the under 220 KW does right to strike not provide for actions Negotiation is the main aimed at protection dispute resolution of consumers’ method health in connection with the effects of electromagnetic fields Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex 136 Integrated report 2019 Integrated report 2019 137 GRI 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary No such incidents were EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken 50-69 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of registered down by energy source and regulatory regime outcomes EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory 52-53 regime GRI 417-3 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 66 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy 59 GRI 418-1 Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of No such incidents were EU13 In which way biodiversity of offset habitats is compared to biodiversity of the affected No analysis was made customer privacy and losses of customer data registered areas EU15 Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years, broken down Annex 2 GRI 419-1 Total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and/or No analysis was made by job category and regions regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, No data is available operation and maintenance of energy objects ММ1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated/recultivated by the company in the Annex 2 EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor workers who took relevant health and No data is available reporting period safety training courses MM2 Area and percentage of lands where biodiversity reproduction is required, at the end 713.9 hectares EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken No analysis was made of the year down by type of project EU25 Number of injuries and fatalities, diseases to the public related to damage caused by No analysis was made MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailing at the beginning and at the end of the Annex 2 company assets reporting period EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas No data is available ММ4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week’s duration No such incidents were registered EU27 Number of residential disconnections for non-payment No evaluation was The right to freedom of done associations is set forth EU28 Power outage frequency 67 in collective bargaining agreements EU29 Average power outage duration 67 Employees have the EU30 Average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime 57 right to strike Negotiation is the main dispute resolution method MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ The Company does territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal not operate within agreements with indigenous peoples’ communities the territories of indigenous peoples MM6 Whether there were disputes or situations where land use issues had to be discussed The Company with the local communities (population, authorities) is engaged in a permanent dialog with population and authorities in the areas where the company operates No disputes have been registered ММ7 Which mechanisms relating to investigation of complaints related to land use are The Company used by the company is engaged in a permanent dialog with population and authorities in the areas where the company operates No disputes have been registered MM9 Any resettlements within the reporting period in connection with the mining works No resettlements took place in connection with the allocation of objects Section 6 | Annex Section 6 | Annex
