Communication on Progress Cartamundi Turnhout NV 2019-2020 UN Global Compact 1 Contents Who we are? ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 Letter CEO Continued Support Global Compact ........................................................................................................................................................................................... 7 Human Rights ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 Labor Standards................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 10 Environment ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 12 Anti-Corruption.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 14 2 Who we are? 3 4 5 6 Letter CEO Continued Support Global Compact 7 Human Rights Principles Commitment Systems, Procedures & Values Performance Highlights & Key Measurements 2019 Principle 1: Our 2500 colleagues all over the Global Ethics Policy: During 2019 all employees of Cartamundi Turnhout NV have Businesses should world are our most valuable asset followed an internal training to refresh the knowledge of the support and respect and form the heart of our At Cartamundi, we attach great importance to the safety, health and wellglobal ethics policy & the ethical procedures and policies. the protection of company. being of our own employees, customers, internationally consumers, suppliers and partners worldwide who come into contact with All employees are also invited to sign an amendment to the proclaimed human Cartamundi sets good social our company. That is why we strive for one labor contract specific on the ethical procedures and policies, rights conditions for each of them and pleasant working environment with attention for everyone, for society and in which they declare to accept the current procedures and sets high standards on the ethical the environment. accept the disciplinary measures in case of non-compliance. way of doing business. Our commitment towards these topics is officialized in our Global Ethics Principle 2: Policy. The onboarding process for new employees (whiteand bluemake sure that they Our employees have accepted this commitment through their labor collar people) have been updated with the ethical business are not complicit in Our customers reward us for this contracts. topics. human rights abuses. approach by giving us a gold Suppliers are invited to behave in a same ethical way as Cartamundi and Every quarter, a group of new employees follows an internal score in social audits. are invited to follow this Global Ethics Policy. training session on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and The policy contains different elements to support and respect the Ethical topics. Training given by the CSR Manager. Cartamundi encourages their protection of human rights: suppliers to act in the same way • Minimum age by following the global ethics • Forced labor policy. • Child labor • Working hours & compensation • Health & Safety • Diversity/inclusion • Harassment/Dignity & Respect • Personal Information Protection • Freedom of association In 2019 Cartamundi Turnhout NV has reported 15 cases which Trust Persons have been handled by the trust persons. Cartamundi Turnhout NV has identified two workers as trust persons for During this year the procedure has also been opened to the company. temporary employees as well as subcontractors working in the These trust persons can be contacted by any employee in case of any act Cartamundi Turnhout plant. of violence, bullying or unwanted sexual behavior. In case the employee doesn’t feel comfortable to address their concern to the internal trust persons, they might also get in touch with the external prevention advisor of Cartamundi Turnhout NV (Idewe). This procedure of trust persons is open to Cartamundi employees as well as to subcontractors or temporary employees which want to report an issue linked with Cartamundi Turnhout NV or one of its employees. 8 Child Labor Policy Cartamundi Turnhout NV has setup a child labor policy/procedure to In 2019 Cartamundi Turnhout NV has launched new ethical prevent any child younger than 16 years can work in the Cartamundi procedures & policies to make sure to support and respect the Turnhout production plant. human rights. A detailed procedure on Child Labor and In the same policy, strict rules for young workers between 16 and 18 years Religious accommodation has been rolled out. old has been stipulated. In 2019 the topic “ethics” has been integrated in the internal quality management system. This way of working allows us to continuously improve the management of this topic. Religious Accommodation Policy Data collection on number of religious accommodation requests as well as numbers on young workers (less than 18 At Cartamundi we believe that all employees have a right to work in an years) have been integrated in the general KPI Dashboard. environment that supports and accommodates religious practices. The religious accommodation policy includes clear instructions on how This way of working has been rewarded by a gold score during employees can request an accommodation to comply with their religious the RBA audit (185,3/200) – September 26th 2019. beliefs while at work or during the job application process. Examples of an accommodation request may be: • Scheduling Changes • Substituting or Shift swapping • Change of Job Task or Lateral Transfer • Dress and Grooming Standards • Use of Facility • Tests or Selection Procedures 9 Labor Standards Principles Commitment Systems, Procedures & Values Performance Highlights & Key Measurements 2019 Principle 4: There will not be any use of Global ethics policy During 2019 all employees of Cartamundi Turnhout NV have the elimination of all forced, prison or indentured labor followed an internal training to refresh the global ethics policy forms of forced and in the production of Cartamundi The Global Ethics Policy includes a clear paragraph on forced labor: & the ethical procedures and policies. compulsory labor products (*1). All employment, “1. There will not be any use of forced, prison or indentured labor in the All employees are also invited to sign an amendment to the including overtime, shall be on a production of Cartamundi products (*1). labor contract specific on the ethical procedures and policies, voluntary basis. All employment, including overtime, shall be on a voluntary basis.” in which they declare to accept the current procedures and accept the disciplinary measures in case of non-compliance. In case of violations against the forced labor regulations, employees can turn to the trust persons to report and solve the case. Principle 5: The use of child labor is Child labor Remediation policy & procedure During 2019 all Cartamundi Turnhout NV employees have the effective abolition of prohibited. No person shall be been trained on the ethics procedures/policies, including the child labor employed in a factory that child labor policy. The Child labor remediation policy and procedure has been set to ensure produces or manufactures any that child labor is not used and to define the procedures adopted to Cartamundi product at an age On the HR dashboard, a KPI on number of young workers manage remedial actions if child labor is used within the company or by younger than sixteen (*2), or (younger than 16 years) and a data on workers between 16 & 18 suppliers or contractors. younger than the age for has been added. completing compulsory Cartamundi Turnhout NV does not hire young people under the age of 18 The Belgian law doesn’t allow people below 16 to work. education in the country of within the 3-shift operation. In accordance with Belgian legislation about Nevertheless, Cartamundi Turnhout NV may recruit young manufacture where such age is night work (cf. recruitment procedure). people between 16 and 18 years via the “dual apprenticeship” higher. Cartamundi Turnhout NV can recruit young people aged 16 years via a system or holiday work. For those people Cartamundi dual apprenticeship contract or a holiday work contract, only in day shifts Turnhout NV has set clear guidelines to protect those young or 2 shifts (cf. recruitment procedure). workers (between 16 and 18 years) at the work floor. If an employee establishes or suspects a minor is active in the workplace in 3 shifts or outside a context of dual learning or holiday work, HR must be The age of all workers is checked by a copy of the ID card informed immediately. during the onboarding process. HR will verify age and notify youth protection to determine steps together. Principle 6: Cartamundi expects its Global Ethics Policy During 2019 no changes have been made to the global ethics the elimination of employees to treat everyone The Global Ethics Policy contains 2 paragraphs linked with the topic of policy as well as the equal pay men-women. discrimination in respect equally regardless of race, color, discrimination: of employment and religion, sex, sexual orientation, 5. Diversity/Inclusion – Cartamundi expects its employees to treat everyone occupation gender identity or expression, equally regardless of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender age, disability, marital status, identity or expression, age, disability, marital status, citizenship, genetic citizenship, genetic information, information, or any other characteristic protected by law. or any other characteristic protected by law. 10 6. Harassment/Dignity/Respect – Cartamundi treats their employees with dignity and respect. No employee shall be subject to abuse, cruel or unusual disciplinary practices. Equal Pay Men-Women Cartamundi complies with all local, national and international laws applicable. Article 119 of the treaty of Rome stipulates the equal pay against women and men. A clear reference to article 119 of the treaty of Rome is included in the Cartamundi Turnhout NV Labor Regulation. Religious Accommodation Policy In 2019 Cartamundi Turnhout NV has started the At Cartamundi we believe that all employees have a right to work in an implementation of the religious accommodation policy. environment that supports and accommodates religious practices. The religious accommodation policy includes clear instructions The religious accommodation policy includes clear instructions on how on how employees can request an accommodation to comply employees can request an accommodation to comply with their religious with their religious beliefs while at work or during the job beliefs while at work or during the job application process. Examples of an application process. Accommodation Request may be: All employees have been informed and trained on this new procedure. • Scheduling Changes Employees can send in their request for religious • Substituting or Shift swapping accommodation policy by using the appropriate document. • Change of Job Task or Lateral Transfer The document needs to be sent in to the HR department and • Dress and Grooming Standards will be handled by the HR department in collaboration with the • Use of Facility team leaders. • Tests or Selection Procedures In 2019, Cartamundi Turnhout NV received 0 religious accommodations requests. 11 Environment Principles Commitment Systems, Procedures & Values Performance Highlights & Key Measurements 2019 Principle 8 At Cartamundi, every necessary ISO 14001: 2015 undertake initiatives to step is taken to ensure that Cartamundi Turnhout NV holds the environmental ISO14001 certificate promote greater operations, processes and with licensing number 12 1OO/104 43274 TMS. The certificate is valid till environmental services 26-02-2021. responsibility guarantee a minimal impact on the environment while striving for SO 14000 is a family of standards related to environmental Principle 9 the optimal use of natural management that exists to help organizations (a) minimize how their encourage the resources. operations (processes, etc.) negatively affect the environment (i.e. cause development and adverse changes to air, water, or land); (b) comply with applicable laws, diffusion of regulations, and other environmentally oriented requirements; and (c) environmentally friendly continually improve in the above.[1] technologies. Cartamundi Turnhout NV also holds a ISO 9000 certificate on quality management. Begin 2020 the FSC certificate for Cartamundi Turnhout NV FSC®-Forest Stewardship Council has been successfully renewed. (valid till 20-01-2023). The Cartamundi Turnhout NV prints 100% of their products on sustainable scope of this renewed certificate has also been extended with cardboard, FSC. Almost all production units from the Cartamundi group the sales offices Cartamundi UK & Cartamundi Asia Pacific. hold a FSC certificate and are FSC approved. This change allows all European sales offices to sell FSC Cartamundi Turnhout NV holds the FSC Certificate with license number products to their customers. FSC-C008440, valid until 20-01-2023. Plastic Reduction Program Cartamundi group is running a global project to eliminate all single use 2019 was an important year for environmental awareness. plastic in their products. Cartamundi has identified the following single use Everywhere around the world, young climate activists were plastic items in their products: cello around card games, flow wrap standing up and asking the world to act now. packaging in collectable-& trading cards, shrink-wrap around board As a result Cartamundi Group has accelerated in their games and plastic bagging for game components. sustainability project and has kicked off with a global project to Cartamundi’s ambition is to eliminate all single use plastic items in all reduce and eliminate all single use plastic in the product products by the end of 2021, this in all production plants of the portfolio. Cartamundi group. A global team of engineers and supply chain people is working The single use plastic material will be replaced by more sustainable hard to eliminate all single use plastic in our products by the materials with less impact for the environment. end of 2021. A diverse team consisting of member of supply chain, engineer and During 2020 different sustainable solutions will be tested and communication are working together in this project. as of second half of 2020 implementation of these sustainable alternatives will be set up. The plastic reduction program also challenges Cartamundi to 12 Next to the project on plastic reduction, all products/orders are set further steps in making the products more sustainable and continuously evaluated to reduce negative environmental impact to start setting some in circular economy. (examples less waste, use more sustainable materials…) Beginning of 2019, Cartamundi has decided to set corporate social responsibility as a global topic. It is our ambition to Environment & Company Culture integrate CSR in our global strategy and ibring sustainability & CSR close to business. It is our ambition to go for sustainable Cartamundi puts a lot of efforts to make its employees aware of the growth, where social-, ecologicand economic profit go hand sustainability steps each of us can take. In order to increase this awareness, in hand. Cartamundi is supporting the following initiatives: • Awareness campaigns to eliminate single use plastic on the work floor: encouraging of use of reusable cups, cutlery, … Since the start in 2018, 113 employees of the Belgian • Lease program bikes & e-bikes: Cartamundi Turnhout NV gives the Cartamundi entities (Cartamundi Turnhout, Cartamundi possibility to lease a bike or e-bike to encourage employees to travel Services & Cartamundi digital) have stepped into the lease by bike to the work place. program for bikes & e-bikes. This is a reach of 34% of the total • Recycling Cartridges & Toners: Cartamundi Turnhout NV encourages number of employees. the collection & recycling of cartridges & toners. People are invited to bring their empty cartridges to the office and put them in the collector’s box. Recyca, a specialized company in recycling is taking care of the recycling of the cartridges & ink toners. In return, they pay funds to some good causes Cartamundi has selected. 13 Anti-Corruption Principles Commitment Systems, Procedures & Values Performance Highlights & Key Measurements 2019 Principle 10 Cartamundi meets the needs of Policy on bribery prevention, unfair trade practices & corruption The 3 procedures and policies covering the topic anti-corruption Businesses should its customers, suppliers and Financial incentives, privileges or benefits that could affect objective and fair (Bribery, Conflict of interest and Whistleblowing) has been work against trading partners and treats these business decisions are neither offered nor accepted by Cartamundi or by integrated in the internal quality management system. This way of corruption in all its needs honestly, fairly and with a third parties acting on our behalf. working allows us to continuously improve the management of forms, including sense of responsibility. The policy is applicable to any employee or job applicant in Cartamundi this topic. extortion and Cartamundi does not tolerate Turnhout NV. Data collection on number of reported cases have been integrated bribery corruption or other unfair in the general KPI Dashboard of Cartamundi Turnhout NV. business practices with its Procedure: employees or third parties acting o Tangible and intangible donations of any kind or value originating from During 2019 all employees of Cartamundi Turnhout have followed on our behalf. Financial suppliers, customers and business partners must always be reported an internal training to refresh the global ethics policy & the ethical incentives, privileges or benefits transparently to the direct supervisor. procedures and policies, including the procedures on bribery that could affect objective and fair o Gifts of any kind or value to employees or representatives of policy, whistleblowing & conflict of interest. business decisions are neither government institutions or relatives of these persons are prohibited, as All employees are also invited to sign an amendment to the labor offered nor accepted by us or by are gifts to political parties and their representatives, or to agents and contract specific on the ethical procedures and policies, in which third parties acting on our behalf. candidates for political positions. they declare to accept the current procedures and accept the The full policy is described in our o If an infringement or a suspected infringement is established, this must disciplinary measures in case of non-compliance. bribery policy and has been be reported as soon as possible by email In case of violations against the bribery, conflict of interest & included as amendment in our (compliance@cartamundi.com) to the compliance officer (the CFO of whistleblowing procedures employees can turn to the trust persons labor regulations. Cartamundi Group). The compliance officer will evaluate whether there or sent an email to the dedicated email-adress is a violation and, where applicable, take the necessary corrective compliance@cartamundi.com. This email-adress is being handled measures. by the CFO of the Cartamundi Group. The complaint will be evaluated by the CFO whether there is a violation and. Where applicable, he/she will take the necessary Conflict of interest Policy corrective measures. This policy exists to ensure that Cartamundi Turnhout NV employees do not exploit their positions or relationships with Cartamundi for personal gain. The policy also ensures all business transactions must be conducted with the best interest of Cartamundi in mind. All employees are expected to avoid actual or apparent conflicts of interest. A “conflict of interest” occurs when a personal, professional or financial interest interferes, or even appears to interfere, with Cartamundi’s best interests. Examples of conflict of interest may be: • Outside employment • Family members and close personal relationships • Investments 14 • Board memberships • Significant ownership interests Whistleblowing Policy The whistleblowing policy encourages an employee to feel confident and safe in raising concerns and disclosing information. It provides avenues for an employee to raise concerns in confidence and receive feedback on any action taken. It also ensures that an employee receives a response where possible to his/her concerns and information disclosed and reassures an employee that he / she will be protected from penalisation or any threat of penalisation. Cartamundi Turnhout NV is committed to maintaining an open culture with the highest standards of honesty and accountability where our employees can report any concerns in confidence. 15
