2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. CONTENTS 0 Introduction 04 CEO Preface Our Point of View An Overview of BMW Brilliance Highlights in 2019 Our Sustainability Progress 1 Fundamentals 16 Sustainability Strategy and Management Stakeholder Engagement Compliance Governance New Technologies Forecast 2020 2 Products and Services 34 Total Quality Management Sustainable Product Lifecycle Customer-Centric Services Forecast 2020 3 Production and Value Creation 52 Production Strategy Green Production Green Logistics Sustainable Supply Chain Forecast 2020 4 Employees and Society 80 Responsible Human Resources Management Corporate Social Responsibility Forecast 2020 5 Appendix 106 About this Report Key Performance Indicators GRI Content Index Limited Assurance Report Basis of Reporting CEO PREFACE GROWTH THROUGH TRANSFORMATION In 2019, as the People’s Republic electricity, and the purchase of wind power electricity and International suffer. This demonstrates the tremendous of China celebrated 70 years since its Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs). Our major Tiexi New Plant importance of Corporate Social Responsibility. founding, we could reflect on the remarkable development and Plant Dadong extension will take full advantage It is more important in times like this, it is transformation that the country has achieved of our know-how in smart and green production, adopting the latest more important than ever. The COVID-19 in recent years, as China has transitioned from digital technologies and best practices that we have refined over the pandemic can only be successfully overcome high-speed growth to high-quality growth. years. through solidarity, collaboration, and courage. BMW Brilliance is proud to have played its part in contributing to China’s manufacturing Understanding and delighting our customer is the essence of highAt BMW Brilliance, our spirit of cross-cultural upgrade and the development of Northeast quality, and the essence of our business. This increasingly means collaboration and mutual support have China as a centre of innovation and high-end providing digital means of customer support and engagement as part helped us rise to the challenge, restart our manufacturing for the automotive industry. of a sustainable customer relationship. This extends beyond the point operations and support the medical staff on of sale. Our new subsidiary company, LingYue, is getting us to this next the front-lines. We all have a role to play in True high-quality growth is sustainable level. It is spearheading our customer-centric digital transformation economic recovery and building resilience, growth. This is why we are focused more and providing new digital solutions as part of a premium brand and BMW Brilliance will go above and beyond Dr. Johann Wieland than ever on how our actions will transform experience. to contribute. the economic, social and environmental President and CEO “ landscape of tomorrow. Our BMW vision BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. We understand, sustainability goes beyond legal-entity borders. We is to be the leading sustainable provider feel responsible for our partner-network, and this attitude shapes The COVID-19 pandemic of premium individual mobility, supported our sourcing and supplier strategy. Establishing direct relationships demonstrates the tremendous by the sustainability commitments that with critical raw material suppliers, for example in battery production, importance of Corporate Social guide our work. We tackle the challenges of enables us to mitigate social and environmental risks. We are “ Responsibility. It is more important climate change and environmental protection committed to helping our local partners become world-class, which with effective actions, in order to make a At BMW Brilliance, we believe that a business can clearly includes a strong focus on sustainability. Only sustainable, than ever. The COVID-19 pandemic can only be successfully overcome sustainable future possible. We are reducing only be successful if it creates a sustainable future, if it high-quality growth is long-term growth. emissions by greening our vehicle fleet through solidarity, collaboration, makes a positive impact on the world.” and our production, we are increasing the And we understand, transformation has to happen on line in the and courage.” transparency and accountability of our value workforce. During 2019, our workforce grew by 4.8% to nearly 20,000 chain, and we are engaging more deeply with charging services easier and more convenient for our customers. In employees, with lower attrition and improved employee satisfaction. communities to address real social needs. 2020, we will accelerate our E-mobility plans with the opening of the We are increasingly focused on providing training and development BMW Brilliance continued to grow in 2019, second phase of our High-Voltage Battery Centre, which will produce that equips our workforce with the skills and flexibility that will enable with our sales volume up 17.1% despite market BMW fifth-generation battery for the new, fully-electric BMW iX3. The them to master the automotive transformation. trend that reflect a slowdown of demand in BMW iX3 will be manufactured exclusively in Shenyang for the world China’s automotive market. We attribute this market, as we upgrade our strategy to “In China, For China and For Finally, the transformation of our Corporate Social Responsibility success to our ongoing transformation based the World”. approach is continuing, with a focus on addressing the real social on a spirit of cross-cultural collaboration, needs of the country, using our resources and strengths to contribute continued investment in new technology and Our production methods stand for high-quality-transformation, so in the best way possible. We build on 15 years of CSR experience, deeper localisation. BMW Brilliance has become a role model for implementing smart and deep knowledge, and our strong brand influence, to find unique ways green manufacturing in China, applying Industry 4.0 technologies to create shared value. Our flagship programmes are consistent and The transformation of our product portfolio is and processes in ways that improve quality and boost productivity. In always expanding, and we reached more than two million beneficiaries in line with our sustainability commitments, 2019, we became the first automaker in the world with 5G connectivity in 2019 with the use of innovative platforms to engage and empower as we offer more New Energy Vehicles and at our plants, giving us a unique opportunity to test new innovations. more of our stakeholders. build up a complete E-mobility ecosystem to Dr. Johann Wieland support wider usage. We are producing our In our Shenyang production base, we switched to 100% renewable The pandemic crisis in 2020 exposed the whole world to enormous President and CEO own High-Voltage Battery packs and making electricity by end of 2019, including the generation of solar power social and economic uncertainty. Solidarity and collaboration did BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. 04 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 05 OUR POINT OF VIEW MESSAGE FROM SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTS Franz Decker Wang Jun Sean Green David Shangguan Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Senior Vice President Technology and Manufacturing Finance Sales and Marketing Human Resources BMW Brilliance’s production volume in 2019 increased At BMW Brilliance, we prioritise investments in our plants, Our sales showed a growth of 17.1% in 2019, with a total of Our employees are at the centre of everything we by 9.1% to 534,990 vehicles, as we continue to increase our people, and our community. We made a contribution 544,549 vehicles wholesaled. BMW Brilliance NEV sales achieve, and engaging them and supporting their our local production capacity for the China market. of 35 billion RMB in tax in 2019, and we also support the continue to grow at a rapid pace, with a 50.4% increase development is essential to meeting our sustainability Our “In China, For China and For the World” strategy local economy through the creation of jobs, infrastructure, from the previous year to 32,246 vehicles, in response to commitments. In 2019, our total workforce increased to will become reality in 2020, with the export of the alland the development of our value chain. The extension the growing demand for premium sustainable mobility. 19,824 employees and we are pleased to report a drop in new fully-electric BMW iX3 to the world market. We projects recently started at Plant Dadong and the Tiexi We are finding ways to make our business model attrition rate to 3.6% and an improvement in employee successfully established 5G wireless connectivity at our New Plant Project will accelerate local community more circular, strengthening the High-Voltage Battery satisfaction, as a result of our HR management efforts. three manufacturing plants and have begun applying development, and we are preparing talent resources for recycling process, infrastructure and system, including This year we had a number of initiatives to reinforce the the technology to test digital innovations that have the our expanded operations as we produce the BMW iX3 for the capacity of our dealers to receive and handle end-ofCore Values of BMW Brilliance and strengthen the culture potential to further increase our efficiency, quality and the world market. We have built up the local supplier base life batteries. In 2019, we provided an extensive and highof business and environmental compliance. Health and flexibility in production. Our advanced logistics systems in the surrounding area, reducing our environmental quality public charging network with over 130,000 public safety are absolutely essential, and our OHS measures increasingly utilise low-carbon and multi-modal options footprint and investing in local economies. We also made charging pillars, and had a growing number of dealers were successful in reducing our accident frequency for inbound, outbound, and aftersales transport. In 2019, a huge leap forward in digital transformation with the that are now capable of selling and supporting NEVs rate by 39.3% during 2019. We also expanded health BMW Brilliance was ranked #1 in Automotive Enterprise establishment of the China Platform Architecture, which across the country. Adding more customer interactions management programmes to support more diverse Green Development Index and retained its National significantly enhanced our operation efficiency, data and digital services, including convenient charging, health needs of our workforce, to ensure that our workers Green Plant status in China. quality and platform compatibility for various application allows us to build a stronger and longer-term customer have access to excellent information and advice on how scenarios. relationship with high brand loyalty. to improve their health in their personal and professional lives. 06 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 07 AN OVERVIEW OF BMW BRILLIANCE OUR PRODUCTS ABOUT BMW BRILLIANCE OUR FACILITIES OUR DELIVERY 1 2 2 1 534,990 BMW Brilliance was founded in 2003 as a joint Complete Vehicle Powertrain venture of the parent companies Bayerische Motoren Plants in Dadong and Plant in Tiexi Tiexi Werke Aktiengesellschaft (BMW) and Brilliance China Automobiles produced Automotive Holdings Limited. BMW 1 Series | Sedan BMW 2 Series | Tourer 2 5 544,549 Our business operations include production, research Branch Offices Sales Regional Offices and development, supply chain management and purchasing, sales and aftersales services of BMW Automobiles wholesaled 3 5 automobiles in China. BMW Brilliance has a state-ofthe-art production base in Shenyang, Liaoning Province 8 BMW Brilliance Finished Vehicle Dispatch Areas 5 BMW Brilliance Spare Parts Distribution Centres 32,246 – an industrial heartland of China. We are inspired by the potential of doing business in a sustainable manner and guided by our aspiration to be the 4 Training Centres* 17 Training Bases** New Energy Vehicles wholesaled BMW 3 Series | Long Wheelbase BMW 5 Series | Long Wheelbase and standard version *Including plug-in hybrid model leading sustainable provider of premium individual mobility across the entire value chain of China’s automotive 647 X1 X2 industry. Authorised dealer outlets OUR WORKFORCE BMW X1 | Long Wheelbase BMW X2 Shenyang *Including plug-in hybrid model Beijing 19,824 X3 Employees Zhengzhou Xi’an Shanghai Chengdu Hangzhou Ningbo BMW X3 ZINORO 60H/100H Headquarter * Plug-in hybrid model Branch Office Sales Regional Office Training Centre Guangzhou Note: Foshan Finished Vehicle Plant Dispatch Area *Training Centres BMW managed and (Plant Tiexi and Plant Dadong) deliver trainings for dealers. Finished Vehicle Decentralised **Training Basescooperatively managed for Dispatch Area vocational training. Open to dealers based on proximity. Provide BMW Certificate Courses Spare Parts Distribution Centre and Body/Paint Courses for dealers. BMW 3 Cylinder Engine BMW 4 Cylinder Engine High-Voltage Battery 08 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 09 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2019 JAN MAR MAY JUL SEP NOV FEB APR JUN AUG OCT DEC JAN MAR MAY JUL SEP NOV • Dr. Johann Wieland’s meeting with • First training base for BMW Children’s • 2019 BMW Corporate Social • Launched vehicle transportation • BMW Brilliance models won 2019 • BMW Brilliance Plant Tiexi Customer Car Shenyang Party Secretary opened Traffic Safety Ambassadors established Responsibility Forum. cooperation with China Railway China Automobile Customer Handover Centre officially launched. new chapter of win-win cooperation. in Changsha. Special Cargo Service Ltd. Satisfaction Index from CAQ. • BMW Brilliance Plant Dadong Vehicle • 1st BMW Brilliance Compliance Day • BMW China Culture Journey’s visit in • Launched Sustainability Report for Dispatch Area Completion Ceremony. successfully held. JUN Hainan kicked off. the 6th consecutive year. FEB • Unveiling ceremony of the BMW Brilliance • LingYue Digital Information Technology • 2019 BMW Brilliance Grand Supplier Co., Ltd officially inaugurated. • 5G mobile network went live at all • Launch of the innovative BMW X2. Art Plant Space. • Launch of the BMW 530Le Day. BMW Brilliance production sites in iPerformance Pioneer Edition. China. • Launch of the All-New BMW 3 Series. • Obtained ISO 50001:2011 Energy • Tiexi New Plant Project began ground OCT DEC • Plaque unveiling of the BMW Brilliance Management System Certification. APR Training Centre at the Sino-German foundation work. • BMW Brilliance President & CEO • BMW Brilliance Plant Tiexi Parent-Child Plant Industrial Park. Dr. Johann Wieland received the 2019 Discovery officially launched. • BMW Brilliance 2 Millionth engine celebration. China Friendship Award. AUG • “Climate Change Action Choose Your • Broke ground on Plant Dadong • Start of Production Event for new Future Road” environmental campaign held Extension. • BMW Brilliance Media Club Joy Run BMW 5 Series PHEV battery at Plant in Shenyang facilities. kicked off. Powertrain. • The All-New BMW X3 gained five-star • BMW Brilliance ranked #1 in Automotive C-NCAP rating. Enterprise Green Development Index. 10 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 11 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS KEY PERFORMANCE ACROSS VALUE CHAIN Research & Development Supply Chain Production Logistics & Transport Sales & Utilisation Disposal & Recycling BMW iX3 Sustainable Sourcing 5G -17.4% 5.79 L/100km 124,600 Cutting-edge BMW Efficient Dynamics Direct sourcing of High-Voltage Coverage at our Shenyang Reduction in CO2 emissions per unit Corporate Average Fuel Recycled parts Battery raw materials production base for inbound logistics Consumption We procure raw materials of HighOur Shenyang production base is The CO2 emissions per unit for Our Corporate Average Fuel We recycled 124,600 parts in 2019, The all-new fully electric BMW iX3, Voltage Battery cells directly from the first automobile site with 5G inbound logistics was 180 kg/unit Consumption in 2019 was down with a total weight of over 563 t. which incorporates the latest BMW Efficient Dynamics technologies sustainable sources. connectivity in the world. by end of 2019, down by 17.4% from by 0.86% from 2018. including the 5th generation eDrive 2018. system and aerodynamic design, will be produced at our Shenyang production base in 2020. + 83% 100% 100% -45% 130,000+ ReLife Point Increase in e-range Regenerative energy for Gen5 HVB Renewable electricity used in Reduction in CO2 emissions per unit Public charging pillars provided Centralised parts remanufacturing/ suppliers Shenyang production base for outbound logistics since 2014 recycling facility Enabled by our latest advancement in We cascade sustainability We used 100% renewable electricity The CO2 emissions per unit for By end of 2019, we provided In 2019, we started using the battery cell technology, we increased commitments to our Tier-1 and Tierin our Shenyang production base, outbound logistics was 141 kg/unit by 130,000+ public charging pillars first centralised facility for parts the e-range of the X1 xDrive 30 Le and 2 suppliers of High-Voltage Battery to including the generation of solar end of 2019, which has been reduced across 200 cities in China. remanufacturing and recycling, the ZINORO 100H plug-in hybrid compact use 100% regenerative energy in the power electricity, and the purchase by 45% since 2014. ReLife Point, to enhance the collection SAVs by 83%. production of BMW Gen5 HVB. of wind power electricity and I-RECs. and circular use of materials. Gold Medal 394 -68.3% 98% 450 3,263 in 2019 C-ECAP evaluation Local content suppliers in China Reduction in CO2 emissions per Parts using returnable packaging BMW NEV dealer outlets Total defective HVB recycling vehicle produced volume by pieces The BMW 5 Series joined the Our local content suppliers grew We reduced our CO2 emissions per 98% of our local parts were We expanded our NEV dealer This year, we recycled 3,263 evaluation of the 2019 China Ecoto 394 and our total purchasing vehicle produced (in t/vehicle) by transported in returnable packaging outlets from 336 to 450 in 2019, pieces of defective HVB with a Car Assessment Programme volume increased by 15.3% to 49.7 68.3% from 2018. in 2019, contributing to material covering more cities with better total weight of 78,875 kg. (C-ECAP) and obtained an overall billion RMB in 2019, reflecting our saving and carbon reduction. service. Gold Medal. long-term localisation strategy. * in which Scope 2 emissions are calculated by market-based methodology in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. 12 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 13 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change from Change from previous previous 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years % 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years % BUSINESS ACTIVITIES PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION Revenues from operations (in RMB million) 94,881 98,436 113,197 141,918 172,692 21.7 Total hazardous waste (in t) 5,999 5,747 8,164 11,164 10,199 –8.6 Tax (in RMB billion) 20 21 25 31 35 12.9 Local content suppliers in China (number) 319 345 359 378 394 4.2 Automobiles produced (in unit) 288,055 305,845 396,888 490,151 534,990 9.1 Purchasing volume in China (in RMB billion) 23.5 23.9 26.7 43.1 49.7 15.3 Automobiles wholesaled (in unit) 287,488 310,041 386,556 465,192 544,549 17.1 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Authorised dealer outlets nationwide (number) 515 558 598 625 647 3.5 Total workforce at year-end (number) 16,573 16,286 16,686 18,925 19,824 4.8 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Female employees in total workforce (in %) 12.8 12.9 12.8 12.0 12.1 0.8 Average ﬂeet CO2 emissions (in g/km) 165.4 159.2 146.9 139 137.8 –0.9 Employees in management positions (in %) 6.3 6.7 6.9 6.6 6.9 4.5 Corporate average fuel consumption (in l/100 km) 6.95 6.69 6.17 5.84 5.79 –0.9 Female employees in management positions (in %) 27.5 28.4 30.2 30.0 30.6 2.0 New Energy Vehicles wholesaled (in unit) 1,249 480 1,983 21,438 32,246 50.4 Chinese employees in management positions (in %) 78.1 82.0 85.0 86.0 85.5 –0.6 Total new employee hires (in %) 11.6 2.2 8.0 17.3 8.95 –48.6 PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION Attrition rate (in %) 3.8 3.3 4.5 4.8 3.6 –25.0 Total Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 9,538,536 9,901,541 11,884,985 14,190,033 15,417,955 8.7 Average days of further training per employee 2.2 1.7 2.1 1.79 1.23 –31.3 (in day/person) 2 Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 24,057 33,570 37,448 35,733 42,141 17.9 Accident frequency rate (per one million hours worked) 1.06 0.54 0.43 0.28 0.17 –39.3 Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 229,126 309,154 240,747 281,753 68,602 3 –75.7 Beneficiaries of BMW CSR activities (number) 100,400 136,600 157,600 80,292 2,628,7106 3,173.9 Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 9,285,353 9,558,817 11,606,790 13,872,546 15,307,2126 10.3 Expenditure on social commitment activities (in RMB) 17,064,616 15,575,085 16,513,831 6.0 Share of renewable electricity (in %) 25 43 1004 132.6 Note: CO2 emissions per vehicle produced (in t/vehicle) 0.88 1.13 0.70 0.63 0.20 1,2 –68.3 1. Direct CO2 emissions generated by fossil fuel consumption at BMW Brilliance plants, excluding the fossil fuel consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. The coefficients used for calculation are from Emission Factors for Electricity, District Heating and Fuels issued by Application of German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA). Energy consumption per vehicle produced (in MWh/vehicle) 1.66 2.05 1.83 1.65 1.63 –1.2 2. Indirect CO2 emissions generated by the consumption of purchased electricity and heating at the BMW Brilliance plants, excluding purchased electricity and heating consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. For calculation of the Scope 2 emissions, “market-based” methodology is used in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance issued Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced by the World Resources Institute. 0.45 0.40 0.54 0.56 0.52 –7.1 (in kg/vehicle) 3. Indirect CO2 emissions generated in the upstream supply chain, the utilisation phase and the disposal of automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for sales in mainland China market of the year. Emissions from the supply chain and the disposal are based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines, calculated by Thinkstep’s 3 Water consumption per vehicle produced (in m /vehicle) 2.18 2.58 2.68 2.47 2.40 –2.8 LCA tool GaBi. Emissions from the utilisation phase are based on the average fleet emissions of automobiles delivered of BMW Brilliance and an average mileage of 150,000 kilometres per vehicle. 4. Including the generation of solar power electricity, the purchase of wind power electricity and International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs). Process wastewater per vehicle produced (in m3/vehicle) 0.46 0.46 0.39 0.42 0.44 4.8 5. Figures related to new employees from 2017 onwards are not directly comparable to figures from previous years due to changes in calculation method. New employees figures before 2017 are those who joined BMW Brilliance during the year and still worked with BMW Brilliance at year-end. Figures from 2017 to 2019 are those who joined BMW Brilliance Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 9.17 6.42 7.43 8.05 7.47 –7.2 during the year, regardless of whether they still worked with BMW Brilliance at year-end or not. 6. In 2019, BMW Brilliance organised multiple training programmes on traffic safety through online platforms, which enabled a significant increase in the number of beneficiaries of our CSR activities. Total waste (in t) 33,299 46,033 71,976 85,237 87,013 2.1 Total non-hazardous waste (in t) 27,300 40,286 63,812 74,073 76,814 3.7 14 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 15 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 01 At BMW Brilliance, we aspire to be the leading sustainable premium FUNDAMENTALS provider of individual mobility in China’s automotive industry. This requires our dedication to delivering value that improves the quality of life of our stakeholders, and making positive impacts on the environment and society in which we work and live. Sustainability Strategy and Management 17 Sustainability is one of the cornerstones of BMW Brilliance’s corporate Stakeholder Engagement 24 strategy, and it is at the core of our long-term success as a resilient business, driving our future-oriented transformation and leadership in premium mobility Compliance Governance 27 and services in China, especially in the context of the VUCA (volatile, uncertain, New Technologies 31 complex and ambiguous) era. Forecast 2020 33 At BMW Brilliance, we take on the responsibility of a good corporate citizen by offering more sustainable vehicles and mobility solutions, spurring technological innovation, enabling the transition to a low-carbon economy, and creating shared benefits for all our stakeholders as we work towards a sustainable future. We are committed to responsible and transparent business conduct, and extend this expectation to business partners along our value chain. OUR STRATEGY AND FRAMEWORK Shaped by these beliefs and the sustainability Our Sustainability principles (3Ps), our sustainability strategy is Principles designed to be the manifesto for our future. It aligns with international and national frameworks including the UN Sustainable Development Goals and China's National Plan on Implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and reflects our ongoing support for China's 13th Five-Year Plan. Our strategy lands with a practical framework People people are at the heart of everything we do. which sets out strategic focus areas across the three pillars of our value creation model Planet environmental stewardship is key to longProducts and Services, Production and Value term success. Creation, and Employees and Society as Prosperity value derived well as strategic enablers that support and from sustainable mobility. accelerate our transformation to a sustainable business. It also serves to guide our decisionmaking, synergise sustainability actions and align efforts for greater traceability, scalability, and a more resilient business performance. 16 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 17 This year, we made a slight adjustment to our Strategy Framework by extending Defining Material Sustainability Issues Focus Area #1: Emissions Reduction Affecting Climate and Air Quality to cover also the pillar of Employees and Society, as we strive to strengthen Materiality analysis enables a deep dive into external and internal perspectives employees’ ownership for taking concrete actions against climate change and on sustainability-related risks and opportunities, which we use to define our environmental pollution, and engage our stakeholders and broader society priority sustainability issues and shape our strategic direction to address the through customer and community programmes. issues with the highest external stakeholder impact and internal business value. We enrich the scope of one of our strategic enablers: New Technologies, with In 2018, we conducted a materiality refresh with an evidence-based approach 5G, AI, efficient dynamics and NEV technologies to realise the potential of to test our historical priorities. The robust process explored internal and external these emerging technological breakthroughs in disrupting, transforming, and stakeholder expectations, major trends, benchmarks, and business impacts empowering our business. to determine areas for action. The outcome of this process was an updated list of 13 material issues that were considered most relevant both by external stakeholders and by the company, and which involve significant opportunities for BMW Brilliance to work towards sustainable development. Figure 01 Figure 02 Our Strategy Framework Materiality Matrix High Product & service safety Sustainable Target BMW Brilliance Sustainability product portfolio picture Responsible HR & R&D Aspiration, Goals and Approach management Charity & corporate Energy consumption & citizenship Waste & effluents renewable energy Products & Services Production & Value Creation Employees & Society Relevance for stakeholders Access to labour 1 Emission reduction affecting climate and air quality Transparency Compliance, Air pollution corruption, anti-competitive Sustainable products “Smart & Green” resource Talent growth and 2 5 7 Community Data GHG emissions & climate change behaviour & Focus and services efficiency well-being Medium & economic protection & business ethics areas Material & resource use Automation & development privacy digitalisation Customers’ health and Community and social 3 6 Sustainable supply chain 8 development through creating safety shared value Marketing & communication Occupational 4 Production and R&D localisation to support workforce growth and upskilling health & safety After-sales service Mobility infrastructure Adopt cutting-edge technologies incl. Industry 4.0, digitalisation, 5G, AI, New technologies efficient dynamics and NEV technologies etc. Human rights Forced & Public policy Enablers Sustainability mindset Motivate and engage management, employees, customers, and partners. Water consumption child labour Sustainability governance Employ lean and effective sustainability management. Land use & biodiversity Comply with regulatory requirements, prepare for and help shape Low Compliance & beyond future regulatory change. Low Medium High Relevance for BMW Brilliance Product Responsibility Environment Society & Human Rights Workplace Impacts 18 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 19 Products & Production & Employees & These results, which were validated by our Board of Management in 2019, Material Issues Services Value Creation Society reinforced our strategic orientation to address climate change and improve air quality, to build an accountable and transparent value chain, and to enhance Product & service safety. → p.36 Total Quality Management corporate citizenship and local community development. It also helps us → p.38 Customer Health Protection navigate sustainability risks and potential consequences, and refine the → p.48 Customer Satisfaction and Dealer Performance strategic approach we take to build a sustainable future for our business and Sustainable product portfolio and R&D. society: Aftersales service. Mobility infrastructure. – Climate and air pollution. The necessity of addressing climate change and → p.40 Product Lifecycle Carbon Emissions → p.42 Forging E-mobility Ecosystem pollution has a high impact both on the short-term and long-term business → p.45 Circular Use of Materials → p.47 Customer-centric Services success of BMW Brilliance. International commitment such as the Paris Climate Agreement and the tightening vehicle emission requirements in GHG emissions & climate change. China continue to drive the auto industry to transform product portfolio and Energy consumption & renewable energy. service model, while physical disturbances linked to natural resources and Air pollution. weather-related damages can interrupt supply chains and the availability of → p.25 Sustainability Mindset Fostering raw materials. To enhance reslience to climate-related risks, we have been → p.40 Product Lifecycle Carbon Emissions → p.42 Forging E-mobility Ecosystem improving the resource efficiency of our production, and developing a more → p.45 Circular Use of Materials sustainable product portfolio to respond to increasing market demand for → p.49 Fostering Sustainable Lifestyle for BMW Customers → p.58 Green Production more CO2-efficient vehicles, E-mobility ecosystem and services. → p.67 Green Logistics – Accountable and transparent value chain. Regulations and societal Waste & effluents. Materials and resources use. expectations are calling for more transparent business operations, and to Water consumption. take accountability for environmental and social performance across the → p.40 Product Lifecycle Carbon Emissions whole value chain. In particular, Environmental, Social and Governance → p.42 Forging E-mobility Ecosystem → p.45 Circular Use of Materials (ESG) risks of our diverse supply chain with respect to their environmental, → p.48 Customer Satisfaction and Dealer Performance → p.58 Green Production health and safety performance could be critical to our business continuity → p.67 Green Logistics and increase our cost of doing business. In response, we have been → p.72 Sustainable Supply Chain optimising our supplier risk management framework to increase supplier Automation and digitalisation. transparency through systemic assessment, management, disclosure and Data protection and privacy. prevention of EHS compliance-related risks. → p.27 Compliance Governance → p.31 New Technologies → p.47 Customer-centric Services – People and community development. The future success of BMW Brilliance → p.48 Customer Satisfaction and Dealer Performance highly depends on our ability to recruit, retain and develop talent, and we → p.56 Smart Manufacturing → p.58 Green Production must also sustain our social rights to operate in our community. Inability → p.67 Green Logistics to attract, retain and ensure ongoing commitment of our workforce or engagement with the community where we work could cause a negative Compliance, corruption, anti-competitive behavior & business ethics. Transparency. impact on our growth paths and company reputation. To meet expectations Human rights. Forced & child labour. from employees and communities, we have a strong focus on building → p.27 Compliance Governance company culture and values, ensuring equal opportunities for talent growth → p.58 Green Production → p.72 Sustainable Supply Chain and development, and supporting community growth through various CSR → p.82 Responsible Human Resources Management → p.90 Health, Safety and Wellbeing and local development programmes. Charity & corporate citizenship. Community & Economic Development. Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals → p.54 Production Strategy → p.94 Corporate Social Responsibility → p.72 Sustainable Supply Chain → p.103 Supporting the Communities in which We Work The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are part of a global action plan with the purpose of shaping economic progress in an environmentally Responsible human resource management. Access to labour. compatible manner and in accordance with social equity. At BMW Brilliance, Occupational health & safety. we believe it is our duty to uphold this social contract, and we have prioritised → p.82 Responsible Human Resources Management our actions to contribute to the SDGs that are most relevant to our business, → p.87 Long-term Employee Development → p.90 Health, Safety and Wellbeing and linked these goals to our company-wide strategic approach. 20 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 21 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AND INTEGRATION Guided by our sustainability strategy and management commitments, we are in full stride to integrate sustainability “top-down” into every aspect of our At BMW Brilliance, our Board of Management ensures that sustainability is business and value chain with specific targets and key performance indicators. integrated into all key business decisions regarding the overall direction of the This means that for every major issue and project, environmental and social company. We incorporate sustainability into the annual target-setting process elements are part of the decision-making process, along with economic factors. through which business functions must set and deliver on concrete targets from By adopting this practice, sustainability as a corporate objective is integrated a sustainability perspective. This ensures that the overall direction set by the into all levels of business areas and divisions. Board of Management is implemented in a systematic way, with accountability for the business functions. The Board of Management is also responsible for Another focal point of sustainability integration at BMW Brilliance is our ensuring compliance with all provisions of the law and internal regulations as Sustainability Lighthouse Initiatives, where we prototype innovative solutions well as for adequate risk management and control > p.27 Managing Compliance. and pioneer technologies to address the most pressing sustainability issues identified in our materiality and stakeholder engagement process. Our internal business functions are responsible for leading progress on sustainability-related decisions made by the Board of Management. This A good example is the “Artemis Project”, an initiative proposed in 2017 to process is steered and monitored by Management Circles across business increase transparency in our supply chain on Environmental, Health, and functions. Through regular reviews, Management Circles ensure that decisions Safety (EHS) risk management. After a year of pilot implementation, a from the Board of Management are translated into actionable items with thorough EHS risk assessment process and risk profile of key suppliers were measurable targets and cascaded effectively to the operational level for established which proved effective in preventing, reducing, and managing implementation. supplier EHS risks. The process was then integrated with the EHS Protection Activity (EPA) programme and became one of the key pillars of our supplier Within this process, our sustainability Centre of Competency at the risk management framework, and has been evolving from reactive risk control corporate level takes on the role of driving the development, integration, and practice to empowering suppliers to build a more resilient operation model, implementation of our corporate sustainability strategy and new initiatives. It with expanded capacity building scopes covering risk technology, process coordinates resources across business functions to ensure that the actions we optimisation and government relationship for instance > p.75 Supplier Risk take are coherent and synergistic, and takes the lead on sustainability reporting Assessment and Performance. and communication matters. The 2019 BMW Brilliance Grand Supplier Day: Shape a Sustainable Future Together. Figure 03 Sustainability governance framework Board of Management Overall Sustainability Direction (CEO and all SVPs) • Define corporate sustainability directions and goals. • Make critical decisions to advance sustainable business transformation. Sustainability Centre Sustainability Governing and Steering of Competence / • Drive sustainability integration into all related decision-making processes and Management Circles setting of measurable targets. • Steer and coordinate sustainability innovation and implementation. • Lead sustainability disclosure and stakeholder communication. Operational Sustainability Implementation Functions • Translate sustainability targets into actionable items. • Implement sustainability strategy through innovations, new initiatives and operational transformation. 22 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 23 Figure 04 Our Stakeholder Map Academic Institutions Roundtables, lectures, discussions with experts, scholars and students Future Talent Specialised and localised programmes, traineeships, and vocational education opportunities Communist Party of China Events with the CPC and BMW Brilliance Policy Decision-Makers Regular discussions on key topics such as emission standards, the advancement of E-mobility and supporting infrastructure, and promotion of innovation Regulatory Authorities Regular communication with local authorities Media Media trips, press releases, information events on new products, test BMW Brilliance Launched 5G Pilot Project with strong drives and trade fairs support from Shenyang Municipal Government. BMW Brilliance Stakeholder Shareholders Communication between our Board of Management and Board of Engagement Directors and shareholder representatives (BMW Group and Brilliance Group) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Employees BMW Brilliance Trade Union, employee survey, dialogues with managers, internal communications At BMW Brilliance, our production and our products connect us to diverse Suppliers Industry initiatives, joint events, training courses, supplier risk stakeholders, whose viewpoints and actions have a decisive impact on our assessments, supplier forum own success. We proactively engage in ongoing dialogue about sustainability topics with stakeholders both at our production locations and nationwide, to Dealers Regular interaction with sales organisations and dealers, business conferences ensure that we understand our own impacts and influence, and that we are responding effectively to stakeholder perspectives. Local Communities One-on-one meetings, plant visits, neighbourhood dialogue, press events, investment into local communities as part of CSR commitment Customers Surveys, social media, trade fairs, autoshows, mass media STAKEHOLDER MAPPING AND ENGAGEMENT Our major stakeholder groups include our shareholders, customers, employees, Academic institutions are important partners in talent development, and in suppliers, and dealers, as well as government authorities, the media, academic 2019 we signed 10 cooperation agreements with high schools and vocational institutions, our future workforce, and local communities. We incorporate schools, expanding the reach of the dual system of vocational education into sustainability issues into our interactions with different stakeholder groups in the university system. As demand for technical personnel is surging, BMW a variety of ways, with topics and formats that are tailored to each group. For Brilliance is proactively working with academic institutions to enhance educational example, our CEO meets with provincial and municipal leaders to establish programmes and develop talent for the future workforce throughout the value commitments for mutual strategic development, and we collaborate with local chain. universities to boost talent development that will meet our workforce needs. BMW Brilliance is always seeking to better understand our customers and We strive to address critical issues and concerns in a timely and transparent their expectations in 2019, this included a forum on Listening to the Voice manner, and to analyse current and coming expectations in different areas of Consumers, held at Plant Dadong. Associates learned about customer of sustainability management. Engaging in dialogue with stakeholders also expectations and characteristics, and had a dialogue with experts about means that we can share our perspective on possible responses and actions current challenges and future trends. related to any challenges, whether at the local, national, or global levels. BMW Brilliance works closely with the government on areas of mutual interest SUSTAINABILITY MINDSET FOSTERING and cooperation, such as the development of local manufacturing capacity and industrial transformation. Our top management meets regularly with local We foster a sustainability mindset throughout our organisation, with events municipal and provincial government authorities to strengthen collaboration specifically designed for the purpose of creating a shared awareness of key and address any issues that may arise. The Shenyang government support sustainability issues. We share current trends, challenges and best practices has been instrumental to BMW Brilliance’s success, including in development of key sustainability topics, as well as the specific actions BMW Brilliance is of the infrastructure that enabled us to become the first automotive plant taking through our initiatives. We empower employees to adopt a sustainability worldwide to utilise 5G. In 2019, our CEO was honoured to receive the 2019 mindset in their daily work and to make changes in their own lives. China Friendship Award, the highest national award given to foreign experts for their contributions to China’s social and economic progress. 24 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 25 The environmental campaign on “Climate Change Action – Choose Your Future Road” was held successfully at Plant Powertrain, Plant Dadong, and Plant Tiexi in December. Through interactive effects and popular VR games, participants learned about the correlation between carbon emissions and climate change, commitments made by different countries and industries, best practices in the BMW Brilliance value chain, and their carbon footprint in everyday life. Our employees also learned how their own daily work is contributing to reducing BMW Brilliance’s carbon emissions and combating climate change, and gained a deeper understanding of sustainability through active participation. 2019 Compliance Day at BMW Brilliance. Figure 05 Highlights of the Climate Change Action Choose your Future Road campaign COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE We have built a strong compliance culture and infrastructure as a foundation for putting our values into practice in a complex and constantly evolving regulatory environment. At BMW Brilliance, our compliance efforts are wide-ranging to enable us to meet requirements on anti-corruption, anti-fraud, anti-monopoly and fair competition, information security, data privacy and cybersecurity, product quality and consumer rights protection, trade compliance, workplace health and Light and Shadow VR Game Zero Waste and safety, conformity of production and admittance and environmental protection. Illustration Session Recyclable Our policies are based on applicable laws and regulations, and we implement A digital gallery of climate Learn about carbon All materials were and monitor initiatives systematically with multiple communication channels, change-related information emissions sources in BMW recyclable and no training, risk management, and remediation to ensure that compliance and knowledge. Brilliance and experience printed materials were extreme weather events used throughout the requirements are understood and enforced. through popular VR games. campaign. MANAGING COMPLIANCE Environmental compliance is a topic of increasing importance, and our associates are keen to gain knowledge on environmental protection and how it Our compliance system is designed to address long-standing requirements such relates to their daily work. In February 2019, the BMW Brilliance “COMPLIANCE as fair competition and anti-corruption, and also to respond to emerging issues DAY” event was held to build associates' awareness and knowledge with such as cybersecurity and data privacy, with monitoring and implementation respect to environmental protection and compliance topics. Through interactive of new government policies and regulations. In addition, we emphasise the activities, associates had the opportunity to learn about the key environmental importance of each individual BMW Brilliance associate acting lawfully and laws and regulations in China, common environmental incidents, as well as responsibly, creating a culture which supports compliance. BMW Brilliance's management towards environmental protection. More than 630 participants gained knowledge about environmental protection as well as The compliance management circle is chaired by our CEO, with a BMW Brilliance compliance tips relevant to their daily work, and had the opportunity to provide Compliance Committee (BCC) that includes representatives from Human inputs and suggestions. Resources, Legal Affairs and Compliance, Controlling and Risk Management, Corporate Audit, Business Development, and Government Affairs. In 2020, further enlargement of BCC is scheduled to enhance IT governance and quality management. The BMW Brilliance Compliance Committee Office (BCCO) manages daily compliance matters across the organisation, along with a Compliance Operations Network of department heads, plant directors, and regional sales office heads. A network of Compliance Interfaces from each department was developed, and in September 2019, the first BMW Brilliance Compliance Interfaces Workshop was successfully convened in Shenyang, with constructive exchange on multiple topics including anti-corruption, compliance risk management, and conflict of interest. 26 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 27 In 2019, we enhanced the application of IT tools for compliance management, Our sales divisions in Beijing and regional offices as well as the related purchasing WE ARE COMPLIANCE including a due diligence evaluation for onboarding indirect purchasing and R&D teams receive regular legal and compliance team trainings on antisuppliers. BCCO is also working with the IT department on an online approval monopoly legal requirements specific to the automotive industry. We also In March 2019, we organised process to enhance internal anti-trust controls, which is expected to go live in include compliance clauses for external partners in purchase contracts and dealer Compliance Day events in 2020. the Beijing office and three agreements. Shenyang plants, increasing BMW Brilliance monitors compliance risks through a periodic Compliance Risk the compliance awareness of Compliance Case Management and Support Management Report. In 2019, major updates to the report were introduced more than 1,000 associates. to make the assessment more targeted, accurate, and effective. In-depth Employees, suppliers, and business partners can submit any compliance concerns trainings on compliance risk management were also provided. through line managers or personnel of BCCO, Corporate Audit, or Human Resources. Processes for community members to raise concerns are in place at the plant level. Figure 06 BMW Brilliance compliance management system Concerns can also be raised through our confidential and anonymous SpeakUp hotline, which is managed by the BMW Brilliance Compliance team. We acknowledge, AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE / investigate as appropriate, and document all concerns. Where concerns are BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF BMW BRILLIANCE investigated and substantiated, we report them, take appropriate remedial actions, and document the outcomes. BMW Brilliance does not tolerate any form of BMW BRILLIANCE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT retaliation against anyone who raises a concern or participates in an investigation. BMW BRILLIANCE In addition to regular support for the Compliance Network, BMW Brilliance COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Compliance team has actively participated in compliance-related projects that are steered by other business functions (e.g, environment protection and BMW BRILLIANCE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE OFFICE information security) through joint trainings, workshops and events. BMW BRILLIANCE COMPLIANCE OPERATIONS NETWORK DATA PRIVACY AND CYBERSECURITY Data privacy is a concern across all industries as technological innovation Compliance Training and Communication and digitalisation create new risks for companies and for customers. At BMW Brilliance, we are making significant investments in protecting customer, partner, All employees at BMW Brilliance are required to follow the Legal Compliance and employee data. In 2018, we developed initiatives to raise awareness and to Code, supported by processes including risk assessments, mitigation, training strengthen our data privacy protection systems and culture. Since late 2018, we programmes, and a whistle-blowing mechanism. We have open communication have engaged an external firm to review our internal personal data processes, with all employees, and our Compliance Committee Chairman and General primarily regarding employees, to identify gaps and develop mitigation plans to Counsel regularly send letters on important policies and announcements with comply with the latest legal requirements. Related best practices and lessons information on how to actively mitigate specific compliance scenarios. learned from completing the internal mitigation plan, which is expected to be completed in 2020, will also be extended to customer data protection. Our training efforts are designed to ensure that our employees are fully aware of our compliance requirements. We have mandatory online training modules 100% To enhance cybersecurity, BMW Brilliance collaborates with other BMW Group on the Legal Compliance Code, with more than 700 new associates completing legal entities in China to navigate Cyber Security Law compliance topics. Mitigation Compliance online training online training in 2019. BCCO is preparing more online training modules which procedures were also developed in collaboration with the IT department and an completion rate of nominated can be viewed on mobile devices to improve accessibility for employees. new associates. external party which will support implementation and training. In-person legal and compliance trainings were also provided to more than 3,300 internal trainees in 2019. Training courses are customised to reflect specific PREPARATION FOR THE SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM business scenarios, with topics such as anti-corruption, anti-monopoly, anti-fraud, compliance risk management, conflict of interest, and information protection. Joint By 2020, all citizens and businesses in China will be evaluated by a social credit trainings are provided by BCCO and core teams to target groups on specialised rating, which aims to create transparency on compliance with official obligations topics such as environmental management and cross-border taxes. and incentivise behaviour. The comprehensive national social credit scores for over 33 million business participants have been completed by the National We also introduced WeCompliance, a user-friendly platform on the intranet Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and are expected to be made page with Case Studies, Legislation Express, and compliance notifications. In publicly available in the future. The scores will have broad implications for 2019, a total of 94 WeCompliance pop-up messages on various topics were business which could be positive or negative, in areas such as business access, released, with positive feedback from associates. capital funding, and government programmes. 28 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 29 At BMW Brilliance, our preparations for the 2020 Social Credit System include NEW TECHNOLOGIES completion of a self-assessment that identifies potential risks and gaps within our operations. We established cross-department coordination and BMW Brilliance takes a leading role in driving the fundamental transformation responsibility, and for any gaps identified, the relevant departments must of China’s automotive industry in terms of the innovation, application, and submit a mitigation plan to the compliance team. We will continue to provide integration of the latest technologies. training and notifications to assist employees in understanding the legislation and implementing trends, and detailed requirements of the system. As a technological pioneer in the automotive industry, we are shaping the future production system with innovation, digitalisation, and application of Industry 4.0 technologies. Within our organisation, we are constructing one unified RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS digital platform for technological communication. Outside of BMW Brilliance, we are driving technologies and knowledge sharing to boost the capacity of our We are committed to respecting the human rights of all individuals impacted partners. We create an open environment that encourages innovation and the by our operations. The BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Equity Contract includes cultivation of a digital culture, where our employees are motivated to unlock the a requirement to establish policies and procedures at BMW Brilliance to avoid full potential of new technologies. human rights infringements and to address adverse human rights impacts that might involve our company. We base our respect for human rights on We want to lead the digital transformation of the automotive industry, as we internationally agreed principles such as those set out in the International Bill believe it can contribute to creating smarter solutions, optimising business of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on processes and efficiency, and ensuring our long-term competitiveness across Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We expect all employees and the value chain. Supported by four focus areas – Visual Recognition, Smart Data business partners to respect human rights in their daily actions. and Analytics, Innovative Automation, and Virtual Planning & Commissioning, our digitalisation strategy is also an enabler of a more sustainable business Human rights issues are managed by the relevant business functions of BMW approach, with information technology (IT) fully integrated throughout our Brilliance, with the Human Resources Department responsible for assuring human business operations. rights within our operations, and the Purchasing and Supplier Quality Management Department responsible to ensure that suppliers respect human rights. THE WORLD’S FIRST 5G AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTION BASE As part of our efforts to prevent human rights violations, we provide information and training to employees in particular on the SpeakUP programmes. We also In 2019, BMW Brilliance became the world’s first manufacturer to apply 5G conduct risk analyses and human rights impact assessments, and we maintain technology in automotive R&D and production. internal monitoring and reporting structures. Our cooperation with business 35 partners and our dialogue with stakeholders also allow us to identify and We believe that 5G is a ground-breaking technology with the potential to address risks quickly. revolutionise industrial production. We submitted a proposal to the Shenyang 5G base stations, and Municipal Government in 2017, seeking support to accelerate the construction The following governance documents and policies embed human rights into our business practices. of Shenyang’s 5G network. In 2018, we were the first 5G pilot company in 21 Objective: Shenyang to begin developing a 5G network at our production base. And this Issues Addressed A founding document of BMW Brilliance as Our commitment to the United Nations year, we led the automotive industry into a new stage of high-end manufacturing BMW Brilliance Joint Venture Contract a Joint Venture between BMW Group and Global Compact and respect for the with our bold and pioneering progress. Brilliance Automotive, the Contract sets out the International Labour Organisation’s labour signal towers across key principles of business conduct. guidelines are explicitly stated. our Shenyang production plants. BMW Brilliance is taking a leading role in testing the use of 5G to improve Objective: Issues Addressed industrial productivity. The benefits of this new technology are not just in its The Associate Handbook, which includes All human rights issues relevant to human high data rate and rapid response time, but also in the reliability and security Associate our Ethics and Code of Conduct as well as resources are reviewed in the handbook, such Handbook our Business Principles, communicates to all as non-discrimination, remuneration, working of the network, which provide optimal conditions for innovations that utilise employees their rights and responsibilities, as hours, and other terms of employment. well as our corporate values. large quantities of data in real time. These include applications such as virtual and augmented reality, wide-scale networking of machines, and the use of Objective: Issues Addressed autonomous logistics fleets. The Legal Compliance Code explains the central Human rights protection is emphasised in Legal Compliance Code importance of lawful conduct to BMW Brilliance multiple sections of the Legal Compliance and provides an overview of the legal areas Code, including Mutual Esteem and Principle We have begun applying 5G technology in a pilot project that uses the network relevant to our business. of Non-discrimination, Safety at Workplace, and Data Protection. to transfer large quantities of test data from vehicles to the data centre in real time, making data collection and analysis more efficient. In 2020, we will continue to explore more 5G application scenarios in our R&D and production Objective: Issues Addressed General T&C for the process, and step-by-step upgrade our existing systems to enable 5G Purchase of Goods Our terms and conditions of procurement govern Environmental criteria as well as recognised and Services the rights and obligations of the parties involved. human rights and labour standards are transmission and reception. included. 30 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 31 TRANSFORMING TO A UNIFIED PLATFORM ARCHITECTURE FORECAST 2020 As we adopt more and more digital tools and applications across our business in pursuit of higher efficiency and smarter big-data analysis, however, the 2020 is a decisive year for world leaders to take concrete and aggressive different platforms are not always compatible, leading to more siloed operations and actions, in order to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals by requiring additional effort to extract and convert data before they can be used. For 2030. For BMW Brilliance, we are set to develop step-change targets in us to truly harness the benefits of digital transformation, we have embarked on an our sustainability focus areas, and work to accelerate the transformation ambitious IT engineering project to build one unified digital platform for technological of our business through new sustainability lighthouse projects, deeper communication between the many digital tools and applications we have installed. collaboration with stakeholders and strengthened sustainability culture across our organisation. With the establishment of one overarching platform, different application platforms will be seamlessly integrated and interconnected. Not only will Riding on the wave of our company-wide digitalisation transformation, this platform reduce duplicate investments in IT infrastructure, but it will also we have set concrete plans to further deploy IT tools and systems in significantly enhance data quality and synergy. compliance management. These include developing more e-learning courses to expand the scope of trainees and to increase the effectiveness In 2019, we showcased our China Platform Architecture at the BMW Group IT Fair and mobility of compliance trainings. in Munich, Germany, to share our experience and exchange ideas and knowledge with different markets and plants. We demonstrated how cutting-edge digital We have been nurturing a digital mindset and culture across our technologies are helping BMW Brilliance to maintain strong growth despite market organisation in 2019. Stepping into 2020, we will upgrade our Agile trends and challenges. We are committed to continuing our digital transformation model with the focus on faster reaction to market changes and customer in smart manufacturing, sales and aftersales, and overall business operations. expectations, and faster delivery of the right products and services. Meanwhile, the BMW Brilliance innovation lab will be in full speed to turn digital concepts and innovative ideas with respect to AI, smart logistics and intelligent industrial park, into on-the-ground applications for our Figure 07 operation. Transformation from multiple IT platforms to one unified platform As a model of intelligent manufacturing, we wish to share our knowledge and experiences in the journey of digitalisation transformation with the AP P LICATION SCENARIO AP P LICATION SCENARIO manufacturing industry to accelerate their own transformation towards an Smart Smart Smart Smart Smart Smart Smart Smart Smart R&D Manufacturing Logistics Campus Smart Sales R&D Manufacturing Logistics Campus Sales innovative and digitalised operation model. This will be done through the establishment of a standard engagement mechanism in 2020, leveraging on the network of the China-Germany (Shenyang) High-end Equipment API PLATFORM API API API API API Manufacturing Industrial Park, so our lessons learned and best practices can be shared in an open and transparent manner with our partners and Big Data Big Data Big Data Big Data Big Data Mobile App IoT Big Data AI industry peers. Platform Platform Platform Platform D IGITAL ID PLATF OR M AIOPs PLATFORM IoT IoT IoT IoT IoT Mobile App Mobile App Mobile App Mobile App Mobile App China Cloud Hub Platform Cloud Cloud Cloud Cloud Cloud Multi-Cloud Unified Multi-Cloud Multi-Tenant Orchestration Portal Operation Management Operation Operation Operation Operation Operation Cloud Security Management BEFORE – FRAGMENTED AND ISOLATED AFTER – INTEGRATED AND INTERCONNECTED 应用场景 应用场景 智能研发 智能制造 智能物流 智能园区 智能销售 智能研发 智能制造 智能物流 智能园区 智能销售 API 平台 API API API API API 大数据 移动应用 物联网 大数据 人工智能 32 Introduction 大数据 大数据 Fundamentals 大数据 Products 大数据 and Services Production and Value 平台 Creation 平台 Employees 平台and Society 平台 BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 33 物联网 物联网 物联网 物联网 物联网 平台 台 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES To achieve our goal of being the leading provider of sustainable premium individual mobility in China’s automotive industry, we are continuously improving the quality and environmental footprint of our vehicles, and fostering the conditions that will make a comprehensive E-mobility ecosystem possible. We are manufacturing vehicles of excellent quality that protect our customers’ health and safety. Our NEV product portfolio continues to expand with new models, and we are investing in our dealers and in the infrastructure that supports our customers to have a premium and convenient lifestyle experience of E-mobility, including digital solutions. Our efforts to calculate and reduce the life-cycle emissions and resource use of our vehicles have made us a pioneer in circular use of materials and batteries. With the customer at the core of our business, we are transforming the customer experience into one that is both premium and sustainable, and creating a community with a shared vision. In this manner, we are making a contribution towards solutions of the environmental challenges faced by society. CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs): 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 137.8 g/km 5.79 L/100km Average fleet CO2 Corporate average emissions fuel consumption 02 32,246 130,000 + 124,600 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 2019 New Energy Vehicle Public charging pillars Recycled parts sales volume provided Total Quality Management 36 450 > 60,000 3,263 Sustainable Product Lifecycle 40 New Energy Vehicles BMW NEV customers Total defective HVB dealers outlets in China in China recycling volume by pieces Customer-Centric Services 47 Forecast 2020 51 Note: The charging wallbox in this photo is for illustration only. 34 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society The actual product may vary depending on BMW dealers. BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 35 PRODUCT SAFETY DESIGN Ensuring the safety of our product includes both maximising safety on the road, and the protection of our customers’ health through the use of hazard-free materials. BMW Brilliance has an integrated approach to product safety, in line with the global safety standards of the BMW Group. We protect our customers, passengers and other road users through the design and installation of advanced passive and active safety systems, and we ensure that only hazardfree materials are used in our vehicles. BMW Brilliance vehicle production line in Plant Tiexi. Intelligent Safety TOTAL QUALITY MANAGEMENT Highest rating in the 2019 Intelligent Safety consists of one or more systems that can help improve driving China-Insurance Auto Safety safety under various circumstances and prevent imminent collision, through BMW Brilliance has in place a Total Quality Management culture based on the BMW Brilliance models won the Index (C-IASI) test. precision monitoring and data analysis. concept of quality as spanning the complete customer experience, from the 2019 China Automobile Customer Satisfaction Index (CACSI) from The all-new BMW 3 Series product itself to our supporting services. Quality and customer satisfaction Leveraged on the ability to measure real-time speed and distance with CAQ. gained highest rating on Roof are essential for our business success as a premium brand, and are included Strength and Pedestrian surrounding objects, the Emergency Brake Assist function can warn drivers in our top corporate targets. Safety, in the 2019 Chinaabout the risk of collision and, where appropriate, brings the vehicle to a Insurance Auto Safety Index complete stop before it results in a crash with an obstruction, a person or Building an organisation-wide culture of quality is central to BMW Brilliance’s (C-IASI) test. It was the highest another vehicle. It can effectively reduce the possibility of rear-end collisions. rating ever gained among all corporate values. From product design to the production line and our customer tested cars since relevant tests service centre, the responsibility for quality at BMW Brilliance reaches down to BMW 3 Series implemented. The Lane Change Warning function uses sensors to monitor the area and every entity of our process that contributes to value creation for customers. While Top B-class Luxury Sedan blind spots around the vehicle to assist drivers execute lane-change in a safe top management is directly responsible for quality, the performance indicators manner. This warning is made, for example, using flashing symbols on the side and responsibility span from the Board of Management to the employees mirror, or even through steering wheel vibrations or steering impulses. directly in contact with customers, through a 3-level target agreement process. We also have a quality target steering function which reports directly to the These functions, along with other active safety measures, allow us to reduce CEO. risk of accidents and injuries faced by our customers and other road users. BMW 5 Series Top C-class Luxury Sedan BMW Brilliance strives for Zero Defect in our production, in all new products, and Top PHEV Sedan throughout the supply chain. We utilise Industry 4.0 technologies to enhance our data analytics, which further improves our process stability and product quality. We adopt artificial intelligence tools in our process control system which include machine learning for pattern recognition. Coupled with our state-of-the-art visual recognition technology, we have put in place automated quality checks with real-time results and immediate diagnosis of root causes, BMW X1 improving not only quality performance but also productivity. Top A-class Luxury SUV Sedan We also foster innovations in product quality improvement through an annual Quality Award within the Technology function. In 2019, twenty teams participated in the Quality Award competition, which was won by the Powertrain Melting and Casting Shop for a project on pressure curve optimisation, which reduced casting defect rates. BMW X3 Intelligent Safety Emergency Brake Assist Function. Top B-class Luxury SUV Sedan 36 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 37 CUSTOMER HEALTH PROTECTION We ensure the health of our vehicle drivers and passengers by adhering to the most stringent regulations regarding hazardous materials, to reduce potentially harmful emissions from interior components. We also provide a premium experience by controlling noise disturbance from engine and vehicle vibration. All regulations and standards for product safety and protection of customer health and the environment are met throughout the vehicle’s entire life cycle, from development to use, recycling and disposal. Managing Hazardous Substances BMW Brilliance is committed to effective management of all prohibited and E xamples of hazardous marestricted substances. We utilise the BMW Group material database and terials which we test for in our parts and components: the International Material Data System (IMDS), which enables us to identify any prohibited substances in our parts and components. We undertake • Lead The interior of the BMW 3 Series safe interior air quality and minimised noise level. safety testing to ensure compliance with relevant international and national • Mercury standards, for instance, the EU regulations of Directive 2000/53/EC, REACH, • Cadmium and China’s regulation of GB/T 30512 Requirements for Prohibited Substances • Hexavalent chromium on Automobiles, to control the limits of hazardous materials, such as lead (Pb), • Polybrominated biphenyls Minimising Interior Noise mercury (Hg), cadmium (Cd), hexavalent chromium (Cr 6+), polybrominated • Polybrominated diphenyl biphenyls (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs), in our parts ethers We invest extensively in acoustic research and design to minimise interior noise and components. We document and declare the inventory of high-risk parts and vibrations, providing a peaceful experience for drivers and passengers. Our with hazardous substances in compliance with the national standard. Acoustic Centre draws on BMW Group’s 100 years of technical experience and utilises cutting edge technology in acoustic simulation and testing to reduce Our use of the IMDS allows us to strengthen the control of hazardous interior noise from powertrain, body, mechatronics, and chassis. substances, including those which are currently exempt from the GB/T 30512 standard. By proactively limiting the use of these substances, we have gone Comprehensive simulation and testing of vehicle interior noise is carried out at beyond current requirements and are better prepared. The BMW 5 series obtained a our acoustic laboratories with the most advanced technologies, for instance gold medal in the China Ecoacoustic simulation model, air tightness tests and wind tunnel experiments, Car Assessment Programme to analyse the various noise sources and corresponding transfer path, and to (C-ECAP) assessment, and a Ensuring Interior Air Quality evaluate the effectiveness of noise insulation design and features. full score in the Interior Noise category. BMW Brilliance provides a clean and healthy interior air quality for passengers The Acoustic Centre is contributing to constant improvement of interior noise by reducing Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions and ambient for all BMW Brilliance vehicles. In the case of the new Long-Wheelbase BMW air pollution. We strictly adhere to the BMW Group global standard of 3 model, we achieved a 7 dB improvement in complete vehicle low frequency specifications in the design of all interior components of our vehicles, such booming noise during the development phase. Furthermore, the Longas seats, instrumental panel, door panels, headliner, and carpet, in order to Wheelbase 5 Series model received a full score in the Interior Noise category of minimise VOC emissions. Our vehicles also comply with the vehicle interior air the 2019 C-ECAP evaluation, recognising our achievements in offering a safe quality requirements stipulated under GB/T 27630 Guideline for Air Quality and premium product. Assessment of Passenger Car, which is verified before vehicles are released for series production. All BMW Brilliance vehicles are equipped with air purification filters to improve interior air quality by filtering dust particulates of various sizes, which is essential in times of severe ambient air pollution. 38 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 39 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT LIFECYCLE Fuel Consumption Management 5.79 The regulatory response to global climate change includes increasingly BMW Group’s Efficient dynamics strategy enables us to produce more stringent and challenging emissions standards for the automotive industry. L/100 km lightweight and aerodynamic vehicles, which along with our increase in NEV BMW Brilliance is reducing the emissions of our vehicle fleet by embedding production helped to decrease our Corporate Average Fuel Consumption 2019 BMW Brilliance sustainability in every stage of our product life cycle. We are making our vehicles (CAFC) to 5.79L/100km (down from 5.84L/100km in 2018). corporate average fuel more fuel-efficient, offering more New Energy Vehicle (NEV) models, and consumption. making NEV use more accessible and convenient by providing more charging Our innovations in product design contribute to improvements in fuel facilities and enabling more dealerships to sell and service NEVs. We also efficiency, in terms of materials and performance. For example, our intelligent reduce emissions by recycling more materials and batteries from our vehicles. drag reduction intake grille automatically opens only when the engine, brake system, and other components need air, and is otherwise closed, optimising aerodynamics and reducing fuel consumption. PRODUCT LIFECYCLE CARBON EMISSIONS The Chinese government’s Dual-Credit Scheme allows vehicle manufacturers Total Carbon Emissions across Value Chain to openly trade NEV credits on a trading platform and transfer CAFC credits to related parties. Our excellent performance on CAFC and production of NEVs -65.1% In 2019, the total carbon emissions across our value chain increased by enabled us to generate a surplus of 240,746 CAFC credits and 15,753 NEV 8.7%, while our total production volume increased by 9.1%. We continue to credits in 2019, beyond government requirements. In 2019, the Ministry of achieve marked improvements in fuel economy through efficient dynamics Industry and Information Technology released a draft policy paper on Phase Reduction in CO2 emissions and increasing share of production and sales of electric vehicle models. The V fuel consumption regulation and revised dual-credit policy, which will be from production phase as average fleet CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance per kilometre in 2019 were compared to 2018. effective from 2021, with more strict requirements on CAFC and more emphasis 137.8 g/km, which equals a 0.9% reduction compared to the previous year. Our (In which Scope 2 emissions on producing NEVs. BMW Brilliance will take active measures, based on our CO2 emissions from production decreased by 65.1%, as we switched to 100% is calculated by market-based forecast model, to adapt to this challenge, and plan for the best way to fulfill methodology in accordance with renewable electricity for our production activities. GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.) regulatory requirements over the long term. Figure 08 Product Lifecycle Assessment CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance automobiles (in t) The BMW Group leads our product life cycle assessments (LCA) of carbon Change from 2016 2017 2018 2019 previous year % emissions, in accordance with ISO 14040 Environmental Management – Life Cycle Assessment – Principles and Framework. BMW Brilliance collaborates Total Emissions 9,901,541 11,884,985 14,190,033 15,417,955 8.7 with BMW Group to evaluate the carbon emissions of representative vehicle models over the entire life cycle, from raw material acquisition to product Upstream chain1 2,099,198 2,675,910 3,408,077 3,981,487 16.8 disposal and recycling. Production2 342,724 278,195 317,486 110,743 -65.1 The BMW Group material database and IMDS systems are fundamental Utilisation phase3 7,292,407 8,735,582 10,219,060 11,058,404 8.2 for collecting and monitoring information about parts and components as a Disposal4 167,212 195,298 245,409 267,321 8.9 basis for our LCA calculations, so that we can better understand potential environmental impacts. Conducting LCAs enables us to identify areas for improvement and develop practical solutions to reduce emissions and 1. Emissions from the upstream chain are calculated based on the carbon footprint of representative vehicles from the product lines. environmental impacts. In 2019, we conducted LCAs for 2 selected parts for 2. Includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from production at Tiexi, Dadong and Powertrain plants in Shenyang. Scope 1 emissions are the direct CO2 the China Eco-Car Assessment Programme (C-ECAP). In the meantime, we emissions generated by fossil fuel consumption at BMW Brilliance plants, excluding the fossil fuel consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. The coefficients used for calculation are from Emission Factors for Electricity, District Heating and Fuels issued by Application of German Association are also preparing to conduct LCAs for more models in 2020. of the Automotive Industry (VDA). Scope 2 emissions are the indirect CO2 emissions generated by the consumption of purchased electricity and heating at the BMW Brilliance plants, excluding purchased electricity and heating consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. For calculation of the Scope 2 emissions, “market-based” methodology is used in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance issued by the World Resources Institute. 3. The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of BMW Brilliance products sold in a given year. The calculation was based on an average mileage of 150,000 kilometers. 4. Emissions from disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprint of representative vehicles from the product lines. 40 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 41 To support our growth in electric vehicle products, we increased our NEV dealer outlets from 336 to 450 in 2019, achieving 100% coverage of all Tier-1 and Tier-2 cities. In 2020, we will further expand our NEV dealer network to sell and service our NEV models. Technology Leadership Increasingly higher demands for technical parameters mean that BMW Brilliance is at an advantage in the rapid development of E-mobility, by virtue of the BMW Group’s extensive knowledge and years of experience. In 2019, BMW Group released the ground-breaking fifth-generation eDrive system, which has The BMW all new iX3 to be manufactured at BMW Brilliance and launched in 2020. global significance for NEVs in terms of the upgrades in performance, range, (Note: the picture shown is BMW iX3 concept model) weight, space, and flexibility, and is the key to future-oriented sustainability for vehicles with electrified drive systems. The fully electric BMW iX3 will be the first BMW model to benefit from this highly efficient electric drivetrain, providing FORGING E-MOBILITY ECOSYSTEM a novel balance between range and battery size. BMW Brilliance is a pioneer in E-mobility, offering premium new energy BMW Brilliance vehicles and the infrastructure and services to effectively support them. Our E-mobility Ecosystem Battery Competency production strategy is aligned with the BMW Group commitments of offering 25 electrified models by 2023, with more than half of those vehicles planned to Our PHEVs maintain the top position in the premium China market with our be fully electric. Brand & Product continuous product improvements. The BMW X1 xDrive30 Le and ZINORO R&D Technology 100H compact SAVs include a new type of battery, with the latest advances in Capabilities Leadership We are in a position to shape the future of E-mobility in China by forging a E-Mobility battery cell technology enabling an 83% increase in e-range and reduction of Ecosystem complete, closed-loop ecosystem. As we lead the premium NEV sector with E-Mobility Charging & combined fuel consumption by 72%, to 1.3L/100km. cutting-edge technology, a rich product portfolio, and convenient E-mobility Services Infrastructure Battery services, we contribute to China’s national commitment to shift to low-carbon Competency We are working on the development of lightweight, highly efficient and safe transportation and smart cities. Development of new energy vehicles is a batteries with outstanding energy density. Our HVB Centre and assembly necessity in an era of ever-increasing requirements to reduce CO2 and deliver capacity is growing rapidly, with the HVB Centre Phase I open in 2017, and We construct and advance the zero-emission vehicles, and our strategy includes the flexibility to respond to all production expected to start in HVB Centre Phase II in 2020, marking a crucial E-mobility ecosystem in six areas, kinds of regulatory and market demands. to shape the future of E-mobility step in BMW Brilliance’s NEV localisation strategy. in China. Higher density Growth of E-mobility Less material use The High-Voltage Battery featured in the BMW iX3, with a net-battery size of 74 kWh, is More sustainable an integral part of the BMW fifth-generation eDrive system that enables the BMW iX3 to The prospects for E-mobility are expanding in China and globally, and BMW realise a range of 500 km within the NEDC test cycle – a range that is only possible for Brilliance is leading the way with a future-oriented vision that includes the common electric vehicles with larger and thus heavier batteries. development of cutting-edge premium NEVs, which are already demonstrating rapid sales growth. 2019 was a strong year for new energy vehicle production, Meanwhile, the BMW engineers were able to reduce the share of cobalt contained in the with sales of 32,246 BMW NEVs, up 50.4% from 2018, and sales of the BMW battery by a significant margin compared to the former technology. To achieve circular 530 Le doubled year-on-year. economy, the HVB is designed for a second life as a stationary battery pack, following the first long life in the vehicle. In 2020, production of the fully-electric BMW iX3 will begin at our Shenyang High-Voltage Battery modules are plant. Not only will it further strengthen BMW’s premium NEV line-up for the The BMW iX3 will be produced at the BMW Brilliance Shenyang production base in assembled at BMW Brilliance HVB China market, the new model will also be exported to the global market, putting 2020, for both China and global markets. Centre. our “In China, For China and For the World” commitment into action. 42 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 43 CIRCULAR USE OF MATERIALS We do not consider end-of-life materials from our vehicles as disposable wastes, but instead as secondary source of raw materials that can re-enter our product lifecycle. However, these materials must deliver the same or superior quality. We collaborate with stakeholders to establish recovery systems for disposed components and materials, and work towards reintegrating them into the raw materials cycle. We calculate recoverability rate and recyclability rate in accordance with the methodology stipulated in GB/T 19515 Road Vehicles-Recyclability BMW Park & Charge at Beijing Capital International Airport. and Recoverability-Calculation Method. This process not only fulfills the requirements of the national standard, but is also in accordance with EU Endof-Life Vehicle (ELV) directives. Charging Infrastructure In 2019, BMW Brilliance significantly expanded our network of public and private charging facilities, coupled with improved digital solutions which enable 130,000 + Parts Remanufacturing our customers to use our charging services much easier and more conveniently. Public charging pillars (DC Chargers included) 124,600 At BMW Brilliance, we have been pioneering and practicing circular economy principles through developing specific product lines of remanufactured parts, By the end of 2019, we surpassed our target for public charging network Recycled parts in 2019 as part of our continuous efforts to maximise material use and reduce energy expansion, with more than 130,000 high-quality public charging pillars in place consumption and GHG emissions, while simultaneously supporting the after30,000 + With a total weight of >563t. across 200 cities, including 30,000 DC chargers. We also rolled out dealer market needs of our customers with lower cost of vehicle ownership. charging stations at 172 dealers. To improve customer charging experience and convenience, we expanded the Park and Charge service, in which we have DC Chargers Following a successful trial offering, in 2019 BMW Brilliance released eight more zoned over 200 parking lots at major public transportation hubs in five cities models of remanufactured automatic transmission. At this point, there are over 200 + exclusively for all BMW Group customers to park and charge their vehicles. 60 kinds of parts which can cover the mainstream BMW 8HP car models. We also launched the AC compressors as a remanufactured product which utilised We provide safe and worry-free private charging solutions to meet all kinds Cities over 2,500 recycled AC compressor cores throughout the remanufacturing of customer needs. Our basic private charging wallbox installation service is process. This product has provided a much more economical option for repair complimentary and available nationwide for BMW NEV customers who have and has been well received by our customers. Building on this momentum, parking spots feasible for installation. For customers without the installation we are currently developing remanufacturing capacity for Electrical Power pre-conditions, they can choose to use a free BMW charging wallbox, or enjoy Steering (EPS) steering gear, head units, and mechatronics, with plans to go a complementary charging card service that are provided in certain cities. Our live in 2020. goal is to make charging easy without leaving home. To further enhance the collection and recycling of vehicle parts, BMW China We are shaping the future of E-mobility through innovation and digitalisation has established a partnership with ENCORY to set up the first ReLife Point of our charging services. Our NEV customers can easily access charging (RLP) in Cangzhou, Hebei, as a centralised facility for parts remanufacturing information via multiple digital channels, including BMW ConnectedDrive, and removal, and further recycling in the future. BMW Connected APP and ChargeNow WeChat platform. We have also realised Charging Pillar Operator (CPO) roaming with BMW Connected to The ReLife Point and allow our customers to enable charging and payment via ChargeNow without reverse logistics system deposit, a key milestone of improving customer charging experience. Sorted and reserved The RLP will serve as a at ReLife Point central hub of our reverse logistics system, powered by digital solutions, to Damage of Repair of BMW Brilliance vehicle part vehicle at Spare Parts enable material flow from dealers Distribution dealerships back to the hub Centre in an effective and traceable manner. Remanufacture of part by authorised remanufacturer 44 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 45 Now with the release of the Measures for the Management of End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling by the State Council in May 2019, for the first time the Government is opening up the market for the remanufacturing of five key vehicle components – the powertrain, steering system, transmissions, front and rear rails, and car frame from end-of-life vehicles. It lays down the legal framework that a regulated vehicle recycling and remanufacturing market needs to grow in order and good health. BMW Brilliance is delighted to see the policy advancement, and will continue to invest and expand our remanufactured products, thereby contributing to the growth of circular economy and green development in China. High-Voltage Battery Recycling Recycling of HVB has always been a consideration in our battery design and development, because the raw materials of HVB are highly valuable. We have 3,263 taken a leading role in HVB Recycling and as reported by our recycling partner, pieces of defective HVB We strive to provide customer-centric services to our customers. our raw material extraction rates are 99.43% (nickel), 99.09% (cobalt), and were recycled in 2019 with a 99.4% (manganese). total weight of 78,875 kg. Our HVB recycling process includes diagnosis, safety checks, transportability CUSTOMER-CENTRIC SERVICES check, packaging, and transportation from our dealers to the recycling facility. 423 NEV dealers have reported to MIIT in 2019 as BMW HVB recycling network BMW Brilliance’s relationship with customers is essential for realizing our vision service stations. A new national policy released in November 2019 sets more for a successful and sustainable business, and customer satisfaction is a top stringent requirements for HVB storage and recycling outlets, and we will corporate target. We engage with customers to understand their experience enhance dealer capacity to ensure compliance and safety. and interpret and respond to any feedback, with multiple channels open for unfiltered customer comments in order to maximise transparency. Meanwhile, BMW Brilliance is exploring the potential for secondary usage of replaced HVB, and pilot projects are planned in 2020. Our business strategy is customer-centric, made possible through close collaboration with our dealership partners. Particularly as the automotive industry undergoes disruptive changes and transformation, listening to Figure 09 customer voices provides important input to our strategic decisions for product HVB recycling process at BMW Brilliance development. Our relationship with customers is also evolving, from a onetime transaction to a lifetime relationship with continuous interaction. At Dealer Network HVB Disposal BMW Brilliance’s new subsidiary start-up company, LingYue Digital Information Facility Technology, was launched in 2019 to accelerate our customer-centric digital transformation and improve our customer lifecycle management. LingYue is a Original data service provider and innovation incubator, with an important role to play Packaging in our growth and value creation in China through digital solutions and services that enable seamless online-to-offline customer experiences. As a start-up, LingYue benefits from the experience of BMW Group but can react quickly to Transportation Extraction and Recycling of changing customer needs. Aftersales MainHVB Diagnosis HVB Safety Materials (Heavy tenance & Coding Collection Check metals, steel, plastics) Explosion-proof Metal Container 46 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 47 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND DEALER PERFORMANCE Our dealers have the most direct interactions with customers, and we are continually working with dealers to improve customer satisfaction. We use 205 the Joy Index to monitor dealer performance in sales and aftersales services, Dealers which enables us to jointly track improvements over time and align services were engaged through our with customer needs and expectations. Customer Board Platform for customer satisfaction The Customer Board Platform provides regular dealer performance reports management. in regards of service quality, tools for daily operational management and best practice sharing. In 2019, 70 additional dealers began implementing the Customer Board project, reaching a total of 205, and engagement with dealers was deepened through the participation of BMW Brilliance and BMW China cross-functional teams in on-site meetings to share best practices and lessons learned, and support resolution of common customer issues. BMW Dealers EHS A BMW dealer completed the Network Transformation Project in 2019. One aspect of dealer performance is environmentally responsible management, Self Check List which is increasingly relevant to customer expectations in terms of both their Covering 114 self-check items own health and safety interactions and their expectations for responsible of Environmental, Health and corporate actions and regulatory compliance. As environmental standards As live broadcasting has quickly become the new way of customer interaction, Safety aspects of management and enforcement tighten, meeting regulatory requirements is important for our we are also collaborating with the T-mall, to put on regular roadshows of regulation and facility operation. dealers to ensure the stable provision of high-quality service to customers without our products, including live-broadcasting by celebrity sales of our dealers to disruptions caused by enforcement measures. BMW Brilliance supports dealers engage with customers online. with an EHS Manual and Dealers EHS Self Check List which covers relevant legal regulations, and EHS management workshops to understand current practices. Moving from online to offline, we are steadfast in our collaboration with Another 10 workshops with big dealer group are planned in 2020. dealer partners, and empower them to create a cozy and premium customer experience across all points of contact in the dealership in response to market transformation. To this end, this year BMW Brilliance, in a joint effort with RENEWED CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE dealers, put forward the Network Transformation Project to revitalise our dealer outlets inside-out – with emotionalised and modernised design in line With the unprecedented changes happening in the automotive market, customer with the philosophy of customer centricity, product boutique layout, multisatisfaction underpins the survival of a company. Customer satisfaction arises sensory connection, interactive spaces with different levels of privacy and from customer experience, and excellent customer experience is based on digitalisation, and human-oriented services – all meant to deliver a brandcustomer needs being heard, understood and met. Today’s customers value new unique experience to customers from their first step of entering the dealer more for personalisation, easier and faster access to information and virtual outlets. The new concept has rolled out to 59 dealers and will expand to cover user experience. This is why we are taking proactive steps to digitally transform more dealers in 2020. the way we engage and interact with our existing and prospective customers, with emerging technologies in addition to traditional physical touch-points at dealerships. FOSTERING SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE FOR BMW CUSTOMERS In 2019, BMW Brilliance launched the BMW Official E-commerce Shop on Creating NEV Customer Community WeChat platform, to offer customers a cyber experience to learn about BMW vehicles in real time, even if they do not have physical access to the products. Investing in long-term relationships with BMW customers also means the Our E-shop consolidates all information a customer would wish to know before opportunity to promote sustainable behaviour, in particular for NEV owners who purchase, including product specifications, finding dealership locations, and are pioneers in a new type of sustainable lifestyle in China. BMW Brilliance has the reservations for test driving. Additionally, customers can enter our Virtual opportunity to influence and positively reinforce the formation of more sustainable Showroom where our product specialists can provide one-on-one introductions consumer habits and choices, including selection and use of BMW NEV. to the product in detail via real-time video interaction. 48 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 49 Our objective is to strengthen and expand the community of NEV owners, building goodwill and product trust of NEV models among key customer > 60,000 FORECAST 2020 groups, and connecting individuals sharing the same vision. In 2019, we held BMW NEV Customers In line with the BMW Group’s strategy, BMW Brilliance With a clearer policy framework and requirements coming NEV events in five cities, giving current owners and potential customers the in China will continue providing a premium sustainable offering into place, we will launch three more remanufactured parts opportunity to learn about new models, test drive vehicles, and connect with through our R&D, production and customer-centric in 2020. Meanwhile, we will kick off the remanufacturing others in the BMW NEV community. We hosted dialogues where full-electric They are our ambassadors services. We will prepare for the global launch of the development of new parts for products such as transfer to promote green and vehicle owners shared their opinions and experiences, and we promoted all-electric BMW iX3, the first to use BMW’s new fifthbox and starter/alternator. Our ReLife Point facility is sustainable lifestyle. sustainable lifestyle by partnering with NGOs to share about environmental generation eDrive technology, in 2020, which will be expected to reach full function in 2020, and the core topics such as waste recycling. With the launch of the BMW East Region produced in our Shenyang plant and exported globally, current collection and handling processes at all Regional NEV Power Platform in November, more and more NEV owners have been fulfilling our pledge of “In China, For China and For the Distribution Centres will be switched to RLP. The Encory encouraged to adopt a sustainable lifestyle and take more responsibility for World”. China Dealer Front-end (ECDF) tracking system will also environmental protection. Through this platform, BMW East Region will plant go live to support our reverse logistics process. trees in BMW NEV Eco-Forest in Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia for NEV owners, We will strengthen our effort to address climate change following a commitment made at the November 2019 launch ceremony. By the throughout our entire value chain. We are preparing The Network Transformation project will expand to cover end of 2019, a core group of NEV owners was willing to share and promote to conduct Lifecycle Assessments for selected BMW more dealers, and we will expand participation in the sustainable lifestyles. Brilliance models, to improve our understanding of Customer Board platform to 245 dealers. Our mission environmental impacts throughout the product lifecycle. is to inspire, empower, and enable dealers to achieve outstanding customer satisfaction through digital tools Launching ceremony for BMW East Region NEV Platform. Promoting Driving Safety We continue to lead in shaping the future of E-mobility. In for centralised training and knowledge-sharing. We support BMW customers to 2020, we are targeting to integrate all charging services achieve a safe and confident driving into a “One-Stop-Shop” platform for optimal customer experience through road safety experience. training provided by experienced trainers. More than 14,000 participants took part in our Driving Experience training courses and events across ten cities in 2019, including advanced modules on how to handle your vehicle during an emergency and how to drive in snowy conditions. 2019 BMW NEV Customer Event in Shanghai. 50 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 51 PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION 03 BMW Brilliance’s commitment to green, smart and sustainable manufacturing is our way of meeting the responsibility that we have to society to tackle PRODUCTION global challenges such as climate change and resource scarcity. Sustainable production is at the core of our business, and is fully integrated into our strategic goals and targets. Smart manufacturing helps us to improve our AND VALUE CREATION quality and efficiency, and is fully embedded in our production facilities. We are continually working to further reduce the CO2 emissions and resource use per vehicle we produce, through better energy management and a transition to use of fully renewable energy resources. Our efforts in green logistics are helping to reduce our environmental footprint, through increased use of low-carbon and multimodal options and innovations in green packaging. For Production Strategy 54 our supply chain, we foster the implementation of social and environmental Green Production 58 standards, along with transparency and resource efficiency, and are shifting from risk control to risk prevention. We also support initiatives to improve Green Logistics 67 sustainability in the mining and processing of critical raw materials. An expanded approach to increase sustainability of both our own production Sustainable Supply Chain 72 and that of our logistics and supply chain partners is an essential element of Forecast 2020 79 meeting external expectations and our own rigorous standards. CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs): 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 5G 100% Coverage at our Renewable electricity Shenyang production used in Shenyang base production base* -68.3% 1.63 MWh -7.1% Reduction in CO2 Energy consumption Reduction in VOC emissions per vehicle per vehicle produced emissions per vehicle produced** produced -17.4% 394 Reduction in CO2 Local content suppliers emissions per unit for in China inbound logistics Note: * Including the generation of solar power electricity, the purchase of wind power electricity and I-RECs. ** Calculated by market-base methodology in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. 52 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 53 Automated production line in Plant Tiexi. PRODUCTION STRATEGY As the largest production base in BMW Group’s global production network, BMW Brilliance is committed to green, smart, and sustainable manufacturing. Our production strategy integrates sustainability into our Purpose & Vision, Strategic Goals, and Core Values to form the long-term foundation of our business. Sustainability is also integrated into our strategic approach, with our regular strategy process as a consistent tool to continuously review and align the strategy. Our strategy process utilises the EFQM Model as a philosophy and methodology to drive improvement throughout our production and environmental management, integrating stakeholder expectations and tracking our achievements based on key performance indicators and targets. The three strategic goals are the strategic priorities of our production strategy and are closely connected with sustainability: Local Strengths, Flexible Response, and Good Neighbour. With regards to Local Strengths, we aim to optimise the advantage of operating within our main market of China by utilizing local strengths, local decision-making, and our unique “blended culture”. We have skilled and passionate people with an excellent problem-solving mindset, and we focus on precise process adherence. Additionally, we are applying our local strengths to tailor vehicle models for the Chinese customer. Flexible Response is all about ensuring readiness for the future. We proactively take To be a Good Neighbour, we strive to be a good corporate citizen for the calculated risks and prepare for opportunity and risk-driven scenarios in a mutual benefit of both BMW Brilliance and the society. We are committed challenging environment including our Zero Defect Launch activities, raw to environmental sustainability through smart and green manufacturing. material management, and regulatory compliance. We reduce energy consumption by focusing on energy efficiency of our production processes, and cut our fossil fuel consumption by switching to clean energy sources. We reduce water consumption by reusing and recycling safe wastewater. In addition, we reduce VOC and CO2 emissions, and ensure responsible waste management for the good of our society. Figure 10 Our Production Strategy process The Strategic Goals are the guiding elements for the Strategic Approach. We define our strategic direction according to stakeholder expectations and ecosystem developments. On that basis, we translate our direction including the strategic goals into strategic initiatives and enablers and business processes, which serve as the actions to optimise current capabilities and LOCAL tackle major challenges. The effectiveness and efficiency of these actions are STRENGTHS translated into performance measurements which are reviewed and measured against our aligned targets. Sustainability is fully integrated into our daily operations management and the regular review of progress and success. FLEXIBLE BBT Specific quantitative targets are in place for environmental performance such BBTSTAKEHOLDER MAP STAKEHOLDER MAP BBTSTRATEGIC BBT INITIATIVES STRATEGIC INITIATIVES TARGETMANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT PROCESS TARGET PROCESS RESPONSE as emissions and waste management. Finally, the results are used to update and adapt elements of the strategic approach, closing the circle of the strategy process. GOOD In 2020, we will continue to integrate sustainability into the core of our strategy NEIGHBOUR process, and contribute efforts to drive improvements in production efficiency & ECOSYSTEM BBT SWOT & ANALYSIS ECOSYSTEM ANALYSIS ENABLERS & & PROCESSES ENABLERS PROCESSES KPI REVIEW// MONITORING KPIREVIEW MONITORING and environmental sustainability. As a role model for green and sustainable manufacturing, we will continue to adhere to our strategy by reducing environmental impact to achieve sustainable development in the long run. DIRECTION EXECUTION EXECUTION RESULTS 54 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 55 SMART MANUFACTURING We are actively levelling up digitisation and automation throughout our logistics process, as we believe the future of logistics is smart. At Plant Tiexi, In this fast-developing era, smart and intelligent manufacturing is becoming we utilise Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV) that operate automatically based the new norm for high-end manufacturing industry, and a core strength that on real-time machine-to-machine communication enabled by sensors in our has already began to differentiate our competitiveness from the others. BMW warehouse. The AGV is capable of self-transporting up to 5t of bins in one Brilliance has long envisioned the strategic importance of such transformation, go, which is equivalent to the work done by five forklifts, thereby reducing our and we are positioned as a leader and pioneer in the application of “Industry resource consumption while improving efficiency substantially. 4.0” technologies in our production systems. By acting as a role model and bringing in world-leading technologies, we strive to accelerate China's transition towards intelligent manufacturing and promote the upgrade of traditional industry. Our state-of-the-art production base in Shenyang combines Industry 4.0 and Chinese craftsmanship, and cutting-edge intelligent manufacturing and digital innovative technologies are well integrated into our production processes. We develop and apply these technologies in eight areas, spanning production planning, manufacturing, testing, logistics and data analytics etc., all with the support of a robust IT infrastructure with an IoT platform, safety, security, and privacy. Figure 11 Our priority areas in smart manufacturing application Industry 4.0 application automated quality detection. ELECT RING ACTU RIFIED ANUF In the area of international logistics, in 2019 we established a new POWE T CO AR IVE M SM MM RTRA ISS transportation tracking system, referred to as Import & Export On-carriage ADDIT S IO IN IC NI ST NG Visualisation, which is a centralised platform that enables real-time tracking GI LO of incoming and outgoing cargo routing via GPS technology, coupled with a & DA VIR N ENGIN TA TU IO AT AN pre-warning mechanism to predict the risk of cargo delay and ensure in-time E AND D AL EGR AN PL IN T AL AN YT IC NI DU CT delivery for production and aftersales service. This new advancement once S NG O PR IN G & again demonstrates BMW Brilliance’s efforts in executing our digitalisation and ST TE AR T Industry 4.0 strategy, contributing to our aspiration of Zero Defect in supply INNO VATIV SM EPTS CONC E AUT OMAT CESS ES & chain, production and logistics. ION A ND ASSIS RING PRO U TANC FACT E SYS MANU TEMS IENT EFFIC With full coverage of the 5G network at all our Shenyang production facilities, POWERED BY IT BACKBONE – IoT PLATFORM, SAFETY, SECURITY AND PRIVACY BMW Brilliance has become the first automobile R&D and production base with 5G connectivity within the BMW Group, and in the world > p.31 New Technologies. This was a cornerstone in our journey of next-generation smart manufacturing, Our highly flexible production systems at both Plant Tiexi and Dadong are and we have laid a robust groundwork for constructing intelligent facilities for capable of manufacturing combustion engine models and NEVs on the same our new plant development and extension projects, that are set to commence production line, and our current applications of Industry 4.0 technologies operations in the next two to three years. focus on improving process stability and quality assurance by advancing the intelligence of machines and systems, so they can learn from patterns, communicate with each other, and predict errors and deviations. At Plant Dadong, we are now able to perform predictive maintenance for over 1,200 equipment motors in our assembly line through remote monitoring and management of motor operating status, and intelligent diagnosis of issues. This has allowed us to minimise production fluctuations due to unpredicted shut-down and maintenance of equipment or system. 56 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 57 BMW Brilliance production As we recognise the challenges as much as the importance to reduce energy bases are certified with the consumption on yearly basis, we established a holistic energy management following management systems: system in accordance with the ISO 50001:2011 standard and achieved the • ISO 9001:2015 certification in 2018. This year, we successfully passed our annual evaluation. Quality Management System Investing in energy management also aligns with the Chinese government’s Green Plant programme and prepare us to cope with the tightening energy • ISO 14001:2015 regulatory requirements. Comparing to 2018, we have improved in operational Environmental and maintenance management of field equipment, energy measurement for Management System key energy-intensive equipment, and the implementation of various energy • ISO 50001 :2011 efficiency measures in our production process. Looking forward, we will focus Energy Management System on risk identification and control associated with energy use and management, • OHSAS 18001 and to strengthen the energy-saving awareness for all employees. Occupational Health and Safety Management System Environmental governance at BMW Brilliance involves our Management Circle which plays an active role in decision-making, and each Plant Director is held BMW Brilliance Plant Tiexi. responsible for environmental performance at their site. Inherited from and linked to the BMW Group, we have well-established Environmental Steering structure in place, which engages management level from the top for targetsetting, a steering circle in the middle to facilitate cross-functional collaboration, GREEN PRODUCTION and the plant level at the bottom to execute improvement plans. Through this steering process, BMW Group environmental goals and targets are cascaded BMW Brilliance is taking on the responsibility to address global climate change down effectively for implementation, monitoring and evaluation. and resource depletion. We strive for continuous improvement in our energy and resource efficiency under the framework of green production, actively contributing to the BMW Group targets for reducing resource consumption Figure 12 and answering the call from the Chinese government on green development Environmental governance and steering process at BMW Brilliance and environmental protection. Our efforts in this area are in line with our stakeholders’ expectations, and also enable us to reduce our production costs and prepare us to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements. MANAGEMENT CIRCLE DECISIONBMW Group MAKING Decision-making and information－ sharing on Setting group-level business operations and production activities targets GREEN PLANT MANAGEMENT With our ongoing efforts in green production and management, our 2019 STEERING STEERING CIRCLE National Green Plant audit results improved further as compared to 2018. We are proud to be one of China’s first National Green Plants, and to continue to Cross-functional environmental target steering and prioritising projects Interaction with BMW Group maintain this status year after year. to implement and achieve group environmental targets The management system we have in place is designed to help manage and EXECUTION PLANT LEVEL limit our resource consumption. All our production plants are certified with the Project implementation at various Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2015 as well as meeting the departments and workshops BMW Group standards on environmental policy. Every year, we evaluate our management performance and identify areas for continuous improvement together with the environmental specialists from the BMW Group, who have vast exposure and experience among the many BMW production bases and are able to share best practices and know-how in environmental management. 58 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 59 Go Green With Our Next-Generation Infrastructure RESOURCE EFFICIENT PRODUCTION As BMW Brilliance grows over time, we are designing our next-generation In realising our goal to be the most resource-efficient premium mobility service infrastructure as a new model of modern green plant, which embodies our provider in China, we take bold actions to make our manufacturing processes commitment to reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, conserve resources more efficient with regards to energy and planetary resources, with less and materials, and transition to renewable energy sources. emission of GHG and waste to the environment. To reduce our carbon footprint and act against climate change, we have ramped up the use of renewable Set to begin construction in 2020, the new plant development of Plant Tiexi Sustainable design features of electricity for our operation, and achieved the BMW Group target of supplying (Tiexi New Plant Project) has an array of sustainability elements embedded Tiexi New Plant include: production exclusively with electricity from renewable sources by 2020. With into its design. First and foremost, it will be powered by a Combined Cooling, these measures, we meet our stakeholders' and government expectations for Heating and Power (CCHP) co-generation unit using natural gas as the primary • Combined Cooling, Heating and a high-quality and green development. Power (CCHP) co-generation energy source, and can capture waste heat from electricity generation for steam unit production. The co-generation process can maximise total energy conversion and efficiency of the power system, while the use of natural gas, a much cleaner • Distributed photovoltaic system Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions fuel than coal, will release significantly less CO2 as well as dust particulates • Real-time monitoring system and sulphur dioxide to the atmosphere, contributing to a better air quality. We • Green building design At BMW Brilliance, we are determined to drive down GHG emissions of our also plan to install a large-scale distributed photovoltaic system in Tiexi New manufacturing process by assessing, improving and rethinking the way we • Riverside green space Plant to increase the share of renewable sources in our energy matrix. Besides, use energy and resources, and exploring ways to use more renewable energy. Tiexi New Plant will incorporate the most advanced digital platform and green • Metro-line to Shenyang city To advance our management of GHG emissions, we established the GHG installations, including real-time monitoring of energy consumption and emission inventory for our Shenyang production facilities in accordance with pollutant emissions, LED lighting system, and green building design features, the ISO 14064-1:2006 standard, and passed the 3rd party verification this year. among other Industry 4.0 technologies and smart systems. A new metro line is under planning to connect Plant Tiexi and the new plant with Shenyang city Direct GHG emissions are generated from the burning of fossil fuels from our centre, organised based on high-volume travel during production shift times, production activities, whereas indirect emission is based on our consumption to enhance the ease of commute for our employees while reducing the overall of purchased electricity and heating. In 2019, the production-related emissions carbon footprint from shuttle buses. from BMW Brilliance was 110,743 t of CO2 . Figure 13 Our Plant Dadong Extension (NEX), which broke ground in April 2019 and is scheduled for completion in 2022. After the extension, Plant Dadong will have a BMW Brilliance direct and indirect Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 100% flexible production system that is capable of manufacturing combustion 2016 2017 2018 2019 engine models and NEVs on the same production line. The NEX also includes a direct railway connection from Plant Dadong Finished Vehicle Dispatch Area Total Greenhouse gas emissions 9,901,541 11,884,985 14,190,033 15,417,955 to Dalian Port, where our finished vehicles can be transported more seamlessly 1 Scope 1: Direct Greenhouse gas emissions 33,570 37,448 35,733 42,141 and efficiently to our various decentralised dispatch areas across China. Scope 2: Indirect Greenhouse gas emissions2 309,154 240,747 281,753 68,602 3 Scope 3: Indirect Greenhouse gas emissions 9,558,817 11,606,790 13,872,546 15,307,212 1. Direct CO2 emissions generated by fossil fuel consumption at BMW Brilliance plants, excluding the fossil fuel consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. The coefficients used for calculation are from Emission Factors for Electricity, District Heating and Fuels issued by Application of German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA). 2. Indirect CO2 emissions generated by the consumption of purchased electricity and heating at the BMW Brilliance plants, excluding purchased electricity and heating consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. For calculation of the Scope 2 emissions, “market-based” methodology is used in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance issued by the World Resources Institute. 3. Indirect CO2 emissions generated in the upstream supply chain, the utilisation phase and the disposal of automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for sales in mainland China market of the year. Emissions from the supply chain and the disposal are based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines, calculated by Thinkstep’s LCA tool GaBi. Emissions from the utilisation phase are based on the average fleet emissions of automobiles delivered of BMW Brilliance and an average mileage of 150,000 kilometres per vehicle. This year, we reduced our CO2 emissions per-vehicle produced from 0.63 t to 0.20 t, down 68.3% from 2018 and for the third year in a row. We see this as confirmation that our consistent efforts to improve energy efficiency and increase the share of energy coming from renewable sources are working. BMW Brilliance Tiexi New Plant Start of Construction ceremony. 60 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 61 Figure 14 CO2 emissions per vehicle produced (in t/vehicle) 1.13 1.0 0.88 -68.3% 0.70 Reduction in CO2 emissions per 0.63 vehicle produced from previous year. 0.5 (In which Scope 2 emissions is calculated by market-based methodology in 0.20 accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.) 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Integrated system of solar panel and wind turbine to generate renewable electricity for lighting. We also work to reduce our Scope 3 emissions, which includes emissions caused by the use and disposal of our products, upstream in our supply Improving Energy Efficiency chain, and in transport logistics. Most of our Scope 3 emissions are generated during utilisation of our vehicles, which means that improving vehicle fuel efficiency and promoting NEV sales are targeting a significant In 2019, we were able to reduce the energy consumption per vehicle produced source of emissions. BMW Brilliance has also begun to partner with suppliers by 1.2% from the previous year. This was achieved through the implementation to increase transparency on their greenhouse gas emissions through the of various Energy Saving Enablers. Our waste heat recovery project in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) > p.78 Ramping up for Carbon Disclosure the Powertrain Foundry workshop enabled automatic recovery of highProject Supply Chain Programme. temperature flu gas to heat water, with annual energy saving capacity of 6,800 MWh. We also established an energy metering management standard and energy data management platform to realise automatic collection of energy Use of Renewable Electricity consumption data from energy-intensive equipment. This allows us to monitor energy consumption with accurate and real-time data to improve analysis and 100% At BMW, we recognise the use of renewable energy in our production process decision-making. as an essential approach to lower GHG emissions and mitigate climate change, therefore the BMW Group has set an objective to supply all production plants For capacity-building, this year the BMW Experts held the worldwide ValueRenewable electricity used in worldwide with electricity from renewable sources by 2020, and is expanding added Production System (VPS) Energy Initiative to share best practices and Shenyang production base by on-site renewable generation capacities in parallel. end of 2019. to find potential energy saving measures within the plants in Germany and (Including the generation of solar power overseas. The VPS Energy Initiative at Plant Tiexi, Dadong and Powertrain was At BMW Brilliance, we are taking actions at full throttle to complete our part electricity, the purchase of wind power launched in June, and identified several specific measures to reduce energy. electricity and I-RECs) of this effort – and we are proud to say that, by end of 2019, we achieved the target of using 100% renewable electricity in our Shenyang production base. Figure 15 Energy consumption per vehicle produced (in MWh/vehicle) This symbolic milestone can only be accomplished with a clear clean energy strategy, which we formulated based on in-depth research on relevant policy -1.2% 2.05 requirements, market landscape and clean energy options to replace traditional 1.83 1.0 energy. Riding on the wave of national power reform, most of our renewable 1.66 1.65 1.63 electricity comes from the purchase of wind power, supplemented by the solar Reduction in energy power electricity generated from our facilities, and the purchase of International consumption per vehicle Renewable Electricity Certificates (I-RECs). produced from previous year. 0.5 We are also actively expanding our renewable energy generation capacity. In 2019, we completed the installation of distributed solar photovoltaic systems at Plant Tiexi and Powertrain, which has already generated over 20,000 MWh of electricity since operation commenced. We plan to expand the distributed 0 photovoltaic system as part of the Tiexi New Plant development and Plant 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Dadong extension. 62 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 63 Looking to 2020, we learned that a new Liaoning Province VOC emission standard will further tighten the quota and allowable concentration of VOC discharge from our facilities. The challenge of meeting this new standard is critical, even with the one-year transition period which is in place. We have already begun feasibility studies for the upgrade of our existing VOC treatment capacity, and we invited a national VOC specialist from the Standard Committee of the Painting Industry to train our environmental and production team on VOC management and the new policy requirements. Responsible Waste Management Our industry is resource-intensive, so we work hard to optimise efficiency, generate less waste, recycle whenever we can, and manage waste disposal Automated production process in the Paint Shop. responsibly. We record the waste we produce using an adapted version of the BMW Group’s waste information system so that we can optimise the handling of waste, including reuse and recycling as well as regulatory compliance. In Lowering Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 2019, our waste disposal per vehicle produced was reduced to 7.47 kg/vehicle. VOCs are hazardous in nature, which can cause detrimental depletion of the Figure 17 ozone layer and deteriorate air quality badly even in small concentrations. For Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) this reason, VOC emissions are now heavily regulated in China with some of the most stringent standards in the world. 9.17 -7.2% 10 We aspire to be the role model of the industry in limiting VOC emissions from 8.05 7.43 7.47 production process and complying with the latest VOC emission standards. Reduction in waste 6.42 Through our constant efforts to optimise the VOC treatment systems in our for disposal per facilities and proactively shifting to water-based solvent, this year we reduced vehicle produced the VOC emissions per vehicle produced by 7.1%, to 0.52 kg/vehicle. 5 from previous year. Figure 16 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 -7.1% 0.6 0.54 0.56 0.52 0.45 0.40 Reduction in VOC emissions 0.4 Throughout our logistics operation and production process, we continue to per vehicle produced from previous year. expand the use of recycled and returnable packaging wherever practical to reduce packaging waste and minimise our environmental impact > p.70 Green Packaging. The waste weighing system installed in 2018 has been providing 0.2 accurate data that proved to be fundamental to our waste management decision-making process. 0 We also installed a new sludge dehydration system that helps to reduce the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 volume of waste, which will run at full capacity in 2020, reducing the volume of sludge from 200 t/year to less than 40 t/year, and will also reduce our waste transport costs. 64 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 65 Finished vehicles dispatched from Shenyang to other cities by rail. Reducing Water Consumption We acknowledge our responsibility to consume and manage water resources more efficiently and sustainably, especially in Shenyang where we face perennial challenges with water scarcity. We monitor water consumption levels and targets at each of our plants. We have been optimising our processes to reduce water consumption and reclaim water as much as feasible to reuse in our production and for auxiliary purposes. In Plant Dadong, the water reclamation system was optimised to save 18,616 m3 of water in 2019, and the wastewater recycling systems of Plant Tiexi and Powertrain recycled 113,068 m3 of water. Using a purification system for recycling water at Plant Powertrain contributed to saving 7,941 m3 of water resources. With the water-saving measures above, we reduced our water consumption per vehicle produced by 2.8%, to 2.40 m3/vehicle in 2019. GREEN LOGISTICS Figure 18 Figure 19 Water consumption per vehicle produced Process wastewater per vehicle produced (in m3/vehicle) (in m3/vehicle) “Sustainability is always Our logistics planning is based on the principles of excellent quality, high one of the focus areas for efficiency, low consumption and sustainability. We aim for safe, efficient, and BMW Brilliance logistics. reliable transportation across the entire logistics chain, as we move parts 3.0 2.68 0.6 from suppliers to plants, finished vehicles from plants to customers, and 2.58 We will keep our leading 2.47 spare parts from regional distribution centres to our dealers. 2.40 0.46 0.46 position in the automotive 2.18 0.44 0.42 logistics industry by 0.39 Sustainability is always one of the focus areas in our logistics operation. 2.0 0.4 constantly reducing CO 2 BMW Brilliance has been actively scaling up low-carbon and multi-modal emissions across our transportation which effectively reduce the CO2 emissions from our inbound, logistics operation.” outbound and aftersales logistics. We also practice environmental protection 1.0 0.2 and circular use of resources in our selection and design of packaging materials, Dr. Franz Decker maximising the use of returnable packaging and finding new solutions to Senior Vice President increase the packaging re-use ratio. Technology and Manufacturing 0 0 We believe that smart and intelligent logistics represents the future of the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 logistics industry, and BMW Brilliance is at the frontier of applying digitalisation and leading-edge technologies throughout our logistics operations, from planning to transportation and warehousing. In working towards our objectives, -2.8% +4.8% we rely on extensive collaboration with our suppliers, logistics service providers, as well as dealers, as the active participation of many different stakeholders is required for greening the logistics industry. Reduction in water consumption per vehicle Increase in process wastewater per vehicle produced from previous year. produced from previous year. INBOUND LOGISTICS Inbound logistics is responsible for ensuring that parts from suppliers are transported safely and efficiently to our production base, as sustainably as possible. Our emphasis has been to increase the proportion of low-carbon and multi-modal transportation by reducing air freight and scaling up sea and rail haulage. This has proven to be effective in reducing our CO2 emissions and environmental impacts, while simultaneously increasing our cost efficiency. By end of 2019, we have lowered the CO2 emissions per unit for inbound logistics to 180 kg/unit, which was a 17.4% reduction from 2018 level. 66 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 67 Figure 20 Rail transportation plays a critical role in greening our inbound logistics Multi-modal distribution network of finished vehicles to Decentralised Dispatch Area operation. We have a dedicated 2,000-km railway transportation line in place from the Greater Shanghai region to Shenyang, bringing parts from our suppliers in the Yangtze River Delta region in special containers as a more efficient and reliable means of long-distance transportation. In 2019, we tested a new “parcel train” model in which parcels of variable dimensions can be transported together in one container, allowing our logistics service providers to fill containers more efficiently and maximise space utilisation. In 2019, 31 of Shenyang our suppliers participated in the parcel train pilot project. Dalian We are also increasing the share of sea transportation, especially for international shipment of parts imported from Europe or other continents. Xi’an Zhengzhou The much larger carrying capacity of sea vessels means a much lower CO2 emission intensity as compared to air freight, and more available technological In December 2019, BMW Group Shanghai Chengdu breakthroughs on cleaner fuel and engines for vessels implies that we can was the first carmaker to become a member of the “Getting to Zero Ningbo green our sea freight faster and further. Coalition”, a joint partnership Vessel initiated by the Global Marine Train In addition, we set up a sea-land transportation route from Yantai to Shenyang Forum, the Friends of the in 2017 as an alternative to the much longer land transport route around the Ocean and the World Economic Truck Guangzhou Shandong Peninsula. The new multi-transportation mode brought benefits in Forum, which sets a target to accelerate maritime shipping's Finished Vehicle Dispatch Areas terms of lead time, costs, and emission reduction. decarbonisation with the development and deployment We began using electric trucks for transporting materials in 2018 at Plant of commercially viable deep sea Dadong, where some materials and parts are stored a few kilometres from zero emission vessels by 2030. our production workshops. In 2019, with the increased production volume of highest proportion of any automotive manufacturer in China. By systematically BMW X3 and BMW 5 Series, the E-trucks operated more frequently and with shifting from road to rail transport for finished vehicles, BMW Brilliance has optimised scheduling. reduced CO2 emissions per unit for outbound logistics by 45% since 2014. Looking forward, a direct railway connection will be established at Plant OUTBOUND LOGISTICS Dadong, which is expected to be operational by 2022. This will further enhance our transportation efficiency, lower our CO2 emissions, and reduce traffic For BMW Brilliance’s outbound logistics, we partner with rail, sea, and road congestion in Shenyang by replacing more than 75% of Plant Dadong’s local logistics service providers to transport our finished vehicles nationwide in a truck transportation with rail. cost-efficient and sustainable manner, and we are committed to strengthen the collaboration with our logistics partners in line with our strategy. Our management pillars include green logistics, cost efficiency, and digitalisation, AFTERSALES AND SPARE PARTS LOGISTICS to achieve combined business and environmental benefits. 25 The aftersales logistics department manages our five Spare Parts Distribution In 2019, BMW Brilliance became the first premium automotive manufacturer to Centres (RDCs), in Beijing, Shanghai, Foshan, Chengdu and Shenyang, as enter into a direct partnership with China Railway Special Cargo Services Ltd. Calendar Days well as the import of spare parts from Europe and the logistics of transporting for the pre-haul distribution of automobiles nationwide. The partnership will parts between RDCs and dealerships. BMW Brilliance currently operates 5 Lead time to transport optimise operational processes and efficiencies in our rail transport network, RDCs which store more than 80,000 spare parts in total, and a new RDC in spare parts from Germany and further enhance BMW Brilliance’s green logistics. The collaboration to Chengdu Regional Hefei is expected to be operational in 2021. Each RDC is capable of delivering 78% underlines our commitment to sustainable development and our support for Distribution Centre. emergency orders to dealers in its service region within 24 hours. China’s long-term environmental vision. Many spare parts for aftersales services are imported directly from Europe. of our finished vehicles can be Finished vehicles are transported from the BMW Brilliance plants either to While sea freight accounts for 78% of the transportation, we are actively transported wholly or partly Dalian port by railway, then by sea to Ningbo, Shanghai and Guangzhou, or expanding the use of rail and reducing the use of air freight to cut our carbon by rail, which is the highest transported by rail directly to Xi'an, Chengdu and Zhengzhou. Currently, 78% proportion among automotive footprint and improve cost-effectiveness. Under China’s national One-Beltof our finished vehicles can be transported wholly or partly by rail, which is the manufacturers in China. One-Road initiative, we have been able to gradually import more parts through 68 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 69 Europe-China railway lines, from Germany to our production base in Shenyang and to our RDC in Chengdu. Shifting from sea freight to rail allows us to cut the transportation lead time from Germany to Chengdu from 60 days to 25 days, in Piloting E-truck for spare addition to minimising weather and security risk. Around 1,500 containers per parts logistics year are transported to the Chengdu RDC by rail in this way. Demonstrated 58% lower CO2 emissions versus In 2019, BMW Brilliance worked with our logistics partner to pilot the use of conventional trucks. E-trucks to transport spare parts from RDCs to dealerships, starting with Foshan in Guangdong. The pilot project resulted in a 58% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to the use of conventional trucks for the same haulage, and we are exploring the potential to expand the pilot to other cities such as Shanghai. GREEN PACKAGING 98% As early as 2010, BMW Brilliance began adjusting our packaging strategy to utilise returnable packaging, and we started to invest and manage returnable Logistic Centre in Plant Tiexi. packaging from 2011. We strive to fight pollution with our emphasis on returnable of local parts were transported packaging, using lighter material and less volume in our packaging, and shifting in returnable packaging. to almost 100% degradable materials. Through intensive design efforts, we have significantly reduced one-way packaging, and in 2019, 98% of our local GREEN AND RESILIENT WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT parts were transported in returnable packaging. These initiatives have helped us maximise resource utilisation, save on materials and cost, and reduce our BMW Brilliance was selected to be in the first group of National Green Plants, carbon footprint, while contributing to the national agenda of environmental and we turn China’s green manufacturing strategy into action by increasing construction and green logistics. our resource efficiency and reducing our environmental impact, including in our logistics storage operations. We are committed to safe, smart, efficient, We work closely with our bin suppliers to identify every possible way to enhance and green management of storage at our production base, our Decentralised bin utilisation. With the launch of our BMW 3 series in 2019, we revamped our Dispatch Areas, and our Regional Distribution Centres. bin design so that the bins can be used across product generations, instead of being disposed of at landfill, while generating cost savings. We are also When we plan for a new storage facility or expansion of existing facilities, we exploring the feasibility of standardising bin design across product models, and conduct a thorough risk assessment to aid in site selection. This risk assessment we rolled out a bin-sharing and bin rental model in order to reduce the idle time takes into account the frequency and likelihood of natural disasters, extreme of returnable packages. weather events, and any hazards in the vicinity, to ensure that safety risks are controlled and minimised. Lightweight design is another major step we have taken towards green packaging. We continue to upgrade our bin design with structural optimisation 89% Our finished vehicles are stored at Plant Dispatch Areas (PDA) at our production that allows us to use less material, and we use lighter packaging material bases and Decentralised Dispatch Areas (DDA) in other locations, which are We optimised our oversea wherever possible. With these innovations, each of our car models can packaging by increasing operated by logistics service providers. We added a PDA at Plant Dadong in achieve around 8,000 kg of Expanded Polypropylene (EPP) material savings. utilisation rate of Plant 2019, with 11,000 outdoor and 2,200 indoor parking spaces, and the use of In overseas logistics, we also raised the utilisation rate of our containers for Dadong import containers Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology to improve process and Plant Dadong from 84.8% to 89% through a series of packaging optimisation from 84.8% to 89% in 2019. resource efficiency. At DDAs across China, we now request logistics operators measures. to measure and report water consumption, in order to manage water usage and raise their awareness of water conservation. We collaborate with our tire suppliers to use returnable foldable metal bins for delivery to all RDCs, and we engage with dealers to reduce the packaging Our new RDC in Hefei is the first BMW Brilliance warehouse designed in material for spare parts by using returnable packages and maximising usage accordance with the international LEED green building standard. We also efficiency. At our Chengdu RDC, 46% of outbound Extended-Late Evening require our other RDC operators to convert to LED lighting and install monitoring Delivery (E-LED) goods are packed and delivered in returnable packages. systems to enable real-time energy management, as a starting point to reduce Our new RDC in Hefei is energy consumption. We follow the US standards and BMW Group standards designed in accordance with the LEED Green for our fire safety measures at RDCs, which include minimising the use of water Building Standard. in responding to fire incidents, and improved fire-fighting capability. 70 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 71 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT BMW Brilliance adheres to Zero Defect across our process from order to product delivery, hence we require our suppliers to commit to the same level of outstanding product and service quality that we set for ourselves. From the nomination process till the after EOP-management, we select and evaluate our suppliers based on a list of criteria, among which are five criteria that represent strategic importance to BMW Brilliance product quality, incorporation of sustainability into product development, supply chain management, agile and flexible production, and cost efficiency. With our supplier network accounting for a significant portion of BMW Brilliance’s value creation, it is especially important to ensure supplier compliance with environmental and social standards. We build long-term supplier partnerships with increased transparency and shared objectives, 2019 BMW Brilliance Grand Supplier Day. which include environmental and social sustainability. Sustainability is integrated into our supply chain starting from the supplier selection and nomination process, with all suppliers required to comply with SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN BMW Group’s core principles and sustainability standards as defined in the BMW Group Supplier Sustainability Policy, and is the basic for supplier BMW Brilliance is committed to integrating sustainability standards and relationship included in the IPC (International Purchasing Terms and Condition). performance along our entire supply chain, as a means of value creation that At BMW Brilliance, we also require suppliers to be certified with the ISO 14001 ensures high-quality products and services while safeguarding environmental Environmental Management System and the ISO 45001 or OHSAS 18001 and social standards. We are improving transparency and investing in deeper The Departments of Parts Occupational Health and Safety Management Standards, as part of our BMW and more direct supply chain engagement, enabling our supply chain partners Purchasing, Supplier Quality Brilliance Environment, Health and Safety Purchasing Management Procedure, Management, and Delivery to continuously make improvements. to ensure compliance with local labour and environmental legal requirements. Assurance together form a cross-functional team We are ensuring social and environmental compliance in our supply chain to manage and enhance All supplier contracts are harmonised between the BMW Group and BMW with strengthened risk management processes and mechanisms, especially supply chain performance. In Brilliance supplier networks, and contain Supplier Sustainability Clauses that for Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS), social, and financial risks. Our times of market fluctuations, include commitments to environmental conformance and social responsibility, overall approach is transitioning from risk control to risk prevention, which rapidly-changing policy and and adherence to the principles of the UN Global Compact and the International regulatory requirements, we relies on improved supplier awareness and more proactive analysis and Labour Organisation (ILO) on the protection of human rights and a ban on work closely with suppliers to mitigation. maintain a stable, agile and forced and child labour. Our suppliers also commit to ensuring that their own high-quality supply of parts suppliers also comply with these agreements. Sustainable sourcing requires building transparency to the source of our and materials. critical raw materials, and establishing direct sourcing relationships with We have also engaged directly with raw material suppliers, for example, of our raw material suppliers to secure supply and enable us to better manage High-Voltage Battery (HVB) cells, to make this highly specialised supply chain social and environmental risks. We partner with others through supply chain more transparent, which enables us to cascade BMW Group’s sustainability sustainability initiatives to address contextual and systemic factors and commitments further down the supply chain. improve overall conditions, by standardizing sustainability requirements and introducing monitoring mechanisms. Implementation of sustainability standards at our suppliers is monitored through our supplier risk management framework and due diligence process. We have Our local content suppliers in China continues to grow in size and improve expanded the coverage of our EHS risk assessments to more suppliers, and in quality, as we support supplier development and enable local suppliers we support their improvement with robust training and knowledge sharing. In to achieve global production standards and reach an international scale by addition, we have deployed a new Environmental Risk Assessment system making increased contributions to BMW Group’s global supply network. with early warning and risk-alert functions, which supplements our risk control mechanisms with risk prevention. 72 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 73 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING SUPPLIER RISK ASSESSMENT AND PERFORMANCE The rapid growth of the NEV market in China has created a surge in demand Adherence to environmental and social standards along the entire value for the raw materials needed to produce battery cells. The extraction of needed chain is of the utmost importance for BMW Brilliance and our stakeholders. minerals such as cobalt and lithium also carries specific environmental and Our strengthened Supplier Risk Management (SRM) framework covers six social risks, which BMW Brilliance mitigates by establishing direct access and areas: Environment, Health, and Safety; Social Responsibility; Sub-Supplier relationships with raw material suppliers to address sustainability issues in the Management; Finance; Delivery; and Maintenance. sourcing countries while securing supply volumes, achieving both sustainability and long-term business success. Supplier awareness has increased significantly due to implementation of the SRM, and our supplier risk management is recognised as industry-leading, with management principles that incorporate risk prevention as well as risk control, Sourcing Raw Materials for High-Voltage Battery building a culture among suppliers in which both BMW Brilliance and suppliers proactively manage risks. We reinforce expectations of social responsibility The BMW Group’s commitment to social responsibility drives our efforts in the through evaluations of new, existing, and high-risk suppliers, and we have sustainable sourcing of cobalt. The BMW Group shifted to sourcing cobalt from deepened sub-supplier management to extend our commitment beyond Tier 1. Morocco and Australia instead of the Democratic Republic of Congo, where artisanal mining is still a predominant source of cobalt, with critical social and Figure 21 environmental risks. For increased transparency, we have established direct Our Supplier Risk Management framework access to the cobalt mines we source from and we conduct audits on social and environmental risks. We are also collaborating with external partners to tackle labour issues and poor working conditions related to artisanal mining. Finance Monitor supplier financial For sourcing of lithium, we have built long-term partnerships to procure directly health, financial compliance risk from our raw material suppliers. This transformation enhances transparency, and corporate operating state. enabling us to secure supply volumes and control supply chain risks. EHS Social Responsibility Monitor suppliers’ EHS Monitor suppliers’ regulatory compliance. social responsibility, Integrating Sustainability Into Procurement compliance on human rights and employee To cascade sustainability commitments down our supply chain, we integrate stability. sustainability goals into our procurement process by working with Tier-1 and Supplier Risk Tier-2 suppliers for Gen5 HVB production to increase the amount of secondary Management material used for aluminium, cobalt, and nickel. 50% of cobalt is currently being Maintenance Delivery provided from secondary material, and nickel will reach the 50% target by 2025. Monitor compliance on Monitor emergency For Gen5 HVB production, 100% of energy used must be regenerative, such as equipment operations. strategy and responses from renewable sources (water, wind, solar) or from plants powered by landfill actions of logistics transport system and gases. BMW Brilliance supports HVB suppliers by sharing our knowledge and risk of supplier IT experience to support them to reach the same level of sustainable operations. security status. Sub-supplier Management We set sustainability commitments for our Tier-1 and Tier-2 suppliers of HVB Monitor the risk management Gen5 production to use: effectiveness of the suppliers’ regulatory system for sub-suppliers. 100% Aluminum At least 50% Nickel At least 50% Cobalt 100% Regenerative Energy from secondary material from secondary material from secondary material For HVB cell production 74 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 75 Figure 23 Enhancing Supplier EHS Management 2019 Supplier Social Responsibility assessment outcome We continued to support our targeted suppliers to make substantial improvements in Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Management with our EHS Protection Activity (EPA) initiative that includes on-site risk identification, audits, process optimisation and capacity building activities. In 2019, we extended the EPA initiative to cover more raw material suppliers and focused First Final on key suppliers more vulnerable to EHS risks. Following the initial round of Round Round assessments in 2019, most suppliers demonstrated significant improvements in reducing the risk levels from high and medium to low. Figure 22 2019 Supplier EHS risk assessment outcome Low risk Middle risk High risk Strengthening Supplier Financial Health First Final As part of supplier risk assessments, we also evaluate supplier financial Round Round management, in order to monitor supplier financial health, identify financial compliance risks, and assess financial performance. The annual financial audits of nominated suppliers, including Tier-1 to Tier-3 levels, had a qualified response rate of 98%, up from 90% from 2018. This improvement reflects an increased Low risk Middle risk High risk awareness of the importance of financial risk management among suppliers, who have directed more resources to building up internal financial health during stable periods in preparation for financial challenges. With mutual efforts and constructive cross-alignment, suppliers with indicators of financial risk receive more intensive monitoring regarding their financial health and operating status. As our approach advances from risk control to risk prevention, this year we Supplier Flammable launched an Environmental Risk Management System (ERMS) to improve the and Explosive Hazard effectiveness of data collection and analysis, with daily alerts and warnings of Management Project (FEHM) potential risks. The ERMS uses big data analysis for risk scanning and notifies SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT AND ENGAGEMENT In response to the two purchasing and QMT teams with warnings of potential risks, enabling rapid influential plant explosions in response. The risk scans include EHS, transportation, major events, extreme March 2019, we immediately Purchasing volume in China At BMW Brilliance, we are committed to develop local sourcing capacity, as it weather, and natural disasters, identifying potential influences on supply chain (in RMB billion ) provides shared benefits for our business, our business partners, and our local started the FEHM project to management and enabling our purchasing department to prepare and adapt. identify, evaluate and minimise 49.7 and national economy. In 2019, our local content suppliers in China continued risks related to chemical and to grow to 394, with a 15.3% increase in total purchasing value to RMB 49.7 hazardous materials, involving 43.1 billion. The number of suppliers located in northeast China also increased, with more than 20 suppliers in our Increasing Transparency of Supplier Social Performance supply chain. 70 suppliers now based in Shenyang and 91 suppliers in Liaoning. Together, 26.7 we play an important role in driving sustainable and economic development One component of the BMW Brilliance SRM is our social risk assessment project, 23.9 at multiple scales, in Shenyang, Liaoning Province, and the Northeast China which monitors suppliers with regard to social responsibility, compliance with region. human rights requirements, and employee turnover rates. We regularly audit suppliers against 10 social responsibility requirements, with rigorous timelines Developing suppliers in closer proximity also allows us to work directly with for implementation of corrective measures. From our 2019 social responsibility 2016 2017 2018 2019 them on improving quality, agility, and efficiency that benefits both our suppliers audit results, the findings were primarily in the area of employee satisfaction, and BMW Brilliance. Besides contributing to local employment and economic overtime hours, grievance processes, and lack of labour unions. Moderate growth, a more localised supplier network means a smaller transport footprint, improvements were noted after implementing corrective actions, and we will work with lower costs and emissions. more closely with targeted suppliers to improve their performance in 2020. 76 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 77 Figure 24 FORECAST 2020 BMW Brilliance supplier network For our next generation infrastructure – Tiexi New Plant Project, 2019 was Yingkou & Liaoyang & 394 Beijing & Tianjin Tieling & Dandong the year of land preparation. In 2020, it will be a year of construction, which is & Hebei & Shanxi scheduled to commence in April, with the building infrastructure closed in late autumn. Local content suppliers in Xinjiang Anhui China by end of 2019. We will explore the feasibility of localised outbound logistics management 40 Changchun 1 70 Shenyang systems to enable real-time delivery management, monitoring, and enhanced 50 11 risk prevention. 10 Dalian 15 Shandong We will explore opportunities with our logistic partners to use more LNG fleet 66 Jiangsu and E-trucks in Tier 1 cities, which are imposing stricter traffic control on heavy 3 79 Shanghai 1 2 8 25 Zhejiang vehicles, for outbound and aftersales logistics. 1 2 Fujian On packaging, we will pilot the use of returnable bins for our imported parts Guangdong 9 & Shenzhen through revamping the packaging design with our international supplier. Chengdu Mianyang Hubei Chongqing & Hunan Sustainable sourcing of cobalt and lithium for HVB cells will enter the implementation phase, with process enhancement to establish it as standard practice. To ensure Zero Defect in our products and services, we require our suppliers to meet BMW’s stringent global quality standards, and provide consistent support Our Supplier Risk Management approach will continue to transform from risk to help them achieve technological breakthroughs and production optimisation. control to risk prevention, with a focus on key suppliers. We will also expand the scope of social responsibility audits to cover more aspects. The sustainable On the 2019 BMW Brilliance Grand Supplier Day, we honoured top-performing supply chain strategy will take an upgrade to enhance the focus on CO2 suppliers with the Quality Excellence Award to recognise their delivery of emissions. consistently high-quality products and excellent services in the past year. Because of their outstanding quality, some of BMW Brilliance’s leading local We will pilot the CDP Supply Chain Programme with selected suppliers for suppliers have become part of BMW Group’s global supply network, providing disclosure of their GHG emissions on the CDP platform, which will help us parts and products to BMW Group production locations worldwide. We pride identify emission hotspots and explore opportunities for GHG emissions ourselves in introducing local suppliers to an international platform and reduction. boosting their level of operations. We are also planning for a closed-loop project with aluminium and steel, in As we enter the next chapter of high-quality development “In China, For China which we will return metal waste back to steel and aluminium manufacturers as and For the World,” with the soon-to-begin production of the fully electric BMW secondary raw materials in a circular economy approach, which will also reduce iX3 in Shenyang for both the China and international markets, there will be CO2 emissions and expand our sustainability commitments to more actors in new challenges testing our suppliers’ flexibility and capacity for innovation. our supply chain. Overcoming these challenges will give rise to an even more capable supplier network and a stronger Chinese automotive industry. Ramping up for Carbon Disclosure Project Supply Chain Programme To support our suppliers in reducing the climate impacts of their operations, this year we began the ramp-up work for participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Supply Chain Programme in 2020. A cross-functional session was hosted to kick off this new initiative, during which we invited a CDP specialist to provide training to our core team members with respect to the disclosure process and requirements. Meanwhile, we are also working to understand the emission hotspots among our key suppliers and planning for engagement in 2020. 78 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 79 04 EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY At BMW Brilliance, success depends on the dedication of our people and AND SOCIETY talents, and we ensure that they are in the right roles and have equal opportunities to fulfill their potential. In line with our core values, we put great efforts towards protecting our employees’ safety and well-being, and we adapt to meet new health challenges with an occupational health and safety concept that includes holistic health management programmes, along with work safety and ergonomics. In this time of digitalisation and rapid Responsible Human Resources Management 82 technological change, it is vital for BMW Brilliance to maintain our position Corporate Social Responsibility 94 as an attractive employer. We invest in our employees, offering opportunities to foster continuous learning, and utilise various channels for feedback and Forecast 2020 105 dialogue so that we can continue to adapt and improve our talent development and human resources management. We also take responsibility as a good corporate citizen to address current issues in society, inspiring our dealers, our customers, and our employees to join in a community effort to overcome societal challenges. RESPONSE TO SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs): 2019 HIGHLIGHTS 19,824 30.6% Total workforce at 2019 Female employees in year-end management positions 92% -39.3% Employees satisfied Change of accident working at BMW Brilliance frequency rate vs 2018 2,628,710 2 CSR Guidebooks Beneficiaries from BMW Released to share our knowledge with society on CSR activities in 2019 Children's Traffic Safety Education, and Joyful Sports 80 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 81 Our Core Values BMW Brilliance has five Core Values that are the basis for our decision-making and for our management approach. We foster these Core Values among our employees through open discussions to establish a common understanding of the values and how they are put into practice through specific behaviours. • Responsibility: We go beyond for the best corporate interest. • Appreciation: We motivate and care for each other. We give clear feedback. • Transparency: We share meaningful information efficiently. • Trust: We earn mutual trust by keeping our promises. • Openness: We are open to different opinions and inspire each other to identify new opportunities. 2019 Plant Tiexi Associate Meeting. Since March 2019, we established dedicated Core Value Space for teams to experience and re-familiarise themselves with our five Core Values. The elaborate and joyful interior design provides employees with an open and RESPONSIBLE HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT relaxed space to facilitate team building, and nurture shared and deeper experience of the Core Values. Pre-designed team-oriented games, which are The acceleration of modern technologies is transforming the working guided by designated facilitators from the Human Resource team, are available environment for employees in the automotive industry. Even as the in the Core Value Space If participants wish to refresh or gain inspiration workplace changes, BMW Brilliance continuously applies our core values and through fun teamwork. Since the launch of this initiative, the Core Value Space implements our programmes to attract talent, maximise employee safety and has rapidly gained popularity and become one of the most lively spaces in the well-being, and foster employee development and learning, which improves offices. employee satisfaction and ultimately productivity and performance. EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION AND FEEDBACK HR STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 91% To facilitate employee growth, BMW Brilliance relies on our community of Human resources management at BMW Brilliance is a top priority of our employees to share their feedback and suggestions. We provide communication executive team, with direct reporting to the CEO by our Senior Vice President of of employees are satisfied platforms that enable our entire workforce to contribute, and we continue to Human Resources, who is responsible for the formulation and implementation with their jobs. develop new and improved mechanisms for dialogue and discussion. Our of BMW Brilliance’s Human Resources Strategy. The Associate Handbook collective voice is what drives improvements in our corporate culture, and clearly outlines our employees’ rights and responsibilities, including the BMW our diversity is what enables the company to innovate and identify areas for Brilliance Legal Compliance Code. 92% of employees are satisfied improvement and integration of innovative ideas and concepts. Our approach to leadership and professional development relies on working at BMW Brilliance. establishing shared Core Values among all employees, to enable us to achieve Employee Satisfaction high performance and meet our targets. A unique combination of management style, benefits, training and opportunities helps us to maintain a competitive BMW Group conducts an employee survey every two years. The 2019 survey advantage as the Most Attractive Employer in the automotive industry, results showed a continued high level of satisfaction of BMW Brilliance differentiating BMW Brilliance from other employers and attracting talented employees, with 91% of employees satisfied with their jobs, and 92% of professionals. employees satisfied working at BMW Brilliance. Both of these indicators increased slightly from the 2017 survey results. Our human resources approach has four main areas: Core Values; Talent Attraction; Long-term Employee Development; and Health, Safety and Wellbeing. 82 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 83 In response to suggestions from the employee survey, we began three BMW Brilliance BMW Brilliance’s Trade Union was established to represent all employees with new initiatives. First, we created an online Total Rewards Statement which Trade Union the aim of protecting employees’ rights and interests through mediation. The employees can access to clearly and easily view a comprehensive summary of Trade Union and the Board of Management meet annually to address topics their compensation and benefits. In addition, a new dress code policy, “Dress such as health and safety or compensation. In 2019, the annual Employee for Work Success”, introduced “smart casual” attire as an option for the daily Representatives Congress and Union Member Representatives Congress was business environment. Finally, our Office>NEXT initiative created a new held at Plant Tiexi. Mr. Wang Jun, SVP Finance and Secretary of CPC BMW working style to build collaboration and innovation, with more open spaces, Brilliance Committee, set the goals of “Guiding political direction, supporting more meeting rooms, and more collaborative areas to facilitate connections. business development, and contributing to the revitalisation of Northeast China”. Awards for excellence were given out to party and union members, and the 2019 Collective Contract on Labour Remuneration was approved. The annual convening of conferences has enhanced the cohesiveness of BMW Brilliance employees. TALENT ATTRACTION To attract and develop talented professionals with the right set of skills and experience, we offer a combination of benefits, remuneration, and training opportunities. We want to be the most attractive employer in the automotive industry, supported by competitive salary and benefits packages, a commitment to effective communication between management and employees, and opportunities for cross-cultural experiences that contribute to diverse skill BMW Brilliance received a number development. of Best Employer awards in 2019, including but not limited to: Our 2019 employee survey confirmed that we are excelling in terms of Office workspace environment created under the Office>NEXT initiative. – Most Attractive Employer employee job satisfaction, and external awards validated our efforts to be the in 2019 (Universum), #1 in most attractive employer. automotive industry We use platforms such as Executive Dialogue as a way for employees to Executive Dialogue – #1 China Best Employer 2019 (Zhaopin.com) speak directly with management about topics such as the company’s strategic and Expert Talks Comprehensive Employee Benefits direction and objectives. In April, we held an SVP Table event at Tiexi, in – IoT Field of Top Employer which Wang Jun, Senior Vice President of Finance, and Michelle Yuan, Head 2019 Top 5 (Lagou.com) We reward our employees with total remuneration that is aligned with the upper of HR Management Shenyang, met with 20 associates to answer questions – Most Influential Employer of third of the relevant labour market in China, and make adjustments based on in a transparent and open manner, as well as promoting teamwork and the Year Top 10(Maimai.com) an annual benchmark analysis for the automotive industry. In addition to fixed collaboration. As an extension of Executive Dialogue, we began holding Expert – Best Overseas Employer Top base salary and overtime payments, our employees receive allowances and a Talks (similar to TED Talks) on a monthly basis, where BMW internal experts 6 (LockinChina) variable bonus that links total remuneration to performance, and a customised from various business lines share their knowledge to strengthen associates’ flexible benefits programme. understanding of business strategy and open up their horizons. Videos of the talks are also posted on our e-learning platform. In support of our employees’ work-life balance, we provide extensive vacation leave in addition to the statutory annual leave, as well as generous personal Additional dialogue takes place during Associate Meetings, when employees at Associate Meetings leave benefits for maternity and paternity leave, sick leave, and compassionate each plant come together for a day of dialogue with management. In Dadong, and Open Door leave. In addition, we provide three options of work-time models for production 7,000 associates gathered with the management team in July for the 2019 and non-production employees to suit individual needs based on their job associate meeting to review past achievements and look forward to the future, nature and functional requirements. and 9,000 associates attended the July meeting held in Tiexi. The Powertrain Plant held an associate meeting in August, with 2,300 associates participating. For all local regular contract employees at BMW Brilliance, we have an Associate Car Programme that grants discounts and periodic special rates for Open Door meetings are another format we utilise to invite questions particular vehicle models. For convenient and economical transportation for from associates and discussion with management, and also serve as a our employees’ daily commute, we provide a shuttle bus service between our communication channel for management to learn about associates’ opinions plants and public transport centres across Shenyang. and express support, and lay a good foundation for ensuring safe production and zero waste. 84 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 85 Figure 26 Monitoring Workforce Growth Attrition rate (in %) 19,824 -25.0% We track several internal and external key performance indicators to evaluate 2015 3.8 whether we are reaching our goal of being an attractive employer. Our workforce was stable in 2019, with 19,824 employees (excluding employees 2016 3.3 Our total workforce at Change in attrition rate with contracts through a third-party labour-dispatch service provider). 2019 year-end. compared to previous year. 2017 4.5 The diversity of our workforce provides immense value through the varying 4.8 2018 perspectives that our employees bring from their different professional and personal backgrounds. Our Global Leadership Development Programme and 2019 3.6 international vocational training are designed to promote employee exchange, international experience, and an inter-cultural and diverse workforce. 0 2.5 5.0 We are investing in female leadership development, with seminars to share experiences and encourage female employees to advance in their career BMW Brilliance has established a strategic process for human resources paths. In 2019, female made up 12.1% of our total workforce and 30.6% of our planning in order to identify and explore new competencies that will propel the management team, which was slightly increased from the 2018 proportion. future development of the company. We recruit critical talent based on current needs and future forecasts, and connect with talent in the market through a variety of means such as driving experience integrated job events, overseas Figure 25 job fairs, campus events, and social media engagement. Gender composition of our management team and total workforce (in %) 30.6% 12.1% LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT The training and development of our employees to reach their full potential is fundamental to the company’s sustainable growth. We regularly evaluate our Management Total performance in training and development, and in 2019, we maintained a very Team Workforce high employee training satisfaction rate of 98.2%. Areas of development include strengthening our leadership culture and developing future talent through a variety of innovative short-term and extended programmes, supported by key external partners. Female employees in our management team Female employees in our total workforce Competency Model In 2015, we rolled out our Competency Model to advance the professional Our ongoing efforts to develop local talent have contributed to a steady development of our employees, with a structured framework of employee increase of Chinese employees in management positions, who now account competencies and clear appraisal criteria. It helps managers to objectively for 85.5% of our management group. All employees hold full-time contracts. identify and develop both individual and team potential. For employees, the Other essential indicators in relation to our workforce growth and composition model helps them understand their own competencies, receive clear feedback, are detailed in > p.108 Key Performance Indicators. and find a career path that is both suitable and motivating. We also facilitate rotation so that employees can experience different work environments. BMW Brilliance continues to succeed in retaining talent and maintaining loyalty within our workforce. To track this, we closely monitor our monthly employee attrition rate. BMW Brilliance’s voluntary attrition rate was 2.6% in 2019, Training Programmes decreased from 3.7% in 2018. The overall attrition rate (voluntary and nonvoluntary) decreased from 4.8% in 2018 to 3.6% in 2019. Despite the impacts We host many of our non-technical training programmes through online on the automotive industry during 2019 from shrinking market demand in China, platforms to offer employees more opportunities and better access to further BMW Brilliance’s attrition rate remains well below average in the market, as develop themselves. reflected from the results of our employee survey. 86 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 87 Our key leadership and future talent training programmes are introduced below: Leadership Programmes Young Leaders College A 1.5-year leadership development programme specially designed for high-performing mid-level local BMW Brilliance and BMW Group leaders, to form a strong BMW Group local management team. By the end of 2019, 152 BMW Brilliance and BMW Group leaders had joined the programme. Leadership Magic Cube A team-based learning programme that enhances team performance through collective work on innovation, strategy, decision-making, and collaboration within or across teams. In 2019, 50 sessions were implemented for teams from different departments. Section Leader Training Training for new and established section leaders, with fundamental and essential leadership We help our employees to reach their Programme knowledge and skills which contribute to production efficiency. In 2019, 360 production section full potential with comprehensive employee development programmes. leaders joined 15 training sessions. Experienced Leaders A global programme for established senior leaders, with visits to external companies for Programme exchange in transformation and innovation, and deep dive discussions and exchange on key In 2019, there were 30 diverse non-technical courses on the learning platform leadership topics. In 2019, 72 senior leaders joined 3 training sessions. covering 9 different modules, including professional competency, inter-cultural, orientation, financial, HR, marketing, sales, and product and process. IDEA TO OFFER: Future Talent Programmes In support of the Integrated Product Data Management (IPDM) programmes The Idea To Offer (ITO) Training roll-out at BMW Brilliance, the technical training team organised 31 training is a learning-by-experience The Global Leader An international graduate initiative offering recent talented graduates an opportunity to training programme offered by the Development Programme jumpstart their career at BMW Brilliance. Through four rotations, these professionals work sessions with 7 topics for 231 target group members during 2019. One online Academy of BMW Group China for (GLDP) in multiple departments including one at BMW Group headquarters. By the end of 2019, 11 training was imported from BMW Group onto the local E-Learning platform for R&D associates. A total of seven employees were enrolled in the Global Leader Development Programme. all BMW Brilliance colleagues to access. sessions of ITO training took place in Shenyang Plant Tiexi and the R&D ProMotion China Ph.D. A four-year programme to attract high-potential Ph.D. students interested in research and Meanwhile, we recognise the importance of internal trainers in delivering both centres in Beijing and Shanghai. The Programme development, production planning, and process optimisation with a specialisation in Industry technical and non-technical trainings. This year, we recruited internal trainers from participants went through the ITO 4.0 technologies. Since 2014, we have had 36 participants, including 13 new Ph.D. students on process together and assembled a business departments for training at the Academy, and completed 95 sessions, board in September 2019. One of the two Ph.D. students who graduated in 2018/2019 joined model car, developing the practical in which 38 sessions (40%) achieved a remarkable evaluation score of 4.9 out of 5. knowledge of how a car is developed BMW Brilliance. and delivered to the customer. Fastlane China Programme Provides career growth and rapid promotion opportunities for outstanding master graduates. Strengthening Our Leadership Culture and Developing Future Talent Fastlane trainees are provided soft skills training and a designated “buddy” who provides guidance and inspiration to help trainees reach their full potential. In 2019, 21 trainees graduated We provide leadership training at different development phases, including from the programme. potential leaders, new leaders, experienced leaders, and high-performing SpeedUp China in Production Recruits bachelor’s degree students and develops young professionals into high-quality leaders. We also conduct team-based learning workshops for team leaders Programme production technicians and future section leaders. In 2019, 75 trainees graduated from the and team members. programme. BMW Brilliance participates in several specialised programmes to build the skill The New Vocational Education Programme adapted from the dual education system in Germany, modified to suit the Chinese sets needed for the future. We are training and cultivating the next generation Programme context. Designed to build the technical skills of our production employees and to support for the benefit of our business over the long term and the overall development vocational school and college students to build the capacities they need to secure well-paid jobs. of the automotive industry in China. 100% of graduates who passed the evaluation have joined BMW Brilliance. 288 apprentices have graduated from the New Vocational Education Programme, with 59 completing the In 2019, we established a cooperation with Shenyang University of Technology programme in 2019. and Shenyang University for the SpeedUp China in Production Programme, which will cultivate applied talent in cutting-edge technologies to implement the development strategy of Made in China and Industry 4.0. 88 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 89 Figure 27 Accident frequency rate (per one million hours worked)* -39.3% 2015 2016 0.54 1.06 Change in accident frequency rate compared 2017 0.43 to previous year. 2018 0.28 2019 0.17 0 0.5 1.0 * The scope only covers directly contracted employees in the production plants. It is calculated HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING by the number of accidents with one day lost time or more divided by the total working hours (in millions) of the year. At BMW Brilliance, we consider our employees to be our most valuable asset and undertakes to safeguard them from injury and ill health arising from the Creating a Safe Workplace operations and activities associated with our business, through the effective management of our health and safety risks. We highly value our employees’ health and wellbeing, and we strive to create a healthy, safe, and compliant workplace. To achieve this, we adopt and We invest in the health, safety and wellbeing of our workforce, which means implement the most advanced systems and continuously make improvements not only having a comprehensive and rigorous safety management system in our health and safety standards and practices. and risk control programmes in the workplace, but also efforts to support longterm health management such as adapting production for aging workers and The office ergonomics evaluation project BAPA 3.0 launched in 2018 has serving healthy food in our canteens. We persist in building a safety culture and continued to expand in coverage of office employees, and in 2019 we also supporting our employees to preserve their health in order to improve their own focused on vigorously promoting the Safety and Ergonomics Risk Assessment wellbeing and to enhance the long-term viability and optimal performance of system (SERA), which is aimed at employees on production lines. The system the workforce. is capable of assessing physical stress, mental stress, work environment, accident risks and specific stresses for various job workstations along the production line. We invited experts from Germany to provide 4 days Occupational Health and Safety Management comprehensive training to our 89 system users to equip them with the needed skills and knowledge. Data from SERA can help us develop more specific risk BMW Brilliance’s Occupational Health and Safety Management (OHS) Policy prevention and mitigation measures, and optimise system performance and is supported by our workplace health and safety management system, which efficiency while ensuring a safe workplace for our production employees. is established in accordance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations, the BMW Group Health and Safety Policy, and in compliance with Chinese labour law, OHSAS 18001, the United Nations Global Compact Implementing Health and Safety Initiatives Principles, and the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by the International Labour Organisation. Any violation of the Legal Compliance Health and safety are the cornerstone of sustainable business, and especially Code is filed with the Human Resources Department and the Compliance so in our industry. We have made health and safety a commitment to all our Committee. Both our internal and shareholder audit teams conduct annual employees, so that “Safety First” is not just a slogan but at the centre of a safety audits to ensure full compliance with internal and external rules and regulations. culture throughout the organisation. In 2019, BMW Brilliance implemented a series of activities to raise employees’ safety awareness, communicate our In 2019, our accident frequency rate was reduced by 39.3%, from 0.28 to 0.17. safety commitments, and bring our safety culture to the next level. This impressive improvement was made possible by a combination of training, promotion activities, site inspections, management-level safety walks, and Throughout the whole year we conducted many regular safety inspections and internal and external audits, with corrective actions for all audit and inspection 28 rounds of targeted and specific inspections to identify unsafe employee findings. We are proud of the accomplishment and the daily efforts of all behaviours, equipment conditions, and facilities. involved to create an even safer workplace at BMW Brilliance. 90 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 91 Meanwhile, we strongly encouraged employees to act as the first line of published online. We offer one-on-one doctor consultations and TCM treatment defence and proactively report any unsafe behaviour or equipment to their to motivate and encourage smoking cessation. We did pilot programmes with supervisors. To ensure that they have the needed knowledge and improved peer groups for experience-sharing. From our 2019 programmes, 8 associates awareness, a 3-Tier general safety training and various special safety trainings among approximately 200 participants decided to quit smoking. were organised throughout the year. Resilience 2.0 In 2019, our safety department held 13 rounds of emergency drills covering different emergency situations, including chemical safety, confined space, “Powering Up Your Mind concept was well-integrated with our 24/7 Employee working at height and special equipment. During the “Work Safety Month”, we Assistance Programme (EAP) service and trainings including non-violent organised safety quiz contests, roadshows, and a “Safety Star” campaign to communication, positive discipline, stress management and EAP concept foster a safe mindset and culture across the organisation. introduction. In 2019, 360 associates used the EAP service and 752 employees participated in 30 training sessions which helped them refuel inner strength We are also in the process of transitioning our Occupational Health & Safety and overcome challenges. Management System to ISO 45001. Appointment of Occupational Health and Safety Management Representative has been made and our management Burn What You Eat level associates have received relevant training . The Burn What You Eat campaign promotes balanced nutrition and healthy diet, and educates associates on the topic of daily caloric intake and energy balance. Managing Employee Health In 2019, we continued to share information on WeChat and in food service facilities, with printed calorie labels in coffee bars and canteens to inform healthy choices. Inherited from the BMW Group, BMW Brilliance promotes responsible behaviour and a corresponding work environment to foster the long-term Today for Tomorrow > NEXT health and performance of our associates. Under this framework, in 2019 we have upgraded our Health Initiative from “Health Management 2020” Today for Tomorrow > NEXT enables our employees to stay healthy to “Health Management 2025”, laying down a clear roadmap of our various and perform well with increasing age. The focus of the programmes are health management programmes for the next 3 years. The programmes cover musculoskeletal disorders. It currently includes measures for employees and the areas of nutrition, exercise, rehabilitation, addiction, mental resilience, leaders in the fields of preventative ergonomic behaviour and ergonomic vaccination, ergonomic and spitting, which have been developed in response improvement of the workplace. to the common health issues found among our employees. At BMW Brilliance, Today for Tomorrow > NEXT was launched in October 2019 Health Check Programme at Tiexi Assembly Shop as a pilot programme. Our medical team conducted over 150 workplace analyses and offered suggestions for alternative postures, BMW Brilliance provides annual health checks for employees as part of job rotation, and ergonomic workplace improvements. the Health Management 2025 programme, with comprehensive personal health evaluation summaries and medical research to strengthen the selfresponsibility of employees. More and more associates pay attention to their own health and rely on our medical resources for diagnosis and treatment. In 2019, the participation rate was 97%, supported by a new convenient mobile booking system. Statistics and information review were made available through the intranet and JoyChat. In addition, our Physical Assessment & Rehabilitation Centre (PAR Centre) received 9,386 registrations with 39,449 visits through 2019, and supported around 1,000 associates for rehabilitation treatment of musculoskeletal problems. Stop Smoking Initiative BMW Brilliance employee surveys found that 44% of BMW Brilliance associates are smokers, and we expanded our smoking cessation activities in 2019 to encourage and support associates to stop smoking. Activities included Today for Tomorrow training tool Ergonomics in motion system. communication campaigns, with posters in smoking areas and information 92 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 93 OUR CSR STRATEGY AND APPROACH Our CSR strategy is to create shared value for members of society to help address social issues and improve social welfare. BMW Brilliance can leverage the influence of our brand, our industry knowledge, and our experience as a responsible corporate citizen, through designing innovative approaches, to enable communities and individuals. We also create tools and resources that foster more extensive engagement and participation in our programmes, such as initiating BMW Children's Traffic Safety Ambassador and publishing the Children's Traffic Safety Education Guidebook and the Joyful Sports Guidebook to extend the knowledge and success of our CSR programmes even more broadly. We sustain and expand our CSR flagship programmes as a demonstration of our long-term commitment to the Chinese society. 2,628,710 We take a strategic approach to CSR programmes that is in line with the BMW Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, designing initiatives that build on our unique competencies to address real social issues while creating shared National Intangible Cultural Heritage Item visited by 2019 BMW China Culture Journey Traditional Dyeing, Weaving and Embroidery Skills of Li Nationality. No. of beneficiaries reached value for the society and our business. In pursuit of this, we seek innovative by our CSR programmes in solutions to enable stakeholders to learn, share and act together against some 2019, which has increased of the most pressing societal challenges. We also make sure our approach is by over 30x as compared socially inclusive to broaden stakeholder engagement and create connections to 2018. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY that build a proactive community. BMW Brilliance has a vision of acting through our CSR programmes to “At BMW Brilliance, we believe BMW has always been committed to establish roots in the Chinese society and contribute to a better and brighter China, addressing social issues and that for a company to grow implementing long-term commitments with practical actions, creating lasting making long-term contributions to the Chinese society in partnership with from Good to Great, it must social impact. We are proud of the social impacts we made in 2019 – having our stakeholders. We can be a catalyst for change, inspiring and enabling our stand for more than just sales engaged over 1,000 employees, 80 dealers and more than 17,000 customers dealers, our customers, and our employees to join in community efforts on performance and profitability. in our CSR activities, and achieved over 30-fold increase in beneficiaries, issues such as children's traffic safety, education for left-behind and migrant A Great company should also reaching 2,628,710 people with our CSR programmes. children, and support for Intangible Cultural Heritage. Over the years we have be a responsible company, worked to deepen our engagement and build on our experience, developing which engages with society and social issues.” Figure 28 ongoing programmes that will enable our communities for years to come. Our CSR Strategy 2019 was an important milestone in the journey of our CSR development, as Dr. Johann Wieland WHATthe 10th anniversary of the China Charity Federation BMW Warm Heart Fund President and CEO Our 3 CSR Flagship Programmes and the 15th anniversary of BMW Children's Traffic Safety Education (CTSE), BMW Brilliance Designed to address social issues and improve social our earliest and most impactful CSR flagship programme in China. Over the last welfare, in a way that creates shared value and lasting social impacts for employees, dealers, customers and 15 years, our strategic focus has shifted from making charitable donations to an communities. emphasis on creating shared value and enabling communities and individuals. WHAT HOW We focus on social needs, and use different creative ways to address social HOWissues. Although our strategy have evolved over time, the primary purpose of BMW CSR Our Strategic Approach STRATEGY We seek innovative solutions to enable stakeholders to our CSR efforts stays the same —to contribute to building a better society in a learn, share and act together against social challenges, positive and innovative way. and create shared value for the society and our business. WHO WHOOur Stakeholders We build deeper and stronger connections with a wide range of stakeholders through our CSR activities, to build a proactive community that is engaged to help others. 94 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 95 BUILDING DEEPER CONNECTIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 1 BMW Corporate Volunteer As we face the future, we continue to engage stakeholders more broadly in Association our CSR activities, and BMW Brilliance is also exploring more deeply and Coordinates BMW Brilliance associates’ engagement working with partners to create shared value and contribute to the sustainable in four types of volunteering activities: development of the Chinese society. • BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Ambassador • BMW JOY Home Joyful Sports Games Many different stakeholder groups participate in our CSR programmes, • Volunteering Activities Initiated by BMW Brilliance Trade Union including our employees, dealers and our customers, along with media, key • Shenyang Associate Social Responsibility Project technical and implementing partners, NGOs, and government entities. This In 2019, we have 212 associate volunteers registered year, we expanded our connections with stakeholders and communities though and participated in 10 corporate volunteering activities innovations in our flagship BMW CSR flagship programmes, establishing 20 with a cumulative 1,915 volunteer service hours. BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) Ambassador Training Bases. The China Charity Federation-BMW Warm Heart Fund, as always, is powering BMW Children's Traffic Safety our stakeholder engagement efforts and social contributions. Ambassador 17 associates volunteered in BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Ambassador, with a total of 128 volunteer service hours. Figure 29 Network of stakeholders engaged through BMW CSR Programmes BMW JOY Home Joyful Sports Games 71 associates volunteered in BMW JOY Home Joyful Sports Games, with a total of 568 volunteer service hours. LA BORATION COL Volunteering Activities Initiated by Partners & Institution BMW Employees BMW Brilliance Trade Union ON Academy of Arts and Design, CATI engaged in our CSR DU 94 associates volunteered in Trade Union-initiated Tsinghua University, TYE BM programmes and volunteering E W activities organised by the social volunteering activities, with a total of 1,210 China Children's Press & AF Publication Group S A BMW Corporate Volunteer volunteer service hours. IN CHILDREN’ CH Association BMW ST RE JOURNEY Shenyang Associate Social RA LTU Responsibility Project (ASR) FF CU BMW CSR Launched in 2008 to engage Shenyang associates IC STRATEGY in social volunteering activities in Shenyang Media BMW Warm Heart community. e.g News agencies Customer Clubs WeChat, Weibo, TikTok, 30 associates volunteered in ASR activities with a spontaneously established total of 120 volunteer hours. Mafengwo by BMW warm heart customers nationwide BMW 2 JOY HOME BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs EN NT AB LIN RME Spontaneously established by BMW warm heart G AND EMPOWE customers nationwide for social volunteering activities in local communities. Government Dealers e.g. Traffic Bureau of the engaged in our CSR 19 BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs with more Ministry of Public Security programmes than 5,000 core members. 213 BMW Warm Heart Customer Clubs-initiated social volunteering activities in 2019. POWERED BY CCF-BMW WARM HEART FUND 3 Joint fund established in 2008 by BMW Brilliance, BMW China and China Charity Federation, a dedicated platform to coordinate CSR contributions and stakeholder engagement. BMW Dealer 80 dealers were involved in BMW CSR activities An accumulative of 2,866,602 beneficiaries have been reached through BMW CSR activities by the end of 2019. in 2019, and a total of 648 CSR activities were initiated by dealers in 2019. 96 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 97 Alongside with the ambassador training, we held CTSE Roadshow pop-up events in 5 cities with a new format – inside shopping centres with an opendoor space so the public could come and go freely in a friendly and relaxed atmosphere. Children and parents learned about traffic safety through situational experiences and VR technology. This allowed our events to directly reach 6,165 people and indirectly influence more than 700,000 people. We also released a series of BMW Good Driver posters to promote civilised driving CTSE Roadshow pop-up behaviours on the official Weibo account of the China Traffic Channel, which event in Xi'an. led to an active online discussion and participation from the Traffic Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security and local traffic police, influencing over 1.7 million people. BMW CHINA CULTURE JOURNEY BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education: Traffic Safety Education Experience Class in School. As the iconic program of BMW corporate social responsibility, BMW China Culture Journey has been launched since 2007, which is committed to exploring Chinese traditional culture and promoting the inheritance and development of intangible BMW CSR PROGRAMMES cultural heritage. Guided by the principle of teaching a man how to fish rather than giving him a fish , the program builds bridges geared to integrate intangible cultural Our CSR flagship programmes address social issues in three areas: improving heritage into modern life. road safety through traffic safety education for adults and children, supporting China’s Intangible Cultural Heritage through connections to our customers and This year, we announced the upgrade of the Tsinghua BMW Innovation Centre consumers, and providing enhanced education and sports opportunities for for Intangible Cultural Heritage Safeguarding, co-founded by BMW and Tsinghua left-behind and migrant children. University’s Academy of Arts and Design three years ago, to further promote the innovative transformation and development for intangible cultural heritage BMW CHILDREN’S TRAFFIC SAFETY EDUCATION safeguarding. As a benefit from this partnership, we unveiled the new BMW 7 Series Halo Edition at the Chengdu Motor Show in September 2019, the result For 15 years, the BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education (CTSE) programme of a 12-month exploration and development between BMW and the Tsinghua has been promoting public awareness of traffic safety, raising awareness of University's Academy of Arts and Design. The customised model is a perfect children and families about safe behaviour and activities around roads and fusion of Chinese craftsmanship with BMW’s engineering design, to explore the vehicles, which is essential as vehicle use in China has grown rapidly. As a new definition of “luxury” in the East based on the combination of modern design leader in China’s automotive industry, we are being a strong voice to drive safe concepts and Chinese traditional aesthetics, demonstrating BMW’s philosophy for practices on and around roadways. corporate social responsibility—Create Shared Value. Children's Traffic Safety Building on our years of CTSE experience and know-how, we co-published the Education Guidebook Children’s Traffic Safety Education Guidebook in 2019 with the Traffic Safety The guidebook includes Research Centre of the Ministry of Public Security and the China Children's practical content on: Press & Publication Group, with high-quality practical content including • Children traffic safety Dragon-shaped teaching plans and educational resources to enable teachers and volunteers. education guidelines Jade Pattern The CTSE Guidebook was endorsed by the Traffic Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security as standard training material and distributed to traffic police • Teaching approach and skills nationwide. • Becoming a volunteer for Keeping in mind the principle of “helping people to help others”, we established children traffic safety Suzhou the first CTSE Ambassador Training Base in Changsha in March 2019. With the • Best practice and case Embroidery support Changsha Traffic Police, the local primary schools and media, we were studies of CTSE able to live-broadcast the first CTSE training and reached to an astonishing number of over 2 million students in Changsha. By the end of 2019, 20 CTSE Ambassador Training Bases were established in 9 major cities, 628 volunteers Mother-of-pearl Professor Lu Xiaobo (4th from the right), Dean of Tsinghua University's Arts and Design Academy, led his team were trained to become CTSE Ambassadors, delivering more than 67 children’s Inlay composed of the Academy's teachers and students to design the new BMW 7 Series Halo Edition. road safety experience courses that reached a total of 2.24 million people. 98 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 99 3 2019 BMW China Culture Journey continued to explore Intangible Cultural Heritage. In July 2019, we visited over 20 Intangible Cultural Heritage items in Hainan Province. During the tour, three representative Intangible Cultural items Intangible Cultural Heritage items and five inheritors were selected into the Tsinghua BMW Innovation Centre for were selected from the Cultural Intangible Cultural Heritage Safeguarding, and have been mentored to coJourney to Hainan to join the design and develop ICH-based products for commercial sales that will help to Tsinghua BMW Innovation Centre stimulate rural employment and contribute to poverty alleviation. for Intangible Cultural Heritage Safeguarding: Following the Culture Journey to Hainan, we released our fourth ICH-themed • Traditional Dyeing, Weaving tour guide (BMW China Culture Journey Tour Guide in Hainan) at the end of and Embroidery skills of Li 2019 to promote local cultural tourism and ICH preservation. This year, we Nationality leveraged a diverse range of communication platforms, including social and • Coconut Carving national media platforms such as TikTok, where videos of the programme were • Dongpo Bamboo Hat streamed to reach a broader audience and younger generation, with more than manufacture Skill eight million views during the six-day journey. 2019 BMW JOY HOME Joyful Sports Games. The programme’s explorations and achievements from the past years were showcased in the 2019 BMW China Culture Journey Intangible Cultural Heritage Exhibition, featuring almost 250 works of 17 ICH inheritors who were trained at the Innovation Centre, all designed and developed with the concept BMW JOY HOME of “integrating intangible cultural heritage into modern life”. Two pop-up events were also held in Beijing. The exhibition and pop-up stores attracted over 2,500 Since BMW JOY Home launched in 2011, the programme has made significant people and generated more than RMB 247,000 worth of sales to support the contributions to help left-behind and migrant children in China’s disadvantaged success and development of the ICH inheritors. areas to obtain equal educational opportunities. Over the past eight years, 75 BMW JOY Homes have been established in 29 provinces, municipalities and BMW China Culture Journey has also received more active involvement from autonomous regions in China, and over 400 activities have been organised, dealers, engaging customers in ICH experience activities to enhance the with nearly 10,000 BMW customers, dealers and associates participating as inheritance and protection of Chinese traditional culture. In 2019, 151 dealer volunteers through our enhanced stakeholder engagement efforts. More than events were organised to promote local ICH with over 50 dealers involved. 80,000 left-behind and migrant children have benefited from these activities. Through our brand influence, we are building stronger connections among dealers, customers and other stakeholders, contributing to local communities Joyful Sports Guidebook Since 2017, BMW JOY Home has upgraded the strategy from donations to with regards to ICH-themed cultural experience activities. enabling and shifted focus onto Joyful Football and Joyful Sports, which promote The guidebook covers: the healthy physical and mental development of left-behind and migrant • 30 teaching plans of children, using football and sports to improve public welfare and equip them sports games with detailed teaching for the future. 2019 was a landmark year with the launch of the Joyful Sports instructions Guidebook and 10 teaching demo videos, funded by China Charity FederationBMW Warm Heart Fund. The Joyful Sports Guidebook enables rural teachers • 10 teaching demo videos and public volunteers with professional sports guidance and demo videos • Teaching approach and designed to help them organise sports and games for left-behind and migrant skills children, and to promote the educational concept on Joyful Sports more widely. A total of 12 Joyful Sports events were organised in 10 BMW JOY Home schools nationwide, engaging BMW associates and customers as volunteers. In 2019, we continued to enhance the Joyful Football on-campus training by engaging more stakeholders. 20 new Joyful Football teams were set up this year, and 10-day on-campus football trainings were organised in 20 BMW JOY Home schools, with professional coaches providing football training for leftbehind and migrant children. In July 2019, the second BMW JOY Home Football Tournament Summer Camp was held in Shenyang with 10 teams participating, including 100 students and 20 teachers. These students not only received football training and competed in football matches, but also attended classes and summer camp activities, and visited the BMW Brilliance Plant Tiexi in 2019 BMW China Culture Journey Intangible Cultural Heritage Exhibition. Shenyang and Shenyang Science Palace. 100 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 101 Our CSR awards and recognitions in 2019. BMW Brilliance • BMW Brilliance was honoured for 2019 Best Enterprise Practices for achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by UN Global Compact Network China • BMW was honoured as 2019 China’s Corporate Citizen Responsibility Brand Top 60 • Recognised as More Than a Market Finalist by the German Chamber of Commerce in China • 2019 Responsible Corporate by China Newsweek in 15 th Corporate Social Responsibility Forum: China BMW Children’s Traffic Safety Education Art Space in BMW Brilliance Plant Powetrain. • The Cultural Industry Promotion Award of the 4 th Boyuan Award from Global Times SUPPORTING THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE WORK • CSR Gold Award and 2019 Golden Flag Grand Award • “Silver Award” in Social Influence at the 6 th SuQin Awards Ceremony In addition to nationwide programmes, BMW Brilliance organises local • Outstanding CSR at the 4th Social Value Co-Creation Awards community initiatives around our facilities to promote social and intellectual development in Shenyang. In 2019, these included an Art Plant Project, the BEST Vocational Training, Shenyang Associate Social Responsibility Project and volunteering activities initiated by BMW Brilliance Trade Union. BMW China Culture Journey • Most Outstanding Contribution Award of the 5 th CSR Chinese Culture Award BMW Brilliance Art Plant Project • CSR Gold Award at the 2019 Golden Flag Award BMW Brilliance is deeply rooted in Shenyang with a long-term commitment • Gold Award in Social Innovation at the 6th SuQin Awards Ceremony to cultural development and fulfillment of corporate social responsibility. We • Selected by the State Council's Poverty Alleviation Office as one of the Top engage in cultural cooperation through multiple angles, including art as an 50 Enterprise-Initiated Poverty Alleviation Programme Case Studies extension of industry. Following the 2019 Shenyang Art Festival, BMW Brilliance held the unveiling ceremony of our Art Spaces, enabling a dialogue between art and industry. BMW JOY Home We also announced the Art Plant project, with art spaces to be set up in Plant Dadong, Plant Tiexi, Plant Powertrain and R&D Centre to showcase the • CSR Gold Award and 2019 Golden Flag Grand Award beauty of industrial manufacturing in diverse ways. Unique art works created • Gold Award in Cause Marketing at the 6 th SuQin Awards Ceremony by Professor Yang Ye of the School of Fine Arts and Design of Shenyang Normal University, as well as representative works from other art institutions in Shenyang were showcased. The main Art Space in Plant Tiexi was open to the public during the 2019 Shenyang Art Festival weekends with a limited number of admissions free of charge, and a Weekend Theme Tour programme that created more visiting experiences. BMW EDUCATION OF SALES & SERVICE TALENTS (BEST) The BEST programme was developed by the BMW China Training Academy in response to a national call for the development of vocational training. It incorporates dual-education vocational training, an approach that was credited 102 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 103 The BEST programme was developed by the BMW China Training Academy FORECAST 2020 in response to a national call for the development of vocational training. It incorporates dual-education vocational training, an approach that was credited Stepping into 2020, we will conduct talent preparation for the Tiexi New Plant with reinforcing and sustaining the rapid development of Germany’s economy. and the Plant Dadong Expansion projects, with a stronger talent acquisition Through the BEST program, BMW is leveraging its pioneering role and leading programme and internal talent preparation. vision in the industry to bring the latest and best professional skills to Chinese young people, with hope of a bright future. We will implement follow-up measures based on the 2019 employee survey results, with instant employee feedback gathered through the JOY Q-Lab Since the launch of the BEST programme in 2006, it has equipped numerous Employee Engagement Mini-Survey tool. talents with product knowledge and professional skills to join China’s automotive industry. We have set up 17 training bases across 13 provinces and To ensure our employee health, we will launch a six-month campaign to one municipality directly under the central government, in cooperation with support overweight associates to change their lifestyle. Pilot for Today for over 460 dealers nationwide. Of the 8,000 graduates, over 50% have now Tomorrow>NEXT will be completed and prepared for further implementation joined BMW dealerships as a reliable force for high-quality aftersales services. in other workshops. Besides the routine programmes, we will also roll out two new campaigns: sleep quality for production employees who are working in 2019 also marked the BEST programme’s expansion to mega-cities, with the shifts and hearing protection. opening of BMW Group Beijing and Shenzhen Training Base, and Shanghai training base is planned to open soon. With the rapid growth of NEV market, Building on the positive feedback from stakeholders and the public on the BMW we are planning to integrate NEV content into BEST, catering to the changing CTSE Ambassador Training Bases, in 2020 we will develop more volunteers as needs of the fast-growing NEV China market, and providing dealers with trainers, and increase the number of training bases across the country. We will qualified NEV staff. leverage our insights and influence to extend traffic safety education for adults and children and roll out a new initiative based on emerging social issues. Shenyang Associate Social Responsibility Project We are seeking innovations in our enabling models by sharing know-how and resources among our CSR flagship programmes. In 2020, we plan to launch an Shenyang Associate Social Responsibility Project (ASR) is a social public online children's traffic safety education platform, under the guidance of Traffic welfare project initiated by our Shenyang associates to “devote love and care Management Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security. for others”. Over the past 10 years, the project has grown to a routine volunteer programme which all our Shenyang employees can participate in to offer care We will launch an online management platform for the BMW Corporate and help to those in the Shenyang community that need it most. This year, 30 Volunteer Association to manage volunteer recruitment and registration, associate volunteers from our production facilities visited the Shenyang Social recording of volunteer service hours, and issuing of volunteer certificates. Welfare Home – a social support area for the disabled and a recuperation area for outstanding veterans, and shared love and spiritual care by distributing In 2020, the BMW BEST programme will expand its partnering schools to daily necessities, accompanying them and listening to the stories of their youth. 18, and open new training base in Shanghai to cope with the high demand of growth needs from our dealer networks. Furthermore, education content related to NEV service will be officially integrated to cater to the fast-growing BMW Brilliance Trade Union-initiated Volunteering Activities NEV business in China. The BMW Brilliance Trade Union is committed to public welfare and helps elderly and left-behind children in local communities through volunteering activities. Seeing the desire for knowledge from these children and the lack of local educational resources, this year the Union organised a left-behind children care event – “Grow with My Home Country for a Beautiful Future” at Dashi Town Central School, one of BMW JOY Home schools in Liaoning Province, in conjunction with the 70th anniversary of the People’s Republic of China. Our associate volunteers brought the children a special themed class to encourage these children to step out of the mountains and create their future, and the Union awarded scholarships to students and rewards to teachers who have dedicated their youth teaching in the depth of the mountains for years. 104 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 105 ABOUT THIS REPORT The BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report provides stakeholders with comprehensive information about the company’s sustainability ambitions and progress. The topics included here have been selected and weighted in accordance with the findings of a systematic materiality process. The content of the report was prepared in compliance with the GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, applying the “Core” option. Using the Global Reporting Initiative Content Index helps to show how we are implementing the requirements of the UN Global Compact. REPORTING PERIOD This is BMW Brilliance’s seventh Sustainability Report, covering the calendar year from 1st January to 31st December 2019. The last BMW Brilliance Sustainability Report, covering our 2018 performance and activities, was released in September 2019. The next Sustainability Report will be published in mid-2021. BMW Brilliance reports on an annual basis. REPORTING SCOPE The sustainability performance data in the report include the following production and operation sites of BMW Brilliance: our plants in Shenyang, as well as our branch offices in Beijing and Shanghai, and our five sales regional offices. The content and data of the report relate primarily to BMW Brilliance. We have made no changes in the methods used to collect and measure the data on our sustainability performance. There was no change to the list of material topics and topic boundaries of the report during this reporting period. The targets set within the report build on the indicators presented in previous years. Additional targets on Greenhouse Gas Emissions apply to the production and operation sites of BMW Brilliance were added in this Report. Joint Initiatives with BMW China Automotive Trading Ltd. or the BMW Group are included in the areas of customer Relationship management, employee training and development, and 05 corporate social responsibility. THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE APPENDIX PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP has provided limited assurance on selected key data in this Report. About this Report 107 Key Performance Indicators 108 GRI Content Index 112 Limited Assurance Report 120 Basis Of Reporting 124 106 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 107 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Change from Change from previous previous 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years % 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years % BUSINESS ACTIVITIES PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION Revenues from operations (in RMB million) 94,881 98,436 113,197 141,918 172,692 21.7 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable resources 132,325 183,422 184,408 196,553 233,127 18.6 (in MWh) Tax (in RMB billion) 20 21 25 31 35 12.9 Total electricity consumption (in MWh) 202,558 295,867 393,565 475,702 557,572 17.2 Automobiles produced (in unit) 288,055 305,845 396,888 490,151 534,990 9.1 Total heating consumption (in MWh) 143,539 144,130 156,295 169,263 183,943 8.7 Automobiles wholesaled (in unit) 287,488 310,041 386,556 465,192 544,549 17.1 Energy consumption per vehicle produced (in MWh/vehicle) 1.66 2.05 1.83 1.65 1.63 –1.2 Engine produced (number) 281,288 282,776 393,110 491,488 478,588 –2.6 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced 0.45 0.40 0.54 0.56 0.52 –7.1 (in kg/vehicle) Authorised dealer outlets nationwide (number) 515 558 598 625 647 3.5 Total water consumption (in m 3) 1,173,531 1,214,892 1,332,876 9.7 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Water consumption per vehicle produced (in m3/vehicle) 2.18 2.58 2.68 2.47 2.40 –2.8 Average ﬂeet CO2 emissions (in g/km) 165.4 159.2 146.9 139 137.8 –0.9 Process wastewater per vehicle produced (in m3/vehicle) 0.46 0.46 0.39 0.42 0.44 4.8 Corporate average fuel consumption (in l/100 km) 6.95 6.69 6.17 5.84 5.79 –0.9 Total waste (in t) 33,299 46,033 71,976 85,237 87,013 2.1 Upstream chain CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance Total waste for recycling (in t) 30,658 44,091 69,029 81,276 83,004 2.1 1,989,117 2,099,198 2,675,910 3,408,077 3,981,487 1 16.8 automobiles (in t) Total waste for disposal (in t) 2,641 1,942 2,947 3,961 4,009 1.2 Production CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance 253,183 342,724 278,195 317,486 110,7432,3 –65.1 automobiles (in t) Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) 9.17 6.42 7.43 8.05 7.47 –7.2 Utilisation phase CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance 4 7,138,095 7,292,407 8,735,582 10,219,060 11,058,404 8.2 automobiles (in t) Total non-hazardous waste (in t) 27,300 40,286 63,812 74,073 76,814 3.7 Disposal CO2 emissions of BMW Brilliance automobiles 158,141 167,212 195,298 245,409 267,3215 8.9 Non-hazardous waste for recycling (in t) 26,659 39,067 62,230 72,152 73,346 1.7 (in t) Non-hazardous waste for disposal (in t) 641 1,219 1,582 1,921 1,897 –1.2 New Energy Vehicles wholesaled (in unit) 1,249 480 1,983 21,438 32,246 50.4 Total hazardous waste (in t) 5,999 5,747 8,164 11,164 10,199 –8.6 New Energy Vehicles dealer outlets in China (number) 122 173 234 336 450 33.9 Hazardous waste for recycling (in t) 3,999 5,024 6,799 9,124 8,113 –11.1 Public charging pillars provided in China (number) 512 1,718 65,708 81,585 130,405 59.8 Hazardous waste for disposal (in t) 2,000 723 1,365 2,040 2,086 2.3 Spare parts recycled (number) 56,362 217,500 124,600 –42.7 Local content suppliers in China (number) 319 345 359 378 394 4.2 Spare parts recycled (in t) 826 800 563 –29.6 Purchasing volume in China (in RMB billion) 23.5 23.9 26.7 43.1 49.7 15.3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION Note: Total Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 9,538,536 9,901,541 11,884,985 14,190,033 15,417,955 8.7 1. Emissions from the upstream chain are calculated based on the carbon footprint of representative vehicles from the product lines. 2. Direct CO2 emissions generated by fossil fuel consumption at BMW Brilliance plants, excluding the fossil fuel consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. The coefficients Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 24,057 33,570 37,448 35,733 42,1412 17.9 used for calculation are from Emission Factors for Electricity, District Heating and Fuels issued by Application of German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA). 3. Indirect CO2 emissions generated by the consumption of purchased electricity and heating at the BMW Brilliance plants, excluding purchased electricity and heating consumption Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 229,126 309,154 240,747 281,753 68,602 3 –75.7 of construction and on-site suppliers. For calculation of the Scope 2 GHG emissions , “market-based” methodology is used in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance issued by the World Resources Institute. 4. The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of BMW Brilliance products sold in a given year. The calculation was based on an average milage of 150,000 Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions (in t) 9,285,353 9,558,817 11,606,790 13,872,546 15,307,2126 10.3 kilometers. 5. Emissions from disposal processes are calculated based on the carbon footprint of representative vehicles from the product lines. Share of renewable electricity (in %) 25 43 100 7 132.6 6. Indirect CO2 emissions generated in the upstream supply chain, the utilisation phase and the disposal of automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for sales in mainland China 2,3 market of the year. Emissions from the supply chain and the disposal are based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines, calculated by Thinkstep’s CO2 emissions per vehicle produced (in t/vehicle) 0.88 1.13 0.70 0.63 0.20 –68.3 LCA tool GaBi. Emissions from the utilisation phase are based on the average fleet emissions of automobiles delivered of BMW Brilliance and an average mileage of 150,000 kilometres per vehicle. Total energy consumption (in MWh) 478,424 623,419 734,268 841,518 974,642 15.8 7. Including the generation of solar power electricity, the purchase of wind power electricity and International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs). 108 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 109 Change from Change from previous previous 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years % 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years % EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Total workforce at year-end (number) 16,573 16,286 16,686 18,925 19,824 4.8 New employees in Shenyang (number) 1,801 270 1,205 3,096 1,629 –47.4 Female employees in total workforce (number) 2,117 2,094 2,129 2,268 2,389 5.3 New employees in Shenyang (in %) 10.9 1.7 7.2 16.4 8.2 –50.0 Female employees in total workforce (in %) 12.8 12.9 12.8 12.0 12.1 0.8 New employees in Beijing (number) 128 93 125 170 127 –25.3 Male employees in total workforce (number) 14,456 14,192 14,557 16,657 17,435 4.7 New employees in Beijing (in %) 0.8 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.6 –33.3 Male employees in total workforce (in %) 87.2 87.1 87.2 88.0 87.9 –0.1 New employees, age <30 (number) 1,384 212 1,037 2,534 1,222 –51.8 Employees, age <30 (number) 9,890 8,711 7,805 8,276 7,486 –9.5 New employees, age <30 (in %) 8.4 1.3 6.2 13.4 6.2 –53.7 Employees, age <30 (in %) 59.7 53.5 46.8 43.7 37.8 –13.5 New employees, age 30-50 (number) 523 141 280 722 518 –28.3 Employees, age 30-50 (number) 6,585 7,472 8,771 10,526 12,192 15.8 New employees, age 30-50 (in %) 3.2 0.9 1.7 3.8 2.6 –31.6 Employees, age 30-50 (in %) 39.7 45.9 52.6 55.6 61.5 10.6 New employees, >50 (number) 22 10 13 10 16 60.0 Employees, age >50 (number) 98 103 110 123 146 18.7 New employees, >50 (in %) 0.13 0.06 0.08 0.05 0.08 60.0 Employees, age >50 (in %) 0.59 0.63 0.66 0.65 0.74 13.8 Attrition rate (in %) 3.8 3.3 4.5 4.8 3.6 –25.0 Production employees (number) 11,785 11,551 11,971 13,844 14,311 3.4 Voluntary attrition rate (in %) 2.9 2.6 3.1 3.7 2.6 –29.7 Production employees (in %) 71.1 70.9 71.7 73.2 72.2 –1.4 Involuntary attrition rate (in %) 0.9 0.6 1.4 1.2 1.1 –8.3 Non-production employees (number) 4,788 4,735 4,715 5,081 5,513 8.5 Training days of training organised by the Human 35,205 27,851 34,314 33,804 24,311 –28.1 Resources Department (in day) Non-production employees (in %) 28.9 29.1 28.3 26.9 27.8 3.3 Average days of further training per employee 2.20 1.70 2.10 1.79 1.23 –31.3 Employees in Shenyang (number) 15,899 15,601 15,994 18,175 19,068 4.9 (in day/person) Average training days for employees in production Employees in Shenyang (in %) 95.9 95.8 95.9 96.0 96.2 0.2 1.10 1.10 1.30 1.00 0.77 –23.0 (in day/person) Employees in Beijing (number) 674 685 692 750 756 0.8 Average training days for employees in non-production 4.70 3.20 4.40 4.00 2.39 –40.3 (in day/person) Employees in Beijing (in %) 4.1 4.2 4.2 4.0 3.8 –5.0 Average training days for employees in management 3.10 3.20 3.40 3.70 1.14 –69.2 positions (in day/person) Employees in management positions (number) 1,035 1,094 1,146 1,256 1,367 8.8 Average training days for employees in non2.10 1.60 2.05 1.70 1.87 10.0 Employees in management positions (in %) 6.3 6.7 6.9 6.6 6.9 4.5 management positions (in day/person) Employees in non-management positions (number) 15,538 15,192 15,540 17,669 18,457 4.5 Training attendee satisfaction rate (in %) 97.0 97.0 97.0 97.0 98.2 1.2 Employees in non-management positions (in %) 93.8 93.3 93.1 93.4 93.1 –0.3 Accident frequency rate (per one million hours worked) 1.06 0.54 0.43 0.28 0.17 –39.3 Female employees in management positions (number) 285 311 346 377 418 10.9 Beneficiaries of BMW CSR activities (number) 9,400 36,200 21,000 80,292 2,628,7102 3,173.9 Female employees in management positions (in %) 27.5 28.4 30.2 30.0 30.6 2.0 Accumulative beneficiaries of BMW CSR activities 100,400 136,600 157,600 237,892 2,866,602 1,105.0 (number) Chinese employees in management positions (number) 808 897 974 1,080 1,169 8.2 Expenditure on social commitment activities (in RMB) 17,064,616 15,575,085 16,513,831 6.0 Chinese employees in management positions (in %) 78.1 82.0 85.0 86.0 85.5 –0.6 Total employee participants of CSR activities (number) 212 3 Share of employees with fixed contracts (in %) 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.0 Total hours of volunteer service (in hour) 1,9153 1 Total new employee hires (number) 1,929 363 1,330 3,266 1,756 –46.2 Graduates of dual-education vocational training 1 reinforcing the talent pool for dealerships in China 4,328 5,222 6,377 7,473 8,381 12.2 Total new employee hires (in %) 11.6 2.2 8.0 17.3 8.9 –48.6 (number) Female new employees (number) 329 113 182 310 261 –15.8 Note: Female new employees (in %) 2.0 0.7 1.1 1.6 1.3 –18.8 1. Figures related to new employees from 2017 onwards are not directly comparable to figures from previous years due to changes in calculation method. New employees figures before 2017 are those who joined BMW Brilliance during the year and still worked with BMW Brilliance at year-end. Figures from 2017 to 2019 are those who joined BMW Brilliance during the year, regardless of whether they still worked with BMW Brilliance at year-end or not. Male new employees (number) 1,600 250 1,148 2,956 1,495 –49.4 2. In 2019, BMW Brilliance organised multiple training programmes on traffic safety through online platforms, which enabled a significant increase in the number of beneficiaries of our CSR activities. Male new employees (in %) 9.7 1.5 6.9 15.6 7.5 –51.9 3. Figures are only available since 2019, as the BMW Corporate Volunteer Association was founded in the end of 2018. 110 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 111 GRI CONTENT INDEX General Disclosures The following table lists the GRI Standards Disclosures and their location UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact in the BMW Brilliance’s Sustainability Report. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The compliance with the GRI 102: General Organisational profile (continued) GRI Standards has not been externally assured. Disclosures Approach 2016 102-13 Membership of associates CAAM (China Association of Automobile Manufacturers) (continued) CAEFI (China Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment) General Disclosures IAC (The Investment Association of China) LNAEFI (Liaoning Association of Enterprises with UN Global Foreign Investment) GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact SYAEFI (Shenyang Association of Enterprises with GRI 102: General Organisational profile Foreign Investment) Disclosures BAEFI (Beijing Association of Enterprises with Foreign Approach 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation pp. 8-10, 127 Investment) (continued) ABNEA (Association of Beijing New Energy Automotive) 102-2 Activities, brands, pp. 8-13 AHK (German Chamber of Commerce in China) products, and services EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Road Vehicle Committee of China Intelligent 102-3 Location of headquarters pp. 8-9, 127 Transportation Systems Association (ITS China) CBCSD (China Business Council for Sustainable 102-4 Location of operations pp. 8-9 Development) Strategy 102-5 Ownership and legal form pp. 8-9 102-14 Statement from senior pp. 4-5 decision-maker 102-6 Markets served pp. 8-9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and pp. 20 Description of key sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities opportunities can be found throughout the content of this report and in Strategy. 102-7 Scale of the organisation pp. 8-9, 12-13 Ethics and integrity 102-8 Information on employees pp.86-87, 108d: Not included in the total number of employees an Principle 6 102-16 Values, principles, The 12 Basic Principles are: Principle 6, 10 and other workers 111 interns. They assist in administrative tasks. There standards, and norms of Customer Orientation, Peak Performance, are no self-employed workers. behaviour Responsibility, Effectiveness, Adaptability, Dissent e: There are no significant variations (such as (Frankness), Respect and Trust and Fairness, seasonal variations) in the employment numbers Associates, Leading by example, Sustainability, of BMW Brilliance. Society, and Independence. Core Values: Responsibility, Appreciation, Transparency, Trust, and f: The small number of employees in other regional Openness. locations next to Shenyang and Beijing are integrated into the Beijing figures, as those Norms of Behaviour: locations legally belong to the Beijing offices. – Associate Handbook including an Ethics and Code of Conduct section 102-9 Supply chain pp. 72-78 – Legal Compliance CodeCorruption and Prevention Guideline – Corporate Hospitality and Gift Instruction – Anti-Fraud Policy and Fraud Response Guideline 102-10 Significant changes to the pp. 72-73 organisation and its supply chain 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and pp. 27-30 concerns about ethics 102-11 Precautionary Principle or pp. 17-23 Principle 7 Governance approach 102-18 Mechanisms for advice and pp.22, 28 According to the Articles of Association of BMW 102-12 External initiatives pp. 42-50, concerns about ethics Brilliance, the highest authority of BMW Brilliance 67-70, 74, 78, is the Board of Directors (BoD). The BoD has the 94-104 power to make decisions on all major and important matters of BMW Brilliance as provided in the Articles of Association. A management organisation, the Board of Management (BoM), is established under the BoD, and is responsible for and in charge of the day-to-day operation and management of BMW Brilliance. 112 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 113 General Disclosures Specific Disclosures for Material Topics UN Global UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI 102: General Stakeholder engagement Disclosures Product & services safety Approach 2016 102-40 List of stakeholder groups pp.25, 96-97 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 35 (continued) Management material Topic and its Approach 2016 boundary 102-41 Collective bargaining pp. 85-86 100% of local employees are members of the BMW Principle 3 agreements Brilliance Trade Union, and all Union members 103-2 The management pp. 36-38, 47 are covered by the Collective Contract on Labour approach and its Remuneration. This excludes expatriates, who are not components eligible for the Trade Union. 102-42 identifying and selecting pp. 24 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 36-38, 47 stakeholders management approach 102-43 Approach to stakeholder pp. 24-25, GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health pp. 36-39, 50 engagement 96-97 Customer Health and safety impacts of and Safety 2016 product and service 102-44 Key topics and concerns pp. 24-25, categories raised 96-97 416-2 Incidents of nonBMW Brilliance did not have significant noncompliance concerning the compliance with laws / regulations in 2019 that Reporting practice health and safety impacts resulted in a financially material impact. of products and services 102-45 Entities included in the pp. 107 consolidated financial statements Sustainable product portfolio & research and development 102-46 Defining report content pp. 19-21, 107 and topic boundaries GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 35 Principles Management material Topic and its 7, 8, 9 102-47 List of material topics pp. 19, 21 Principles Approach 2016 boundary 7, 8, 9, 10 103-2 The management pp. 40-46 102-48 Restatements of Where necessary and possible, restatements are approach and its information explained in footnotes to the respective graphs. components 102-49 Changes in reporting pp. 107 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 40-42 management approach 102-50 Reporting period pp. 107 GRI 305: 305-5 Reduction of GHG pp. 40-42 Emissions 2016 emissions 102-51 Date of most recent pp. 107 report Automation & digitalisation 102-52 Reporting cycle pp. 107 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 31, 53 Principle 10 GRI 103: material Topic and its 102-53 Contact point for pp. 127 Management boundary questions regarding the Approach 2016 report 103-2 The management pp. 32, 54-57 approach and its 102-54 Claims for reporting in pp. 107 components accordance with the GRI standards 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 54-55 management approach 102-55 GRI Content index pp. 112-119 102-56 External assurance pp. 120-123 114 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 115 Specific Disclosures for Material Topics Specific Disclosures for Material Topics UN Global UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact Compliance, corruption, anti-competitive behaviour & business ethics Transparency GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 27, 72 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 27, Management material Topic and its Management material Topic and its 54-55, 72-73 Approach 2016 boundary Approach 2016 boundary 103-2 The management pp. 28-29, 65, 103-2 The management pp. 27-28, 58approach and its 73-75 approach and its 59, 73-75 components components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 28, 76-77 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 28, 58-59, management approach management approach 73-75 GRI 205: Anti205-2 Communication and pp. 27-29 We define governance bodies as those committees corruption 2016 training about antiwhich receive active regular reports by the compliance Energy consumption & renewable energy corruption policies and function. All committee members are informed procedures about BMW Brilliance’s anti-corruption policies and GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 61 Principle procedures. All committee members who are BMW Management material Topic and its 7, 8, 9 Brilliance employees have also received training on Approach 2016 boundary anti-corruption. Committee members representing our shareholders are not covered by the training 103-2 The management pp. 61, 63 programme of BMW Brilliance, but are covered by the approach and its compliance programmes of BMW Group and Brilliance components Group respectively. 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 63, 109 Our compliance training includes mandatory online management approach training for all non-production employees, additional classroom training for new employees and managers, and special workshops and training for specific target GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption pp. 108-109 groups (e.g. Sales, Purchasing, and Finance). 2016 within the organisation c: Information unavailable: The number of business partners that policies and procedures have been 302-2 Energy consumption pp. 108-109 communicated to is not reported. outside of the organisation GRI 206: Anti206-1 Legal actions for antiIn 2019, there were no legal actions regarding anticompetitive competitive behaviour, competitive behaviour or violations of anti-trust and 302-4 Reduction of energy pp. 14, 63, 108Behaviour 2016 anti-trust, and monopoly monopoly legislation. consumption 109 practices GRI 414: 414-2 Negative social impacts pp. 74, 76-77 Principles GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 75-76 Principle Supplier Social in the supply chain and Environmental impacts in the supply 7, 8 Assessment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 Assessment 2016 chain and actions taken actions taken 2016 Air pollution GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 61 Principles Charity & corporate citizenship Management material topic and its 7, 8, 9 Approach 2016 boundary 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 94 Principle 10 GRI 103: material Topic and its Management boundary 103-2 The management pp. 58-59, 61, Approach 2016 approach and its 64 103-2 The management pp. 94-96 components approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 14, 64, 109 management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 94-95 management approach GRI 308: 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 76-77 Principles Supplier impacts in the supply 7, 8 Environmental chain and actions taken Assessment 2016 116 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 117 Specific Disclosures for Material Topics Specific Disclosures for Material Topics UN Global UN Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Page number Comments or omissions Compact Greenhouse gas emissions & climate change Access to labour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 40, 53, Principles GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 81 Principle 6 Management material topic and its 61, 67, 72 7, 8, 9 Management material Topic and its Approach 2016 boundary Approach 2016 boundary 103-2 The management pp. 82-93 103-2 The management pp. 40-41, 58approach and its approach and its 59, 61-63, 67-70, components components 78 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 15, 86-88, management approach 91, 110-111 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 14-15, 40, management approach 61-62, 67-69, 108-109 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and pp. 14, 110-111 a: Total number of new employees hires: 1,756. Employment 2016 employee turnover b: Confidentiality constraints: The total number of GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG pp. 14, 61, 108 employee turnover, as well as the breakdown by age Emissions 2016 emissions group, gender and region (total numbers and rates) are not reported. 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) pp. 14, 61, 108 GHG emissions Responsible human resources management 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) pp. 14, 61, 108 GHG emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 81 Principle 6 Management material topic and its Approach 2016 boundary 305-4 GHG emissions intensity pp. 14, 62, 67, 69, 109 103-2 The management pp. 82-93 305-5 Reduction of GHG pp. 14, 62, 67, approach and its emissions 69, 108-109 components GRI 308: 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 75-77, 78 Principles 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 15, 86-88, Supplier impacts in the supply management approach 91, 110-111 7, 8 Environmental chain and actions taken Assessment 2016 GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of pp. 110-111 a: Information unavailable: Average training days by Training and training per year per gender are not reported. Education 2016 employee Waste & effluents GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the pp. 19, 21, 53 Principle 404-2 Programs for upgrading pp. 87-89 Management material Topic and its employee skills and 7, 8, 9 Approach 2016 boundary transition assistance programs 103-2 The management pp. 58-59, approach and its 65-66 components 103-3 Evaluation of the pp. 14, 65-66, management approach 109 GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by pp. 14, 66, 109 Effluents and quality and destination Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and pp. 15, 65, 109 disposal method GRI 308: 308-2 Negative environmental pp. 75-77 Principles Supplier impacts in the supply 7, 8 Environmental chain and actions taken Assessment 2016 118 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 119 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 120 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 121 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT 122 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 123 BASIS OF REPORTING Automobiles produced (in unit) BMW and ZINORO automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for mainland CO₂ emissions per vehicle produced Production-relevant CO₂ emissions per vehicle produced in BMW Brilliance China market and that obtained the certificate of vehicle of the year. The (in t/vehicle) plants, excluding CO₂ emissions from energy consumption of R&D, Plant data is publicized on the website of the Ministry of Industry and Information Dispatch Area (PDA), construction, on-site thirdparty suppliers and other Technology of the People’s Republic of China. non-production relevant energy consumption of the plants. Automobiles wholesaled (in unit) BMW Brilliance wholesale volume in mainland China of the year, including Total energy consumption Total energy consumption of the year in BMW Brilliance plants, including BMW Brand and ZINORO Brand. (in MWh) purchased electricity, purchased heating and natural gas. Authorised dealer outlets nationwide Number of authorised dealer outlets in operation in mainland China at yearEnergy consumption per vehicle Production-relevant energy consumption per vehicle produced in BMW (number): end, excluding MINI and BMW Motorrad dealer outlets. produced (in MWh/vehicle) Brilliance plants, excluding the energy consumption of R&D, PDA, construction, on-site thirdparty suppliers and other non-production relevant Average fleet CO2 emissions (in g/km) Average CO2 emissions of automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for sales energy consumption of the plants. in mainland China market of the year. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Production-relevant VOC per vehicle produced in BMW Brilliance plants. Corporate average fuel consumption Average fuel consumption of automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle) (in l/100 km) sales in mainland China market of the year. The calculation is based on the GB 27999-2014 Fuel Consumption Evaluation Methods and Targets for Total water consumption (in m³) Total fresh water consumption of the year in BMW Brilliance plants. Passenger Cars of the People’s Republic of China. The data is publicised on the website of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the Water consumption per vehicle Production-relevant water consumption per vehicle produced in BMW People’s Republic of China. produced (in m³/vehicle): Brilliance plants, excluding the water consumption of R&D, PDA, construction, on-site third-party suppliers and other non-production relevant water Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions Direct CO2 emissions generated by fossil fuel consumption at BMW Brilliance consumption of the plants. (in t) plants, excluding the fossil fuel consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. The coefficients used for calculation are from Emission Factors Process wastewater per vehicle Production-relevant process wastewater per vehicle produced in BMW for Electricity, District Heating and Fuels issued by Application of German produced (in m³/vehicle) Brilliance plants. Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA). Total waste (in t) Production-relevant non-hazardous and hazardous waste for recycling and Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions Indirect CO2 emissions generated by the consumption of purchased electricity for disposal of the year in BMW Brilliance plants. (in t) and heating purchased at the BMW Brilliance plants, excluding purchased electricity and heating consumption of construction and on-site suppliers. Waste for disposal per vehicle Production-relevant waste for disposal per vehicle produced in BMW For calculation of the Scope 2 CO2 emissions calculation, “market-based” produced (in kg/vehicle) Brilliance plants. methodology is used in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance issued by the World Resources Institute. Total non-hazardous waste (in t) Production-relevant non-hazardous waste for recycling and for disposal of the year in BMW Brilliance plants. Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions Indirect CO2 emissions generated in the upstream supply chain, the utilisation (in t) phase and the disposal of automobiles produced by BMW Brilliance for sales Total hazardous waste (in t) Production-relevant hazardous waste for recycling and for disposal of the in mainland China market of the year. Emissions from the supply chain and the year in BMW Brilliance plants. disposal are based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines, calculated by Thinkstep’s LCA tool GaBi. Emissions from Local content suppliers in China Total number of parts suppliers and raw material suppliers of the year the utilisation phase are based on the average fleet emissions of automobiles (number) including the run-out suppliers of the year. delivered of BMW Brilliance and an average mileage of 150,000 kilometres per vehicle. Purchasing volume in China The amount of purchasing volume, including tax, paid by BMW Brilliance to (in RMB billion) parts suppliers and raw material suppliers in mainland China of the year. Share of renewable electricity (in %) The ratio of renewable electricity consumed to the total electricity consumption of BMW Brilliance Shenyang Production Region. The renewable electricity Total workforce at year-end (number) Number of permanent employees at year-end, excluding interns and thirdincludes the generation of solar power electricity, the purchase of wind power party contractors. electricity and the International Renewable Energy Certificates (I-RECs). 124 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 125 BASIS OF REPORTING WE LOOK FORWARD TO HEARING FROM YOU. Female employees in total workforce The ratio of female permanent employees at year-end to the permanent FURTHER INFORMATION AND PUBLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT: (in %) workforce at year-end. http://www.bmw-brilliance.cn/cn/en/csr/download.html Employees in management positions The ratio of permanent employees in management positions at year-end to (in %) the permanent workforce at year-end. Contact for questions regarding this report: Female employees in management The ratio of female permanent employees in management positions at yearBMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. Beijing Branch positions (in %) end to total permanent employees in management positions at year-end. 25th Floor, Tower B, Gateway Plaza 18 Xiaguangli, North Road East Third Ring Chinese employees in management The ratio of Chinese permanent employees in management positions at yearChaoyang District positions (in %) end to total permanent employees in management positions at year-end. Beijing 100027, P.R. China Tel: +86(0)10 8455 7000 Total new employee hires (in %) The ratio of newly hired permanent employees of the year to the permanent workforce at year-end. Report published by: Attrition rate (in %) The number of voluntary and involuntary turnover divided by the number of BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. monthly average permanent employees of the year. 14 Shanzuizi Road Dadong District Training days of training organised by Total training days of LRG (learning resources guide) training, department Shenyang 110044 the Human Resources Department training and language training organised by Human Resources Department Liaoning Province, P.R. China (in day) of the year. Tel: +86(0)24 8455 6000 Average days of further training per Average training days for permanent employees participating in the training employee (in day/person) organised by the Human Resources Department. BMW Brilliance on the Internet: Training attendee satisfaction rate Average training satisfaction evaluated by employees who have attended www. bmw-brilliance.cn (in %) training organised by the Human Resources Department. www.zinoro.com.cn Accident frequency rate (per one The scope only covers directly contracted employees in BMW Brilliance million hours worked) plants. It is calculated by the number of accidents with one day lost time or more divided by the total working hours (in million) of the year. RESOURCE CONSERVATION Beneficiaries of BMW CSR activities Number of times people benefited from CSR activities organized by BMW (number) CSR team and BMW Brilliance Labor Union in mainland China and BMW The paper used for the Sustainability Brilliance Shenyang Associate Social Responsibility Program. Report was produced in accordance with the FSC international standard: Expenditure on social commitment Expenditure on social commitment by BMW Brilliance and China Charity The pulp originate from responsibly activities (in RMB) Federation-BMW Warm Heart Fund. managed forest. Total employee participants of CSR Total number of times employees attending voluntary activities held by BMW activities (number) Corporate Volunteer Association in mainland China. Total hours of volunteer service Total hours that employee volunteers spend on voluntary activities held by (in hour) BMW Corporate Volunteer Association in mainland China, including direct service hours and indirect service hours. Direct service hours refer to activity hours, and indirect service hours refer to the hours that volunteers spend on transportation, on-site preparation and lunch hours during the activities. 126 Introduction Fundamentals Products and Services Production and Value Creation Employees and Society BMW Brilliance 2019 Sustainability Report 127
