PROGRESS ON DEPLOYMENT OF THE GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAM Since last year, the Group has strengthened its CSR actions and has evolved its organization to meet major challenges such as compliance and health and safety. All of the commitments and projects deployed all contribute to Fives' raison d'être: Faire aimer l'industrie . The review of the CSR action plan was carried out and the main summary elements are included in the following table. A correspondence with the 10 principles of the Global Compact and with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals is mentioned. This table naturally includes the new commitments of the Fives CSR policy as well as the objectives set within the new roadmap. 2020 Annual CSR report # 2019 financial year Level Commitments Group's objectives Program and action plans of maturity Achievements at end-2019 2020 goals at end-2019 Reduce our sites’ environmental • Support all our industrial sites towards ISO 14001 certification • Certification program for the Group's industrial sites: • Definition of the Group's new roadmap structured around 3 axes: impacts: 79% of the Group’s industrial sites ISO 14001-certified Manage the environmental impacts on our sites GC7 GC8 • Reduce the Group's energy consumption by 10% by 2022 47 sites of all types ISO 14001-certified within the Group Reduce CO2 emissions related to our energy consumption. Protect our assets against the risks of climate change • Energy consumption: 30% of Fives companies have implemented actions to reduce their energy consumption. Minimizing the environmental footprint of Fives and its customers Communication and support for all Group companies on the new target for reducing energy consumption: -10% on consumption in kWh/hour worked by the end of 2022 (reference year: 2018) Evaluation of their level of maturity on energy management and implementation of roadmaps, Structuring of an energy network of 122 people around the world: development of tools, experience sharing and training. Improve the environmental • Help subsidiaries to integrate environmental criteria into their design processes • Conduct a Group-wide inventory of high-performance solutions that contribute to our clients' • Definition of the Group's new roadmap structured around 2 axes : performance of our customers: environmental performance: To be recognized by our customers for the environmental benefits of our GC7 GC8 GC9 • Enhance and develop services that extend the life of our products and clients' development of digital solutions to optimize processes: energy and raw material consumption, etc. solutions equipment Develop new solutions in both historical and new markets Apply our expertise to Climate Change • Adapt our solutions to meet these challenges • Circular economy: and Circular Economy: Ongoing development of the Rhodax® recycling process for deconstruction concrete. GC7 • Climate change and circular economy: Development of a new service: Fives Remote Services Promote fair market behaviour: • Define the new Group compliance roadmap • Business ethics: • Business ethics: GC10 Communication of the new Group Business Ethics Charter. Drafting of a guide to ethical behavior: • Setting up of the internal alert system Implementation of the new WhistleB internal alert system: communication on the Intranet portal, by The Fives Business Ethics Charter sets the general framework for the email and presentations to the Group's subsidiaries. professional conduct of each of the Group's employees. This Guide to • Promote social responsibility in our commercial offer Pursuing employee awareness and training in business ethics: e-learning in the U.S. and face-to-face Ethical Behavior details the methods of application and gives examples of training in Europe have been set up for employees considered to be the most at risk: 432 employees situations. were trained in 2019, particularly during company management committee meetings. Creation of e-learning training materials on corruption, anti-competitive practices, etc. available on the Fives&Me digital HR platform. These training • Internal control: sessions will be mandatory for all new arrivals (with the highest risk Mapping of the Group's major risks exposure) and the entire Group Purchasing and Sales population Carrying out several cross-functional audits in connection with the mapping of Fives' major risks (approximately 400 people). Being a responsible economic actor Finalization of the new Guidelines • Internal control: • Enhancing the value of non-financial rating with our clients: Guidelines available online via the Group's intranet portal. Improvement of the rating with a Confirmed (Gold) level, 76/100, top 1% of the panel of 35000 Launch of the deployment system for all Group subsidiaries (analysis companies rated by EcoVadis in 2019. tools, waiver tool, training, etc.). Creation and deployment of e-learning and training courses in French and English for all employees concerned on the Directives and the main risk themes. Carrying out several cross-functional audits in connection with the mapping of the Group's major risks. Deploy a Responsible Purchasing • Carry out a mapping of CSR risks in Purchasing and set up means to reduce them • Purchasing: • Purchasing: approach: Reinforcement of the safety aspect in the purchasing process: selection, contractualization, Drafting of a new CSR Supplier Charter GC1 – GC2 – GC3 – GC4 – GC5 – GC8 – • Integrate environmental and social criteria into purchasing processes monitoring, evaluation of subcontractors' safety performance. GC10 2020 Annual CSR report # 2019 financial year Level Commitments Group's objectives Program and action plans of maturity Achievements at end-2019 2020 goals at end-2019 Preserve the health and safety of the • Continue the Group Safety Ambition 2018-2020 program: • Safety results: • Group Safety Ambition program: women and men working for Fives: Enhance the Group's safety culture with: a lost-time frequency rate that increases slightly from 3.30 to 3.39, Development of digital tools for safety: pre-task risk analysis, direct GC1 – GC2 – GC4 – GC5 Accident objectives for 2020: 1 fatal accident of an employee in the Group's activities, feedback of incidents, etc. Reduce the accident frequency rate to 2.5 or below The number of severe accidents increased from 1 to 4. Creation of a self-assessment tool for the level of maturity in safety for Halve the number of accidents with lost-time (LTI) in Fives’ workshops Fives companies. Reach 0 severe accidents • Group Safety Ambition program: No fatality (including subcontractors) Creation of a China Safety Coordination to help define and implement actions. Safety culture targets for 2020: Achieve the “Independent” maturity status at Group-level (Bradley Curve) Have no company with “reactive” status Reach “interdependent” status for some Group companies • Ensure the management of the medical and safety assistance program for the travel abroad of the Group' employees: Train and support Group companies to prevent and limit the risks to which their employees could be exposed during abroad professional missions on Fives sites or at the customer's site • Define an Health at Work program to prevent accidents and work-related illnesses Being a responsible employer Promote diversity and guarantee Promote diversity and raise awareness of non-discrimination • Definition of the Women@Fives program to encourage and support female talent: • Definition of a new Group Diversity Charter in line with the CSR policy equal opportunity: Development of partnerships with associations to promote women in the industry in France and in the and the Group's new Raison d'être : Faire aimer l'industrie Industry can GC6 • Gender equality in the workplace and equal opportunity: United States, do it. To encourage, develop and enhance the place of women at Fives and support their design of a special coaching program for female employees of the Group, Development of a Handicap France plan career path A survey was sent to all Group employees, across all activities and all countries, to measure their Make our organizations attractive and encourage employees to be ambassadors expectations and incorporate certain suggestions into the program, • Deployment of the Women@Fives program throughout the Group for the Group to external stakeholders (schools, technical and scientific partners, test of dedicated coaching, etc.) definition of a specific mentoring... • Reinforcement of the youth reception system to increase the capacity to receive interns and work-study students in Group companies in France and • Professional integration of young people: • Female-to-Male Proportion: abroad. Increasing the number of young people, including those from the disadvantaged 16% women among employees areas, who will able to discover the company and the industry 42% of women are engineers and managers (+1% compared to 2018) Ongoing and strengthening of the system to attract and train young talent • Professional integration of young people: • Employment of people with disabilities: Commitment in the commitment plan La France, une chance mainly for the benefit of young people in Promote access to employment and secure the professional careers of people with the City's Priority Neighborhoods (QPV). Ongoing partnership in France with the Nos Quartiers ont des disabilities within the Group talents (NQT) association. Reinforce collaboration with the adapted and protected sector (EA/ESAT in France) In 2019, some forty sponsors were mobilized. • Youth welcome at Fives: 419 trainees (+12% compared to 2018) 343 work-study contracts (+4% compared with 2018) In France : 87 trainees and work-study students at the end of the program 25% of them were offered a contract, 95% accepted. • Prevention of discrimination: Ongoing discrimination prevention training (open to managers and mandatory for recruiters). • Disability: 2.2% of the workforce are people with disabilities. 2020 Annual CSR report # 2019 financial year Level Commitments Group's objectives Program and action plans of maturity Achievements at end-2019 2020 goals at end-2019 Manage a forward-planning • Development of a forecast strategy for jobs and organizations in each company: • Create and maintain dialogue: • Evaluate and develop: management of jobs and skills: A 4-step program, based on the strategy defined at the activity level: 562 people have been received at a Starter interview (assessment carried out 6 to 18 months after the Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee (CEDRE): GC1 – GC2 Determine the business goals and the operational goals arrival of a new recruit to validate the integration and suitability for the position). Continued improvement in the monitoring of the action plans identified at Identify the skills required to achieve these objectives 76% of the workforce have had an annual interview (-1% compared to 2018). the heart of CEDRE. Qualify existing positions in the company in relation to the required skills Optimization of career management tools for career paths associated with Perform a gap analysis and set up an action plan • Evaluate and develop: training paths for certain cross-functional professions Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee (CEDRE): • Human Resources Evaluation and Development Committee: 67% of the workforce has been evaluated in CEDREs (+4% compared to 2018). • Development of the mentoring program Annual career management committee in each subsidiary, attended by the The follow-up of action plans has been optimized thanks to the digitalization of these exchanges under management team and a Human Resources representative, to: the Fives&Me HR information system. • Training and career development support for employees: Determine which measures need to be taken to improve employee performance Evolution of the management and leadership programs of the Leadership Approve personal career plans • Training and support for employee development : Academy The training commitment for the year represents a total of 146,543 hours (-18% compared to 2018), i.e. Use by all subsidiaries of the training module integrated into the • Training plan and monitoring of employee development approximately 26 hours of training per employee. Fives&Me HR information system. 70% of the workforce has taken at least one training course, including : Deployment of a Group e-learning offer through the elearning@Fives *50% technical training; digital platform. *33% of safety training; Development of the coaching offer. Being a responsible employer *7% management training; *5% linguistic training; *5% of training in personal development. 127 employees trained in the specific Manager@Fives program in China, France, the United States and Italy (675 people trained since the program was launched in 2015). Strengthen the sense of belonging to • Share the vision and insights: • Launch of Fives Digital Workplace : • Redesign of the Fives Website : the Group: Redesign of the Group Intranet Portal and evolution of communication tools and Deployment of the new Fives Digital Workplace Intranet Portal: a collaborative platform, a single, This new site will be a key asset to make our external stakeholders: GC1 – GC2 channels to share more visual and verbal information streamlined access point to Group information, Microsoft Office 365 tools and business applications customers, prospects, future recruits, journalists, financial community, etc., Group-wide deployment of online collaboration tools that promote exchanges, available to all Fives employees. likewise, it will be a key asset to make the industry more attractive to our cross-functional work and opening-up of silos external stakeholders. Each section of the site will echo Fives' Raison d'être Be attentive to the teams: and its new brand signature, Industry can do it, and will present the • Be attentive to the teams: Support and follow-up of the implementation, by company, of the actions identified during the Group's response to environmental, technological, societal and economic An opinion survey conducted among all Group employees every three years, satisfaction survey. challenges. designed to measure satisfaction levels and any organizational malfunctions, and which gives rises to the implementation of action plans proposed by employee • Be attentive to the teams: bodies Preparation for the next survey to be conducted by 2021 • Defining Fives' values in relation to the Group's raison d'être: Faire aimer l'industrie Fives Code of conduct: • Acknowledgement of the Code of conduct by all employees, by: • Revision of the Code of Conduct to make it a reference document. • Draw up a plan to roll out the new Code of Conduct to Fives' 8,427 Integrate CSR priorities into GC10 the distribution to all employees employees in nearly 30 countries. the implementation of training tools to facilitate the appropriation of the Code of conduct the organization of all Fives entities 2020 Annual CSR report # 2019 financial year
