Annual Report II Annual Report 2019 Table of Contents MicroBank in 2019 04 Introductory letters 07 1. MicroBank’s Commitment 10 2. M  icroBank’s teamwork with CaixaBank and its main stakeholders 12 3. Social impact of our business 22 Microcredits 22 Other finance with a social impact 46 4. MicroBank’s key strategies 60 5. Corporate governance 64 6. Economic-financial information 72 Annexes 76 MicroBank in 2019 Developing our business: Microcredits and other financing with a social impact We contribute to economic growth and job creation We contribute to personal and family development We contribute to financial inclusion 4 96,601 microcredits granted 616.3 in microcredits M€ 2,727 108.5 in other loans M€ other loans with a social impact with a social impact Network of 4,118 612 Support from major European institutions: FEI BEI CEB CaixaBank branches collaborating through which we conduct institutions our business More than 20,174 direct jobs created 9,002 new businesses 1,543 M€ contributed to the Spanish 56,000 jobs linked to companies with the support of launched with the GDP by companies that that have received microcredits financial support received funding funding from MicroBank provided 79,789 families received 98 % were able to meet 43 % unable to pay an Development of new facilities with a focus a Family Microcredit the need for which unexpected expense they requested the of €600 on health and microcredit education 16.5 for social enterprises M€ 24 M€ in microcredits for entrepreneurs supported by collaborating institutions 0.6 M€ in microcredits for people exposed to high social vulnerability 2019 5 6 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 A letter from CaixaBank’s Chairman Our society is facing considerable uncertainty and deep social firm commitment to contributing to the achievement of the and economic changes that would have been unthinkable just United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). a few years ago. I am referring to the technological and digital At CaixaBank and MicroBank, we will carry on with our work, revolution, the fight against climate change and demographic remaining true to our culture and our corporate values, where challenges. These are all important changes to which we people are the priority. Our founder, Francesc Moragas, put must unfortunately add the COVID-19 health crisis, which has it best when he said we should put “work on our minds and become a global crisis in the initial months of this financial people in our hearts”. Together we will continue providing year and is shaking up the foundations of economic activity support to families, entrepreneurs and small businesses to around the world. help them make their projects a reality and contribute to the Failing to act is simply not an option in the face of these fair and inclusive progress of society at large. challenges. The different players in the economy must work together to achieve fair economic and social progress where Jordi Gual Solé no one is left on the sidelines. We must all rise to this occasion. Chairman of CaixaBank Purpose-driven companies like CaixaBank play an important social role that transcends beyond mere financial targets. Our approach takes into account the interests of all those directly or indirectly involved in the company – customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and, ultimately, society at large. This stakeholder-based approach focusses on the long term and creates committed and cooperative relationships that benefit everyone. CaixaBank has a main shareholder, the ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation, which helps us adopt this inclusive and long-term model. The Foundation inspires how we position ourselves strategically, which is expressed in our mission statement: “To contribute to the financial well-being of our customers and the progress of society at large.” MicroBank, the Group’s social bank, plays a unique role in achieving this goal in Spain. MicroBank is a leader in the provision of microcredits and financial solutions to groups that may find it more difficult to access the traditional financial system, supporting families, entrepreneurs and small businesses to strengthen projects that ultimately have a positive impact on society. The CaixaBank Group is particularly proud of the work performed and the milestones achieved by MicroBank. This is especially true in the current climate, where the social purpose of providing direct support to the most vulnerable groups is particularly important. MicroBank’s accomplishments underscore our socially responsible banking model and our 7 A letter from CaixaBank’s CEO The CaixaBank Group closed out the 2019 financial year with Accordingly, CaixaBank remains firmly committed to excellent commercial and financial results, having made very the United Nations’ Global Compact, contributes to the significant progress in the digital and business transformation Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and, in 2019, has processes. signed up to the UN Principles for Responsible Banking. With 15.6 million customers, 3,918 retail branches (the largest MicroBank is an essential part of CaixaBank’s commitment network in the country) and 6.5 million digital customers in to society: it provides access to financial solutions for the Spain, 2019 saw the consolidation of CaixaBank’s leading most vulnerable groups, supports entrepreneurs and microposition in retail banking. It also improved the key metrics enterprises in consolidating their business and creating jobs, on its balance sheet, including the capital ratio (CET1), which and lends a helping hand to families. rose to 12%, and liquidity, which remained at comfortable Following this approach, in its 12-year history, MicroBank has levels of over 89 billion. granted more than 786,000 microcredits to families and more These accomplishments combine with a history of growth of than 168,000 loans to entrepreneurs for a total amount of more than 115 years built on our strong values of quality, trust €5.416 billion. In addition, it has funded a total of 4,157 and social commitment, which are the inspiration and driving projects with a positive social impact in sectors such as force behind our business and our 2019-2021 Strategic Plan. healthcare, education or social economy. Our plan sets out the aim of becoming a benchmark in The first quarter of 2020 has been difficult, with the ongoing responsible banking, which is in keeping with the roots of global health crisis that has hit Spain particularly hard. This is ”la Caixa” and CaixaBank. The emphasis recently placed on a unique situation the like of which we have not seen before these areas by the business and financial community confirms and it will have an impact on society, certain sectors of the that we are on the right track and have rightly committed to economy and vulnerable groups in particular. contributing to social progress. The financial sector must once again play an important role in this scenario. We must provide support and prioritise our resources with the utmost responsibility. CaixaBank and MicroBank have and always will put people first: our customers, our employees and society at large. We support families, entrepreneurs and businesses and offer solutions to further the progress of society. This is what lies at the heart of the CaixaBank Group and ”la Caixa” and the trust placed in us by society is what drives us to keep following this path. Gonzalo Gortázar Rotaeche CEO of CaixaBank 8 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 A letter from MicroBank’s Chairman In keeping with the CaixaBank Group’s values of quality, trust household incomes, the jobs of thousands of workers and the and social commitment, MicroBank remains steadfast in its business of both large and small companies. The CaixaBank Group, commitment to contributing to the progress and well-being of and MicroBank in particular, have swiftly responded to this new society, striving to adapt to the social needs arising at any given challenge and have adopted a series of measures that provide time. We are aware of the shifting situation and move along the solutions our customers need from us, so that they all feel with it. Our strong core business, microcredits, has made us a supported and listened to in these difficult times. We have done leader in microfinance in Europe and earned us the trust of so in the knowledge that society as a whole will overcome this thousands of customers who have found them to be a useful new challenge and emerge from it stronger than before. resource when making their projects a reality. The ability of these All of this reaffirms us in our mission: to improve the well-being people and businesses to use our financial support to meet oneof families and reduce inequality, which are essential factors in off family needs and create jobs through their business initiatives building a fair and cohesive society. This is what drives us in is what motivates us to consolidate and bolster our mission. continuing with our model of banking, while at the same time Today we are taking a step forward and look to the future, bringing us closer to meeting the United Nations’ Sustainable striving to adapt to these new times. MicroBank’s 2019-2021 Development Goals. Strategic Plan is a good example of this. The new direction taken by our institution is aimed at contributing to the progress and Juan Carlos Gallego González well-being of society by providing funding to groups and Chairman of MicroBank projects that have a positive social impact. The first year since the implementation of the plan has been very positive both in terms of the targets achieved and the expectations for the institution’s progress towards our next goal: becoming a leader in banking with social impact. Contribution of social value and sustainability are the cornerstones on which all our activities are built, all the while continuing to maximise the social return on microcredits, the bank’s traditional business. We are supported in achieving these goals by European institutions such as the European Investment Fund, the European Investment Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank, along with a wide range of social institutions and CaixaBank’s extensive branch network. This year, the institution granted 79,789 microcredits to families to cover one-off needs and 16,812 loans to entrepreneurs to set up or consolidate a business. It has also provided funding to more than 2,700 projects with social impact, targeting social economy, entrepreneurship, innovation, education and healthcare initiatives. MicroBank’s activity in the past financial year has contributed to the generation of 20,174 jobs and the creation of 9,002 new businesses. Since the early months of this year, our society has been hit by an unprecedented health crisis, which in turn has led to an economic and social emergency, with serious implications for 9 MicroBank’s MicroBank, the CaixaBank Group’s social bank, is a leader in financial inclusion through microcredits and other finance Commitment with social impact. MicroBank’s goals revolve around meeting needs that are not sufficiently covered by the traditional lending system, following the stringent and sustainable standards of a banking institution. MicroBank’s actions are governed by the corporate values of the CaixaBank Group: 10 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 MicroBank combines the creation of social value with generating the resources needed for this project to continue growing at the pace required by current demand. In doing so, it creates a social banking model that provides access to credit through high-quality financial services, with the aim of contributing to the following aspects associated with the SDGs:   Job creation through the launch or expansion Financial inclusion, promoting equal access to credit, of businesses by granting microcredits to in particular for those unable to provide guarantees, entrepreneurs and social enterprises. along with access to banking services for new customers through CaixaBank’s commercial network.  Promoting production activity, granting financial Generation of social and assistance to self-employed persons, micro-enterprises environmental impact, by granting financial support for as a means of boosting the economy by promoting projects that have a positive and measurable social impact. the launch and consolidation of businesses.   Personal and family development, by Direct, indirect and induced contribution meeting the financial needs of persons with to the Spanish economy in terms of GDP moderate income through microcredits and impact and job creation. helping them overcome temporary difficulties. Quality: A commitment to service and offering outstanding customer care with the appropriate products and services for every customer. Trust: The sum of honesty and professionalism. It must be Quality cultivated with empathy, dialogue and by being close and accessible. Social commitment: A commitment not only to provide Social value to customers and employees, but also to contribute to Trust commitment the development of a fairer society with greater equality of opportunity. 11 MicroBank’s teamwork with CaixaBank and its main stakeholders 12 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Through its activity and its business model, MicroBank contributes to achieving the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), placing emphasis on the following goals: The support of its sole shareholder, CaixaBank, the involvement of European financial institutions and the high level of capitalisation, along with a wide distribution network, are the essential strengths enabling MicroBank to achieve its goals, which focus on meeting needs that are not sufficiently covered by the traditional lending system. 13 Support from European institutions MicroBank is supported by some of the main European institutions promoting entrepreneurship and micro-enterprises. European Investment Fund (EIF) Since 2008, MicroBank and the EIF have been working closely together to promote funding for launching, consolidating or expanding entrepreneurial or business projects. They first began working together through the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP). COSME II Programme In 2014, MicroBank became the first financial institution in the European Union to join the EU programme for the Competitiveness of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (COSME) launched by the European Commission and managed by the EIF. The programme provides MicroBank with guarantees to cover part of the risk it undertakes when granting microcredits to entrepreneurs and businesses. In December 2019, MicroBank and the EIF renewed the agreement until 2021, thereby formally increasing the volume of loans to be granted until 3 December 2021 by up to €1.2 billion. Erasmus Master This agreement provides university students with limited means with access to Erasmus Master’s studies through a product specifically designed for them, thus encouraging them to expand their studies in European universities located in a country other than their country of residence. This agreement, signed in 2015, remained in force throughout 2019. 14 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 EaSI Programme (Employment and Social European Investment Bank (EIB) Innovation) for the funding of social enterprises As part of the close relationship between MicroBank and In 2013, MicroBank became the first european bank to receive the EIF, the two parties decided to sign a new guarantee funding from the EIB for the purpose of granting microcredits. agreement in July 2018. This agreement, which runs until 31 Since then, it has taken out three loans with the EU bank for January 2021, is extremely important for the institution as it an amount of €190 million, aiming to promote access to longallows for the launch and consolidation of one of the new term funding and job creation, in particular for young people. lines of business included in the strategic plan: the funding of companies and organisations operating in the social economy. The agreement covers an overall credit amount of up to €50 million, with a maximum of €500,000 for each loan, although an average loan amount of about €150,000 is expected. This facility can be used to cover both working capital needs and investment in assets required to carry on a business. The main features of a Social Enterprise are as follows: • Its main goal is to achieve a positive and measurable Council of Europe Development social impact ahead of generating profit for shareholders. Bank (CEB) • It offers goods or services with a social return and/or uses production methods for goods or services that include a The CEB has supported MicroBank’s business since its foundation. social objective. A new credit drawdown for €50 million was made in 2019 and a new loan of €100 million was arranged. The funds received from the CEB enable MicroBank to grant new microcredits and contribute to its ability to continue to offer highly competitive conditions adapted to its customers’ needs. 15 Impact of Amount Microcredits Average amount MicroBank’s collaboration 1,759 M€ 148,964 11,810 € with the EIF Impact of the Amount Microcredits Average amount EIB loan on MicroBank’s business 243.2 M€ 21,970 11,067 € Impact of the Amount Microcredits Average amount CEB loan on MicroBank’s 560.9 M€ 63,887 8,779 € business 16 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 The relationship between CaixaBank and MicroBank CaixaBank is MicroBank’s sole shareholder. It has supported The relationship between CaixaBank and MicroBank is MicroBank since its foundation in 2007 by providing it with the governed by an agency agreement by virtue of which CaixaBank financial support required to grow its lending business and by provides MicroBank with comprehensive support and marketing marketing its products through the more than 4,000 branches in services. its network, putting the entire range of options at the customers’ disposal with the highest possible levels of service quality and proximity. CaixaBank’s branch network 4,118 161 58 43 160 146 25 222 1,038 76 430 152 129 346 59 100 744 223 4 2 17 Types of institutions that collaborate with MicroBank 612 total 291 town/city councils 163 non-profit organisations 74 other public authorities The role played by the collaborating 37 institutions universities and business schools Another essential element of MicroBank’s strategic goals are the 612 institutions that have signed a collaboration agreement with the bank in order to promote self-employment, 47 chambers of commerce providing access to funding through microcredits, in particular among the groups most at risk of financial exclusion. These institutions act as a link between potential customers and MicroBank. New kinds of collaborating institutions were included in 2019. They contribute to providing access to funding to social economy companies thanks to the launch of the EaSI Loan. 18 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Services Assessment Support Universalisation They offer advisory They contribute provided They provide and technical to expanding the knowledge about by the customers applying for support services to distribution network for collaborating a microcredit, which entrepreneurs, which MicroBank’s products institutions contributes to better the latter need to draw and services, above all transaction assessment. up their business plans among the groups with and conduct prior the greatest difficulty assessments regarding in accessing funding. the feasibility and coherence thereof. 19 MicroBank MicroBank’s customer categories customers 2.3% Adapting its financial products to the real needs of its customers is a priority goal for MicroBank. CaixaBank’s commercial network and the collaborating institutions transmit the customers’ perceived needs to MicroBank. The process of launching a new product involves the development of the product by 40.6% MicroBank’s team and the approval by CaixaBank’s Product Committee, which analyses its features and associated risks along with its appropriateness for the audience at which it is aimed. 57.1% MicroBank’s customers can be segmented as follows: Entrepreneurs and Families Social microenterprises enterprises Complaints received through the Customer Support Department and Customer Support Department the Bank of Spain in 2019 MicroBank is committed to providing its customers with precise, accurate and understandable information about transactions, fees and procedures in order to channel complaints and 36 complaints received 15 resolve any incidents. settled in favour of the institution MicroBank has signed up to CaixaBank’s Customer Protection Regulations. 13 settled in favour of the customer 7 rejected 1 pending settlement 20 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Customer satisfaction Excellence is one of MicroBank’s fundamental values and therefore MicroBank conducts half-yearly customer satisfaction surveys customer satisfaction lies at the heart of our professional with both families and entrepreneurs. activities. Businesses Families 94.4 % Customers satisfied or very satisfied with MicroBank’s services 92.9 % Customers satisfied or very satisfied with MicroBank’s services 8.87 Average score 8.87 Average score Highest-rated No. 1 No. 2 Highest-rated No. 1 No. 2 aspects of Care and service Turnaround aspects of Care and service Simple the service received from staff times the service received from staff procedures 21 Social Microcredits impact The business conducted by MicroBank mainly through the grant of microcredits has a positive impact on society. of our Microcredits are loans of up to €25,000, without in rem guarantee, aimed at people who, due to their economic and business social circumstances, may have difficulty in accessing funding from traditional banks. Their purpose is to promote production activity, job creation and personal and family microcredits. 22 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Grants 16,812 79,789 Total amount Businesses Families 203.6 M€ 412.7 M€ 23 Business Microcredits Contribution to economic Aimed at: development and job Entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises with fewer than 10 employees creation in 2019 and annual turnover of no more than €2,000,000 that need funding to launch, consolidate or expand their business or meet working capital needs. 16,812 business microcredits granted, of which This funding is possible thanks to the guarantee provided by the COSME Programme and the European Fund for Strategic 67% were for entrepreneurs and the Investments (EFSI) set up under the Investment Plan for Europe. remaining 33% for micro-enterprises The EFSI aims to assist with supporting funding and making productive investments in the European Union along with ensuring increased access to funding. 54 % of microcredits granted were used to launch new businesses 203.6 M€ Total amount of business microcredits Total Business Microcredits No. of transactions 21,131 21,131 18,040 18,040 16,812 16,812 20,174 Jobs directly created 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 12,110 Average amount € Millions of euros 245.0 241.1 245.0 241.1 203.6 203.6 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 24 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Main features of microcredits: • Fixed-rate loan with personal guarantee. • B usiness microcredits granted based on trust in the applicant and their business plan, without any in rem guarantee. • T he maximum repayment term is 6 years, with an optional grace period of 6 months. • W e have developed specific products as part of this facility in order to meet specific needs, one of which is the Business Microcredit Institutions Agreement: Business Microcredits Institutions Agreement Aimed at: Entrepreneurs who may have difficulty in accessing the traditional lending system and who, prior to being granted the microcredit, have received advice from one of MicroBank’s 612 collaborating institutions. Main features: “Incorpora” self-employment • N o provision of guarantees is necessary, unless the programme applicant is a legal person, in which case a guarantee from the partners is required. Due to its particular importance and social impact, we • A business plan must be submitted along with a should point out the collaboration with the “Incorpora” feasibility report issued by the collaborating institution programme by the ”la Caixa” Foundation within the advising the customer. framework of the Business Microcredits Institutions • No arrangement, study or early repayment fees. Agreement category, which in 2019 has provided access to credit for an amount of €6.2 million with about 346 • Discounted interest rate. loans granted to promote job market inclusion through self-employment for people at risk of social exclusion. 25 Impact of Business Microcredits The grant of microcredits aimed at launching or expanding The baseline data and information used herein were obtained business projects has a direct impact on improving the through phone interviews conducted with a random sample employment and economic circumstances of the people and of 380 entrepreneurs and 185 micro-enterprises, i.e. a total companies that apply for them and, at the same time, of 565 businesses, regarding which information was gathered contribute to job creation. relating to supplier expenditure, tax expenditure and expenditure on salaries for each business surveyed. Along This was shown in a study on the impact of microcredits with other data, this data was used to carry out an inputgranted by MicroBank carried out by the firm KPMG Asesores, output analysis2 to determine the impact on Spanish society S.L., and supported by Stone Soup Consulting, using the by businesses that have received funding from MicroBank. following methodology1: Impact measuring method Gathering data Direct impact Indirect impact Micro-enterprises • Recipient profile Input-Output Business calculations: Microcredit recipients • Features of the business Phone • Direct, indirect and 565 interviews induced impact on GDP • Socio-economic impact interviews • Direct, indirect and induced impact on • Main cash outflows employment Entrepreneurs 1. The bases for calculation and the sources used in the calculations are described and cited in Annex I. 2. More information about the methodology can be found in Annex I. 26 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Input-output methodology The purpose of this methodology is to calculate the sectorial • Indirect effect, which is the drag along effect exercised impacts or effects of the businesses to which MicroBank has on the second line of suppliers by boosting their granted a microcredit on the Spanish economy as a whole. spending on intermediary products in other sectors and These effects can be divided into the following: contributing to their creation of jobs. • D irect effect, which refers to purchases made from direct • Induced effect, which refers to the effect on other suppliers and the jobs directly created by the businesses sectors which, following the increased demand, increase to which a microcredit was granted, along with the their orders from their respective suppliers. economic aspects related to their business activity. 27 28 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Sample description Entrepreneur profile • Most  of the entrepreneurs who have received a business microcredit in 2019 were between 36 and 49 years old, making up 47% of the total sample. • Average applicant age: 42 years old Gender 37% 63% • 7 1% did not have a university degree, while for selfemployed entrepreneurs this figure increased to 77%. • For almost half of the entrepreneurs the loan accounted for more than 80% of their business funding. “23% of entrepreneurs have started a business out of necessity (due to unemployment or fear of losing their jobs)” F  eatures of the businesses supported • 5 4% of microcredits granted in 2019 were used to launch new businesses. • 57% of businesses supported with microcredits operate in the professional service sector. 29 The study has identified the following areas of impact: Impact on the entrepreneur and his/her family Areas of impact environment (according to the study) Changes in management ability Entrepreneur’s management Improved liquidity ability 5 Changes in savings Business 4 Improved consolidation liquidity 3 Changes in income 2 Changes in terms of individual well-being 1 0 Development Social and environmental impact of savings Changes in social and Business impact environmental impact Business consolidation Changes in income Changes in terms of wellbeing Job creation Generation of wealth for the area Entrepreneurs Microenterprises Impact on the entrepreneur and 85% of entrepreneurs and 79% of micro-enterprises believe that this improvement was made possible by MicroBank. his/her family environment Changes in the ability to handle the Changes in management ability: accounting for the business 81% of entrepreneurs improved their ability to handle the accounting for their business. For micro-enterprises, this 48% 40% figure is slightly lower, at 71%. Moreover, in terms of financial 33% 31% 29% management skills, 41% of entrepreneurs and 40% of micro19% enterprises report improvements in this respect. For commercial management skills, these figures rise to 49% for entrepreneurs and 42% for micro-enterprises. Increased Increased Unchanged a great somewhat deal Entrepreneurs Microenterprises 30 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Improved liquidity: Improved liquidity 69% of participants stated that their ability to cope with unexpected expenses had improved as a result of the loan. 45% 40% 45% of micro-enterprises have seen a significant improvement 31% 31% 28% in their liquidity. 23% “93% of businesses generated sufficient income to make Yes, a lot Somewhat No repayments from the outset” Entrepreneurs Microenterprises 31 Development of savings: Changes in terms of individual well-being: 29% of participants are able to save more than €500 per The participants felt that there had been a positive change in month. This figure is considerably higher in the case of their personal well-being, more so for entrepreneurs than micro-entrepreneurs, with 37% compared to 25% for for micro-entrepreneurs. 97% feel capable and valuable in entrepreneurs. For 27%, their ability to save up money has their daily lives and more than 90% find that their work improved since receiving the loan, but for the rest it has is fulfilling. 65% are content with their current economic remained stable or even decreased. situation. Development in ability to save up money However, as a negative impact, half feel that they do not have enough free time to spend with family and/or friends. 65% 50% Social and environmental impact: 52% of companies report that they integrate some form of 19%17% 15% environmental good practices into their day-to-day operations. 9% 7% 9% 7% 1% However, in the case of entrepreneurs, only 1 out of every 5 Increased Unchanged Decreased businesses holds an environmental management certification. This figure stands at 1 in 4 in the case of micro-enterprises. A lot Somewhat Somewhat A lot Incorporation of environmental Entrepreneurs Microenterprises management practices Changes in income levels: Entrepreneurs For 46%, income levels have increased since receiving the loan. 51% 49% Half of the participants received income from an additional source in their household. The share of this income in the Microenterprises family budget has remained relatively constant. 14% report that their share has increased since receiving the loan. 53% 47% Changes in monthly income Yes No 45%43% 37% 27% 16%14% “The most important practices 10% 5% 1% 1% in terms of environmental management are waste Increased Unchanged Decreased management, energy efficiency A lot Somewhat Somewhat A lot and water saving” Entrepreneurs Microenterprises 32 INFORME ANUAL MICROBANK 2019 33 Business impact Microcredits promote employment Business consolidation: The loan had a very significant impact on business consolidation, slightly more so in the case of micro-enterprises. 51 % plan on hiring new employees 74% of entrepreneurs feel that their business has been over the coming year consolidated as a result of the loan (60% in the case of micro-entrepreneurs). The enterprises that were granted a microcredit More than 80% of businesses are profitable (80% in the case directly created an average of 1.2 of entrepreneurs and 83% in the case of micro-enterprises). 72% of entrepreneurs and 79% of micro-enterprises consider their business to be profitable or very profitable. 69% of jobs respondents expect revenues to grow strongly or moderately over the coming year. Microcredits directly contributed to the creation of “50% believe that they could not have launched/expanded their 20,174 jobs business without the help of microcredit or would have done so with great difficulty” Profile of most vulnerable new employees Job creation: 45% 46% While the main contribution of microcredits to the job market 39% 35% comes in the shape of self-employment, 35% of participating enterprises were able to hire more workers in the months 23% 14% 13% 14% following receipt of the loan, while 51% expect to hire new employees over the coming year (48% of entrepreneurs and 55% of micro-enterprises). Women Under More than Previously 35 years old 50 years old unemployed Businesses that received a microcredit directly created an average of 1.2 jobs. Entrepreneurs Microenterprises Microcredits directly contributed to the creation of 20,174 jobs. The most common profile of new hires is a man under 35 years of age with a permanent contract. Entrepreneurs hire more women than micro-enterprises. New employees in micro-enterprises tend to have more permanent contracts than in the case of entrepreneurs. 34 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Generation of wealth for the area Jobs linked to the businesses supported by MicroBank In addition to the direct impact addressed above, through ancillary activities they need in order to run (mainly purchases from suppliers and payment of taxes), the businesses Internal employment supported by MicroBank’s microcredits generate cash flows 22,347 with a multiplier effect on the economy, which leads to 19,817 economic effects on many other sectors. 42,164 At the methodological level, the indirect contribution to employment was estimated using an input-output analysis, in Indirect employment which, based on the inputs (spending on suppliers of goods 5,372 and services, money spent by the businesses’ employees 4,807 and major taxes) we can calculate the number of indirect or 10,179 induced jobs associated with the activities performed by the different businesses. Induced employment 3,163 Indirect or induced employment provided by the 1,330 businesses that received funding from MicroBank in 4,493 2019 was estimated at 14,672 jobs, meaning that a total of 56,836 jobs in Spain were linked to the activities of businesses Total funded by MicroBank. 30,882 25,954 56,836 Indirect impact of Entrepreneurs microcredits Microenterprises Total Indirect and induced employment: 14,672 jobs The respondents stated that, on average, the microcredit accounted for 66% of the initial investment, meaning that it can be considered that 9,632 jobs were directly linked to 56,836 MicroBank’s business of granting microcredits. jobs in Spain were linked to the activities of the businesses funded by MicroBank The businesses supported by MicroBank made a contribution to the GDP of 1,543 M€ 35 Moreover, using the same methodology we were also able to calculate the impact of these businesses on Spain’s GDP (gross domestic product). In 2019, the businesses supported by MicroBank contributed €1.543 billion to the GDP – 724 million directly and 819 million indirectly and induced. GDP impact of the businesses supported by MicroBank Millions of euros Direct impact 383 341 724 Indirect impact This method also allows for calculating job creation by sector. 194 As can be seen from the diagram below, most jobs linked 154 to the activity of businesses funded were in the professional 348 service sector, followed by the commerce and hospitality and Induced impact catering sectors. 297 Job distribution by sector 174 471 4% 2% Total 5% 14% 874 669 1,543 20% Entrepreneurs Microenterprises Total 55% Primary sector Professional services Therefore, considering that 66% of this impact is directly Hospitality and catering Businesses related linked to the grant of microcredits, MicroBank’s business to new technologies accounted for a GDP contribution of €538 million. Retail trade Other 36 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 37 We contributed to personal and family development in 2019 Family Microcredit 79,789 transactions Aimed at: People with limited income of up to €17,200 per year3 for the purpose of funding personal and family development projects along with needs arising due to unforeseen circumstances. Total amount: 412.7 The income criterion is reviewed on a regular basis in order M€ to always maintain the focus on the groups that continue to face the greatest difficulty in accessing credit, many times assuming the impact that decisions of this type can have on Average amount: growth, the risk profile of the portfolio and the generation of 5,172 € profits. 98 % were able to meet the need for which 3. In order to determine income levels, we have taken into account the poverty threshold of the Spanish National Statistics (INE) for a family with two children along with the Public they requested the microcredit Multi-Purpose Income Indicator (IPREM). 38 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Confianza Microcredit Main features: Aimed at: • Fixed-rate personal loan. Socially excluded people taking part in the Confianza Project. • F amily microcredits are granted without an in rem Features: guarantee. • Amount: Up to €4,000. • T he maximum repayment term is 6 years, with a graceperiod of up to 12 months. • Average amount: €2,400. • The maximum repayment term is 2 years. Total Family Microcredits No. of transactions 126,258 126,258 98,749 98,749 79,789 79,789 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Millions of euros 648.7 648.7 533.3 533.3 412.7 412.7 Confianza Project 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 In 2016, MicroBank signed a collaboration agreement with the Asociación Proyecto Confianza in order to make We have developed specific products as part of this facility in a contribution to the social and financial inclusion of order to meet specific needs, one of which is the Confianza people in vulnerable circumstances. Microcredit. In the financial year 2019, 265 loans for an overall amount of about €635,443 were granted to people in extremely vulnerable circumstances who had previously received support through group dynamics aimed at fostering the self-esteem and dignity of the members. 39 40 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Impact of Family Microcredits Sample description Family microcredits play an important role in relation to equal opportunities as they provide funding to people with limited Family profile means who must meet once-off needs. In addition, they promote the financial inclusion of these people. • Average applicant age: 44 years old This can be seen from the impact study carried out by Gender MicroBank, a cross-sectional study analysing different types of people at a certain time, in order to measure the effect on a population sample at a single point in time; in other words, it allows the size and distribution of a variable to be estimated 52% at a given time. A total of 600 valid interviews were carried out for the impact analysis on families, out of a universe of 79,780 people. The 48% sample taken is statistically representative with a confidence level of 95% and a margin of error of 3.99 points. • 26% retired or unemployed. • Average number of persons per household: 2.9. • 90% without higher education. Impact measuring method Gathering data Direct impact Family • Recipient profile microcredit recipients 600 Phone interviews • Socio-economic impact interviews • Financial habits 41 Impact on families The following areas of impact were identified in the analysis: Impact on families Areas of impact (according to the analysis) Meeting of identified needs Level the identified need is being Improved liquidity met Increase of own or other 5 Improved Changes in savings/income levels liquidity people’s 4 wellbeing 3 Ability to access the traditional financial market 2 Changes in financial management ability 1 0 Increase of own or other persons’ well-being Changes in income Ability to and savings access the levels traditional financial Changes market in financial management ability 42 INFORME ANUAL MICROBANK 2019 Meeting identified needs: a high level of Improved liquidity: meeting the identified need For most (57%), their ability to cope with unexpected expenses 88% stated that they had fully met the need for which they has not changed, while it has increased for 30% (to some had applied for the microcredit, and 10% partially. degree). In 30% of cases, the microcredit was used for housing, followed by vehicle-related expenses (24%) and payment of “62% of families are just bills, taxes and debts (18%). about able or not able to make ends meet” Purpose of the microcredit 30% Changes in savings/income levels: 24% 72% have seen no change in their income and 67% have 18% seen no change in their ability to save up money. 15% 97% feel that they are able to cope with repayments, which shows that the instalments are in line with the customers’ 7% 4% 3% ability to repay. 76% said they save less than €250 a month and more than half of these do not manage to save anything at the end of Bills, taxes Education the month. and debt Unforeseen expenses Vehicle Other “43% of families are unable to pay an Housing unexpected expense of €600” Medical expenses “41% would ask their family/ friends for help” 43 Ability to access the traditional financial market: “87% feel that 35% of respondents have a loan from other institutions. 7% MicroBank’s support requested a loan from another institution in the last year, in has had a positive addition to the MicroBank loan. impact on their personal and family Changes in financial management ability: well-being” 57% of respondents stated that they always keep their accounts up to date (54% before receiving the loan) and 31% stated that they keep them frequently (28% before receiving the loan). Frequency at which accounts are kept 57% 54% 31% 28% 11% 7% 3% 3% 3% 3% Always Frequently Rarely Almost never Never Now Before “62% of women reported that they always keep accounts of their income and expenses, while 48% of men reported doing so” Increase of own or other persons’ well-being: 87% feel that MicroBank’s support has had a positive impact on their personal and family well-being. 79% feel that MicroBank’s support has had a positive impact on their financial situation. 44 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 45 Other finance with a social impact In its 2019-2021 Strategic Plan, MicroBank expresses its desire to go one step further by promoting projects that have a positive and measurable social impact on society in sectors such as social economy, healthcare, education and innovation. Entrepreneurship Social and innovation economy 46 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Within this facility, we have developed specific products to meet specific needs in different areas: ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND INNOVATION Innovation loan Aimed at: Entrepreneurs and micro-enterprises Main features: • Amount: Up to €50,000. • Purpose: Launching or expanding innovating business projects. • Term: The maximum repayment term is 7 years, with a grace period of 24 months. Financial year 2019 2,502 transactions Total amount: Education Health 90,593,597 Average amount: € 36,208 € 47 SOCIAL ECONOMY EaSI Social Enterprise Loan Impact EaSI Social Enterprise Loan Study Aimed at: The purpose of this funding is to play a part in maximising social impact in these sectors. To this end, for the first time, Social organisations and enterprises striving to have a positive MicroBank has carried out a study to analyse the social impact and measurable social impact through economically and of this loan in collaboration with Stone Soup Consulting. environmentally sustainable business activity. Main features: • Amount: Up to €500,000. • Purpose: Funding for the creation and development of Methodology social enterprises. Social enterprises are deemed to mean The methodology is longitudinal, designed ad-hoc for this enterprises specialised in job market integration and those study, which allows the monitoring of the same individuals performing their business in sectors such as promoting over time. personal autonomy, care for people with disabilities and those needing assistance, the fight against poverty and The main change with respect to the assessment methodology social exclusion, interculturality and social cohesion, social that MicroBank has used until now is the monitoring of a action projects and cultural initiatives with a social impact. group of recipients (in this case, social enterprises) over time to observe the effects that have occurred in different areas of • T erm: Up to 10 years (with an optional capital grace their lives (in this case, in different organisational areas). period of up to 12 months). In order to design the different impact measurement indicators, the literature on this subject and the opinion and perspectives of the main actors involved in the programme have been taken into account, as they have unique knowledge which can be used to define impact measurement indicators. For Financial year 2019 this purpose, a Theory of Change workshop was held with the key actors involved in the EaSI loan, and support was also provided by EaSI Technical Assistance thanks to the EaSI 131 transactions Programme agreement. Theory of Change The Theory of Change describes and explains how and Total amount: why there is a perception that a particular programme can 16,477,765 Average amount: € change a particular context. This theory provides a way to explain correlations and clarify the programme’s assumptions, highlighting the link between the problem(s) the programme 125,784 € seeks to address, the solution that has been developed to address these problems, the activities that implement these solutions and the outcomes that flow from them, emphasising the assumptions used to model this theory. 48 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Long term Medium term Short term Budgets Results adjusted for whatever would Impact have happened anyway, the action of others and unexpected consequence Outcome Changes caused by the activity (effects on the recipient group) Outputs Tangible results of the activity Specific actions of the Activities organisation (development and implementation of projects) Inputs Resources (capital, human resources) invested in the activity Identification of the problem 49 The infographic below shows the Theory of Change of the identifying the financing needs of potential customers as EaSI programme: possible recipients; - identification of opportunities based on needs in the • The problems the programme aims to help solve are region; related to difficulty in accessing financial resources from drawing up the application with the help of the advisor; social institutions due to the high risk that such projects - feasibility analysis by the risk department (taking into usually involve, which results in cash-flow problems. account financial and social impact aspects); • The activities undertaken to address them, from and, lastly, if the risk analysis is positive, granting of the identification of needs to loan approval and monitoring, loan and monitoring of the company in terms of its and external and internal promotion of the EaSI loan. sustainability and social impact (metrics) throughout the These are as follows: life of the loan. external and internal promotion of the EaSI loan; 1 2 3 Problem Activities Short-term impact Dissemination Financial support does not take Increased profitability social impact into account and margin Identification of needs Higher risk projects, Improved liquidity less certain economic returns Drawing up the application Business expansion Difficulty in accessing usual sources of financing Risk analysis Cash flow issues RISKS Decision Increased payment obligations Monitoring in the Treasury. 50 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 • The short, medium and long term impacts of these their presence in the economy, to make them more activities, which can be broken down into direct impacts sustainable and to increase their ability to create social on the organisations (more financial strength, better value. or more organisational capacity), and impacts on the A new aspect is that, when developing the Theory of Change recipients assisted by these organisations (the loan is and working on the assumptions, possible negative effects supposed to contribute to deepening or broadening of the action have been included as a way of integrating the social impact of the organisations). We distinguish the concept of risk into the definition of the programme’s impacts by length as not all impacts are expected to impacts.4 These risks are highlighted in red in the infographic: materialise at the same time. risk of over indebtedness, continued financial dependence, • The ultimate goal of the programme is to increase the risk of diminishing social impact, etc. number of companies with a social purpose, to increase 4 5 Assumptions Medium-term Long-term impact impact Fluid communication between different areas of MicroBank and its parent company CaixaBank Improved management Improvement in the financial Appropriate ability sustainability of the organisation financial management of resources Improved social projects Increased social impact Funds Consolidation of the Growth of the social actually spent project/organisation enterprise ecosystem on the social project Access to new sources Generation of wealth of financing and jobs for the region Striking a balance between economic sustainability and social impact RISKS RISKS Adaptability of the company in the long term Over-indebtedness, increased non-performance. Decreased Organisation/project is not consolidated. social impact. Continued financial dependence. 4. This decision is based on the Impact Management Project methodology which, unlike others, brings the element of risk into the analysis and assessment of social impact projects. 51 52 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 From the Theory of Change to the impact model the EaSI programme are: the impact on the social institution receiving the loan and the impact of the social institution on Based on the potential impacts identified in the Theory of the recipients and/or society. Change workshop, large areas of impact were developed in the interviews with recipients and in the literature on the These indicators were the starting point in the process of subject, with which certain indicators were associated. The two developing the questions in the baseline surveys. major impact areas identified for the institutions supported by Impact on the Impact of the institutions social enterprise on the recipients/society If, thanks to the financing, the institution can: This has a direct positive impact on: Strengthen its organisational ability Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals Improve its financial sustainability Increasing the number and diversity of people receiving support Job creation, in particular for the most vulnerable groups Description Type of recipient organisations (n = 66) In order to have an initial idea of the impact at the end of 2019 on the social enterprises that applied for a loan throughout 7% 2019 (a universe of 131 companies), a total of 68 telephone 2% surveys were carried out, 63% of which were followed up 4% with an online portion. This implies statistical significance with a 95% confidence level and a margin of error of 8.27 14% for the questions in the telephone survey and 13.2 for the questions in the written survey. 54% The areas of activity of the companies that have received financing from MicroBank are related to social and labour 19% inclusion (54%), health and wellbeing (19%), education (14%) and, to a lesser extent, environmental improvement (4%) and fighting poverty (2%). Social and labour Environmental inclusion improvement Health and wellbeing Fight against poverty Education Other 53 • A s for the different types of entities, 30.5% are foundations, PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE NO POVERTY GOALS 29% are associations and 27.4% are limited companies. PEACE, JUSTICE ZERO HUNGER AND STRONG Cooperatives account for 8.4%, with the remainder INSTITUTIONS accounting for a negligible share. According to the study, LIFE ON LAND GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING 85% stated they had not received a loan in the past year. • T he respondent organisations have a total of 3,273 employees, LIFE BELOW WATER QUALITY EDUCATION 1,706 of whom are in the protected employment category and 430 in the socially and economically inclusive category. This means that 52% of jobs in these CLIMATE ACTION GENDER EQUALITY organisations are protected and 13% are socially and economically inclusive. CLEAN WATER RESPONSIBLE AND CONSUMPTION AND SANITATION Almost all SDGs are covered by the work of the different PRODUCTION organisations, although SDG 4 (Quality Education), SDG 5 SUSTAINABLE AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY (Gender Equality) and SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Growth) stand out in particular. REDUCED INEQUALITIES DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC NDUSTRY, GROWTH INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 54 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Contribution to SDGs (n = 39) 15% 15% 13% 9% 9% 9% 6% 4% 4% 4% 4% 2% 2% 2% 2% In terms of recipient categories, the institutions serve a wide • Strengthening of organisational capacity: range of groups, the most relevant being people with DD82% of respondents have already seen some disabilities (14% of the institutions), people at risk of exclusion improvement in their organisational capacity since (12%) and unemployed people (12%). receiving the microcredit. Among the areas that have been strengthened the most are financial management, Impacts human resources and strategic planning. However, the For this group of institutions, the survey was able to confirm the improvement in organisational capacity is not solely following short-/medium-term impacts within those identified linked to the loan from MicroBank; other factors in the Theory of Change: need to be taken into account, such as the fact that • Improved financial sustainability: many institutions (53% in the survey) also received some form of non-financial support from another DD84% stated that they had fully or largely fulfilled the institution. The vast majority of respondents purpose of the loan. For many institutions, the priority (95%) considered the loan to be “fairly or very was to reduce cash flow pressures. For others, the loan important” for organisational development. was directly used to create services or products. • Social impact development: DDThe vast majority (77%) of respondents felt that their financial situation had improved since receiving the DD80% of respondents stated that the social impact of loan, 42% of whom explicitly attributed this to the their organisation had increased with respect to the loan. previous year, and all stated that this growth was related to the loan received to some degree. DDIt is important to clarify this information, as 30% had no formal mechanisms for measuring their social impact. 55 EDUCATION Erasmus+ Master’s Loan Aimed at: Students resident in Spain wishing to attend a master’s degree in another Member State or associated country of the European Union or students resident in another Member State or associated country wishing to attend a master’s degree in Spain. Main features: • A mount: Up to €12,000 for master’s degrees shorter than one year and €18,000 for master’s degrees lasting longer than one year. EDUCATION • Purpose: Tuition fees and expenses associated with staying in the country (travel, living expenses, etc.). Loans for postgraduate studies at European universities – ”la Caixa” • T erm: Payments do not begin until one year after studies Banking Foundation have been completed. The loan can be repaid within a maximum term of 6 years in the case of master’s degrees longer than one year. An additional grace period of a total Aimed at: of one year can be requested at any time. Candidates for the ”la Caixa” Scholarship Programme who were not awarded a scholarship. Main features: Financial year 2019 • Amount: Up to €150,000. • Purpose: Tuition fees for the relevant studies and any living expenses. 54 transactions • Term: Up to 10 years. The ”la Caixa” Banking Foundation will subsidise the interest of the loan received by the student during the grace period, Total amount: which lasts from the time the transaction is arranged until one 619,190 year after the funded studies are completed, for a maximum € of 42 months. Average amount: A second group of 11 students has already benefited from 11,466 € this agreement this year and we expect that the number of benefiting students will rise over time. 56 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 HEALTH MicroBank Health Loan Aimed at: A loan for the purpose of financing medical treatment and temporary assistance for people suffering from a mental health condition (eating or behavioural disorders, etc.), with a view to contributing to the improvement of their quality of life and personal independence. Main features: • Amount: Up to €25,000. • Purpose: Treatment costs for the aforementioned people. • Term: Up to 6 years. Financial year 2019 Different agreements have been signed with foundations and specialised centres 27 transactions Total amount: 531,800 Average amount: € 19,696 € 57 MicroBank’s Basic Payment funds in sectors such as renewable energy, ecological food, Account recycling, water treatment, etc. This is the first fund in Spain to combine the search for profitability with protecting the environment. As part of its commitment to financial inclusion, MicroBank provides its customers with the Basic Payment Account. MicroBank’s Ecological Fund is managed by CaixaBank Asset Management, CaixaBank’s fund manager and the firstIt is aimed at people with income below the interprofessional largest fund manager in Spain, which relies on a large team minimum wage. This account is fee free and offers a range of of professionals working to find the best options in terms of basic services free of charge. profitability at all times. Investment products CaixaBank’s Social Bond MicroBank is committed to socially and ecologically responsible CaixaBank issued its first Social Bond in September 2019. This investments and therefore promotes the marketing of two first issue funds loans to combat poverty, for decent work and socially responsible investment funds through CaixaBank: for the creation of jobs in the most underprivileged areas of MicroBank Ethical Fund and MicroBank Ecological Fund. Spain, in line with the United Nations’ SDGs. The funds will be used for assets granted in the last three years prior to the MicroBank Ethical Fund issue and 25% for new financing (granted in the year of issue or thereafter). 91.2 volume M€ CaixaBank’s Social Bond includes loans granted by MicroBank to individuals or families living in Spain to fund daily needs such as healthcare, education or home and vehicle repairs. MicroBank’s Ethical Fund is a mixed ethical and charitable fund combining the search for profitability with criteria associated with social responsibility. It is characterised by the fact that it combines traditional financial investment criteria with socially responsible criteria. In addition, the fund includes a charitable component with MicroBank’s Ethical Fund giving 25% of the management fee to non-profit organisations, while the ”la Caixa” Banking SDG 1: Financing loans granted Foundation contributes an equivalent amount to an international by MicroBank to individuals or families living in Spain whose sum cooperation project. of available income is €17,200 or less, with the aim of funding daily needs such as healthcare, education or home and vehicle repairs, and without guarantees or collateral. MicroBank Ecological Fund SDG 8: Financing loans to selfemployed, micro and small enterprises 32.8 operating in the Spanish provinces located in the regions with the lowest M€ per capita GDP and/or the highest volume unemployment rate. MicroBank’s Ecological Fund is an international variableincome fund investing in a selection of ecologically responsible 58 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Monte de Piedad MicroBank has been managing ”la Caixa’s” Monte de Piedad Key figures in 2019 at the request of CaixaBank since 2010 in order to increase the impact of its business and boost the quality of service offered to customers. CaixaBank’s Monte de Piedad is a traditional instrument and 17,591 loans granted one of the oldest still in existence in Spain for the pursuit of the institution’s charitable and social purposes. Monte de Piedad grants loans secured with jewellery for personal use by people who, due to their employment, financial or family 35,235 current loans circumstances, may have difficulty in accessing credit. To obtain a loan, customers must visit one of the Monte de Piedad branches where the jewellery is instantly appraised and the maximum loan amount is calculated and paid out instantly. 1,080 average amount (in euros) The jewellery can be redeemed at any time or upon maturity (one year) after the loan has been repaid. Successive renewals of one year may also be requested. Almost 94% of guarantees are redeemed or the loan is renewed. 2,098 new customers Any guarantees that are not redeemed or renewed are put up for auction after the customer has been notified. It should be pointed out that Monte de Piedad’s auction business is a nonExpected impact: profit activity. The surplus from the auction is paid back to the • F inancial inclusion of certain groups using jewellery as a customer after the loan has been paid off. A total of 12 online “means of payment”. auctions were held in 2019. • Meeting one-off or recurrent financial needs. 59 MicroBank’s We adapt our future targets to new needs key strategies and opportunities as they arise in society The impact of the decisions made in the process of drawing up the 2019-2021 Strategic Plan has been evident in the financial year 2019. Decisions aimed at preserving MicroBank’s supplementary role to that of traditional banks, at all times, and at fulfilling the mandate of its Board of Directors and its shareholder, CaixaBank, to hold a leading position among 60 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 institutions dedicated to finance with social impact as best as possible. The observed gradual recovery of the economic environment has allowed for increased access to credit for many of the families who, throughout the recent financial crisis in 2008, were facing serious constraints in obtaining financing. It is precisely against this new backdrop of increased credit facilities that MicroBank has repositioned its business in line with its strategic plan, rethinking the scope of its target audience to adapt it to these new circumstances and keeping the focus of its activity on groups that, in this new environment, may still face greater difficulty in accessing credit, accepting the impact that such decisions can have on growth, the risk profile of the portfolio and the generation of profit. The reports of previous years have provided a clear picture of the figures and ratios obtained by the bank, which, over the years, have led to a significant increase in the volume of loans granted, the portfolio balance and the profit obtained from the business, which has essentially been used to strengthen the company’s own resources in order to enhance and ensure the sustainability of its work during the first stage of strong growth. Society is now at a stage where the strategy considered by the bank’s Board of Directors to be most consistent with its mission is to adapt and strengthen the microfinance business, so that it continues to add value for groups (families or entrepreneurs) that may still face greater difficulties in accessing credit, and to supplement it by using the knowledge and experience acquired to develop new products and services capable of having a positive and measurable social impact on other segments. MicroBank’s 2019-2021 Strategic Plan sets out the institution’s new approach and seeks a transition from being a leader in microfinance to becoming a benchmark in banking with a social impact. 61 2019-2021 Strategic lines Maintaining focus Optimising the microfinance business on the traditional DDMaintaining portfolio risk quality and active non-performance management. business DDProtecting the margin in recurrent business. DDRebalancing the family/business mix. DDAdjusting the applicable conditions and the scope of potential customers. Strengthening our Organisational integration/coordination with CaixaBank organisational DDInclusion of MicroBank in the NEX programme. and management capabilities DDRollout of the 3LoD model: Implementation of the Risk Management Function and 2LoD control environment. DDCoordination of functional hierarchies and responsibilities. Improving the quality of and access to management information DDImprovement of the level of available information on business and social impact. DDIncreasing access facilities for users. DDReduction of manual processes in information management. Adapting risk functions to new requirements DDStrengthening the ability to analyse transactions on an individual basis. DDAlignment of grant criteria with policies. DDClose monitoring of risk profiles by facility and their impact on the overall mix. Transition from Development and validation of the expanded value proposition microcredit leadership DDLaunch of the new product portfolio with a social impact. to leadership in banking with a DDValidating the potential of each new proposal: impact, scope and sustainability. social impact DDDevelopment of new marketing channels. DDSupport for institutions. Repositioning the bank with regard to its stakeholders DDInternal communication management. DDExternal communication management. DDDeveloping alliances and positioning in each of the new stakeholders. 62 INFORME ANUAL MICROBANK 2019 MicroBank’s mission: To contribute to societal progress and well-being by providing financing to groups and projects resulting in a favourable social impact. 63 Corporate Robust corporate governance enables companies to maintain an efficient and methodical decision-making process, which governance gives clarity in the assignment of responsibilities, thereby avoiding possible conflicts of interest, ensuring efficient risk management and internal control, and promoting transparency. MicroBank’s Board of Directors is the bank’s most senior body for representation, management and administration pursuant to the instructions issued by its sole shareholder, CaixaBank. The Board approves the bank’s strategic plan, which is submitted for the consideration of the shareholder, and conducts in-depth monitoring of its business, controlling developments in terms of equity, finances, profit and the risks inherent to its operations. 64 INFORME ANUAL MICROBANK 2019 For MicroBank, good governance and transparency are directors, two proprietary directors and one executive director essential to protecting the interests and earning the trust of all appointed at the proposal of the sole shareholder. stakeholders. The directors meet the requirements of good character, The governance structure includes a Board of Directors which, experience and good governance as required by the applicable as of 31 December 2019, is composed of five independent laws. Board of Directors Chairman Juan Carlos Gallego González Proprietary 28/06/2018* Directors Raphaël Christian Eugène Richard Fowler Alomar de Noose Pelly Independent Independent Independent 09/11/2011** 19/04/2012*** 30/03/2015 Carles Alfred Alberto López Ana Rocío Sáenz de Gasòliba Böhm Martínez Miera Cárdenas Independent Executive/Proprietary Independent 30/03/2015 27/03/2019**** 28/06/2018 Joaquín Vilar Barrabeig Proprietary 21/02/2019 Secretary Montserrat Pérez Simeón 21/06/2018  * Juan Carlos Gallego was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective as of 19/09/2019. ** Office renewed on 18/01/2018. *** Office renewed on 05/04/2018.  **** The appointment of Alberto López Martínez as Director was agreed on 07/03/2019 and took effect on 27/03/2019. NB: All directors were appointed following a favourable report or, where appropriate, at the proposal of the Appointment and Remuneration Committee. 65 MicroBank’s Board of Directors has an Audit and Risk Committee The Appointment and Remuneration Committee is tasked and an Appointment and Remuneration Committee. These with assessing the skills of Board members; proposing new are specialised committees performing supervisory and members; reviewing the balance of knowledge, skills and advisory duties. diversity on the Board; deciding on remuneration policy; and addressing all issues related to the institution’s social impact Among other duties, the Audit and Risk Committee reports and corporate social responsibility. on the outcome of the audit, oversees the process of drawing up and submitting financial statements, and makes recommendations or proposals to the Board in this regard. Audit Appointment and and Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Chairman Richard Fowler Pelly Carles Alfred Gasòliba Böhm Independent 31/03/2016* Independent 01/07/2017* Members Members Raphaël Alomar Christian Eugène de Noose Independent 31/03/2016** Independent 31/03/2016** Carles Alfred Gasòliba Böhm Richard Fowler Pelly Independent 31/03/2016** Independent 15/12/2017  Joaquín Vilar Barrabeig * Appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 21 June 2018. ** Reappointed effective from 5 April 2018. Proprietary 27/3/2019  * Appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 21 June 2018. Reappointed effective from 16 March 2018. ** Reappointed effective from 16 March 2018. 66 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Management Team The Management Team aims to achieve the targets set by organisation’s strategy, the principles of conduct and the the Board of Directors in order to ensure that MicroBank is policies and protocols that develop them, in relation to all kinds sustainable in the long term. The duties of the management of matters with a social impact, including economic and/or team include adopting high-level decisions regarding the environmental issues. Management Team General Manager Alberto López Martínez Area Managers Frederic Flaquer Revaud Susana Fons Lete Francesc Xavier Gómez Naches Hugo Martínez Pérez Ángel Soto Martín 67 Responsible and ethical conduct All the members of MicroBank’s staff have an obligation to act on the basis of good faith, integrity and common sense. Code of ethical values and principles of conduct DDMicroBank’s Code of Ethics, the Principles of Conduct and the Anti-Corruption Conduct Policy set out the values, principles and rules that must be observed both in the institution’s internal professional relations and in external relations with customers, shareholders, suppliers and the community at large, in all areas where MicroBank is active. DDThis code sets out the ethical values and principles that govern the actions of all employees, executives and members of the management body. DD These principles for action are as follows: compliance with the law and regulations applicable from time to time, respect, integrity, transparency, excellence, professionalism, confidentiality and social responsibility. DD The Code also specifies the commercial policy, which revolves around funding projects aimed at boosting production activity and job creation along with projects aimed at fostering personal and family development and promoting financial inclusion. DD In terms of data protection, MicroBank has a specific e-mail address for the exercise of ARCO+ rights by customers. MicroBank uses the same mechanisms to protect customer privacy as CaixaBank. No leaks or loss of customer data have been detected. Claims received from third parties in 2019, which are understood to be requests for ARCO+ rights, amount to a total of 96, all of which are managed by the group’s subsidiary CaixaBank Operational Services, S.A. (formerly GDS Cusa, S.A.). 68 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019  icroBank has held the EFR (family-responsible company) M Environmental Policy certificate awarded by the Másfamilia Foundation since 2018. Through its Environmental Policy, MicroBank undertakes a This certificate recognises good practices at organisations commitment to protect the environment, observing the laws implementing models for reconciling work, personal and in this respect and adopting procedures to reduce the family life. environmental impact of its activities. It also promotes the funding of projects contributing to improved energy efficiency and achieving better environmental sustainability in the long term. Lastly, it is worth mentioning MicroBank’s commitment to the environment, demonstrated over the year by the fact it has signed up to the Environmental Risk Management Policy United Nations’ Global Compact and the Climate Change Statement. MicroBank has been a member of the UN’s Global Compact for 10 years. The Global Compact is an international initiative aiming to achieve a voluntary commitment to social responsibility Groupwide Corporate Social Responsibility Policy by institutions through the implementation of 10 basic The purpose of this groupwide policy, which is applicable to principles based on human, labour and environmental rights MicroBank, is to promote responsible and sustainable business and the fight against corruption. practices that benefit the reputation of the institution The institution includes a mandatory clause for its suppliers, and therefore benefit society, in particular in social and whereby they state they know and observe the 10 principles environmental matters. of the United Nations’ Global Compact. Among other issues, this policy includes the consideration of the UNEP FI Principles as an international benchmark standard, CaixaBank’s Climate Change Statement for the protection of the environment and the commitment to create value and promote the well-being of staff in a healthy and sustainable working environment. Anti-Corruption Policy Human Rights Policy As a signatory of the United Nations’ Global Compact, MicroBank MicroBank has also signed up to the Corporate Human Rights is committed to observing the 10 principles set out therein, one Policy, which commits the institution to respecting the recognised of which is to work against all forms of corruption, including human rights of its stakeholders, be they customers, suppliers, extortion and bribery (principle number 10). employees, executives or others, and to requiring compliance by This is why MicroBank approved an Anti-Corruption Policy in any third party with whom it maintains a business relationship. 2017. This policy governs conduct and specifies which conduct is In particular, it includes a commitment to upholding the forbidden, both if carried out directly or indirectly through a human rights enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights middleman. of the European Union, the Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact and the UNEP FI Principles, along with the Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 69 Corporate policies on compliance Moreover, throughout 2019, the institution has signed up to the updates and revisions of the various Corporate Compliance Policies approved by CaixaBank, including the Internal Control Policy, the Policy on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and International Financial Sanctions and Countermeasures Management of the CaixaBank Group, the General Conflict of Interest Policy and the Product Governance Policy. It should also be pointed out that the Company adapted the updated corporate regulations to MicroBank’s situation and the nature of its business by approving new versions of the Code of Ethics, the Anti-Corruption Policy and the new Conflict of Interest Management Protocol. Compliance with policies lies within the remit of CaixaBank’s Regulatory Compliance Area and is supervised by MicroBank’s Control Area Management. We conduct recurrent control initiatives regarding all procedures carried out at MicroBank and provide regular and mandatory training for all staff in relation to the Code of Ethics and the different policies. The bank also develops other initiatives to strengthen its model of action and transparency in management, such as the following: • T here is a confidential internal inquiry and complaints channel to promote compliance with internal policies and regulations. • C  ustomers and other stakeholders have the usual customer service channels for inquiries and complaints available to them. • M  icroBank is a voluntary member of Autocontrol, the Association for Commercial Self-Regulation, which promotes good practices in advertising. 70 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Risk Management In accordance with the standards and best practices issued by audit function. Moreover, it has a Risk Management Area and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, MicroBank’s risk a Control Area, which respectively act as points of contact for management policy is based on a set of calculation tools and CaixaBank’s Risk and Regulatory Compliance departments. techniques for the purpose of measuring, monitoring and In particular, MicroBank’s Risk Management Area conducts an managing risk. in-depth control of both quality in transaction admission and The risks arising from the bank’s own activities are categorised the development of the risk quality of microcredits granted as follows: along with the subsequent level of non-performance. In doing so, MicroBank’s Management is provided with a comprehensive Risks related to financial activity overview of each customer’s situation along with aggregate • Credit risk information at the production line and management unit level. • Liquidity risk In addition, the Control Area handles coordination between • Interest rate risk MicroBank and its shareholder and agent, CaixaBank, in all initiatives related to regulatory aspects with an impact on the Risks related to business continuity institution. MicroBank grants 100% of its microcredits on the • Operational risk basis of the personal guarantee provided by the applicants, without requesting or accepting any kind of in rem guarantee. • Regulatory compliance risk Since the institution deals with customers with little or no credit • Reputational risk history, the traditional risk analysis tools must be supplemented with other types of techniques enabling it to conduct an inPursuant to the CaixaBank Group’s guidelines, MicroBank has depth analysis of the feasibility of each proposed project. an internal control model structured around three lines of defence. This is why the institution has a risk management This approach allows MicroBank to achieve its company function, a regulatory compliance function and an internal purpose of promoting credit inclusion. Management ratios 2017 2018 2019 3.68 4.11 4.19 NPL ratio % % % 4.27 4.78 5.38 Accumulated write-off percentage vs. granted and due capital % % % 185.72 142.34 154.02 Impaired asset coverage % % % 71 EconomicA sustainable social bank financial MicroBank’s financial situation has developed in a satisfactory information manner in the financial year 2019. Profit after tax was €34.7 million (compared to €30.7 million in 2018). The year was closed with an active portfolio balance of €1,583 million, 2% more than in 2018. There was a high volume of loans granted to families during the year, at about 80,000 microcredits for an amount of €414 million (although there was a 22% decrease compared to December 2018), which 72 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Financial year Profit after tax Active portfolio balance 2019 34.7 M€ 1,583 M€ Family Microcredits Amount loans in the portfolio 248,142 1,011 M€ Loans to Microcredits Amount entrepreneurs held in the 56,107 445 M€ allowed the institution to achieve a balance of €1,016 million figures show the current portfolio’s risk quality remains within (6% less than in the previous financial year). In terms of the prudential range we deem acceptable. credits for entrepreneurs and companies, a little over 19,000 The net amount of insolvency costs recorded in 2019 was €51 microcredits were granted, a slightly higher figure than in the million (€63 million for insolvency costs minus €12 million for previous year, for a total of €311 million and a final portfolio income from the agreements with the EIF, allocated in the balance of €567 million (which means an increase of 18% year). The provision fund for insolvencies held €102 million, with respect to 2018). about 46% of which were provisions for impaired assets. This MicroBank closed out the year with own funds of €359 million, overall provision volume results in an impaired asset coverage of which 90 million were capital and 234 million reserves, ratio of 154% which, when adjusted with the balance of the with a net profit of €35 million. This amount of own funds provision account for expected income from compensation for accounted for 23.4% of total assets and is significantly higher allocations to transactions covered by the EIF, would be 138%. than the regulatory capital amount estimated pursuant to the This volume of own funds, the availability of a marketing advanced approaches for calculating the required own funds network with more than 4,000 branches, the important (for credit, operational and other risks), estimated at €103 organisational support from the Group and the ongoing million in December 2019. availability of funding are some of the most important At year-end, MicroBank’s impaired assets were at €66 million, competitive advantages provided by our sole shareholder, which translates into an NPL ratio of 4.19%. The write-off ratio CaixaBank. (the percentage of debt transferred to write-off risks out of the accumulated amount of credit already matured or repaid since the commencement of business, excluding refinancing) reached 5.38% before applying the EIF’s coverage and 3.99% after applying the amounts recovered through the guarantees arranged with this body in the different agreements. These 73 Balance statement* 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total assets 1,532,858 1,512,371 1,423,119 1,157,106 Customer loans 1,582,594 1,557,768 1,464,214 1,178,287 Resources from customers 42,326 43,047 50,610 38,172 Resources from credit institutions 1,086,392 1,091,325 1,042,458 829,646 Capital and reserves 358,509 333,013 285,387 243,334 *In thousands of euros. Profit and loss account* 2019 2018 2017 2016 Interest margin 123,735 125,664 114,177 91,628 Gross margin 143,616 143,720 134,530 109,625 Operating profit or loss 49,710 43,862 60,048 48,407 Pre-tax profit or loss 49,690 43,862 60,048 48,407 Net profit or loss (from ordinary business) 34,704 30,696 42,034 33,878 *In thousands of euros. Resources 2019 2018 2017 2016 MB Employees 27 25 23 21 Total number of CaixaBank Group employees 35,736 29,441 36,972 32,403 CaixaBank’s retail branches 3,918 4,608 5,379 5,027 Management ratios 2019 2018 2017 2016 Profitability ROE 9.98% 9.76% 15.91% 14.97% Profitability ROA 2.26% 2.05% 3.19% 3.35% Bis Ratio (Core Tier I) 23.72% 22.27% 20.32% 21.39% 74 INFORME ANUAL MICROBANK 2019 Microcredit portfolio* Number Active balance Family Microcredits 248,142 1,010,749 Business Microcredits 56,107 444,972 Other credits with impact 3,863 126,873 Total MicroBank 308,112 1,582,594 *In number and thousands of euros. Liability and service agreements* Number Active balance MicroBank Basic Account 6,305 18,724 MicroBank Savings Book 16,370 23,602 Total MicroBank 22,675 42,326 Cards − − *In number and thousands of euros. 75 Annex I: Methodological breakdown for the impact calculation 76 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Input-Output analysis Methodology – Input-Output methodology Framework This part of the study aims to provide a summarised explanation The Input-Output framework is a statistical accounting tool of the construction of the mathematical model and the used to show all production and distribution operations taking baseline information used therein, in addition to providing a place in an economy in a certain period of time. It enables the series of explanations regarding the implications of using this flows of the different intersectoral transactions to be observed kind of analysis. in a given economy for a reference year. This work was carried out on behalf of MicroBank. The The purpose of the Input-Output framework is to provide baseline data and information used herein were obtained a systematic and in-depth description of the economy, its through phone interviews conducted with a random sample components and its relationships with other economies. Using of 380 entrepreneurs and 185 micro-enterprises, i.e. a total of the framework, an economy can be analysed as a whole but 565 businesses. also in detail. 77 The constructed model on which this tool is based, and which is standardised in general methodology in the closed Leontief system, is defined as this basic equation in matrix form: X = AX + DF X is the matrix of productions A is the matrix of coefficients by DF is the system’s vector in the different homogeneous production (each average consumption of final demand activity branches divided by the production of the branch) This model is defined as an equation based on the Leontief Inverse Matrix: X = (I–A)−1DF Using this model, we can observe a series of effects on the These effects can be divided into the following: production of the system linked to the final, external, demand • D irect effect, which refers to purchases made from thereof. These effects are broken down into direct or initial, direct suppliers and the jobs directly created by the indirect, induced and total effects, with the latter being the businesses to which a microcredit was granted, along sum of all the aforementioned effects. The inverse Leontief with the economic aspects related to their activity. matrix shows the effect of the successive rounds of economic transactions taking place in the different sectors when • Indirect effect, which is the drag along effect exercised demand is increased in one or several of them. on the second line of suppliers by boosting their spending on intermediary products in other sectors and From the instrument developed, and based on the features contributing to their job creation. of the model, we can establish a series of predictions and proportionalities allowing us to assess the sectorial impacts or • Induced effect, which refers to the effect on other effects of the businesses to which MicroBank has granted a sectors which, following the increased demand, increase microcredit on the Spanish economy as a whole. their orders from their respective suppliers. 78 INFORME ANUAL MICROBANK 2019 Application of the method The inputs used were supplier expenses, tax expenses and salary to the case being studied expenses. The former two figures were obtained from surveys in which we enquired about annual supplier and tax spending. In the case of salaries, we have worked with conservative data and In order to calculate the direct, indirect and induced impacts used the interprofessional minimum wage5. of the activities performed by the businesses to which MicroBank has granted a microcredit (hereinafter referred to Using the interviews, we can calculate the inputs by company as “businesses”) on the Spanish economy, we have used the sector. In the case of supplier expenses, after obtaining the total Input-Output framework matrices drawn up by the Spanish expenses by sector, we have used the information from the National Statistics Institute (INE). These tables are public and Input-Output tables to estimate the distribution thereof over drawn up based on the methodology set out by the European the different sectors in the symmetric table and by applying the Commission. methodology explained above, we were able to calculate the direct, indirect and induced effects. The tax expenses were The table used for the calculations made in this work was directly allocated to the Public Authority sector. the symmetric domestic production at basic prices table, since the aim of the calculations is to find the direct impact Payment of salaries generates direct employment but also of the businesses’ activity on the Spanish economy. This table generates indirect and induced employment due to the money sets out the intersectoral relationships taking place in an spent by the people who receive a salary. In order to calculate economy for a reference year. The sectors included in this table this spending and find out in which sectors it occurs, we have roughly correspond to the sectors designated by the National used data from the Spanish National Statistics Institute (INE)6 Classification of Economic Activities (CNAE). The table also whose analyses show the typical spending structure of a provides information on production in each of these sectors. Spanish consumer. Deducting savings, distributing this spending among the different sectors in the symmetric table of domestic We have also obtained data on employment by sector from the production at basic prices and proceeding similarly as with the INE. Using this data, we have calculated the number of jobs supplier expenses, we can calculate the indirect and induced generated by each of the sectors of the communities being impact in terms of the impact on the GDP and employment. studied. With these sector, production and employment data we can establish proportionality rules to find out the direct, indirect and induced employment generated depending on a given production. The Input-Output methodology also allows us to find out the contribution made by the businesses to the Spanish economy 5. Published in the Spanish Official State Gazette of 21 December 2018. in terms of GDP. 6. Family budget survey 2019. 79 Annex II: GRI content index Principles of the Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Compact SDG GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the Organisation 10 Activities, brands, products and 102-2 22-25, 38-39, 46-48, 56-59 services Aduana, 18. 28013 102-3 Location of headquarters Madrid 102-4 Location of operations 17 102-5 Ownership and legal form 13 102-6 Markets served 17 GRI 102: General 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4-5, 74 Disclosures 2016 102-8 Information on employees and other 74 6 8 workers 102-9 Supply chain 12-18 There were no significant 102-10 S ignificant changes to the changes to the organisation organisation and its supply chain in 2019. 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 69 102-12 External initiatives 69 Member of the European Microfinance Network 102-13 Membership of associations and the Spanish Banking Association 80 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Principles of the Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Compact SDG Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 7-9 decision-maker Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards 10-11, 68 1, 10 and norms of behaviour Governance 102-18 Governance structure 64-67 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 84 GRI 102: General MicroBank’s employees Disclosures are covered by the collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3 8 2016 bargaining agreement (Cont.) applicable to them 102-42 Identifying and selecting 84-85 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 84-85 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 86-87 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 64 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 86-87 boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 86-87 81 Principles of the Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Compact SDG 102-48 Restatements of information No aplica 102-49 Changes in reporting No aplica 102-50 Reporting period 2019 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 GRI 102: 102-52 Reporting cycle Yearly General Disclosures The usual customer support 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 2016 channels available on the the report (Cont.) corporate website This report was drawn up 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance pursuant to the Core option with the GRI Standards of the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 80 The information was not 102-56 External assurance verified by an independent third party Material topics 1, 2, 3, 4, Ethics, transparency and responsibility 5, 6, 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 86-87 and its boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its Management 68 components approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 68 approach Financial inclusion 1, 6 1, 8, 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic 86-87 and its boundary GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its Management 11, 23-59 components approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 4-5, 38, 56-59 approach 82 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Principles of the Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Compact SDG Promotion of production activity and job creation 3 5, 8, 9 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 86-87 its boundary GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 11, 24-26, 46-48 approach components 2016 Evaluation of the management 103-3 4-5, 24-36 approach GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and 4-5, 24, 47-48 Indirect services supported economic 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 2016 36 impacts Personal and family development 1, 2 1, 3, 4, 10 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 86-87 its boundary GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 11, 38-56 approach components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 4-5, 41-44 approach Innovative products and services 7, 8, 9 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 86-87 GRI 103: its boundary Management 103-2 The management approach and its 22 approach components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23-48, 56-58 Marketing 3 17 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and 86-87 its boundary GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its 17 approach components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management 17 approach 83 Annex III: MicroBank is firmly convinced that one of the greatest values it can contribute to its stakeholder groups is to gain their trust and Materiality provide them with the information they wish to obtain. To do so, it establishes channels allowing for simple communication while understanding the needs and expectations of the and dialogue stakeholder groups. with stakeholder groups Stakeholder groups Available channels DDRegular meetings CaixaBank DDEmail DDWebsite DDEmail Customers DDCaixaBank branches DDAnnual Report DDRegular meetings European institutions DDEmail DDWebsite Collaborating institutions DDRegular meetings DDEmail DDIntranet Staff DDEmail DDChannel for queries DDWebsite Society DDAnnual Report 84 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 MicroBank has a range of processes for dialogue with its economic, environmental and social impact and those that stakeholders at its disposal, along with other processes for have a material influence on the analyses and decisions of the analysing its environment which, through indirect sources, stakeholder groups. enable it to identify the important issues for both its direct The methodology used is based on the GRI standards, stakeholders and the sector in general terms. specifically GRI 101. In order to verify compliance with the Moreover, this year it has conducted a materiality study completeness principle of the GRI and that there are no for the first time in order to identify the key aspects to be omissions in the material issues identified by MicroBank, considered from the standpoint of their importance both we have designed a process enabling us to identify what is for the organisation and for the stakeholder groups. These important for the company and its stakeholders and where it aspects include both those that reflect the bank’s significant is important (coverage). 1. Identification 2. Prioritisation and 3. Determination of contents of issues validation of issues After the material issues for MicroBank Analysis of the issues that are Prioritisation and validation of the have been determined, we define: important to the stakeholder issues identified according to their • Related GRI standards groups based on external sources importance for the business and the and material issues of companies stakeholder groups through: • R ELATED SDGS and Principles performing activities similar to those of the Global Compact External importance: of MicroBank • A nalysis of the press from the last year • Benchmark • Surveys Internal importance and validation: • Strategic plan • Previous Annual Report • Internal meetings 85 This analysis resulted in the following list: Principles of the Global Material issues Topics included Associated SDGs Compact DDCode of ethics and principles of conduct DDMeasures for preventing Ethics, transparency corruption SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and responsibility institutions 10 DDParticipation in the Global Compact DDData protection and cybersecurity SDG 1 No poverty DDAccess to high-quality financial SDG 8 Decent work and products and services provided economic growth Financial inclusion 1, 6 in a responsible and sustainable SDG 10 Reduced inequalities manner SDG 12 Responsible consumption and production DDBusiness microcredits DDPromotion of self-employment Promotion of through the collaborating SDG 8 Decent work and production activity institutions 3 economic growth and job creation DDImpact on the socio-economic development of the region and customer profile (metrics) SDG 1 No poverty DDFamily microcredits SDG 3 Good health DDImpact on family socio-economic and well-being development Personal and family SDG 4 Quality education 1, 2 development DDAncillary financial service for the most disadvantaged or deprived SDG 10 Reduced inequalities private households: Monte de SDG 12 Responsible consumption Piedad and production 86 ANNUAL REPORT MICROBANK 2019 Principles of the Global Material issues Topics included Associated SDGs Compact DDDisputes, issues in lending and financing DDProviding excellent service that exceeds customer expectations Management DDOptimising the handling of SDG 12 Responsible consumption of customer complaints and claims, greater 1, 2 and production relationships speed and efficiency DDMaintaining and promoting transparency of products and services (clear language) DDCustomer profile DDProducts with a twofold impact: economic and/or social Innovative products SDG 9 Industry, innovation and DDDevelopment of products and 7, 8, 9 and services infrastructure services to meet the needs of new customers DDSupport from CaixaBank’s SDG 17 Partnerships for the Marketing branches in the marketing of 3 goals MicroBank’s products and services Generation of social SDG 8 Decent work and DDLaunch of the EaSI Loan aimed at economic growth and environmental 7, 8, 9 social enterprises impact SDG 13 Climate action 87 Access the online version at https://www.microbank.com/Informe_Anual_2019_en.PDF Published by: MicroBank Design, layout and print: www.cegeglobal.com LD.: B 35833-2011 C/ Juan Gris, 10-18. Torre Centre, planta 10. 08014 Barcelona C/ Aduana, 18. 28013 Madrid WWW.MICROBANK.COM
