Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17 Sustainability Report _____ 2019/20 Statutory Report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act sections 99 (a) and (b) Stina, Ostomy device user Making life easier Highlights from 2019/20 Meeting our 2020 targets 44% Coloplast has reached its 2020 targets Reduction of injuries with absence since 16/17 to increase share of renewable energy, recycle more of our waste and increase the diversity in our management. With 41% these achievements, Coloplast has a solid foundation to do more. New 2025 ambitions of production waste is recycled As part of the corporate strategy process, Coloplast has reviewed existing efforts on sustainability, and has set new ambitions to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. 100% of electricity use in production is matched with renewable sources To serve as the basis for our new sustainability strategy, Coloplast has systematically assessed our impact on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our main contributions are on ‘Good Health and Well-Being’, ‘Responsible consumption and production’ and ‘Climate Action‘ (SDGs 3, 12 and 13). 2 Table of content Introduction 4 CEO letter 4 Business model and risks 5 Our approach to sustainability 6 Our progress and ambitions 7 Governance of sustainability 8 2025 sustainability strategy 9 Reducing emissions 9 Improving products and packaging 12 Responsible operations 15 Access to healthcare 15 Product quality 16 People and culture 18 Inclusion and diversity 19 Business ethics and compliance 21 Employee health and safety 25 Procurement 27 Performance tables 28 Basis of preparation 28 Environment data 29 Social data 33 Governance data 35 Appendices 36 Stakeholder engagement and materiality 36 Independent limited assurance report 38 This report constitutes our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and supporting the broader UN goals. We welcome feedback on its contents. 3 INTRODUCTION CEO letter CEO letter Coloplast is a purpose driven company. continue to be made of plastics, but we We work to make life easier for people will identify and support the with intimate healthcare needs. We development of new sustainable already help millions – and we aspire to technologies. As the technologies help even more in the years to come. mature, we will integrate renewable materials such as bio-based or recycled However, helping more people with plastics. While regulation puts strict intimate health care needs presents a limitations on our products, there are dilemma: helping more people means more possibilities when it comes to making more products and therefore packaging. So that will be one of our potentially increasing the impact on the focus areas and by 2025, 80% of our environment. packaging will consist of renewable materials. We embrace that challenge and therefore we are setting a new ambition Let me be clear, it is our priority to make for sustainability to support the UN sustainability easier for our users Sustainable Development Goals and the without compromising product safety Paris Agreement’s goal to limit global and clinical performance. Our users do temperature increase to 1.5 degrees. not choose their conditions and they should never be concerned about using Coloplast products in any way. Reducing emissions First, we will continue to minimise our Always striving for footprint while being a growth company. responsibility Both within our own operations and beyond. We already match our Respect and responsibility are core electricity consumption with values to us, and we will always strive to renewables, but we will also be phasing improve how we operate responsibly. the use of natural gas within the next This year, we are setting new ambitions five years. Effectively making our production carbon neutral by 2025. to reduce workplace injuries, we continue to increase the diversity of our leadership and we continue to Improving products and strengthen our culture of integrity. packaging I hereby confirm our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Second, we will address the challenge as well as our support to the UN from the materials we use in products Sustainable Development Goals. and packaging, which by and large are plastics. Plastics are the only relevant materials to use in our products due to product performance as well as hygiene and Kristian Villumsen quality standards. Our products will President and CEO 4 INTRODUCTION Business model and risks Business model and risks Business model Risks Climate change risks Coloplast develops and markets Coloplast is mindful of the risks posed As an outcome of the new corporate products and services that make life towards society such as, but not limited strategy, Strive25, Coloplast has easier for people with private and to, labour and human rights in our direct established an internal working group to personal medical conditions within operations and in our supply chain, implement the recommendations of the Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound fraud among distributors and Task Force on Climate-related Financial & Skin Care and Interventional Urology. environmental strains from our Disclosures (TCFD). production. Coloplast has policies in Coloplast employs around 12,500 place for relevant risks on these four As formulated by the TCFD, the industry people and operates globally with sales topics, which are addressed throughout which Coloplast is in, is not considered subsidiaries in more than 40 countries. this report. The policies are published to have high exposure to climate The company has production sites in along with this report on Coloplast.com. change risks. However, the preliminary Denmark, Hungary, the United States, risk assessment performed by the China, Costa Rica and France. working group reveal potential longterm exposures to both physical and transitional risks within our supply chain and manufacturing. Our position on plastic Examples of physical risks include As a manufacturer of medical products made of plastic, Coloplast has a increase of extreme weather events responsibility. We embrace that responsibility and have clear priorities: such as flooding or wildfires, which potentially could affect our supply chain • Product safety and clinical performance cannot be compromised and manufacturing. • Single use products are the easiest and safest option for our users Examples of transitional risks include carbon taxes and market changes. • Sustainability should be easy for our users Coloplast experiences increased focus on environmental performance of • We need to identify new materials and support the development of new products from users as well as technologies authorities. • Partnerships across the industry are essential In the coming financial year, further risk assessments and scenario analyses will Read more on page 13 or read our full position paper on plastic on be conducted to get a deeper Coloplast.com understanding of these risks and related exposures. Through this process the risks are also evaluated by the Executive Leadership Team and the Board of Directors. 5 INTRODUCTION Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability The purpose of Coloplast inherently Respect and responsibility are core emissions as well as reducing the supports social development in society. values at Coloplast and Coloplast works impacts from our products and By making life easier for people with continuously to improve and ensure packaging. intimate healthcare needs, we enable responsible operations. Coloplast people to be active and take part in therefore has a solid foundation for As a company growing 7-9% annually, society. working with sustainability. we are challenged with making absolute reductions of our emissions. It is our priority to make sustainability As part of our corporate strategy, Nonetheless, it is our ambition to use easier for our users without Strive25, we have assessed our impacts, 100% renewable energy by 2025, and compromising product safety and and to advance sustainable we will contribute to solving the clinical performance. Our users do not development, Coloplast has set new problems associated with plastics. To choose their conditions and they should priorities. While we have an on-going deliver on our 2025 ambitions, we will never be concerned about using commitment to responsible operations, invest up to DKK 250 million over the Coloplast products in any way. we will do even more to reduce our next five years. Coloplast and the UN Sustainability Development Goals Our mission Making life easier for people with intimate healthcare needs Our 2025 ambition Our 2025 ambition Reducing Improving emissions products and packaging Our on-going commitment Responsible operations 6 INTRODUCTION Our progress and ambitions Our progress and ambitions 2020 targets Achieved Reduce phthalate use by 44% 53% Reduce injuries by 33% compared to 16/17-level 44% 35% of production waste is recycled 41% 2025 ambitions Status 2019/20 Reducing emissions, 100% renewable energy 67% p. 9-11 50% electric company cars 1% 10% reduction and then freeze of air travels 45% 5% limit on air freight 4% Improving products and packaging, 90% of packaging recyclable 75% p. 12-15 80% of packaging consists of renewable materials 70% 50% recycling of production waste 41% Responsible operations, Train all white-collar employees in Code of Conduct 98% p. 16-28 Reduce occupational injuries by 30% compared to 19/20 level n/a 30% representation of female senior leaders 24% 75% share of diverse teams 51% INTRODUCTION Governance of sustainability Governance of sustainability To support the new sustainability in the organisation, Coloplast has decision-making around Coloplast strategy, Coloplast has strengthened established a new Sustainability unit products throughout the value-chain. the governance of sustainability. with the responsibility of implementing the ambitions as well as identifying In addition, the Executive Leadership Coloplast prefers that sustainability further strategic opportunities. Team will function as steering group for activities are embedded within and sustainability going forward. executed by the relevant line The sustainability unit is placed within organisation. However, to ensure that Global Quality and Regulatory Affairs, a the sustainability strategy is embedded department that is involved with the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Board of Directors Consists of three members appointed among the Board of Directors. For Consists of six shareholder-elected and three employeedetail charter, go to Coloplast.com elected members. Audit Committee Consists of three members appointed among the Board of Directors. For detail charter, go to Coloplast.com Executive Leadership Team Consists of CEO, CFO, Operations, Innovation, Growth, and People & Culture Sustainability unit Dedicated to Sustainability with the responsibility of embedding sustainability in the organization and identifying new improvement areas. Anchored in Global Quality and Regulatory Affairs. 2025 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reducing emissions Reducing emissions As a growing company, we are Finally, we will also take our ambitions challenged with making absolute beyond our own operations and work reductions of our emissions. with suppliers. For Coloplast to decouple environmental impact from economic 2025 ambition It is our ambition to use 100% growth, we need to work with our renewable energy by 2025, making our production carbon neutral. We will also suppliers. Both in terms of identifying new materials with lower environmental 100% challenge our behaviour to reduce our impact and by collaborating with our renewable energy emissions related to how we travel and suppliers to ensure environmentally ship our products. We will reduce business travel by 10% and convert friendly and socially responsible operations. During the coming financial 50% electric company cars 50% of our company car fleet to electric year, Coloplast will set a concrete target vehicles within the Strive25 strategy to ensure progress on this topic. period. 10% reduction and then freeze of air travel Measuring carbon emissions 5% limit on air freight Coloplast has adopted the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as the basis for measuring our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions 170,800 SDG impacted from owned or controlled sources. Tonnes CO2e in 2019/20 Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions Goal 13 from the generation of purchased ‘Climate action’ energy, for example electricity. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect Scope 1 emissions (not included in scope 2) that Scope 2 occur in the value chain. Scope 3 Full datasets are listed together with our accounting principles on page 33. 9 2025 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reducing emissions Scope 1+2: Carbon neutral production Improving energy Using energy from efficiency renewable sources Key figures Coloplast has an ambition to To support SDG 13 of taking urgent ENERGY USED PER PRODUCED continuously reduce energy used per action to combat climate change, UNIT (KWH) product produced. In combination with Coloplast is purchasing renewable using energy from renewable sources, energy certificates for electricity 0.14 0.13 this is the most efficient way Coloplast consumption at all production sites. can reduce climate related impacts from Electricity accounts for more than 60% production. of total energy consumption in production. Coloplast currently cover As a growing company, Coloplast is 100% of electricity use with renewable expanding production. This year, the energy, effectively reducing greenhouse 2019/20 2018/19 energy efficiency gains stem from gas emissions with more than 28,000 utilising the full production capacity as tonnes. well as benefitting from energy SHARE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY efficiency projects at older sites. With the new sustainability strategy, Coloplast will be advancing its efforts on 100% renewables. It is our ambition that production will be running on 100% renewable energy by 2025 as we will 67% phase out the use of natural gas, for example by transitioning to electrical heat pumps. In addition, Coloplast will be replacing our Renewable Energy Certificates covering electricity use with 2025 ambition 2019/20 Power-Purchasing Agreements that ensures additionality by establishing new renewable power sources on Coloplast’s request. Coloplast believes this will have a direct impact on reducing emissions. 10 2025 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reducing emissions Scope 3: Reducing while growing Reducing impact reach users in time. Going forward, Coloplast will limit the use of air freight related to raw materials to 5% of total shipped miles. Key figures For Coloplast to decouple Business travel environmental impact from economic growth, Coloplast needs to work with Despite growing across all geographies, suppliers. Both in terms of identifying new materials with lower environmental Coloplast wants to reduce emissions from company air travels by 10% 159,700 impact and by collaborating with Tonnes CO2e compared to 18/19-levels. Coloplast will in Scope 3 suppliers to ensure environmentally limit the number of trips, while in 19/20 friendly and socially responsible promoting emission efficient choices operations. when travelling. Coloplast will also strengthen digital meeting and working During the coming financial year, from home capacities in the Raw materials Coloplast will set a concrete target to organization. The Covid-19 situation has Transportation of goods ensure progress on this topic. accelerated the organisation’s Business travels capabilities, and Coloplast will invest in Company cars improved IT-equipment to facilitate Transportation of goods more digital collaboration. Due to Covid19, the use of air travel has been SHARE OF PRODUCTS Transportation of goods accounts for reduced by 45% and well beyond the TRANSPORTED BY AIR approximately 13% of Coloplast’s total 10% target. However, once the greenhouse gas emissions. With situation normalises, Coloplast remains committed to limit air travel to 10% less 5% Coloplast’s growth rates, transportation needs will increase going forward and, than 18/19 levels and then freeze. 4% consequently, total greenhouse gas emissions from transportation of goods Coloplast also operates a car fleet will also increase. consisting of around 1,900 cars, which based on fuel consumption annually Coloplast works to mitigate emissions emits 10,600 tonnes of GHG. To reduce from transportation of goods by its impact, Coloplast will shift to electric 2025 ambition 2019/20 substituting air with sea and ground company cars with a target of 100% by transportation whenever possible. 2030 and 50% by 2025. SHARE OF ELECTRIC COMPANY CARS Shipping goods via air transportation emits up to 20 times more greenhouse 50% gases on a given distance compared to shipping goods by sea. Coloplast users are often very dependent on receiving a stable and adequate supply of products. In case of 1% any extraordinary events in the supply chain, Coloplast will prioritise users’ 2025 ambition 2019/20 needs for products and, if needed, ship products by air to ensure that products 11 2025 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Improving Reducing emissions products and packaging Improving products and packaging As a manufacturer of medical products While there are strict limitations to our made primarily of plastic, Coloplast has products, there are more possibilities a responsibility to contribute to solving the problems with plastic waste and when it comes to packaging, so we will start by eliminating unnecessary 2025 ambition wants to contribute to the UN SDG 12 packaging, using materials with less on responsible production and consumption. impact and designing our products to be recyclable. 80% of packaging consists of However, within healthcare there are The medical device sector is heavily renewable materials distinct clinical and regulatory limitations regulated and developing new relevant to reducing plastic waste. plastic materials is an industry-wide challenge that we cannot solve by ourselves. We need to partner up with 90% Coloplast users depend on Coloplast of packaging is recyclable products to live the life they want, and suppliers and other industry actors to product safety and clinical performance find solutions both when it comes to cannot be compromised. Coloplast users do not choose their conditions and products and the needed infrastructure to handle plastic waste and recycling. 50% they should not be concerned about the of production waste is recycled environmental impacts of their products With the 2025 ambitions, Coloplast is and packaging. committed to contribute to responsible consumption and production as Coloplast incorporates environmental performance when developing new expressed by the UN Sustainable Development Goals 12. SDG impacted products, but we can do better in designing our products and packaging to be recyclable and made of materials Goal 12 with less environmental impact. ‘Responsible Consumption and Production’ (12.2, 12.4, 12.5) 12 2025 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Improving products and packaging Eco-design and recyclability Sustainability in product Single use is easiest and development safest Key figures The primary method used by Coloplast Because most of Coloplast’s products SHARE OF PACKAGING to address environmental challenges is are contaminated after use, they must CONTAINING RENEWABLE MATERIALS the incorporation of eco-design be disposed of properly due to risk of principles when developing products infection. This means that Coloplast’s and processes. This means: products are incinerated or sent to a 80% landfill after disposal. However, 70% • Using less materials per product Coloplast designs product packaging to be recyclable when possible. • Using raw materials with lower environmental impact such as Reducing packaging renewables • Avoid substances of concern Reducing environmental impact from products is limited due to regulations 2025 ambition 2019/20 and product quality. However, there are • Improve product and packaging more possibilities when it comes to SHARE OF RECYCLABLE recyclability packaging, and Coloplast is starting by PACKAGING eliminating unnecessary packaging, • Minimising the total carbon footprint using materials with less impact and from production and distribution 90% designing our packaging to be recyclable. 75% Life cycle assessments therefore guide Coloplast’s environmental efforts, Coloplast has the ambition to increase covering everything from raw materials the share of recyclable packaging to to waste management, energy 90% by 2025 as well as increasing the consumption, disposal and share of renewable materials in transportation of goods. packaging to 80%. 2025 ambition 2019/20 As an outcome of the sustainability Other ways to improve include strategy, Coloplast is currently minimising packaging or switching to strengthening governance of eco-design materials with less environmental to accelerate eco-design of products impacts. Previous examples includes the and packaging. updated version of SpeediCath® Flex with new packaging that contains no Coloplast expects to see the effect in aluminium. This reduces the product’s packaging soon, but the impact on new carbon footprint up to 16%. eco-friendly products on the market will not materialise before 3-4 years’ time. 13 2025 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Improving products and packaging Reducing and recycling waste Reducing waste Water management Coloplast has the ambition to Coloplast uses very limited amounts of Key figures continuously reduce the amount of water for production. Water is primarily production waste generated per used for sanitation purposes and produced unit. For the third year in a gardening. Whenever water is used, our row, Coloplast has reduced waste focus is to reduce. generated per product. The improvements this year can be ISO14001 15,097 explained by implementing new tonnes waste production technologies within Ostomy in 2019/20 Care. Our environmental management system is certified on the internationally acknowledged ISO14001 environmental Waste recycling certification scheme. Today, eight out of Incinerated nine production sites, including our Recycled Reporting a recycling rate of 41%, corporate headquarters, are certified Hazardous waste Coloplast has reached the target to according to the ISO 14001 standard. Landfill increase the recycling rate of production The newly established site in Costa Rica waste to 35% by the end of 2020. A is not certified yet. WASTE GENERATED PER major contribution to this achievement PRODUCED UNIT (GRAMS) has been a project at the Tatabanya site to recycle our mixed polymer waste into rubber flooring. This is a breakthrough, 11.8 12.2 as recycling mixed polymers traditionally has been a challenge from a technological perspective. As part of the new sustainability strategy, Coloplast is committed to 2019/20 2018/19 make further improvements by increasing our recycling rate to 50% by RECYCLING RATE OF 2025. PRODUCTION WASTE 50% 41% 2025 ambition 2019/20 14 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Access to healthcare Access to healthcare Through Coloplast’s corporate healthcare needs and help them live partnership programme, Access to with dignity. Healthcare, Coloplast is committed to improving conditions for people who Access to Healthcare projects bring On-going need care in the areas of ostomy, continence and wound care. Established together practitioners, users, NGOs and other public and private partners to commitment in 2007, the programme has so far empower users, train practitioners and supported more than 70 projects in advocate for better care. Improving conditions for more than 10 countries. The people who need care programme is part of Coloplast’s Access to Healthcare projects also continued efforts to raise the standard support the long-term ambitions of of care. Examples of projects initiated Coloplast by bringing us closer to users this year includes projects to raise and helping us to gain new or deeper SDG impacted patient awareness on bowel insights into the needs of other management and mapping living stakeholders, including healthcare condition for ostomy in Japan as well as providing funding for the International practitioners, civil society and policy makers. Goal 3 ‘Good Health and Well-Being’ Spinal Cord Society (ISCoS) to develop (3.8, 3.b) their e-learning platform, www.elearnsci.org, which seeks to raise Responsible advocacy the standard for patient education and caregiver training. Coloplast also works in partnership with Goal 4 many different external stakeholders to ‘Quality Education’ (4.b) All projects are created in collaboration share our views on the issues that affect with local stakeholders. The focus of our industry, clinicians and the rights of individual Access to Healthcare projects users. Coloplast conducts advocacy varies, but the projects address similar both directly as a company and in themes. It is important that the projects coordination with external partners, create value for people with intimate including national and regional industry associations. Case study Raising the standard of care for spinal cord injured in China Today, the around two million Chinese citizens, who are spinal cord injured, deal with several challenges on a daily basis: the medical costs are high, the recovery time is long, the work ability significantly reduced, and the social support limited. These conditions not only affect the patient itself, but also their families and the society in general. To improve the quality of life for spinal cord injured and to help them back into society, Coloplast is committed to a three-year plan together the China Association of People with Physical Disability and the China Foundation for Disabled Persons. The focus is on enhancing the quality of the clinical practice, developing educational content, and appealing to the government to strengthen the policies around this area. 15 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Product quality Product quality Quality standards Medical Device Regulation The European Commission has issued It is essential to Coloplast’s mission to deliver safe and reliable products. That completely new and highly increased requirements to the Medical Device On-going is why Coloplast has a unified global quality management system with industry as laid down in the Medical Device Regulation (MDR). Since this commitment established uniform global processes to new regulation was published Coloplast manage quality and risks throughout has revised and updated every aspect of Deliver safe and reliable product development, production, the quality management system as well product to our users delivery as well as extensive postas revisited all relevant product market surveillance. documentation focusing on All customer feedback, complaints and Interventional Urology and Wound Care. Coloplast is now in the process of Key figures adverse events are handled on an obtaining MDR certification in due time individual basis, identifying the root before the deadline for compliance cause, and generating input for which is May 2021. 2 mitigations, product improvements as well as future new product Product recalls in development. Product recalls 2019/20 As part of a regulated industry, Coloplast’s products and quality management system live up to strict If customer feedback or internal controls reveal that already distributed 0 regulatory standards established by products have quality defects with a authorities worldwide such as the FDA, potential risk for the safe usage, FDA warning Japanese Ministry of Health, the Coloplast will initiate a voluntary letters International Standardization product recall to remove the products Organization, and the European from the supply chain as well as the Commission. Compliance to these market. standards is verified on site through external audits by independent auditors Coloplast had two product recalls during and Notified Bodies. the financial year 2019/20: All Coloplast sites involved in Design, • Elefant® Production, packaging and Central In September 2020, Coloplast Distribution are certified according to initiated a recall of four batches one or more of the following standards: within the EU due to an identified ISO9001, ISO13485, MDSAP, MDD. This weakness on the packaging welding year, Coloplast had 74 full day audits on during the manufacturing process. quality and system conformity, which is lower than the total of 94 audit days last • Double Loop Ureteral Stent Kit year. The decrease is attributed to In October 2019, Coloplast initiated Covid-19 situation, which has led to a recall of 9 batches within the EU some audits being postponed. due to a packaging anomaly that potentially could compromise the sterility of the devices. 16 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Substances Animal testing Coloplast is mindful when selecting Animal testing is a standard method for Key figures materials and substances used in documenting the safety of medical products and complies with devices. By having a precise account of international and local regulations and the composition of Coloplast products, standards, including EU’s chemicals animal testing can be avoided. legislation, also known as REACH, the California proposition 65 list and more. However, in some cases animal testing is necessary due to legal requirements 758 animal test All Coloplast products are biocompatible and safety assessments. conducted and safe for the intended purpose, and in 19/20 Coloplast adopts a proactive approach All animal testing used by Coloplast are in scouting for alternative substances to performed by Good Laboratory Practice the few unwanted chemical substances certified laboratories. This year, in the products. Coloplast used 758 animals for testing in relation to pre-clinical safety Rodents (include mice, rats and Coloplast has set up a structured documentation, which is less than half of guinea pigs) monitoring process to detect and the animal tests last year. One of the identify changes in regulations, science reasons for the significant decrease is Other animals (include rabbits, and technology early on. This enables that we have substituted animal tests pigs and dogs) Coloplast to identify opportunities and with chemical characterisation risks early on and proactively substitute screening analyses. The reported relevant substances if needed. number of animals test accounts for all The results and risks are reported animals used for testing. Coloplast does quarterly to management and feeds not use transgenic animals in testing. into Coloplast product development. For more information on Coloplast’s Coloplast is experiencing increased approach to animal testing, please read attention from users and markets on our Animal Testing Policy available on substances and will increase Coloplast.com. communication and initiatives on this topic during the next financial year. Case study – Avoiding and phasing out phthalates In the medical device industry, phthalates are used to soften products like catheters and urine bags. Phthalates are commonly used to make PVC plastics more flexible and durable. Although Coloplast products are safe to use, Coloplast recognises that there are concerns about the use of phthalates. Coloplast has therefore adopted a precautionary approach and limits the use of phthalates in products. Coloplast offers phthalate-free alternatives to 97% of our product range containing classified phthalates. Coloplast has also worked to reduce the use of phthalates in the existing portfolio and has reduced the absolute use of phthalates by 56% since 2015. For more information, please see our official phthalates policy on Coloplast.com 17 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS People and Product culture quality People and culture year, voluntary turn-over has further Evolving how we lead decreased due to the Covid-19. To enable strong execution of our new Coloplast expects and plans for postpandemic normalizations in turnover On-going corporate strategy, Strive25, Coloplast has introduced a leadership promise: we and will focus on maintaining healthy turnover levels. commitment aim high, we simplify, we empower, and we are inclusive. Our leadership promise Motivate and engage builds on the strong foundation of our Employee engagement employees in our mission existing company culture and our Mission. This year, we introduced a simple, intuitive and mobile enabled During the coming financial year, all Coloplast leaders will be introduced to engagement survey platform. Engagement is measured questions Key figures our Leadership Promise and our senior covering a variety of themes such as leaders will play a vital role in bringing company culture, leadership, well-being, this to life in the organization as we evolve the way we lead. and the strategic direction of the company. 12,568 employees at year-end Coloplast tracks engagement among all Talent for the future employees twice per year. Results are distributed to local management teams 67% Attracting and developing talent is a for them to act on their results and of critical managerial positions core element of ensuring Coloplast has maintain high engagement levels. We filled by internal candidates the best people for the future. We hire believe that the real value is driven for careers, not just jobs, which means through team discussions and actions that we mobilise and develop talent to secure strong succession. This is taken based on the survey results. The engagement score is based on a 08.2% voluntary employee turnover in reflected in our ability to fill 67% of 10 scale, where 10 indicates the highest 2019/20 critical managerial positions with engagement level. This year’s internal candidates. engagement survey showed a score of 7.9 with a response rate of 88%. This is 7.9 out of 10 Employee turnover above Healthcare industry benchmark and on par with the 2018 engagement employee engagement score level. As a growing company, Coloplast has expanded the total workforce by 2,000 employees over the last four years. Through the next strategy period, we will continue to expand the number of leaders and employees as we grow. Over the last two years, Coloplast has decreased voluntary turnover rate from around 13% to 8.2% this year. The decrease can be attributed to global, regional, and local initiatives, and this 18 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Inclusion and diversity Inclusion and diversity It is part of Coloplast’s DNA to respect an Anti-Retaliation policy that has been the individual and to secure equal published on Coloplast.com. opportunities for all. We believe that On-going diversity leads to better innovation, Diverse Teams performance and decisions. commitment Inclusion and diversity should be Coloplast recognises that all diversity ingrained in our culture and we therefore integrate inclusion and factors are important and has set a commitment to increase the diversity at Year-on-year diversity into all people processes such team level. A diverse team to us is one increase in share of female as recruitment (also when we use who represents both gender-, representation in senior external vendors), performance nationality-, and generation diversity. To leadership evaluation, and succession planning. increase the share of diverse teams, we track and monitor the mix of diversity in Year-on-year The value of diversity will show when it is led right, and we have therefore all teams on director level and above. integrated inclusive leadership into our increase in share of diverse leadership promise and expect all It is Coloplast’s ambition to reach a teams leaders to master this as we evolve how share of 75% diverse teams before we lead. 2025 through natural turnover. This year, the share of diverse teams is 51%, Coloplast has re-stated our commitment which is the same as last year. However, in teams at VP level and above, we SDG impacted to inclusion and diversity by joining the CEO pledge together with the other have already seen an increase of team members of the Danish Diversity Council. In addition, our policy on diversity of 5 %-points moving from 49% last year to 54 % this year. This Goal 5 inclusion and diversity has been reprogress can be explained by our senior ‘Gender Equality’ (5.5) visited and published on Coloplast.com. management focus on the topic and the fact each leader at VP+ level has created tangible 5-year action plans for Goal 10 Inclusive workplace how they will deliver on diverse teams ‘Reduced Inequalities’ (10.3) environment within their area of responsibility during the strategy periods. Coloplast is committed to developing an inclusive organisation, where people Key figures bring their differences to work each day, SHARE OF DIVERSE TEAMS fulfil their potential and have a strong sense of belonging because of – and not 75% in spite of – their differences. Coloplast prohibits any kind of discrimination or harassment of employees due to e.g. 51% their gender, age, ethnic origin, religious belief, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or physical characteristics. This is formalised in a new Anti-Harassment and Anti-Discrimination policy as well as 2025 ambition 2019/20 19 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Inclusion and diversity Gender representation is less than 2% in favour of male leaders. When taking other factors into in management consideration such as age, educational background, professional tenure, which Key figures also influence remuneration level, According to the Danish Financial Coloplast considers this gap to be within Statements Act, section 99b, Coloplast acceptable limits. defines other management levels as all positions at or above manager level. With 43% female managers at this level, Coloplast maintains an equal distribution Gender representation 43% between male and female in among Board of of all managers are female management. Directors However, when looking at senior leadership alone, there is an underColoplast aims for its Board of Directors representation of females. Therefore, to consist of the best qualified Coloplast works with an ambition to individuals. With 2 out of 6 shareholderSHARE OF FEMALE SENIOR show a year-on-year increase of female elected board members being female at LEADERS (VP-LEVEL AND leaders in senior leadership through the end of the financial year, Coloplast ABOVE) natural turnover until a balanced maintains an equal gender representation is reached. Senior representation among Board of leadership is defined as Vice President Directors in compliance with the Danish and above. This year, the share of Financial Statements Act, section 99b. 30% female senior leaders is 24%, which is 24% an increase of 3 percentage points Employing people with compared to last year. The improvement is achieved through disability increased focus on inclusion and diversity as well as assigning ownership Coloplast works to employ people with and accountability to senior leadership. disability globally. This includes ensuring 2025 ambition 2019/20 reasonable accommodations at sites as Gender pay gap well as proactively hiring people with disability. For example, Coloplast has Coloplast is committed to fair and equal worked with a local NGO to employ people with hearing impairment at the 2 out of 6 treatment of all employees. This implies Tatabanya site. Other sites where Shareholder-elected board equal remuneration for equal work. Coloplast works to employ people with members are female Therefore, Coloplast lets skills, disabilities include China, Denmark, experience and personal talent France and Germany. determine matters related to compensation. Across managementlevels in Coloplast, there is equal remuneration between female and male leaders. Based on a weighted average median salary between individual management levels, the gender pay gap 20 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Business ethics and compliance Business ethics and compliance Coloplast sells products and operates in which training and awareness more than 140 countries, and business campaigns should be initiated. This cultures and regulations vary around the world. Coloplast abides by national allows a tailored and targeted effort to strengthen our culture of integrity. In On-going and international laws as well as specific requirements for our industry through addition, general awareness activities take place on a regular basis including a commitment our well-established Code of Conduct campaign against harassment and and compliance setup. discrimination. 100% Coloplast BEST our To read Coloplast BEST, please visit Coloplast.com. of all white-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Continuous training The Coloplast Business Ethical Standards (Coloplast BEST) is our Code efforts SDG impacted of Conduct and our guide leading the way to global excellence when it comes Regular training in Coloplast BEST is to operating an ethical company. mandatory for Coloplast employees. Coloplast continues expanding its Goal 16 Coloplast value employees’ ability to use training activities and developing new ‘Peace, justice and strong good judgment and common sense at formats to support employees’ institutions’ (16.5, 16.6 and 16.b) all times, rather than learning a set of engagement and understanding, rules by heart. That is why Coloplast especially those in high-risk parts of the BEST is value-based rather than ruleorganisation. We believe it is key to based and has the ambition of installing support our culture of integrity. Key figures a compliance mind-set throughout the organisation. All Coloplast employees (including board members, executives, officers, directors and managers) are required to follow the principles laid out in Coloplast 98% of white-collars BEST. trained in BEST Coloplast is committed to having high standards for working with users and organisations both in terms of respecting the boundary between clinical expertise and our own product knowledge and when handling personal data. With the purpose of assessing our employees’ understanding of different compliance related topics we regularly send out tests. The results help us define 21 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Business ethics and compliance Distributor handling Ethics hotline Coloplast has dedicated resources to Coloplast has a global Ethics Hotline, Key figures conduct risk assessments and due which enables employees and others to CASES SUBMITTED TO ETHICS diligence and to create action plans for report breaches of our Code of Conduct HOTLINE compliance improvements where anonoumsly. All reported cases are needed. Coloplast has implemented a addressed internally by a committee of 78 system to manage our integrity and senior management. The outcome is compliance risks related to our tier one reported to the Audit Committee on a 63 distributors. Through this process, quarterly basis. Coloplast engages in dialogue with 48 46 distributors about the compliance Coloplast encourages an open and situation in their market and the honest culture, where employees are expectations set forth in our Coloplast’s free to raise questions and concerns. In Global Distributor Code of Conduct. 2019/20, Coloplast has received a total of 78 cases, 63 of which have been 2019/20 2018/19 Bribery risk assessment within the scope of the Ethics Hotline, i.e. relating to the topics and subjects that may be reported via the hotline. Cases submitted to the ethics Coloplast’s Group Business Ethics and Coloplast views the increase in cases as hotline Compliance unit performs bribery risk a positive outcome of making it easier to ..of which within scope assessment on an on-going basis to submit cases via mobile devices as well continuously have a good as internal communication activities understanding of where specific aimed at raising concerns. These efforts attention is needed. The risk support our culture of integrity. In assessments are performed internally addition, all cases submitted to direct together with the relevant business units management or local or regional to ensure a complete overview of the compliance officers have been included business and its risks. in the Hotline procedure. Most cases reported have been related to conflicts Based on the risk assessments, of interest or fraud against Coloplast. All Coloplast has initiated implementation relevant cases have been investigated of local compliance programmes. and followed up with appropriate Coloplast monitors and reviews remediation and sanctions, in some processes and controls on an on-going instances this means termination of basis. contract. 22 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Business ethics and compliance Data privacy Ethical marketing practices By pursuing online activities targeted at users, Coloplast is collecting and handling more personal data. Users Coloplast respects the boundary trust Coloplast with information about between the clinical expertise of their personal life, and it is a priority for clinicians and our own product Coloplast to treat this data with the expertise. Our dialogue with users is utmost respect and confidentiality. focused on product and lifestyle issues, Many countries have legislation in place and not on medical support. This is obligating companies to handle personal Coloplast’s promise to clinicians. data securely. Coloplast handles and protects personal data in accordance To ensure that this boundary is with national law – and with the same respected, our staff are trained by approach across our company. Internal clinicians, and our specialists who speak audits and third-party audits are used to on the phone use assessment tools ensure secure and reliable data developed by our medical marketing handling. team that have been endorsed by global and national advisory healthcare In May 2018, the new EU Regulation on boards. Protection of Personal Data (GDPR) came into effect. To ensure compliance Coloplast will recommend solutions with GDPR, Coloplast has updated its within our own portfolio and clearly policies and procedures and created a advise patients to contact their clinician data privacy governance structure. if they wish to undertake an appliance Coloplast is certified according to ISO change. Coloplast always recommends 27001 on information security and listening to the advice of the healthcare further facilitates awareness and professionals. training about data privacy via internal messages, e-learning and dedicated intranet sites, as well as training sessions, for relevant employees. A Data Protection Officer within Coloplast is fully dedicated to focus on data privacy and is supported by local privacy representatives from our subsidiaries. The Data Protection Officer reports to Coloplast management on a regular basis and engage with representatives of important group functions in a Data Privacy Board. In addition, the efforts and status on data privacy is reported annually to the Audit Committee. 23 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Business ethics and compliance Community Responsible tax management Coloplast sees taxes as an important Engagement part of our business. Respecting local tax laws and regulations are important Key figures to Coloplast's reputation and brand. ln Respecting local cultures, regulations TAXES PAID (DKK MILLION) addition, taxes contribute to the and customs is important to Coloplast. economic value generation in the Coloplast wants to contribute to the 1,277 countries where Coloplast operates. The local communities in which the company 1,185 Coloplast tax contributions include operates. Either through donations or corporate income tax, employee taxes, involving local NGOs. In light of this, indirect taxes, property taxes, custom Coloplast also considers tax duties, excise duties and other local management to be an important part of taxes community engagement as taxes contribute to value generation. ln Coloplast, taxes are paid where business activities generate value in Donations 2019/20 2018/19 accordance with internationally To ensure that our donations are accepted standards. Coloplast does not meaningful and benefit both the local allow commercial needs to override community and Coloplast as much as possible, Coloplast has a policy on compliance with applicable laws, nor 23.2% base commercial activities on tax Effective tax rate in 2019/20 donations, which leverages cash and avoidance schemes. To ensure this, product donations. Coloplast wants to Coloplast maintains an open and focus donations on activities that either transparent relationship with local tax seek to empower our users, support the authorities and bases tax decisions on local community or engage our our commercial strategy. Within these employees. The policy on donations is principles, Coloplast will pursue tax based on Eucomed Guidelines for grants opportunities and avoid double taxation. and WHO’s guidelines for donating Read the tax policy in full on medical equipment. Read the policy in Coloplast.com. full on Coloplast.com. In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, Coloplast has donated Comfeel products, cash and medical personal protection equipment to authorities and NGOs across several markets. In relation to the Australian bushfires in the beginning of the year, Coloplast supported Australian Red Cross to help bushfire affected communities. 24 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Employee health and safety Employee health and safety Providing a safe and healthy work behaviour at the sites and the larger environment for employees is a core distribution centres. In addition, the sales value for Coloplast. Safety is everybody’s responsibility in Coloplast, organisation has been working from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic, On-going both managers and employees. which has reduced the risk of injuries significantly for this employee group. commitment Reducing occupational Coloplast has set a new target to Ensure a safe and healthy injury reduce the LTI rate to 2.0 ppm by 2025. work environment for Interviews at the sites and at HQ have been conducted to identify corner flags employees Coloplast has never had a fatal for action and to set local safety targets. workplace injury. The most common This includes more specified training injury for both whiteand blue-collar addressing different job functions within employees are behaviour-based, for instance stumbling and falling. Targeting the company, e.g. driving salesforce, SDG impacted warehouse workers and production such behaviour-based injuries, Coloplast workers. has for the last three years worked to strengthen safety culture across all Goal 8 production sites, larger distribution Ensuring safety under ‘Decent work and economic centres, headquarters as well as selected sales subsidiaries. The purpose COVID-19 growth’ (8.8) is to change mindsets by enforcing three safety behaviours across all sites and During the COVID-19 pandemic, a top management layers: priority for Coloplast has been to keep our employees safe while still keeping Key figures • You see it, you own it production running in order to serve our • Think twice customers with the products they need LTI FREQUENCY (IN PPM)1) • Dare to care to keep a high quality of life. Coloplast has had no fatal cases of COVID-19. 2.5 In addition to reducing injuries, the campaign has contributed to more than Global contingency plans and guidelines 2.0 a fivefold increase in the reported nearfor how to react if an employee has miss accidents and safety observations. been infected, have been shared with Coloplast considers this a positive the local leaders across all sites. development and a sign of a Furthermore, multiple safety measures strengthened safety culture. have been implemented at distribution centres and production sites to ensure that production and distribution can 2025 ambition 2019/20 This year, Coloplast’s lost-time injury frequency is 2.5 ppm, which accounts continue in a safe and stable way. for 57 accidents. Coloplast has thereby All in all, Coloplast is proud that leaders 1) Parts per million (ppm): number of achieved the target to reduce the LTI as well as employees have shown a true injuries resulting in absence from freq. to 3.0 ppm by 2020. This safety mindset in the state of work of one day or more per one corresponds to a 44% reduction emergency. million working hours compared to 2016/17 level. The lowered injury rate this year can be attributed to continued focus on safety 25 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Employee health and safety Reducing repetitive ISO 45001 Offering healthy choices work Coloplast’s health and safety Coloplast performs workplace management system is certified assessments globally, and through the Coloplast emphasises an ergonomically according to Occupational Health and Coloplast Life programme, Coloplast correct workplace layout whenever Safety standard, ISO 45001, which has provides different options to make manual labour is required in production. replaced OHSAS 18001 across all healthy choices as easy as possible for Therefore, Coloplast systematically production sites. The ISO-certification is employees. This could be local activities works to reduce repetitive work and a management system used to ensure such as “Bike to Work” and running reduce the strain from unavoidable that sites adhere to the same rules clubs after work. repetitive workplaces by rotating globally and continuously improve their Other initiatives include free medical workstations. Coloplast has developed a performance. All produciton sites and screenings and health checks at system for measuring this type of work, selected distribution sites are ISO45001Coloplast’s Nyírbátor site as well as free which enables improvements and certified which means a coverage of flu vaccinations at Coloplast UK. accurate tracking of progress. Since 96% of Coloplast employees in 2008, Coloplast has more than halved production, distribution centres and Coloplast Life also focuses on mental the amount of stations considered to Coloplast headquarters in Denmark health on a local basis. For example, require ‘high’ and ‘very high’ repetitive Coloplast has a stress policy including work. professional stress-counselling in Denmark. 26 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS Procurement Procurement Screening potential Improving local suppliers conditions On-going Through standardised auditing in the In some cases, local Coloplast teams commitment approval process for new raw material can provide advice to suppliers suppliers, Coloplast ensures that the ten regarding cost-efficient best practices principles of the UN Global Compact are integrated into procurement decisions. that comply with local regulations. In total, Coloplast has improved standards 100% together with more than 30 raw of raw material suppliers For all new raw material suppliers, material suppliers. screened for human rights Coloplast explains our standards on human rights, labour, environment and Monitoring existing anti-corruption. This information is also included in the final contract with the suppliers SDG impacted supplier in our Supplier Code of Conduct. In high-risk countries, all potential raw material suppliers are Coloplast annually monitors social and environmental risks among approved Goal 8 audited by an external partner ‘Decent Work and Economic suppliers. The purpose is to ensure all according to local regulations, Growth’ (8.8) suppliers are evaluated at minimum Coloplast’s Supplier Code of Conduct every three years. The evaluation is and the UN Global Compact Principles. based on the severity of initial findings, the supplier’s response to their If an issue is identified, Coloplast and the corrective-action plan as well as how supplier then agree on any necessary long ago their initial assessment was improvements, which form the basis for performed. Based on the evaluation, a corrective action plan and provides Coloplast will select suppliers to be rethe means for dialogue. Coloplast approved according to Coloplast prefers to work with suppliers to standards. This year, Coloplast has not improve standards rather than walking been able to visit all suppliers within away. scope due the lockdowns caused by Covid-19. Through this approval process, Coloplast maps relevant risks and ensures on-boarding of suppliers that are willing to improve local conditions if necessary. Coloplast has audited 100% of suppliers within scope of the programme. 27 PERFORMANCE TABLES Basis of preparation Basis of preparation Reporting standards Scope Change in accounting policies This report complies with the Danish Unless otherwise noted, the data and Financial Statements Act, section 99a reporting included in the performance and b and the requirement specified by tables cover the entire Coloplast As part of the annual reporting cycle, the EU non-financial reporting directive. organisation, i.e. production sites, Coloplast evaluates reported nonIn addition, Coloplast is a participant in distribution centres, administration, sales financial disclosures according to best the UN Global Compact and thereby and representative offices. practice, investor queries as well as committed to provide a Communication reporting frameworks such as the on Progress. For water, waste and energy, the Global Reporting Initiative. This year, reporting scope covers Coloplast’s Coloplast has the following changes: Defining materiality production and distribution centres. Coloplast has nine production sites • Business travels is based on the VDR including the corporate headquarters standard from 18/19 and onwards. Disclosures in this report is selected (Mørdrup, Humlebæk, Tatabanya 1 and according to Coloplast’s materiality 2, Nyírbátor, Zhuhai, Mankato, West In some cases, data from earlier assessment. Coloplast bases its River Road/Minneapolis, Sarlat and financial years has been corrected, materiality assessment on an analysis of Cartago) and 12 distribution sites which can result in updates to figures in significant economic, environmental, (Hamburg, Atlanta, California, previous years’ reports. Changed are and social impacts of Coloplast’s Champlan, Kungsbacka, Bologna, based on materiality and in case of activities. The analysis is based on Madrid, Lognes, UK distribution , material changes to previous figures, a internal priorities as well as experience Tatabanya, Vaughan, Tokyo). note to that effect is provided in the text from dialogue with and direct or in the accounting policy. involvement of customers, investors, policy makers, employees and media. Find the full materiality assessment on page 37. 28 PERFORMANCE TABLES Environment data Environment data Waste (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy Waste is based on invoiced or weighted amounts from the production sites, distribution centres and corporate headquarters and is reported based on the consumption registered in Coloplast's EHS SharePoint site. Waste splits pertaining to disposal methods are reported based on data registered in Coloplast's EHS SharePoint site. Waste per unit produced is calculated based on data registered in Coloplast's EHS SharePoint site and number of units produced by Coloplast. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Total waste generation Tonnes 15,097 14,206 13,770 13,015 ...of which goes to hazardous waste handling Tonnes 608 632 601 496 ...of which goes to landfills Tonnes 1,028 1,089 1,042 934 ...of which goes to incineration Tonnes 7,219 7,943 7,629 7,488 ...of which is recycled Tonnes 6,242 4,543 4,498 4,098 ...per unit produced Grams 11.8 12.2 12.5 13.0 Water (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy Total water use includes invoiced or metered amounts from production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters and is based on consumption registered in Coloplast’s EHS SharePoint site. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Total water use m3 248,709 234,299 258,171 292,235 29 PERFORMANCE TABLES Environment data Energy (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy Data on energy consumption is obtained from invoiced data from our utility providers and/or from readings of meters at production sites, global distribution centres and corporate headquarters, and it is based on consumption registered in Coloplast’s EHS site in SharePoint. Energy per unit produced is calculated as total energy consumption in kWh per number of unit produced by Coloplast. Electricity from renewable sources are related to Coloplast’s purchased electricity certificates and is disclosed as a percentage of total energy. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Total energy use MWh 162,340 163,367 157,999 148,872 …of which renewable energy % 67 67 33 …per unit produced kWh/unit 0.13 0.14 0.14 0.15 …of which natural gas MWh 52,836 53,535 51,791 52,032 …of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil MWh 5 7 15 25 …of which electricity MWh 109,499 109,036 105,198 96,105 …of which district heating and cooling MWh 0 788 944 710 30 PERFORMANCE TABLES Environment data GHG emissions (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy Data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions covers all Coloplast production sites (Denmark, Hungary, France, US, China and Costa Rica), selected offices (Denmark and US) and global distribution centres (Germany, Hungary and US). New sites are included in the reporting on the date of takeover from the developer (owned sites) or by the first day of occupancy (leased/rented sites). Data on Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) is based on consumption handled in air cleaning systems. Data on Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) gasses is obtained from local registrations or invoices. Emissions from power consumption are based on International Energy Agency country specific GHG emission factors, not including production and transmission losses. Emissions from the other consumption categories are based on emission factors from IPCC (HFC's), International Energy Agency (district heating) and the Danish Energy Agency (natural gas and oil). Emission per unit produced is measured as total emissions (scope 1 + 2) in tonnes CO2e divided by the number of units produced by Coloplast. Emission per revenue is measured as total emissions (scope 1 + 2) in tonnes CO2e divided by revenue in million DKK. GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. Therefore scope 3 reporting is rounded to nearest hundred and is limited to include six categories relevant to our operations: 1. Raw materials: Covers all ingoing raw materials registered in Coloplast’s production data management system. Does not include OEM/contract manufactured goods, production equipment and other capital goods, processing aids and other supporting materials. 2. Transportation of goods: Based on data from suppliers. Covers all distribution internally in Coloplast as well as distribution of finished goods from warehouses to customers in Emerging Markets. Only suppliers with a spend above 2% of total distribution costs are included. In 2019/20, emissions from transportation of goods accounts for 98% of spends. 3. Business travels: Based on data from Coloplast's global travel agents and calculated by using the VDR standard for calculation of corporate travel. Data from Coloplast's global travel agent accounts for 67% of total business air travel costs and the remaining 33% has been extrapolated based on the average amount of CO2e per spend from Coloplast's global travel agent to ensure completeness of data. 4. Leased company cars: Covers emissions from all leased company cars that are registered in Coloplast's Sharepoint databases, which is based on information from leasing providers and from local affiliates. Emissions are calculated using manufacturer information on average CO2 emissions per car per km and, where available actual consumption data, from local fleets timed the average distance traveled per car. To accommodate actual driving patterns, Coloplast adds 30%. 5. Energy consumption in sales offices, subsidiaries and local/regional warehouses: Covers all sales offices, subsidiaries and regional warehouses, which primarily are leased. Emissions from sales offices, subsidiaries and warehouses are based on the number of FTE's working here and is calculated using a conversion factor of 54,6 kg CO2 per FTE per m2 from the Danish Energy Agency. 6. Original Equipment Manufacturing (OEM): Covers GHG emissions from outsourced production, e.g. finished goods produced by external suppliers under the Coloplast brand. Emissions from outsourced production is calculated using Coloplast' average CO2 emission per produced finished good timed with the amount of finished goods produced by external supplier. For complete definition of the six categories and what is left out of scope 3, please see the GHG accounting principles in full on Coloplast.com. 31 PERFORMANCE TABLES Environment data GHG Emissions (continued) (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Scope 1 / direct energy Tonnes CO2e 11,100 11,300 10,700 11,500 ...of which natural gas Tonnes CO2e 10,800 11,000 10,400 10,400 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil Tonnes CO2e 1 2 4 7 ...of which VOCs and HFC gasses Tonnes CO2e 300 270 270 1,100 Scope 2 / indirect energy Tonnes CO2e 0 7 16,600 30,800 … of which electricity (market-based) Tonnes CO2e 0 0 16,600 30,800 … of which electricity (location-based) Tonnes CO2e 28,600 33,800 33,100 30,800 ...of which district heating and cooling Tonnes CO2e 0 7 9 6 Scope 1 + 2 / total emissions, direct and indirect Tonnes CO2e 11,100 11,300 27,300 42,300 ...per unit produced Grams CO2e/unit 8.6 9.7 24.1 42.2 …per revenue Tonnes CO2e/DKKm 0.6 0.6 1.7 2.7 Scope 3 / other relevant indirect emissions Tonnes CO2e 159,700 155,800 160,900 142,000 …of which raw materials Tonnes CO2e 108,800 93,800 88,500 81,000 …of which transportation of goods Tonnes CO2e 22,900 21,400 28,100 19,600 6,400 12,600 …of which business travels Tonnes CO2e (9,300)¹⁾ (18,800) (16,400) (12,400) ...of which leased company cars Tonnes CO2e 10,200 10,700 10,400 10,200 ...of which OEM Manufacturing Tonnes CO2e 6,900 6,700 7,400 9,100 …of which sales offices and subsidiaries Tonnes CO2e 4,500 4,400 4,100 3,800 1) Business travels figures from 18/19 onwards is based on more accurate data based on the VDR method. Figures based on previous accounting method are included in brackets. 32 PERFORMANCE TABLES Social data Social data Anti-corruption (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct accounts for the percentage of active white-collar employees at the end of the accounting year, who have either completed an e-learning module or received face-to-face training and completed a test in our Code of Conduct. Numbers are based on registrations in Colopalst’s learning management system. Only employees that have been with Coloplast for more than 45 days is in scope for reporting. Cases submitted to the ethics hotline include all cases reported to the ethics hotline. The scope of relevant cases for the ethics hotline includes violations of all topics covered by our Code of Conduct, Coloplast BEST. Only cases within scope of topics and subjects reported via the hotline are followed through. This does not mean that the cases are necessarily substantiated. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct % 98 99 99 95 Cases submitted to the ethics hotline Number 78 48 18 11 ...of which within scope Number 63 46 13 8 Employees (Part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy Occupational injuries and accidents (LTI freq.) are calculated as the number of injuries per one million working hours for Coloplast employees. An occupational injury is defined as an injury resulting in absence from work for more than one day. Occupational injuries are recorded in Coloplast's EHS site in SharePoint. Working hours from Coloplast's production sites are collected from the attendance system and working hours from sales offices and subsidiaries are collected from Coloplast's EHS SharePoint site. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Occupational injuries and accidents (all employees) LTI freq. 2.5 3.0 4.3 4.5 33 PERFORMANCE TABLES Social data Employees (continued) (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy Employee headcount includes all active full-time and part-time contracts. European markets include: UK, Germany, France, the Nordics, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Spain, Denmark and Hungary. Other developed markets include: USA, Canada, Japan and Australia. Emerging markets include countries not listed in the other categories for all remaining markets in Americas, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania plus production in China. Female employees total, female managers, and female senior leaders all include both active employees plus employees on leave of absence. Managers include all positions at or above Manager level. Senior leaders includes the Executive Leadership Team, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice President positions. Employee turnover indicates the share of employees who have left Coloplast within the last year out of an average employee headcount. The employee engagement score is based on a 0-10 scale, where 10 indicates the highest engagement level. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Employee headcount Number 12,568 12,234 11,738 10,905 ...Blue-collar Number 5,488 5,452 5,316 5,061 ...White-collar Number 7,080 6,782 6,422 5,844 Regions ...European markets Number 8,173 7,784 7,622 7,256 ...Other developed markets Number 1,351 1,294 1,157 987 ...Emerging markets Number 3,044 3,043 2,927 2,662 Gender diversity ...Female employees total % 64 62 63 63 ...Female managers % 43 42 41 42 ...Female senior leaders % 24 21 20 14 Employee turnover % 13 …voluntary turnover % 8.3 Employee engagement ...Response rate % 88 93 …Engagement score Index 7.9¹⁾ 74 1)Due to the introduction of a new engagement survey, the engagement score is not comparable with data previously reported. 34 PERFORMANCE TABLES Governance data Governance data Governance (Not part of PwC’s limited assurance report 2019/20) Accounting policy The attendance rate is measured as number of meetings attended per member divided by total number of meetings times number of members. Board members consist of shareholder-elected board members. Employee representatives are not included. Board independence is based on independence criteria listed as part of the Danish recommendation on good corporate governance. Overboarded members accounts for board members with more than five mandates at listed companies according to ISS Proxy Voting Guidelines. For more on individual board members, please see Coloplast.com. Unit 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Attendance Rates …at Board Meetings % 96 96 95 98 …at Audit Committee Meetings % 88 100 100 100 …at Remuneration and Nomination Committee Meetings % 100 100 Board composition ...Board members total Number 6 6 6 7 ...Independent board members Number 3 4 4 5 ...Overboarded members Number 1 ...Female board members Number 2 2 2 2 35 APPENDICES Stakeholder engagement and materiality Stakeholder engagement and materiality Stakeholder Society Coloplast has incorporated the UN engagement Sustainable Development Goals into the materiality assessment to reflect the world community’s priorities. Coloplast’s main stakeholders include Additionally, Coloplast works with shareholders, users, clinicians, relevant societal organisations through employees, business partners and the Access to Healthcare partnership society in general. Coloplast has programme and maintains a sustained ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders dialogue through regular updates on through different channels and used healthcare progress and challenges in these for the purpose of the materiality local communities. Coloplast also assessment: engages external stakeholders through our public affairs work, where Coloplast Users seeks to maintain high standards of Coloplast conducts annual satisfaction professionalism and transparency. surveys, which target users in over ten countries. Furthermore, Coloplast Shareholders engages with users when developing The CEO and CFO together with an products and through our dialogue Investor Relations department facilitates programme, Coloplast® Care, which dialogue with shareholders on a regular aims to help users by providing needed basis as well as hosting capital market guidance and support. days. For more information, please visit coloplast.com/investor_relations. Clinicians Coloplast works with clinicians on advisory boards by engaging in semiannual focus group meetings as well as facilitating education of healthcare professionals. Employees Coloplast communicates to employees on a daily basis through the Coloplast intranet “Connect” and holds information meetings 4 to 6 times a year that are broadcasted to globally reaching more 1,500 employees. In addition, Coloplast conducts global engagement surveys bi-annually. 36 APPENDICES Stakeholder engagement and materiality Materiality Coloplast’s materiality assessment is based on own assessments of topics as HC ATH well external input. For example, more RE than 1,400 users were surveyed. SMC EMP Importance to stakeholders The material issues chosen are areas where Coloplast pose a potential risk or positive impact towards stakeholders and the UN Sustainable Development HR GE H&S Goals. RSP This year, the materiality assessment ECT has been updated with the insights generated from the impact assessment TTM conducted as the baseline for the new WM sustainability strategy as well as the work with TCFD. The most significant change is the increased importance of CC climate change and sustainable materials to Coloplast users as well as regulators. Both have changed from ‘medium’ to ‘high’ importance. Importance to Coloplast Material topics Using zero Achieving gender equality Transparent tax management HC GE TTM hazardous chemicals Sustainable material Renewable energy & energy EMP Ethical marketing practices SMC consumption RE efficiency Improving access to high Protection Human Rights Ethical preand clinical trials ATH HR ECT quality healthcare Having a safe and healthy Responsible sourcing of Water management H&S RSP products WM work place for employees Sponsoring community charities CC 37 APPENDICES Independent limited assurance report Independent limited assurance report To the Stakeholders of What we are assuring Professional standards Coloplast A/S applied and level of The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the Selected Social and assurance We have been engaged by Coloplast Environmental data on pages 29 to 33 A/S (‘Coloplast’) to provide limited in the Sustainability Report 2019/20 of assurance on the Selected Social and We performed a limited assurance Coloplast (the “Selected Social and engagement in accordance with Environmental data described below Environmental data”), which includes: International Standard on Assurance and set out in the Sustainability Report Engagements 3000 (Revised) of Coloplast for the period 1 October • Waste ‘Assurance Engagements other than 2019 to 30 September 2020. • Water Audits and Reviews of Historical • Energy Financial Information and, in respect of Our conclusion • GHG emissions the greenhouse gas emissions stated on • Anti-corruption page 32, in accordance with Based on the procedures we performed • Employees (Occupational injuries International Standard on Assurance and the evidence we obtained, nothing and accidents) Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance came to our attention that causes us to engagements on greenhouse gas not believe that the Selected Social and statements’, issued by the International Environmental data on pages 29 to 33 Auditing and Assurance Standards in the Sustainability Report 2019/20 not Board’. A limited assurance prepared, in all material respects, in engagement is substantially less in accordance with the Accounting policies scope than a reasonable assurance stated on pages 28 to 33 of the engagement in relation to both the risk Sustainability Report 2019/20. assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and This conclusion is to be read in the the procedures performed in response context of what we say in the remainder to the assessed risks; consequently, the of our report level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. 38 APPENDICES Independent limited assurance report Our independence and Understanding Work performed quality control reporting and We are required to plan and perform measurement our work in order to consider the risk of We have complied with the Code of material misstatement of the Selected Ethics for Professional Accountants methodologies Social and Environmental data. In doing issued by the International Ethics so, we: Standards Board for Accountants, The Selected Social and Environmental which includes independence and other data needs to be read and understood • conducted interviews with data ethical requirements founded on together with the Reporting Criteria on owners to understand the key fundamental principles of integrity, page 28 to 33, which the management processes and controls for objectivity, professional competence of Coloplast is solely responsible for measuring, recording and reporting and due care, confidentiality and selecting and applying. The absence of the Selected Social and professional behaviour. The firm applies a significant body of established practice Environmental data. International Standard on Quality on which to draw to evaluate and • performed limited substantive Control 1 and accordingly maintains a measure non-financial information testing on a selective basis of the comprehensive system of quality control allows for different, but acceptable, Selected Social and Environmental including documented policies and measurement techniques and can affect data at corporate head office and in procedures regarding compliance with comparability between entities and over relation to Coloplast’s production ethical requirements, professional time. sites to check that data has been standards and applicable legal and appropriately measured, recorded regulatory requirements. Our work was and reported. carried out by an independent • performed analysis of data from multidisciplinary team with experience in reporting sites, selected on the basis sustainability reporting and assurance. of risk and materiality to the group. • made inquiries to significant development in reported data. • considered the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Social and Evironmental data; and • assessed whether Coloplast in relation to the reported greenhouse gas emissions data has complied with the principles of relevance, completeness, consistency, transparency and accuracy outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (2004). • evaluated the evidence obtained. 39 APPENDICES Independent limited assurance report Coloplast’s Our responsibility responsibilities Management are responsible for: We are responsible for: • designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls over • planning and performing the information relevant to the engagement to obtain limited preparation of the Selected Social assurance about whether the and Environmental data that is free Selected Social end Environmental from material misstatement, data is free from material whether due to fraud or error; misstatement, whether due to fraud • establishing objective Reporting or error; Criteria for preparing the Selected • forming an independent conclusion, Social and Environmental data; based on the procedures we • preparation of the GHG statement performed and the evidence we in accordance with defined obtained; and Reporting Criteria. GHG • reporting our conclusion to the quantification is subject to inherent Stakeholders of Coloplast. uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. • measuring and reporting the Selected Social and Environmental data based on the Reporting Criteria; and • the content of the Selected Social and Environmental data. Hellerup, 3 November 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab (CVR no. 3377 1231) Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Kim Tromholt State-authorized public accountant State-authorized public accountant 40 The Coloplast story begins back in 1954. Elise Sørensen is a nurse. Her sister Thora has just had an ostomy operation and is afraid to go out in public, fearing that her stoma might leak. Listening to her sister’s problems, Elise conceives the idea of the world’s first adhesive ostomy bag. Based on Elise’s idea, Aage Louis-Hansen, a civil engineer and plastics manufacturer, and his wife Johanne Louis-Hansen, a trained nurse, created the ostomy bag. A bag that does not leak, giving Thora – and thousands of people like her – the chance to live the life they want. A simple solution that makes a difference. Today, our business includes Ostomy Care, Continence Care, Wound & Skin Care and Interventional Urology. We operate globally and employ about 12,500 employees. Our mission Making life easier for people with intimate healthcare needs Our values Closeness... to better understand Passion... to make a difference Respect and responsibility... to guide us Our vision Setting the global standard for listening and responding Coloplast develops products and services that make life easier for people with very personal and private medical conditions. Working closely with the people Coloplast A/S who use our products, we create solutions that are sensitive to their special needs. We call this intimate healthcare. Our business includes ostomy care, Holtedam 1 continence care, wound and skin care and interventional urology. We operate globally and employ about 12,500 employees. 3050 Humlebaek The Coloplast logo is a registered trademark of Coloplast A/S. © 2020-11. Denmark All rights reserved Coloplast A/S, 3050 Humlebaek, Denmark. Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17
