SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors CONTENTS CEO Message …………………………………………………………………… 002 ESG Data ………………………………………………………………………… 210 CSO Message …………………………………………………………………… 007 Corporate Overview ………………………………………………………… 211 Corporate Purpose / ESG Highlights ……………………………………… 011 Environmental Data …………………………………………………………… 213 Sustainability at Nissan ………………………………………………………… 025 Social Data ……………………………………………………………………… 233 Nissan's Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals ……… 038 Governance Data ……………………………………………………………… 239 The Alliance ……………………………………………………………………… 043 Editorial Policy …………………………………………………………………… 241 Environmental Social Governance Environmental Policies and Philosophy … 046 Social Policies and Philosophy …………… 112 Governance Policies and Philosophy …… 190 Climate Change ……………………………… 056 Human Rights ………………………………… 114 Corporate Governance ……………………… 191 Air Quality ……………………………………… 083 Diversity and Inclusion ……………………… 118 Risk Management ……………………………… 199 Resource Dependency ……………………… 087 Traffic Safety …………………………………… 131 Compliance …………………………………… 201 Water Scarcity ………………………………… 096 Product Safety and Quality ………………… 142 Third-Party Assurance ……………………… 100 Supply Chain Management ………………… 152 Strengthening Our Business Foundations … 102 Human Resource Development …………… 160 GRI Content Index …………………………… 244 Labor Practices ………………………………… 165 Quick Guide For Investors ………………… 251 Employees' Health and Safety ……………… 171 Community Engagement …………………… 175 Viewing This Report This Sustainability Report is an interactive PDF. You can easily access the information you need by clicking on the navigation tabs and buttons. Category Tabs Navigation Buttons Link Buttons Contents CEO Message CSO Message ESG Special Sustainability at Nissan Contribution to Sustainable Development Goals The Alliance Go back one page >>>P000 Jump to linked page Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Go forward one page URL Jump to information on Click the tabs to jump to the top page of each Category. the web Return to previously viewed page NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 001 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Driving Innovation to Enrich Peopleʼs Lives Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. President, Chief Executive Officer Nissan is transforming its business, its governance, and its culture. This is taking place amid dramatic changes in the auto industry, peopleʼs lifestyles, and society. In these tumultuous times, Nissan is reaffirming the spirit that has driven the company since its founding, and which remains at the heart of its corporate purpose: “doing what others donʼt dare.” In this interview, CEO Makoto Uchida talks about the companyʼs purpose and the role Nissan aims to serve in society: NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 002 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Be an essential part of society Q: The markets are undergoing tremendous changes. The automotive industry is amid a once-in-a-century transformation, while the world faces the impacts of COVID-19. What ʼs your view on the current environment? And how is Nissan adapting? A: Our industry is indeed going through transformational times. COVID-19 is itʼs critical to have a clear, global view of social issues. We must continue to also having a tremendous impact both on people and on industries around drive innovations in R&D, products, technologies and services, and deliver the world. As awareness of the social issues identified in the sustainable them as part of our corporate strategy. development goals increases, the roles and social responsibilities of companies are evolving. All companies need to make a profit, but beyond For decades, Nissan has endorsed the vision of “enriching peopleʼs lives.” that, weʼre expected to connect with and contribute to society more than Recently, weʼve reexamined the companyʼs raison dʼetre and redefined how ever. we can contribute to society. Nissan has built and sold electric cars for the last 10 years. Weʼve also developed advanced driver assistance technologies that make cars safer. As we focus on further developing our technological excellence and know-how, Driving Innovation to Enrich Peopleʼs Lives ― Corporate Purpose of Nissan Motor Corporation ― NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 003 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Nissan wants to continue being a partner in peopleʼs lives. We want to enrich their can enjoy a safe, quiet and comfortable journey anywhere with the Ariya, lives not only when theyʼre driving, but also beyond mobility. We want to provide which will go on sale in 2021. Between now and then, we will remind people driving experiences that exceed our customersʼ expectations. We want to provide of the electrification technologies and other values that the Ariya offers, cleaner and safer mobility. And we want to be an essential part of society. which will lead the way as Nissan builds a new era of mobility. Our all-new Nissan Ariya crossover EV, revealed in July, represents this sprit. The Ariya combines electrification, advanced driver assistance technology, and seamless connectivity. It delivers zero-emission performance. Anyone Bring the power of each individual together Q: You unveiled the Nissan NEXT business transformation plan in May 2020. How will this plan define the company? A: Nissan NEXT is our plan for ensuring that our performance recovers, and for developing a strong foundation for sustainable growth and value creation. Our aims are to ensure steady growth and profitability, to concentrate on core competencies while enhancing the quality of our business and financial discipline, and redefine Nissanʼs strengths in the new era. In short, Nissan NEXT is a plan to bring the company back on a growth track. during the same period. Nissan is also introducing advanced driver assistance systems in more models. These are two examples of our core One part of our growth strategy is electrification. We expect Nissanʼs competencies that will contribute to society. In terms of performance electrification ratio in Japan to increase from 25% to 60% by fiscal year recovery, we are enhancing operational efficiency through increased 2023. We aim to increase the ratio to 23% in China, and 50% in Europe, prioritization and focus, as well as maximum use of our Alliance assets. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 004 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors There was a time in the past when our company put a primary focus on sales all our people to understand and practice our guiding principles. The most volume. We now intend to ensure sustainable growth while contributing important challenge is to communicate with employees, agree on a common to a sustainable society, rather than just pursuing growth through scale. direction, and motivate everyone. At Nissan, people always come first. We want to enrich peopleʼs lives and energize the world by delivering mobility, technologies and services for people. We have been working to reform our company culture since fiscal year 2019. While we will continue to build on our core competencies and values, thatʼs not enough to put Nissan back on a growth track. We have to learn from the past. We have to analyze the issues weʼve faced and address them. As part of this, we have adopted a three statutory-committee format, appointed an independent outside director as chair of our board, and strengthened the supervisory functions of the nomination, compensation, and audit committees. We have done this to ensure solid corporate governance. At the same time, we canʼt accomplish the necessary transformation just by reorganizing or replacing the leadership team. We have to address our challenges one step at a time. We also redefined the Nissan Way, our 15-year-old set of guiding principles and values that all our employees across the globe share. We count on our employees to carry out the Nissan NEXT plan and restore our company culture. We have to revisit the culture and evolve in to agile organization that responds to the changing times. We have to go back to basics, make a new start. Itʼs going to take some time for NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 005 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Contributing to society Q: How do you define Nissanʼs culture and its values? A: The words “Driving Innovation to Enrich People's Lives” describe our purpose. Since the founding of our company in 1933, weʼve been a “passionate challenger,” delivering innovative technologies and products to as many people as possible. This spirit is embedded in our culture and our values. In 2010, Nissan started mass production of electric vehicles before anyone else. We launched the 100% electric Nissan LEAF based on our belief that EVs are essential to reducing CO2 emissions and fighting climate change. Weʼve sold approx. 500,000 LEAF vehicles, and itʼs still going strong. Also, the LEAF isnʼt just a car – you can use your EV as a power source. Iʼve had many opportunities since becoming Nissanʼs CEO to interact with Weʼve dispatched EVs to communities suffering blackouts following natural our people and discover their strong potential. Our employees care about disasters. The LEAF can serve as a mobile storage battery, allowing it to play social issues and are eager to contribute to society. I find their attitude a new role as part of social infrastructure. very encouraging. This is one of the reasons why I believe Nissan still has untapped potential. Nissan was also one of the first carmakers to offer advanced driver assistance technology. Our ProPILOT system helps people enjoy mobility Nissan is committed to the 10 universal principles of the U.N. Global with peace of mind. Another example is e-POWER. Nissanʼs e-POWER Compact, which the company signed in 2004. We will continue enriching system uses an all-electric drivetrain, which is powered by electricity peopleʼs lives. We will work to move society in a new and better direction, generated by a gasoline engine. Vehicles equipped with e-POWER and to energize the world through advanced technologies and innovative contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and deliver strong acceleration and products, remaining true to our founding spirit. You can count on Nissan to quiet performance. take on these challenges. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 006 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Driving sustainability across the globe to build trust Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Senior Vice President, Chief Sustainability Officer Guiding Nissan toward sustainability Under the Nissan Sustainability 2022 plan, Nissan clearly defined its coronavirus pandemic and other factors rapidly transform the world. Nissan activities in the areas of the environment, social, and governance. Work is working to promptly cope with and adapt to the changes. within this sustainability strategy began in fiscal year 2018, and Nissan is on track to reach our sustainability goals by fiscal year 2022. At the same Driven by a strong focus to identify social challenges and expectations, time, Nissan faces a number of unforeseen challenges as the COVID-19 incorporate them into corporate strategies, and drive global NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 007 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors implementation, Nissan created the position of chief sustainability officer (CSO) in 2016. The CSO is also responsible for interacting with stakeholders and communicate what Nissanʼs contribution to sustainability. Through promoting our sustainability strategy in all aspects of our business, we are striving to make the world cleaner and safer. Our continued investment for a better environment and to support efforts to address social challenges will surely generate business returns and become strengths for Nissan in the long run. Electric vehicles provide a good example, as they have come to be recognized for their effectiveness in developing disaster-resilient communities. In fact, we are seeing an accelerated increase in partnerships with local governments and authorities. We are also seeing the benefits of our diversity and inclusion policies in our performance. My role as the CSO is to guide the entire organization toward sustainability and manage all activities with the support of Global Sustainability Steering 53 Nissan LEAF electric vehicles supplied electricity to local Committee. government authorities and welfare facilities during power outages caused by Typhoon Faxai in 2019. Global efforts to address societal challenges The Global Sustainability Steering Committee is an effective forum through The committee focuses on the progress of Nissan Sustainability 2022 which to drive our sustainability strategy across Nissanʼs global operations and discusses issues and impediments for achieving the goals, and and implement the plan in each market. The committee meets biannually emerging societal challenges. Through determining policy and approach, and consists of representatives of Nissanʼs operations around the world. the committee plays a key role in maintaining and enhancing the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 008 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors competitiveness of Nissanʼs sustainability initiatives. For the company to labor conditions, customer privacy and product safety. The committee appropriately handle societal issues in each region, regional best practices also discussed and drafted the Nissan Global Minerals Sourcing Policy and insights are shared. Statement that was released in July 2020. As Nissan has increasingly placed greater emphasis on human rights, the committee identified four priority areas: employee labor conditions, supplier Efforts to enhance resilience In the past financial year, Nissan strengthened its efforts in the areas of to develop more resilient strategies, and to that end analyzed additional environment strategy, human rights, and corporate governance. In the climate change scenarios assuming 1.5°C and 4°C. Irrespective of the face of the increasing threat of climate change, in 2006, we defined a scenario, Nissan remains focused on achieving its ultimate goal of a long-term vision to help limit the average global temperature rise to 2°C zero emission and zero fatality society. In line with this, Nissan continues above pre-industrial levels by 2050. Nissan believes that it is essential to promote electrification to eliminate CO2 emissions from new cars. Nissanʼs electrification drive is one of the objectives defined in its business transformation plan, Nissan NEXT. In the area of human rights, Nissan was one of the first participants in the United Nations Global Compact, joining in 2004. In 2011, the UN Human Rights Council unanimously approved the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), and Nissan started work on human-rights strategic initiatives in 2016. To strengthen our corporate stance defined in the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement, the company conducted an assessment at Nissan South Africa in fiscal year 2019 to evaluate human-rights-related risks associated with employee labor conditions. Our local teams are leading actions to address the identified issues, and share best practices with other regions to boost global performance. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 009 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors To enhance corporate governance, in June 2019 Nissan adopted a three and business execution. As part of these corporate governance efforts, statutory-committee (nomination, compensation and audit) format. In each Nissan is working to enhance transparency by promoting disclosure of committee meeting, independent outside directors of diverse backgrounds, governance-related information. To be a trusted company within society, who make up the majority of the board, are engaged in proactive and Nissan is committed to timely and appropriate disclosure of information. positive discussion under the new format that separates supervision Always considering both short-term and longterm impact Finally, as CSO, it is essential for me to assess short-term and long-term consequences, identify what is expected by the outside world, and utilize this information for management and strategy. In my previous roles as head of finance and IR, I had the privilege to interact with financial institutions, rating agencies, analysts, and investors. Now, ESG investment has become commonplace, but at core this form of investment requires a focus on both short-term and long-term thinking. As the world transforms during these times, society is calling into question disparity in corporate stances on societal challenges, including the environment, human rights, and poverty. As CSO of Nissan, I am committed to enhancing our efforts globally, and fulfilling my duties to help Nissan become a company that is both needed and trusted by society. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 010 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Driving Innovation to Enrich Peopleʼs Lives ― Corporate Purpose of Nissan Motor Corporation ― Nissan has defined its corporate purpose as “ Driving Innovation to Enrich Peopleʼs Lives”. Based on “Enriching Peopleʼs Lives” that has been a Nissan's corporate vision for years, and the founderʼs spirit of “Do what others don't dare to do,” this statement of purpose is the answer to the question of why we exist and the role we play for the society. Innovation is the key enabler for Nissan to meet customer needs, deliver societal impact, and motivate employees and stakeholders. Nissan employees throughout the world relentlessly and passionately, drive for customer satisfaction, drive for success, drive for social development and drive for innovation. Nissan continues to take on the challenges of delivering cleaner and safer journey to customers and society, contributing to the preservation and flourishing of a beautiful Earth and protecting peopleʼs lives. Do what others don't dare to do NISSAN DNA Passionate Innovative Challenger NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 011 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-15 GRI102-29 GRI201-2 GRI203-1 GRI203-2 E Environmental Scenario Analysis for Strengthening Climate Strategy Nissan's environmental efforts have achieved continuous results by consistently reaching milestones back-casted from our Long-term Vision. However, compared to the time when we formulated the Long-term Vision based on the 2°C scenario from the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report, the threat of extreme weather due to climate change is increasing, thus we believe it is necessary to enhance our strategy and make it more resilient amid growing uncertainties. Scenario analysis is a tool for examining future possibilities, confirming the fluctuation range of the impact on the environmental strategy that has been premised at 2°C and examining the flexibility of adapting to these expanding transitions, physical risks, and changing opportunities. Envisioned scenarios and associated opportunities and risks Scenario Area of impact Business Activity Opportunities and Risks Related to Ongoing Climate Change Assumption Respond to further tightening of vehicle fuel efficiency and exhaust gas regulations, Policies and develop electric powertrain technologies and increase production costs regulations Increased burden of energy costs due to expansion of carbon taxes, expand investment in energy-saving equipment as policy Cost effects of utilizing next-generation vehicle technologies such as in-vehicle batteries Technological and other EV-related technologies as well as expanding autonomous driving technologies 1.5℃ changes Increased demand will affect supply chains for rare earth metals used for in-vehicle battery material and cause an increase in stabilization costs Market Changes in consumer awareness leads to reduce new vehicle sales due to the selection changes of public transportation and bicycles and the transition to mobility services Expand the provision of power management opportunities with Vehicle to Everything (V2X), Opportunities an EV energy charging/discharging technology, and redefine the value of EV, especially with Vehicle to Grid (V2G) The impact on the supply chain and the operation of production bases due to extreme Extreme weather such as heavy rain and drought will increase in property insurance costs and air weather 4℃ conditioning energy costs The need for securing emergency power sources using EV batteries is increasing as a Opportunities disaster prevention and mitigation measure NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 012 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI412-1 GRI412-2 GRI414-1 S Social Nissanʼs Approaches to Respect for Human Rights The automotive industry works with a broad range of stakeholders throughout the vehicle lifecycle, Implementation Framework following UNGP from purchasing to manufacturing, sales, usage, and recycling. In 2004, Nissan was an early signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and has organized various guidelines to undertake initiatives Human Rights Policy Statement (June 2017) together with its suppliers. From 2016 Nissan undertook an even more strategic approach, and in 2017, it referenced the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights(UNGP) as framework Corporate Impact Assessment and formulated and issued the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement. As one facet of due diligence, (2018) from 2018 we have implemented impact assessments for human rights. We aim to further strengthen Strategy & Integration: these initiatives by understanding issues and correcting them and reporting them on an annual basis. Implementing Initiatives (2019) Furthermore, we have implemented a globally consistent system called SpeakUp for internal reporting that is accessible by all stakeholders, not just employees, in which action is taken on all reported Monitoring and Reporting concerns. (2020) Policies and Philosophy Publishes updated version of Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers Announces Nissan Sustainability 2022 Formulates Nissan Formulates and publishes Signs United Nations Global Compact Formulates Conflict Minerals Policy Global Code of Nissan Human Rights Updates Global Minerals Conduct Publishes Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers Policy Statement Purchasing Policy 2001 2004 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Establishes Diversity Development Office Introduces SpeakUp system Conducts a human rights assessment at Starts the research for conflict minerals and publishes research results annually thereafter Nissan South Africa (Pty) Approaches Starts sustainability evaluations of suppliers by third parties Implements Corporate Impact Assessment NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 013 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-29 GRI102-47 Materiality Analysis in Respecting Human Rights Nissan is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and is also informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the International Labor Organization (ILO)ʼs Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and acts in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. First of all, to specify the elements that could impact human rights as an auto company, we conducted human rights impact assessments along two dimensions: impact on human rights and potential impact caused by Nissan and categorized elements into important areas and high important areas. Furthermore, business strategies and business activities were factored into the elements identified as four priority focus areas that Nissan needs to address. Human rights impact assessments Four priority focus areas identified High Extremely High Important Employee Areas labor conditions High Supplier labor conditions Severity of Risk or Impact on Human Rights Severity of Risk or Impact on Human Rights High Important High Important Areas Areas Product safety Business strategies Business activities Customer Important Areas Important Areas Privacy Low Potential Impact Caused by Nissan High Low Potential Impact Caused by Nissan High NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 014 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI403-2 GRI403-4 GRI406-1 GRI407-1 GRI408-1 GRI409-1 GRI411-1 GRI412-1 GRI412-2 Initiatives Related to Employee Labor Conditions In November 2019 we worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a US organization promoting sustainability, to conduct a human rights assessment at Nissan South Africa (Pty). A human rights risk assessment related to employee labor conditions was conducted and concluded that human rights risk was low overall at the company. For items that need to be improved, we formulated a follow-up plan and will work on those items from fiscal 2020 onward. * Human rights assessment criteria: Labor management structure and access to remediation measures, forced labor, child labor & youth workers, living conditions, discrimination, and freedom of association Employees of Nissan South Employees participating in a Africa (Pty) workshop Basic data Number of factory employees: 1,200 Interviewees Total number of employees interviewed: 42 (managers, direct employees, indirect employees) Nissan South Africa (Pty) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 015 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI406-1 GRI407-1 GRI408-1 GRI409-1 GRI411-1 GRI412-1 GRI412-2 GRI414-1 Initiatives Related to Supplier Labor Conditions: Responsible Minerals Sourcing Nissanʼs goal is to conduct ethical, social and environmentally conscious business practices at every level of our supply chain in global markets. In 2013, Nissan established a policy against use of conflict minerals and in July 2020, it formulated and published its Global Minerals Sourcing Policy. The policy has been expanded in scope from the conflict minerals known as 3TGs (tin, tungsten, tantalum, and gold) to cover all minerals including cobalt sourced from conflict-affected and highrisk areas. Based on this policy, Nissan references the OECDʼs due diligence guidance to implement due diligence related to minerals sourcing in its supply chain. We work with our suppliers to assess risks and will strengthen our efforts to take corrective actions furthermore whenever issues are identified. Due diligence regarding conflict minerals In fiscal 2019 we conducted surveys in 11 markets, Japan, the United States, Mexico, Europe, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, India, South Africa and Brazil. No suppliers were found to be using minerals from smelters/refineries believed to be connected to armed groups. Due diligence regarding cobalt Since 2018, Nissan has conducted interviews with its major battery suppliers and follows up with them on a regular basis. We are enhancing our approach to identifying cobalt smelters/refineries by referencing the OECDʼs due diligence guidance. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 016 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-18 GRI102-19 GRI102-22 GRI102-23 GRI102-24 GRI102-35 GRI102-28 G Governance Governance Structure Transformation Nissan transitioned to a company with three statutory committees on June 25, 2019, by establishing a Nomination Committee, a Compensation Committee and an Audit Committee. Governance is the foundation of our corporate activities and an indispensable part of being a company that is trusted by society. We will continue to engage in our efforts to improve corporate governance as a top-priority management issue, while also developing our business activities with an eye to the demands of society and our social responsibility so that we can contribute to the development of a sustainable society. 1. Separation of management function and supervisory 3. Transparency of decision-making process Key focuses of the new governance function structure 2. Increased independence of Board of Directors 4. Speedy and flexible business execution Before June 24, 2019 From June 25, 2019 Board of ● Majority is nonBoard of ● Majority is independent Directors independent Board of Statutory Directors ● Chair is independent Supervision Supervision ● Chair is nonAuditors independent Nomination Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee ● Majority of each committee is independent Unclear separation; ● Each committeeʼs chair is independent Board acts Clear separation on both Execution sides Execution Executive officers and corporate officers with Corporate officers more delegated authorities, focusing on business execution and operation NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 017 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Board of Directors System FY2019 Our Board of Directors, led by independent outside directors, decides the basic direction of management by taking a variety of perspectives into account and plays the role of supervising the executive directors. Board of Directors Activities in FY2019 Board of Directors Independent Non-independent ● Based on laws and the Regulations of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors makes decisions on important matters related to the our companyʼs group management such as the draft agenda of general meeting of shareholders, members of each committee, business plans and product strategies. In addition to quarterly financial reports, we regularly report on the status business execution and activities related to internal control, and started regular discussions on mid-term plan. Yasushi Kimura Jean-Dominique Senard Masakazu Toyoda Keiko Ihara Motoo Nagai Bernard Delmas Independent Director Independent Independent Independent Independent ● For the purpose of enhancing the discussion of the Board of outside director outside director outside director outside director outside director Directors, we hold independent outside directors meetings Chair of the Board of Directors Vice-Chair of the Board of Directors Lead independent director Chair of Compensation Committee Chair of Audit Committee Member of Compensation Committee Member of Nomination Committee Member of Nomination Committee Chair of Nomination Committee Member of Nomination Committee Member of Nomination Committee regularly, chaired by the lead independent outside director Member of Audit Committee Member of Audit Committee Member of Compensation Committee to discuss a wide range of issues related to our companyʼs corporate governance and business etc. We manage business and operate further board discussion with reflecting the opinions gained through these meetings. ● In order to promote understanding of our business, we carry out various training programs for directors throughout the Andrew House Jenifer Rogers Pierre Fleuriot Makoto Uchida Ashwani Gupta Hideyuki Sakamoto year, such as business briefings from executives, site visits Independent Independent Director Director Director Director and test driving etc. outside director outside director ● In fiscal 2019 (June 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020), the Board of Member of Nomination Committee Member of Compensation Committee Member of Audit Committee President Chief Operating Officer Executive Vice President Member of Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer Chief Performance Officer Directors met 11 times, with an average participation rate per meeting of 99%. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 018 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-27 Training FY2019 To deepen the understanding of Nissanʼs business, company provided board members with a number of on-board trainings, business briefings, site visits and test drives throughout the year. Business briefing On-boarding training Site visit and others ・Nissan business overview including key ・Duties and liabilities of board members ・Oppama plant visit and test drive (August products and technologies, global footprint, and executive officers under Japanese 2019) etc. Company Act ・Tokyo Motor Show 2019 (October 2019) ・Midterm plan, performance recovery plan, ・Corporate Governance Guidelines, ・Global Design Center (November 2019) etc. Independence Standards, Regulation of BOD, Internal Control Basic Policy, ・Global R&D facility (November 2019) ・Nissan products, brand, lineup, technology, markets, future plan, etc. Regulations of Committees, and other corporate-level rules and regulations ・Compliance rules, Nissan Code of Conduct At product briefing Tokyo Motor Show 2019 At Global Design Center NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 019 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 GRI102-24 Committee Activity FY2019 – Nomination The Nomination Committee has the authority to determine the content of the General Shareholders Meeting agenda concerning the appointment and dismissal of directors. In addition, the committee has the authority to determine the content of the Board of Directors meeting agenda concerning the appointment and dismissal of the representative executive officer and the authority to formulate an appropriate succession plan regarding the President and Chief Executive Officer. Members 5 out of 6 members are independent outside directors Total number of committee meetings held*: 9 Chair Average participation ratio*: 96% * Between June 2019 and March 2020 Note: Month and year that is indicated below each director name is the month and year when he/she joined the committee, and not necessarily the month and year when he/she became a director. Major activities in FY2019 Yasushi Kimura Jean-Dominique Motoo Nagai ● Discussed representative executive officerʼs appointment proposal Since Jun 2019 Senard Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 ● Discussed directorsʼ appointment proposal to be submitted the Extraordinary General Shareholdersʼ meeting ● Discussed directorʼs appointment proposal to be submitted to 121st Annual General Shareholders meeting ● Discussed the President and Chief Executive Officerʼs succession plan process Masakazu Toyoda Keiko Ihara Andrew House Blue: Independent Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 Red: Non-independent NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 020 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 GRI102-35 Committee Activity FY2019 Compensation The Compensation Committee has the authority to determine the policy on decisions on the content of the compensation for individual directors and executive officers and the contents of the compensation for individual directors and executive officers. In addition, the Compensation Committee has the authority to determine the specific amount for each individual director and representative executive officer. Members 4 out of 4 members are independent outside directors Total number of committee meetings held*: 13 Chair Average participation ratio*: 100% * Between June 2019 and March 2020 Note: Month and year that is indicated below each director name is the month and year when he/she joined the committee, and not necessarily the month and year when he/she became a director. Major activities in FY2019 ● Formulating policies regarding compensation for directors and executive officers ● Selecting benchmark companies and discussing the level of compensation based on the benchmark results of these companies and the results of surveys by external experts Motoo Nagai Bernard Delmas Jenifer Rogers Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 ● Determining the amount of compensation for the current fiscal year and individual compensation for directors and executive officers ● Formulating policy for executive officers compensation upon separation and determining the amount of compensation for resignation Keiko Ihara Blue: Independent ● Resolving to abolish the share appreciation rights as performance-linked Since Jun 2019 Red: incentive compensation from fiscal 2020 onwards, and evaluating new Non-independent incentive plan NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 021 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 GRI102-28 Committee Activity FY2019 Audit As part of audits on business execution including the organization and operation of Nissanʼs internal control systems, the Audit Committee receives reports from executive officers, corporate officers and employees on their business execution for Nissan and its group companies, in accordance with the Audit Committeeʼs annual audit plan and on an ad-hoc basis as necessary. Members 4 out of 5 members are independent outside directors Total number of committee meetings held*: 10 Chair Average participation ratio*: 100% * Between June 2019 and March 2020 Note: Month and year that is indicated below each director name is the month and year when he/she joined the committee, and not necessarily the month and year when he/she became a director. Major activities in FY2019 Yasushi Kimura Masakazu Toyoda ● Implementation of appropriate measures to seek responsibility for serious Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 misconduct by former chairman and others and to recover damages, including the filing of a lawsuit against former chairman to claim damages ● Receipt of quarterly review result reports for the current fiscal year from the independent auditors ● Audit visits to manufacturing plants and major domestic and overseas subsidiaries (3 plants and 21 subsidiaries) ● Conference with statutory auditors of Group companies to improve their audit quality Motoo Nagai Jenifer Rogers Pierre Fleuriot Blue: Since Jun 2019 Since Jun 2019 Since Feb 2020 Independent Red: Non-independent NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 022 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-14 GRI102-15 GRI102-19 GRI102-23 GRI102-28 A Message from Yasushi Kimura, Chair of the Board of Directors The auto industry has a major role to play in the sustainable development on a return to the basics of managing and revitalizing the Board with of society even as it continues to undergo a major transformation. I think the spirit of transparency, fairness and impartiality. In this connection, I it is fair to say that this role has grown even more important in light of worked to convene Board of Directors meetings that are characterized the dramatic changes to society brought on by the novel coronavirus by lively discussion and effective advice to and supervision of the (COVID-19) pandemic. Nissan will contribute to create value that is executive officers. Together with directors with a diverse range of appreciated by its stakeholders by providing valuable mobility and experience and viewpoints, we deliberated over proposals to be raised services and pursuing further technological innovation. As the same at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, business plans and time, Nissan is now expected to respond flexibly and resolutely to product strategies, the state of achievement in business execution and unprecedented global risks. It will do so by harnessing the full power internal control activities. The Board supervised the executive officers in of its organization and capabilities as well as through the solutions it addition to deciding the fundamental policies for business management delivers. This will ultimately contribute to society in addition to economic at Nissan. In particular, the executive side formulated the first draft growth and recovery. It goes without saying that Nissan must execute its of our transformation plan called Nissan NEXT announced in May new business plan with the aim of achieving sustained growth and stable 2020 while the directors helped to complete it by offering advice and earnings. In my view, steadily managing an effective governance system supervision from an independent and objective standpoint, marking a and thoroughly pursuing compliance are increasingly important for the significant achievement in collaboration within our governance structure. peace of mind and regaining the trust of Nissanʼs stakeholders especially Furthermore the three committees of nomination, compensation and in this time of great uncertainty. audit each delivered meaningful results during the year, driven by During fiscal 2019, Nissan transitioned its governance system to a the independent outside directors who chair each committee, such company with three statutory committees. During the first year under as the selection of a new Chief Executive Officer, deciding on the the new system, I served as Chair of the Board of Directors and focused compensation of directors and executive officers, and responding to the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 023 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors criminal and civil actions related to improprieties of the former Chairman. The auto industry is in the midst of a transformation seen once in In addition to these meetings, the Board endeavored to deepen its century and while facing the difficult environment brought on by the understanding of Nissanʼs business and industry by convening regular spread of COVID-19 is also in the midst of the evolution to automotive meetings attended only by outside directors, aiming to further revitalize electrification, autonomous driving technologies and connected the Board of Directors by discussing corporate governance and technologies and services. It is therefore even more important that we business from a broad perspective, making periodic visits to the front break free from conventions of the past. The Board of Directors will fulfill lines, participating in onsite reviews and test drive events, and receiving its mission to contribute to Nissanʼs return to a growth trajectory and the briefings from the executive side. Since the debut of the new structure, ongoing development of society and the company, in other words, further the directors have worked to enhance the effectiveness of the Board enhancing sustainability. of Directors with a sense of mission and performed their supervisory function. Fiscal 2020 marks the second year of Nissanʼs new governance system. We will fortify the management foundations built over this past year and utilize the wisdom of our directors to balance sound supervision and execution. For Nissan NEXT as well, which has just kicked off, the Board of Directors conduct ongoing monitoring and supervision of Nissanʼs executives who will be delivering on the plan with speed and decisiveness. In this way, I would like the Board to support taking on challenges in Nissan-like manner and contribute to the comeback story Chair of the Board of Directors that is unfolding as a result. Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 024 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors SUSTAINABILITY AT NISSAN GRI102-11 GRI102-15 GRI102-16 GRI102-46 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Corporate Purpose Driving Innovation to Enrich Peopleʼs Lives Sustainability at Nissan Guided by the corporate purpose of “Driving Innovation to Enrich Peopleʼs Societal Issues Analysis and Identification of Key Issues Lives,” Nissan, as a company worthy of trust, provides unique and innovative At Nissan, top management regularly discuss key societal and environmental automotive products and services that deliver superior measurable values to themes in order to determine which key issues Nissan and all its Group all stakeholders. companies should address as both a global corporation and an automobile As it develops as a company through its full range of global activities, manufacturer, and then ensure that the results are reflected in its Nissan seeks to not only create economic value but also contribute sustainability strategy. Nissan also reviews key issues in light of the latest solutions to society as a leading global automaker. Nissan is committed to trends, including stakeholder concerns and interests as well as technological all stakeholders̶ including customers, shareholders, employees and the developments, and incorporates them into the formulation of its sustainability communities where it does business̶ and contributing to the development strategy. of society, through the realization of a cleaner, safer and more sustainable As expectations on corporate human rights initiatives grow higher, Nissan mobility. continuously works to meet these expectations through the development of its own initiatives. Nissan has identified focus areas to work on by clarifying the types of human rights issues relevant to the company and checking them against our business strategies and activities. *For a highlight of our human rights initiatives >>> P013 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 025 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Sustainability Strategy: “Nissan Sustainability 2022” Corporate Purpose Todayʼs society is broadly affected by megatrends like demographic shifts Driving Innovation to Enrich People’s Lives and advancing urbanization, both of which are increasing global demand for mobility. Rapid technological advances are transforming the automobile Realizing a industry, inaugurating a period of unprecedented change. To allow Nissan to zero-emission, zero-fatality society lead in responding to these social trends and providing new value through innovation, the company has formulated a sustainability strategy in 2018 called Nissan Sustainability 2022. Under Nissan Sustainability 2022, Nissan clarifies its activities in terms Nissan Sustainability 2022 of the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) aspects. Nissan Sustainability 2022 also outlines Nissanʼs initiatives toward contributing to the sustainability of society as well as its own sustainable growth as a E Environmental S Social G Governance company. GRI102-47 Key Themes for Nissan Sustainability 2022: an inclusive organization that supports a diverse range of employees in Realizing a Zero-Emission, Zero-Fatality Society demonstrating their abilities and developing as professionals over the The wide availability of automobiles has let countless people enjoy the medium and long term. convenience that comes with automotive mobility as well as the pleasure of driving itself. At the same time, however, increased greenhouse gas emissions and traffic accidents are pressing issues for the world today. Nissan is using its position as a world-leading automaker to pursue the ultimate goals of achieving zero emissions, through the elimination of CO2 emissions from new Nissan vehicles, and zero fatalities, through the elimination of virtually all fatalities that result from traffic accidents involving Nissan cars. To this end, the company will work together by growing as NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 026 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Environmental: Under its environmental philosophy of “a Supply chain Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature,” Nissan contributes ・Nissan will establish a sustainable supply chain with due regard to human to resolving environmental challenges based on social needs rights and the environment. together with long-term vision. Employees Nissan Green Program 2022 ・To ensure that each individual employee can continuously learn and ・Nissanʼs midterm environmental action plan Nissan Green Program 2022 develop their potential to the fullest, Nissan will provide opportunities for (NGP2022) calls for actions to be taken on four challenges: Climate learning that employees can access wherever and whenever they wish. Change, Resource Dependency, Air Quality and Water Scarcity. Furthermore, Nissan will also aim to create lively workplaces where the health and safety of employees is the top priority. Social: Nissan respects the rights of all stakeholders. Community engagement Traffic safety ・Through activities that contribute to local communities on the themes of ・Aiming for virtually zero fatalities in traffic accidents involving Nissan “zero emission,” “zero fatality” and “zero inequality,” Nissan will aim to realize vehicles as an ultimate goal, Nissan will promote the development “a Cleaner, Safer and More Inclusive Society.” and implementation of autonomous driving and other effective safety technologies. Governance: Nissan complies with laws, regulations and Diversity and inclusion rules and engages in business activities that are just, fair and ・Nissan will build an inclusive, innovation-creating organization designed transparent. for sustainable development, where individual employees with diverse Corporate governance/internal control backgrounds in terms of gender, nationality, ethnicity, race and age can ・Nissan will strengthen its corporate governance and enhance its demonstrate their potential to the fullest. compliance systems globally, promoting business activities that comply with Quality laws and regulations and are highly transparent. ・With the voice of the customer as our top priority, Nissan will provide toplevel quality in its products and services around the world. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 027 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-12 Selecting Key Report Themes Participation in the U.N. Global Compact To share the companyʼs sustainability activities and the thinking behind Nissan actively supports a number of international guidelines and them to as broad an audience as possible, each year Nissan publishes a agreements, respecting international policies and standards as it conducts Sustainability Report. By sharing this information, we increase the level its business operations. of transparency of our actions while creating opportunities to improve our Since January 2004, Nissan has participated in the United Nations Global activities by incorporating feedback from stakeholders, thereby contributing Compact, a corporate responsibility initiative built around 10 universal to the development of a sustainable society. principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Reporting themes are selected on the basis of potential impact on business The U.N. Global Compact was originally proposed by U.N. Secretary-General activities and level of interest from stakeholders. Potential impact on Kofi Annan in an address to the World Economic Forum (Davos forum) in business activities is evaluated by referring to previously recognized issues, 1999. Businesses may pledge to support its principles of their own free will. various sustainability guidelines, trends and current global events inside and Nissanʼs sustainability management aims to enhance the full range of the outside the automobile industry. Stakeholder interest is evaluated based companyʼs activities based on these 10 principles. on interviews conducted as necessary with both internal and external stakeholders and analyses provided by external consultants. Click here for more information on the U.N. Global Compact. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 028 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-21 GRI102-40 GRI102-42 GRI102-43 GRI102-44 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Interests, Main Topics Customer service interaction, contact through Dialogue with Stakeholders dealers, websites, showrooms, events, customer • Product and service quality Customers surveys, media (TV, magazines, social media, • Customer support Nissan defines its stakeholders as those individuals and organizations etc.), ownersʼ meetings, vehicle maintenance, mailing service that affect or are affected by the companyʼs business. Our management • Company performance and issues approach aims to align corporate activities with societal needs. We focus Direct contact (including whistleblowing • Workplace diversity Employees system), intranet, internal events, on gathering feedback from stakeholders and building relationships of trust, • Workplace environment interviews, surveys • Career, training reflecting this input in our operations. To incorporate as many voices as Suppliers conferences, dealer • Fair trade possible, we provide a variety of opportunities for dialogue with stakeholders Suppliers and conventions, business meetings, direct • Nissanʼs sustainability policies, and work to identify opportunities and risks in their early stages. This Dealers contact, briefings, events, corporate medium-term business plan, guidelines, websites and purchasing policies interaction takes place at Global Headquarters and at other business Direct contact with IR team, shareholders facilities in Japan and overseas. Structures are in place to ensure that • Nissanʼs business Shareholders and meetings, financial results briefings, IR strategies, performance and feedback is shared within the company. Investors events, IR meetings, websites, Annual sustainability initiatives Report, mailing service For specific examples of our dialogue with stakeholders, see the pages Governments, Direct contact, joint research studies, • Legal compliance introducing our sustainability strategy. Industrial initiatives with industry organizations, • Cooperation with demonstration experiments Associations and roundtables, working groups, and other public measures Business Partners conferences, events • Promote joint programs Direct contact, management of • Cooperation with and Nissan’s Customers NGOs and NPOs philanthropic programs, donations, support for the resolution of disaster relief activities, events, Stakeholders Shareholders Employees assistance via foundations societal issues and Investors and Engagement Direct contact with business facilities, • Local community local events, plant visits, philanthropic Opportunities Media Nissanʼs Stakeholders Suppliers and Local Communities activities, conferences, traffic safety contributions Dealers and Future • Corporate philosophy awareness campaigns, assistance via Generations • Nissanʼs sustainability Governments, Industrial foundations, educational programs, Local Communities and websites initiatives Associations and Business Future Generations Partners • Announcement on organizational NGOs and NPOs Contact with PR team, press structure, business performance, Media conferences, PR events, press releases, and business plans interviews, mailing service, websites • Announcement of sustainability strategies NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 029 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Nissanʼs Approach to Shareholder and Investor Communication with Shareholders and Investors Engagement To communicate with shareholders and investors, our IR department holds Nissanʼs shareholders and investors are partners in the creation of a more quarterly results briefings, meets frequently with institutional investors sustainable society. To facilitate a deeper understanding of our company, and sell-side analysts and responds to inquiries in a timely manner. We we have an active investor relations (IR) program that provides information proactively disclose information on our operations through business briefings both promptly and transparently. Our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and and participation in conferences hosted by securities companies. We also the IR department conduct constructive dialogue with shareholders and cooperate with securities companies to hold briefings for individual investors. investors. To build trusting relationships, we communicate our long-term The latest information is also available on our IR website. vision, the innovations we are adopting to boost our competitiveness and Each year we hold events to present our business activities to investors and the latest market trends on a timely basis. The IR department is responsible analysts, focusing on themes most relevant to them and making available our for working with the relevant sections, such as corporate planning, general divisional and regional managers to actively provide the required information. affairs, finance, accounting and legal affairs, to collect the information In fiscal 2019, the Nissan CEO and independent outside directors held needed to make appropriate disclosures. The questions and opinions of our briefings on governance and efforts to prevent the recurrence of final vehicle shareholders and investors are reported to our executives by the corporate inspection problems. In addition, factory tours were conducted with a focus officers in charge so that they can be reflected in our management on final vehicle inspection lines. decisions. To prevent insider trading, we refrain from conducting dialogues We will continue to disclose information appropriately to meet the needs between the quarter end and the announcement of our quarterly results. of stakeholders and investors, thereby increasing understanding of our business. Major shareholder engagements in FY2019 • The Extraordinary General Shareholders Meeting • FY2019 first half financial • FY2018 full year financial Q1 Q3 results results • Annual Report 2019 launch • The 120th Annual General Shareholders Meeting • FY2019 Q3 financial results Q2 • FY2019 Q1 financial results Q4 • The Extraordinary General Shareholders Meeting NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 030 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Shareholders Meeting The General Meeting of Shareholders is an opportunity for Nissanʼs executive team and the companyʼs owners to communicate directly. We aim to develop trust through these meetings and various other forms of interaction with shareholders, paying full attention to their opinions and offering appropriate explanations to enhance their understanding. The 120th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders was held at Pacifico Yokohama on June 25, 2019, and was attended by 2,814 shareholders. Extraordinary Shareholders Meetings were also held on April 8, 2019, at the Grand Prince Hotel Shin Takanawa, and on February 18, 2020, at Pacifico Yokohama. The attendance was 4,119 and 666 shareholders, respectively. * Click here for more IR information. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 031 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-11 GRI102-26 GRI102-27 GRI102-28 GRI102-31 GRI102-32 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 INTERNAL EFFORTS TO PROMOTE Nissanʼs Sustainability Decision-Making Process SUSTAINABILITY Company-wide management of specific activities under Nissanʼs Executive Committee sustainability strategy, from setting goals to monitoring progress, is the responsibility of the Global Sustainability Steering Committee chaired by Proposals/reports Decisions the companyʼs Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). The committee meets biannually and includes management representatives from functions for each of the ESG areas. Each function is responsible for advancing its own activities and progress is reported to the committee. Nissan swiftly Global Sustainability Steering Committee implements the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle in pursuit of improved Chairperson sustainability performance. As in past years, two committee meetings were Chief Sustainability Officer held in fiscal 2019. Discussions at the Global Sustainability Steering Committee are reported Representatives from sustainability strategy-related functions and proposed to the Executive Committee (EC), Nissanʼs highest decisionat Global Headquarters and regional offices making body, which then uses that information to make decisions on sustainability policies and future initiatives. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 032 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-16 GRI102-31 GRI102-47 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 LONG-TERM VISION AND GOALS FOR 2022 Long-Term Vision Initiatives and Main Goals for 2022 Activities In promoting its sustainability strategy, Nissan Sustainability 2022, Nissan within Long-Term Vision Main Goals for 2022 ESG has established goals that must be achieved by 2022 in accordance with initiatives for each of the ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) Manage the environmental dependence/impact caused by our operations and products to a level that can be absorbed by nature, and pass on rich natural capital to aspects. The 2022 goals are an important milestone towards realizing future generations our Long-Term Vision, which were developed based on consideration of Carbon-neutral opportunities and issues in our business operations, as well as societal ・Achieve 90% reduction of CO2 ・Product CO2 emissions reduction: expectations and issues. In achieving goals for each of the initiatives and emissions from new 40% reduction of CO2 emissions vehicles by 2050 (vs. from new cars (vs. FY2000; JPN, U.S., realizing our Long-Term Vision, we are aiming to achieve both our own FY2000) Europe, China) Climate change sustainable growth and the sustainable development of society. ・Achieve 80% ・Overall reduction of CO2 emissions reduction of CO2 from corporate activities: 30% emissions from reduction of CO2 emissions per corporate activities vehicle sold (vs. FY2005; global) by 2050 (vs. Environmental FY2005) Approach to Nissanʼs Long-Term Vision and Goals for 2022 Zero new material resource use New resource usage minimization Resource ・Reduce dependency ・Reduce new natural resource usage dependency Balance of Nissan's Growth and Development of Society on new materials by by 30% per vehicle 70% Opportunities Long-Term Vision ・Cabin air quality improvement: Societal Promote research on technical and Issues in Expectations and solutions Nissan's Business Air quality Zero impact ・Reduce VOC from MFG: Promote Issues Operations Goals for 2022 reduction of VOC per paint area (vs. FY2010) ・Water withdrawal reduction (manufacturing) : 21% reduction of Water scarcity Zero stress water withdrawal per global production (vs. FY2010) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 033 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Activities Activities within Long-Term Vision Main Goals for 2022 within Long-Term Vision Main Goals for 2022 ESG ESG Traffic Reduce the number of fatalities involving 75% reduction from 1995 levels in ・Enhance monitoring of each safety Nissan vehicles to virtually zero fatalities involving Nissan vehicles by 2020 compliance risk area, and establish Compliance framework to oversee progress of Achieve sustainable development by creating A fully functioning framework for the each monitoring activity prevention of conduct violations and for Diversity innovation through building an inclusive Improvement in ratio of women in ・Enhance third-party compliance organization where individual employees compliance at Nissan globally managerial positions system to ensure entire Nissan Governance with diverse backgrounds in terms of race, and inclusion nationality, gender, religion, disability, age, place ・Global: 16% by 2023 business process is compliant of origin, gender identity and sexual orientation ・Japan: 13% by 2023 can demonstrate their potential to the fullest Achieve benchmark levels for maintenance Risk Product quality Strive for top-level quality from the customerʼs perspective Achieve benchmark levels for and enhancement of information security, Quality maintenance and enhancement of prevention of information leaks, damage management Sales and Achieve top-level quality in all focus markets and maintain topinformation security in each area, limitation and maintenance of transparency service quality level quality for sales and service over the longer term including new environments and areas in the event of leaks Aim to establish a ・All of our suppliers follow Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for sustainable supply Supply Suppliers chain with due regard chain ・Aim to reduce our collective environmental footprint through to the environment environmental data survey and collaboration with suppliers and human rights Social Create a continuous learning culture at Nissan by: ・Launching an integrated development Nurture an ability to framework Learning and cope with a range ・Optimization of Leadership development of potential future Development Programs developments ・Providing digital solutions to realize Employees “anytime, anywhere learning” utilizing great digital solutions Reduce accident frequency rate Realize zero(globally) by 50% by FY2022 vs. Occupational safety accidents, zeroFY2016 and health illnesses and a safe (Total injury cases ÷ total working workplace hours × 1 million) All regions are executing philanthropy Community Realize a cleaner, safer and more inclusive programs for strategic areas, such as engagement society “zero emission,” “zero fatality” and “zero inequality” NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 034 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-29 GRI103-2 MANAGING THE ADVANCEMENT OF PDCA Cycle SUSTAINABILITY Internal management PDCA Cycle to Promote Sustainability Nissan's Global Based on the decisions At Nissan, sustainability activities are promoted through the PDCA (plan, Sustainability Steering of the two committees, Committee and Executive do, check, act) cycle. After the Global Sustainability Steering Committee the divisions represented Plan Committee define overall Do in the Global and Executive Committee (EC) decide the overall direction on sustainability direction and measures Sustainability Steering for the company's initiatives, progress on activities is managed, societal views are incorporated sustainability Committee take action and manage progress. into corporate activities, and external trends are analyzed. activities. Nissan defines Nissan considers priority areas of focus society’s feedback, such Act based on analysis of Check as rating agencies and external evaluations and ESG investment. research on competitors. External communication NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 035 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT FTSE Blossom Japan Index Today companies are assessed on their environmental and social Developed by global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE Blossom Japan performance as well as their financial performance. An increasing number Index measures the performance of companies demonstrating strong of investors use these assessments to guide their ESG investment Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) practices. The FTSE Blossom decisions. To meet these investor needs, Nissan takes a focused approach Japan Index are used by a wide variety of market participants to create and to sustainability activities and proactively discloses information about its assess responsible investment funds and other products. business operations. Our initiatives for sustainability have received high Nissan continues to be a constituent of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index for praise from external assessors. the fourth consecutive year. Click here for more information on the FTSE Blossom Japan Index https://www.ftserussell.com/products/indices/blossom-japan FTSE4Good Index Series The FTSE4Good Index Series was developed by FTSE, an independent company jointly funded by the Financial Times of the UK and the London Stock Exchange. Nissan continues to be a constituent of this index in the 2019 review. CDP Climate Change and Water Security 2019 Click here for more information on the FTSE4Good Index Series Nissan was certified as an “A List” https://www.ftserussell.com/products/indices/ftse4good company by CDP, a non-profit and worldclass authority on the environment, in the survey conducted on its commitment to climate change countermeasures as well as its water resource management. Nissan achieved the top-rated “A List” in both categories announced in January and February 2020, respectively. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 036 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators 2020 For the seventh consecutive year, Nissan was selected as one of the Derwent Top 100 Global Innovators by Clarivate Analytics. In deciding this award, Clarivate Analytics uses its proprietary database of patent information to analyze not just recipientsʼ advanced and innovative technologies but also whether or not their development of solutions has broad application in the real world. The award recognizes the most innovative companies and organizations in all industries around the world. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 037 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors NISSANʼS CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GRI102-12 With the world population expected to reach nine billion by 2050, societies are facing a range of issues, such as climate change, poverty and ongoing urbanization. To deal with such issues, the United Nations has adopted a set of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and companies have an increasingly important role to play in achieving these goals. The automobile industry, too, faces an increasingly important responsibility to provide value to society by delivering safe, secure and sustainable mobility for all. Nissan supports the SDGs and contributes toward the achievement of these goals through its initiatives. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 038 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Goal Nissanʼs SDG Targets Contribution Nissanʼs Approach Indicators FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Targets Results Results Results Through community engagement activities, aim to Improving 1 1.2 realize a cleaner, safer and more inclusive society ー ー ー ー ー livelihoods where everyone is given equal opportunities. Emergency Ascertain the needs of areas affected by natural 2 2.1 ー ー ー ー ー food assistance disasters, providing supplies and other support. Number of fatalities from 75% reduction Reducing Reduce the traffic fatalities by taking measures in accidents involving Nissan 73% 76% (Most recent compared to 3.6 traffic the areas of vehicles, individuals and society. vehicles compared to 1995 reduction reduction data is 2018) 1995 levels by accidents level (Japan) 2022 3 Reducing Improve air pollution in urban areas through the 3.9 ー ー ー ー ー health impacts spread of zero-emission vehicles, etc. Supporting Provide educational programs that make use of the 4.2 youth knowledge and technologies built up during business ー ー ー ー ー 4.3 education activities. 4 Promoting Promote understanding of sustainability among understanding 4.7 employees, sales companies, business partners and ー ー ー ー ー of others. sustainability Advancing Promote support for advancement of women in the 5.1 gender workplace globally through diversity and inclusion ー ー ー ー ー equality and community engagement activities. 5 Advancing Establish an inclusive organization where individual Ratio of managerial Global target of 5.5 gender employees with diverse backgrounds can 14% 13.6% 13.9% posts filled by women 16% by 2023 equality demonstrate their potential to the fullest. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 039 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Goal Nissanʼs SDG Targets Contribution Nissanʼs Approach Indicators FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Targets Results Results Results 21% reduction in Improving Manage and reduce water usage at all of production Rate of reduction in water water usage at 6 6.4 efficiency in plants producing Nissan vehicles and parts located usage per vehicle produced 16.2% 18.7% 23.0％ manufacturing water usage all over the world. (vs. 2010) plants across the world by 2022 Promote adoption of renewable energy according to the characteristics of each region by taking three Increasing Renewable energy usage approaches: generating its own power in company 7.2 renewable rate in manufacturing 10.0% 10.2% 10.2％ ー facilities; sourcing energy with a higher proportion energy usage plants of renewables; and leasing land, facilities and other 7 Nissan assets to power companies. Improving Promote initiatives to reduce energy consumption in Energy per vehicle 7.3 energy 1.68 MWh 1.73 MWh 1.78 MWh ー the manufacturing process. produced efficiency Economic Encourage the growth of the world economy through 12 trillion 11.6 trillion 9.88 trillion 8.1 Net sales ー development automobile manufacture and sales. yen yen yen Offering Provide every member of a diverse workforce with 8.2 learning opportunities for self development “anytime and Hours per learner 30.6 21.5 26.0 ー opportunities anywhere.” Promote workstyle reforms that provide a crucial Establishing foundation for supporting diversity and inclusion, 8 8.5 Employee turnover rate 5.4% 6.2% 6.6％ ー decent work allowing employees with a range of values and life needs to perform at their best. Promote initiatives based on the Nissan Human Respect for Rights Policy Statement in recognition of the U.N. 8.7 ー ー ー ー ー human rights Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as the standard reference. Set up occupational health and safety management Reducing systems and put in place structures for the steady Accident frequency rate 8.8 industrial 0.37 0.35 0.49 ー implementation of employee safety and health (Japan) accidents activities. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 040 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Goal Nissanʼs SDG Targets Contribution Nissanʼs Approach Indicators FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Targets Results Results Results Investment: Investment: Investment: Work to protect the environment through business Environmental 2.54 billion 4.67 billion 3.79 billion activities and the provision of revolutionary products, conservation costs yen, ー Improving yen, Cost: 174 yen, Cost: 171 Cost: 184 technologies and services. (Japan) environmental billion yen billion yen billion yen 9 9.4 preservation technology Solicit the necessary facility proposals from each global site, preferentially allocating investment based on the ー ー ー ー ー benefit in CO2 reduction compared to project costs. Establish an inclusive workplace where individual Advancing 10 10.2 employees with diverse backgrounds can ー ー ー ー ー diversity demonstrate their potential to the fullest. Through community engagement activities, and Creating together with partners such as NGOs, aim to realize 11.1 sustainable ー ー ー ー ー a cleaner, safer and more inclusive society where cities everyone is given equal opportunities. 11 Establishing Contribute to the development of a sustainable 11.2 resilient transport mobility society through use of electric vehicles, ー ー ー ー ー infrastructure autonomous driving and other technologies. VOC emissions (main regions) 10,564 tons 8,433 tons 6,465 tons ー NOx emissions 619 tons 418 tons 380 tons ー Reducing air Reduce air pollutants from the manufacturing 12.4 pollutants process. SOx emissions 36 tons 34 tons 14 tons ー Emissions of substances (Most recent 4,422 tons 3914 tons ー designated by PRTR data is 2018) 12 Incorporate the three Rs at the new car design stage End-of-life vehicle 99.7% 99.6% 99.2% ー and reduce waste materials. recovery rate (Japan) Reducing 10.2% 5.8% BAU –2% (Japan) 12.5 and waste Reduce waste materials from the manufacturing Waste reduction rate (Japan) (Japan) 10.5% BAU –1% process with methods such as recycling. (BAU ratio) 2.6% 4.3％ (overseas) (Overseas) (Overseas) of waste reduction Providing Provide stakeholders with information through a 12.6 information about ー ー ー ー ー sustainability report and other media. sustainability NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 041 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Goal Nissanʼs SDG Targets Contribution Nissanʼs Approach Indicators FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Targets Results Results Results Reduce CO2 Reduce CO2 emissions emissions by by 40% relative to Reduce CO2 emissions from new cars. 33.4% 33.0% 34.8％ 40% relative to FY2000 levels by FY2000 levels by FY2022 FY2022 Reducing Reduce CO2 13 13.1 greenhouse CO2 emission reduction emissions by gas emissions Reduce CO2 emissions from corporate activities. per vehicle sold (vs. 29.2% 31.4% 34％ 30% relative to FY2005) FY2005 levels by FY2022 Use carbon credits and reduce CO2 emissions. Credit amount (Spain) 45,477 t-CO2 42,787 t-CO2 38,845 t-CO2 ー Preventing Manage the water quality of waste water at all of our 14 14.1 marine manufacturing sites according to standards that are ー ー ー ー ー pollution even stricter than local regulations. Based on the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment Preserving 15 15.5 framework, identify issues and implement initiatives that ー ー ー ー ー biodiversity include cooperation with outside organizations. Significant violations of Respect for Strengthen the legal order through strict adherence laws and regulations which 16.3 None None None ー the rule of law to law. resulted in government penalties (Environment) Preventing 16 Thoroughly comply with export control laws and 16.4 illegal product ー ー ー ー ー regulations that relate to national security issues. trading Reducing Reduce violations by carefully following the Nissan 16.5 corruption and ー ー ー ー ー Global Anti-Bribery Policy. bribery Technological cooperation Serve as a technology leader in the automobile 17 17.16 toward a industry through the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi ー ー ー ー ー sustainable alliance. society NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 042 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors The Alliance Jean-Dominique Luca de Meo Makoto Uchida Takao Kato Senard Chairman of the Board Chairman of the Board Director, Member of the Board, at Renault S.A. and at Renault S.A.S. and Representative Representative The Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance is one of the worldʼs leading Chairman of the Alliance Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer, Executive Officer, and Operating Board of Renault S.A. President and Chief Chief Executive Officer automotive alliances. Through a new cooperation business model, the Executive Officer of of Mitsubishi Motors Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Corporation Alliance aims to enhance the competitiveness and profitability of each of the member companies by capitalizing on individual companyʼs strengths and The Alliance Operating Board complimenting their strategies. Established in March of 2019, the Alliance Operating Board acts as the sole body responsible for the overall governance, management and strategic direction of the Alliance, ensuring effective and efficient decision making. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 043 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors A Business Model for Enhancing Competitiveness and investment in platforms, powertrains and technologies reaches across Profitability all product segments, technologies, and across all geographies, enabling the companies to maximize fixed cost sharing as well as leverage existing Following many years of collaboration, the Alliance announced its next step assets. forward on January 2020, with the launch of a new cooperation business model that will build on existing Alliance benefits by leveraging individual At the same time, by appointing a reference company to specific regions and memberʼs leadership position and geographic strengths to support the allowing that company to utilize and build on its strengths, the Alliance aims othersʼ business development. to strengthen its competitiveness as a whole. For example: Nissan is the reference company for China, North America and Japan; Renault for Europe, Each with its unique set of strengths, culture and legacy, the three Russia, Latin America and North Africa; and Mitsubishi for ASEAN and companies have agreed to contribute to each otherʼs continued Oceania. development, by working together through a business model that allows for each company to bring out the most of its assets as well as its performing Through these strategic initiatives, the Alliance enables each member capabilities. company to utilize their expertise to full potential, which in turn reinforces their competitiveness, sustainable profitability and social and environmental Under the new business model, the Alliance has implemented the following responsibility. initiatives: ALLIANCE NEW COOPERATION BUSINESS MODEL ・Adopting a leader-follower scheme in order to enhance efficiency in product MORE COMPETITIVENESS AND SUSTAINABLE PROFITABILIT Y and technology development LE ADER / FOLLOWER VEHICLE LEADER / FOLLOWER TECHNOLOGY REFERENCE REGION ・Each company takes on the role of reference company in specific regions where they have their strengths in, and provides support to other member companies to enhance their competitiveness ・Benchmarking against top industry standards for performance in products, technologies and markets ALLIANCE PURCHASING WITH FURTHER EFFICIENCY The aim of the leader-follower scheme is to enhance return on investment by expanding the Allianceʼs existing standardization strategy. This collaborative NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 044 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Environmental Environmental Policies and Philosophy …… 046 Water Scarcity ………………………………… 096 Climate Change………………………………… 056 Third-Party Assurance ……………………… 100 Air Quality ……………………………………… 083 Strengthening Our Business Foundations … 102 Resource Dependency ……………………… 087 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 045 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY GRI102-16 Environmental Principles Nissanʼs Environmental Philosophy: A Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature As we strive to understand the environment better, all of us at Nissan bring ・More efficient mobility Sunlight ・Expansion in distance travelled to our activities a shared concern for people, society, nature and the earth. This commitment and concern is embodied in every Nissan product and in all ・Higher efficiency ・Renewables of the company's operations, including sales, as the driving force of Nissan's Energy Social & Emissions & waste economic ongoing contributions to a better society. Resources activities Within levels nature can absorb ・Reduced use We provide customers with innovative products and services, by promoting ・Recycling * Based on Beyond Growth: the effective use of energy and resources, by diversifying our sources and The Economics of Sustainable Development, making active use of renewable energy and recycled materials. These are Thermal radiation by Herman E. just some of the ways in which Nissan is striving to achieve “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature.” Nissanʼs Environmental Philosophy: A Symbiosis of To this end, we have clearly defined our ultimate goal: “To reduce the People, Vehicles and Nature environmental impact and resource consumption of our corporate operations In addition to deepening our understanding of the environment, we conduct and vehicles throughout their lifecycle to a level that can be absorbed all of our operations, including production and sales, with consideration naturally by the Earth.” and set what we want to be. This means endeavoring for people, society, nature and the Earth, as a means of contributing to the to leave as small an ecological footprint as possible. building of a better society. Ultimate Goal We will manage the environmental impact caused by our operations and products to a level that can be absorbed by nature and pass on rich natural capital to future generations. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 046 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors What We Want to Be: A Sincere Eco-Innovator dependence on fossil fuels. As a global automaker, we take active steps to identify the direct and indirect Sincere: Proactively address environmental challenges and reduce our environmental impacts of our activities, working with business partners impact on the environment. and society to minimize the negative impacts of our products and services Eco-Innovator: Develop a sustainable mobility society through innovative throughout their lifecycle. We acknowledge that our activities and efforts technology in products and services. must be continuously improved and advanced; we seek to provide greater value to society by delivering sustainable mobility for all while alleviating GRI102-12 GRI102-15 GRI103-1 environmental impacts associated with climate change, natural resource Nissanʼs Understanding of Environmental Issues dependency, water use and other issues. Environmental and social issues are attracting more and more attention We decide which environmental priorities we address and our level of in recent years. With the worldʼs population expected to reach 9 billion by engagement based materiality assessments in light of social trends and 2050, society faces problems in areas such as poverty and hunger, energy, consultations with various stakeholders. climate change and various conflicts. To address these issues, the United * Click here for more information on how Nissan supports the SDGs. Nations adopted a resolution in September 2015 titled “Transforming https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ENVIRONMENT/GREENPROGRAM/FRAMEWORK/ Our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.” The Agenda contains 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets, and GRI102-29 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 there are high expectations that corporations as well as nations will play a major role in realizing the SDGs. Nissan supports the SDGs, as it recognizes Nissanʼs Strategic Approach to Environmental the growing importance of delivering safe, secure and sustainable mobility for all and providing value to society. Issues The auto industry is dependent on the global environment in complex and To positively contribute to the resolution of global environmental issues, diverse ways, while also having significant impact on the environment. Nissan believes in the importance of listening to various voice from society Nissan is tackling a range of issues to promote sustainability by advancing and undertaking an assessment process to identify priority issues. These measures to mitigate climate change and conserve energy, preserve air materiality assessments involve analyzing latent opportunities and risks, quality and other natural capital, use mineral resources efficiently, properly determining material issues that are of mutual relevance to Nissan and our manage chemical substances, efficiently allocate scarce resources and stakeholders and drafting mid and long term environmental strategies. promote good health. We are also improving our business to reduce our In assessing environmental materiality, we applied the methods of the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 047 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR),* developed by the World Materiality Analysis (Environment) and SDGs Comparison Resources Institute (WRI) in cooperation with the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the Meridian Institute based on the Materiality SDGs Nissan Principal Approach Fuel economy U.N. Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA). As a result, we specified three Lower vehicle emissions, Transition and physical risks improve in-cabin air quality priority areas on which we should focus as an automaker: Procurement of induced by climate change Energy, Procurement of Material Resources and Usage of Water Resources. Reduce water consumption Electrification and manage water quality A fourth area that is linked directly to peopleʼs health ̶Air Quality̶ Introduction of renewable energy at facilities Reduce CO2 emissions from was cited as being within the scope of consideration, as the swelling of vehicles and corporate activities Promotion and development of urban populations and economic development are often accompanied by MaaS (Mobility as a Service)* Vehicle-to-Grid (V2X) electric deteriorating air quality. Energy efficiency at facilities power management These were analyzed internally in terms of opportunities and risks for Nissan Reduce, reuse, recycle Expand autonomous drive Resource efficiency with reference to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, centered and other technologies Chemical substance management on the SDGs, as well as the discussions at the World Economic Forum, the Material sourcing Effective use of resources Paris Agreement adopted at the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21) Emissions from products, in-cabin Reduce CO2 emissions from and other global agendas. Through direct discussions with international air quality vehicles and corporate activities environmental experts, investors and NGOs/NPOs, as well as through Human health Appropriate management of Emissions from facilities chemical substances separate dialogues with our Alliance partners, we subsequently identified Water use at facilities environmental materiality for Nissan. Moreover, Comparison between this Reduce water consumption Wastewater and landfill manageand manage water quality environmental materiality and the objectives of the SDGs showed that ment Nissanʼs approach contributes to the realization of the SDGs. Ecosystem services and biodiversity Stakeholder engagement Collaborations with stakeholders such as local governments and * Click here to read “Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector,” a report outlining the Occupational health and safety NGOs conclusions of the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review conducted by Nissan. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/ENVIRONMENT/SOCIAL/ecosystem_ * MaaS: Car sharing and other mobility services that do not require actual car ownership. services_and_the_automotive_sector.pdf NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 048 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-15 GRI201-2 Scenario Analysis to Strategies for 2050 Society ・Based on the degree to which the automobile sector was impacted and the timeline, items with a more substantial impact were screened from the Nissan's environmental efforts have achieved continuous results by main drivers. consistently reaching milestones back-casted from our Long-term Vision. ・Changes, conditions, and effects were adjusted in each scenario to However, compared to the time when we formulated the Long-term Vision provide guidance based on qualitative evaluation of the elements based on the 2°C scenario from the 2006 Intergovernmental Panel on necessary for enhancing strategies. Climate Change (IPCC) report, the threat of extreme weather due to climate change is increasing, thus we believe it is necessary to enhance our strategy As a global automobile company, the production facilities and market for and make it more resilient amid growing uncertainties. our products will be 170 markets globally, and the effects of climate change will not be limited to Japan. When taking a comprehensive perspective of The scenario analysis conducted for the purpose of strategic enhancements this scenario analysis, even the market infrastructure, regulations and actual assumes societies based on the 4°C and 2°C scenarios presented in the usage are different, Nissan's electrification technologies have the potential International Energy Agency (IEA) 2050 time horizon and the 1.5C scenario to create opportunities for effective capabilities in scenarios other than 2 in the IPCC special report. Furthermore, in consideration of factors including °C. Nissan has come to recognize once again the importance of further changes in customer and market acceptance, tightening automobile accelerating efforts toward this realization as well as the fact that activities regulations and the transition toward clean energy, Nissanʼs business integrated with the supply chain are essential for responding to risks. activities, products and services were examined in terms of strategic resilience to the opportunities and risks posed by climate change in the In particular, the expansion of zero-emission vehicles is not only a major following four steps. step towards the shift to a carbon-free society as an automobile sector, it is also a technology that contributes to the resilience of society in power ・Evaluate past materiality, investigate risk factors with a decisive impact management and disaster mitigation and prevention. Nissan believes that it on the automotive sector due to climate change in documented studies will be possible to strike a balance between value creation for society and and define main drivers in categories such as population, economy, business. geopolitics, climate change policy and technology. ・Categorizing main drivers into physical risks and transition risks, then However, if the societal response to climate change is delayed, transition considering the trade-off relationships of each, we confirmed the degree risks such as additional policies and regulations for a decarbonized society, of risk in three scenarios where the average temperature on Earth increases in R&D efforts and changes in market demand or corporate increased by 1.5°C, 2°C and 4°C. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 049 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors reputation, and physical risks such as an increase in abnormal weather and Envisioned scenarios and associated opportunities and risks rising sea levels may lead to cost increases and declines in vehicle sales that Scenario Area of Business Activity Opportunities and Risks Related to have the potential to substantially influence on our financial situation. Assumption impact Ongoing Climate Change To avoid risks such as these to the extent possible and create future Respond to further tightening of vehicle fuel efficiency opportunities, Nissan is leveraging knowledge gained from scenario analysis and exhaust gas regulations, develop electric powertrain Policies and technologies and increase production costs for use in actual activities and reviewing strategies for expanding resilience. regulations Increased burden of energy costs due to expansion We will continue to implement these initiatives by embodying our vision of carbon taxes, expand investment in energy-saving for 2030, further enhancing the disclosure of information and placing equipment as policy importance on dialogues with our stakeholders. Cost effects of utilizing next-generation vehicle technologies such as in-vehicle batteries and other EV-related technologies as well as expanding autonomous driving Technological technologies 1.5℃ changes Increased demand will affect supply chains for rare earth metals used for in-vehicle battery material and cause an increase in stabilization costs Changes in consumer awareness leads to reduce new Market vehicle sales due to the selection of public transportation and changes bicycles and the transition to mobility services. Expand the provision of power management opportunities with Vehicle to Everything (V2X), an EV energy charging/ Opportunities discharging technology, and redefine the value of EV, especially with Vehicle to Grid (V2G) The impact on the supply chain and the operation of Extreme production bases due to extreme weather such as heavy weather rain and drought will increase in property insurance costs and air conditioning energy costs 4℃ The need for securing emergency power sources using Opportunities EV batteries is increasing as a disaster prevention and mitigation measure NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 050 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-20 GRI102-31 Global Environmental Management Framework Global Environmental Management Framework and Governance System Dialogue with stakeholders To promote comprehensive environmental management as a global company while responding to a diverse array of environmental issues, Nissan has Major Issues a governance system built on dialogue and partnership with each region Climate Change and many corporate functions, as well as with a variety of stakeholders. Resource Dependency Suppliers Product Manuf. Sales Use, The Global Environmental Management Committee (G-EMC), co-chaired and and tech. and and Service and Procurement Development Logistics Offices ELV Air Quality by a board member, determines overall policies and the content of reports put before the Board of Directors. Its meetings are attended by corporate Water Scarcity officers chosen based on the issues to be discussed. Executives also Nissan Global and Regional Environmental Management clarify the risks and opportunities before the company and determine the specific programs to be undertaken by each division, using the PDCA cycle to manage and operate the environmental programs efficiently. In addition, Environmental Management Organization environmental risks are regularly reported in the Internal Control Committee meetings to strengthen corporate governance. Global/corporate focuses Functional/regional Corporations today are expected to disclose their environmental initiatives Board of Directors focuses Customers Plan Board of and related decisions in a reliable and transparent manner. We actively PDCA Directors NGOs/NPOs communicate with a broad range of stakeholders through our Sustainability Global Environmental Employees Advisory Business Environmental Strategy Meetings, etc. partners Act Do PDCA Report and by answering inquiries from various environmental rating Management Committee Organization National and local agencies. Shareholders and investors governments PDCA Check Communities and future generations NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 051 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Environmental Action Plan: Nissan Green Evolution of NGP Program (NGP) We first announced the Nissan Green Program (NGP) midterm Reducing Reducing global Reducing use of Resolving social environmental action plan in 2002 to achieve our environmental philosophy environmental environmental resources and global issues to build a impact on urban impact to a level environmental impact better world of “A Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature” and to ultimately reduce and regional areas which can be to a level which can absorbed naturally be absorbed naturally our environmental dependence and impact to levels that nature can absorb. by the Earth by the Earth Under NGP2016, launched in fiscal 2011, we fully achieved our targets for the four key initiatives of zero-emission vehicle penetration, fuel-efficient vehicle expansion, corporate carbon footprint minimization and natural resource use minimization. New plan NGP2022 was launched in fiscal 2017. * Click here for more information on NGP2022. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ENVIRONMENT/GREENPROGRAM/FRAMEWORK/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 052 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-29 GRI102-31 NGP2022 Key Issues and Challenges ・Air Quality: We aim for zero impact Ensure cleaner exhaust emissions and create a comfortable inBased on environmental materiality analysis, Nissan has identified “climate cabin environment to protect human health and reduce the impact on change,” “air quality,” “resource dependency” and “water scarcity ” as ecosystems important issues under NGP2022. Furthermore, in order to contribute to ・Water Scarcity: We aim for zero stress the resolution of these four important issues and create new value, we are Reduce water consumption and manage water quality with monozukuri also working to strengthen the business foundation related to environmental that is considerate of impact and dependency on ecosystems issues through stakeholder engagement aimed at understanding the needs of stakeholders. NGP2022 discloses indicators and progress on initiatives related to the four identified material issues every year. In addition to the development and production departments involved in car manufacturing, the sales and service departments and Nissan as a whole are also accelerating efforts related to environmental issues while strengthening our business foundation and working to create social value. Under NGP2022, we will take on the challenge of addressing the following key issues, striving not just to attain compliance but also to meet societyʼs expectations and to realize our long-term vision. ・Climate Change: We aim for carbon neutrality Promote societyʼs decarbonization through vehicle electrification/ intelligence and innovative future monozukuri ・Resource Dependency: We aim to eliminate the use of new material resources Create systems that use resources efficiently and sustainably, and create services able to use vehicles more effectively (circular economy) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 053 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors NGP2022 Action Plan 12% reduction of CO2 emissions Reduction of per production (vs. FY2005; Activities NGP2022 Objectives FY2019 Results 7 CO2 emissions of Reduced by 11.5% Japan, North America, Europe logistics Climate change (Product) and China) Long-term vision: Achieve 90% reduction of CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 2050 (vs. 2000) Reduction of CO2 emissions at 12% reduction of CO2 emissions 8 Reduced by 14.3% Product CO2 40% reduction of CO2 emissions offices (including per floor area (vs. FY2010) 1 emission from new cars (vs. FY2000; Reduced by 34.8% R&D sites) reduction Japan, U.S., Europe and China) Reduction of 12% reduction of CO2 emissions Global sales increase of Nissan 9 CO2 emissions at per floor area (vs. FY2010; Reduced by 17.8% LEAF e+. Nissan LEAF is the first mass market EV and dealers Japan) Solid EV accumulated sales over 470,000 2 ー leadership units. Release the concept of new EV[ARIYA] with advanced Expansion of consumption rate of renewable Expansion of renewable energy technologies. 10 renewable energy energy at manufacturing plants introduction use 10.2% Support driverʼs Pilot program with connected 3 Activities underway Air quality behavior cars Cabin air quality Promotion of research on Global expansion of V2X for 11 Activities underway Expansion of improvement technical solutions 4 energy management (Japan, U.S. Promoted expansion of usage vehicle usage and Europe) Reduction of Climate change (Corporate) Promotion of VOC emission VOC emissions 12 reduction per paint area (vs. Reduced by 27.5% Long-term vision: Achieve 80% reduction of CO2 emissions from corporate activities by 2050 (vs. 2005) at manufacturing FY2010) sites Overall reduction 30% reduction of CO2 emissions Resource dependency of CO2 emissions 5 per vehicle sold (vs. FY2005; Reduced by 34.0% from corporate global) Long-term vision: Reduce dependency on new materials by 70% activities Reduction of 36% reduction of CO2 emissions Development of Promotion of research on CO2 emissions 13 Development underway 6 per vehicle produced (vs. Reduced by 30.1% biomaterials technical solution at manufacturing FY2005; global) sites NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 054 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Activities NGP2022 Objectives FY2019 Results Business foundations Proper use Implementation of the Alliance Strengthened Alliance policy and Governance Implementation of our Adhered to environmental 14 of chemical policy on chemical substance 22 continued steady implementation enhancement environmental compliance policy compliance policy substances management New resource 30% reduction of new natural Promoted activities toward 15 usage Measure lifecycle environmental Continue to measure lifecycle resource usage per vehicle NGP2022 target Further application minimization 23 impact of vehicle and new environmental impact for new of LCA technology launched products in 2019. Expansion of Duplation of remanufactured item Promoted activities toward 16 remanufactured Implementation of environment coverage (vs. FY2016) NGP2022 target parts Engagement with data survey to promote Expand the supplier engagement 24 suppliers engagement and reduce opportunity through CDP survey environmental impact Expansion of Expansion of the EV battery 17 Promoted EV battery reuse battery reuse reuse business THANKS activities Further promotion of Supplier Continued to promote THANKS 25 promotion THANKS activities activities Adoption of diePlan and implement technical 18 Start adoption to heritage parts less forming development Nissan Green Strengthen the Nissan Green 26 Purchasing Adoption of updated policy Purchasing Guidelines and its Waste reduction BAU 2% (Japan) and BAU 1% Reduced by 5.8％(Japan) Guidelines adoption 19 (manufacturing) (overseas) reduction of waste Reduced by 4.3%(overseas) Training of instructor among Education domestic sales staff and conduct Waste to landfill Global expansion of Nissan education program on site. Reduced waste to landfill ratio to 27 program for the Start education program at 20 reduction Landfill ratio reduction Waku-Waku Eco school program 3.2% (global) next generation elementary school near Nissan (manufacturing) plant in Brazil Water scarcity Collaboration Continued joint projects with NGOs Enhancement of collaboration 28 with WWF and Conservation Water withdrawal 21% reduction of water for ecosystem and partnerships with NGOs International 21 reduction withdrawal per global production Reduced by 23.0% conservation (manufacturing) (vs. FY2010) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 055 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors CLIMATE CHANGE GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Toward a Carbon-Neutral Society Nissanʼs Steps to Reduce CO2 Emissions In 2015, the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) adopted The business structure of the automobile industry is changing greatly in the historic Paris Agreement to keep the increase in global temperature to the face of demands to reduce CO2 emissions and dependence on fossil “well below” 2 degrees Celsius. fuels. As a global automaker, Nissan considers emissions across the entire At COP24, held in 2018, parties agreed on concrete guidelines to achieve value chain it shares with its suppliers, from procurement of raw materials the goals of the Paris Agreement, namely, to peak-out global greenhouse to transportation and operation of vehicles. We understand how important it gas (GHG) emissions as early as possible and to strike a balance between is to balance environmental initiatives with business activities, and strive to GHG emissions from human activity and carbon absorption by nature by the reduce emissions through new technology development, renewable energy second half of this century. use and other measures. One of the United Nationsʼ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), announced in 2015 as part of its 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, set goal for climate actions. Nissan is responding to these developments by focusing on electrification and other innovative technologies and by promoting decarbonization through reductions in CO2 emissions throughout the value chain, including by suppliers. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 056 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-11 GRI102-15 Efforts at Every Link in the Value Chain Building a Resilient Climate Change Strategy The Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) aims to achieve carbon The incremental move toward decarbonization could generate major new neutrality by reducing emissions from our corporate activities, products and risks for businesses. In addition to transition risks resulting from changes in services. policies and regulations, technologies, markets and reputation, there are also growing physical risks, as climate change raises the frequency of extreme weather conditions. Recognizing climate change as a risk for the financial system, the G20 Financial Stability Board established the Task Force on CO2 Emissions in the Value Chain* Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to encourage disclosures that would enable investors to make informed decisions. In its June 2017 Offices, final report, the Task Force proposed a recommendations framework for Suppliers Production Logistics Vehicle usage dealerships Recycling information disclosure. 19.520 2.610 1.483 180.880 million tons million tons million tons 0.619 million tons Nissan considers climate change to be an issue that goes to the heart of its million tons operations. The Global Environmental Management Committee (G-EMC), co-chaired by a board member, identifies trends in climate-related risks and business opportunities and adopts strategies accordingly. Climate change and other environmental risks comprise a category of risks for corporate management and are regularly monitored by the Internal Control Committee to strengthen corporate governance. We analyze climate-related risks on an ongoing basis, and have specified as major risks tighter regulations on fuel economy and CO2 emissions, intensifying competition in the EV market and physical damage due to extreme weather conditions. We determine specific measures to be taken by each division after clarifying the risks and opportunities̶ including those Reducing CO2 emissions from corporate activities Reducing CO2 emissions from products and service relating to climate change ̶for our company. * Actual emissions in 2018. Additionally, climate change also greatly heightens customer needs for energy-efficient mobility. We are meeting those needs by clearing stringent CO2 emissions regulations, as outlined in the Nissan NEXT*1 midterm plan NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 057 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors calling for annual aggregate sales of 1 million 100% EV and e-POWER ・Corporate activity: Reduce overall corporate CO2 emissions by 80% compared with 2005 levels by 2050. vehicles by fiscal 2022. In our corporate activities, we are actively advancing * For more information on Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Initiatives. energy-saving measures, shifting to climate-efficient logistics and >>> P072 introducing renewable energy sources. ・Climate change indices, targets and achievements, along with Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions In the light of these climate-related risks and opportunities, we established are contained in this report under “NGP2022 Framework and Action Plan,” “Product Initiative: Achievements” and “Environmental Data.” a long-term vision for climate change*2 objective of reducing CO2 emissions from new vehicles in the year 2050 by 90% compared to emissions in fiscal 2000, while at the same time engaging in corporate activities aimed at achieving the target of reducing CO2 emissions in the year 2050 by 80% compared to emissions in fiscal 2005. In addition to establishing the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022)*3 midterm environmental action plan, we will formulate various future climate change scenarios to reinforce the resilience of our climate change strategy. We also seek to disclose information in line with the TCFD framework in order to facilitate further awaness of our actions among investors and other stakeholders. *1 Click here for more information on Nissan NEXT https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/MIDTERMPLAN/ *2 Long-term vision for climate change: ・Products: Reduce CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 90% compared to 2000 levels by 2050. * For more information on Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives. >>> P059 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 058 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Policies and Philosophy for Product Initiatives China) throughout the value chain as a whole. As a global leader in technological advancements through the electrification Reduction of Emissions from Products and Services of our products, we believe we can substantially contribute to the global According to a 2014 report from the Intergovernmental Panel on efforts to keep the temperature increase “well below” 2 degrees Celsius. Climate Change (IPCC), the transport sector was responsible for 14% of These initiatives also reinforce the sustainability of our own business. anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions from all economic sectors in 2010. We are driving the evolution of new technologies and businesses. Under As a business in this sector with continued growth in both unit sales and the umbrella of Nissan Intelligent Mobility,* we take a unified approach amount of passenger activity, Nissan is aiming to decouple emissions from to introducing, marketing and deploying new technologies, functions, company growth. businesses and services. * Click here for more information on Nissan Intelligent Mobility. Our Long-Term Vision https://www.nissanusa.com/experience-nissan/intelligent-mobility.html In 2006, based on calculations incorporating the findings of the IPCCʼs Third Assessment Report and the goal of keeping global temperatures from CO2 Reduction Scenario rising more than 2 degrees Celsius, we set a scientifically grounded target CO2 emissions from new cars Well-to-Wheel CO2 emissions reductions with future powertrains for 2050 of reducing product CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 90% （%） （%） compared to 2000 levels. 100 100 30% 40% 90% Recognizing that this would require drastic reduction of “well-to-wheel” CO2 80 80 emissions from new vehicles, we set about developing a new scenario for 60 60 powertrain technologies. 40 40 Under the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), to remain on track Renewable electricity with this target, we are aiming to reduce CO2 emissions from new vehicles 20 20 by 40% compared to fiscal 2000 by 2022 (in Japan, the U.S., Europe and 0 2000 2016 2022 2050 Internal Internal combustion engine combustion engine Electric vehicle Fuel-cell electric vehicle 0 base (FY) (non-hybrid vehicle) (hybrid vehicle) (EV) (FCEV) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 059 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Pursuing a Zero-Emission Society We participate in a comprehensive range of vehicle-related initiatives, including the development of lithium-ion batteries, secondary use and Electric vehicles (EVs) demonstrate that what is good for drivers and recycling of batteries, construction of vehicle-charging infrastructure, the planet is also good for business. Widespread use of zero-emission helping to make smart grids a reality and standardization of charging vehicles, which produce no CO2 emissions during operation, is an effective methods with other manufacturers. way of moving toward a sustainable society. The auto industry must go Increasing uptake of zero-emission vehicles will bring lifestyle changes that beyond simply producing and selling these vehicles to help establish the lay the groundwork for a new mobility society. We provide more than just EVs infrastructure necessary to make them economical to use. No company themselves̶ we also embrace the new values that they represent. can achieve this on its own. We consider the introduction and adoption of zero-emission vehicles one of the pillars of our corporate strategy. We are taking a comprehensive approach that involves boosting production and Building a Zero-Emission Society with EVs sales of zero-emission vehicles along with other activities coordinated with a variety of partners to popularize their use. We are committed to becoming a leader in the field of zero-emission vehicles. Not only are we increasing our development and production of zero-emission vehicles, we are forging numerous zero-emission partnerships with national and local governments, Zero-emission vehicle Battery engineering electric power companies and other industries to promote zero-emission Collaborating with governments engineering, manufacturing mobility and explore how the necessary infrastructure can be built. Battery secondary use, 4R business Smart grid research, Exploring possibilities Promoting EV recycling charging networks for mobility CHAdeMO Building charging infrastructure NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 060 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Establishing Leadership in the EV Sector Nissan EV Ecosystem Our commitment to sustainable mobility addresses concerns over climate change and supports the sustainable growth of the company. Nissan EV Ecosystem Our 2010 launch of the first Nissan LEAF made us pioneers of massproduced EVs. Since then, we have sold more than 620,000 EVs (including joint venture sales) around the world in total, and our transformation plan, Nissan NEXT, calls for even more Nissan EVs, designed to appeal to Nissan EVs Nissan Energy customers with an ever-wider range of needs. Furthermore, our history with EVs goes deeper than simply manufacturing and selling the vehicles themselves. We helped to establish an environment allowing EVs to become part of our customersʼ lifestyles, and developed the Nissan Energy Supply Nissan Energy Share Nissan Energy Storage Nissan Energy solution for enjoying life with an EV to the fullest. Together, Provides a range of charging Enables customers to use the The lithium-ion batteries used these initiatives created what we call the Nissan EV Ecosystem. solutions to promote electricity stored in the in Nissan EVs are highly As we continue to strive for a zero-emission society, we will expand and convenience and peace of high-capacity batteries of functional even after the end mind for EV owners. Nissan EVs for various of their first life powering an develop the Nissan EV Ecosystem even further. purposes. Electricity can be EV. With an eye to further shared with homes, adoption of EVs in the future, workplaces and local we are working on initiatives communities to provide new for secondary use. value to everyday life. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 061 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 Management of Product Initiatives 1. Adopt cleaner energy to reduce vehicle CO2 emissions Extend electrification across all brands under the Nissan Intelligent Mobility Key Activities in NGP2022 strategy.*1 Expand electric vehicle (EV) lineup and deploy e-POWER The CO2 emissions of a vehicle in use are influenced not only by engine technology in core Nissan products. performance and fuel type but also by traffic conditions and driving skills. Decarbonizing society will require new vehicle usage patterns. Nissan takes 2. Promote technology-based driver assistance and accelerate a threefold approach to mitigating real-world CO2 emissions that addresses connected car development and commercialization vehicle, driver and new mobility value. In consideration of environmental performance, Nissan developed the ECO Pedal to control excess fuel consumption during vehicle start and acceleration in an effort to promote technologies that support eco-driving. 3. Provide new mobility value Provide new mobility services and expand the value of vehicle use. Pursue global expansion of V2X*2 energy management solutions (commercialization in the United States and Europe, and expansion of LEAF to Home in Japan) and engage with stakeholders to support V2X device commercialization. *1 Click here for more information on Nissan Intelligent Mobility. https://www.nissanusa.com/experience-nissan/intelligent-mobility.html *2 V2X: Abbreviation for Vehicle to Everything, a term describing technology and systems for handling communication in vehicles. One example of V2X technology is Vehicle-to-Grid (V2G), which allows smart optimization of electricity supply according to demand. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 062 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI203-1 GRI203-2 GRI302-5 Product Initiatives: Achievements CO2 Emissions from New Vehicles (Global)* Toward a 40% Reduction in New Vehicle CO2 Emissions （%） 100 100 Nissan strives to develop technologies that maximize the overall energy 95 90.1 34.8％ efficiency of conventional internal combustion engines and improve reduction transmission performance. We are also working to boost the efficiency of 90 electrification systems that capture and reuse kinetic energy from braking. 85 Electrification is just one of our concrete monozukuri initiatives in technical 77.7 80 73.2 innovation. We select the optimal fuel economy technologies for particular 75 70.1 vehicles, taking into consideration factors like space within the vehicle, 67.6 67.4 70 usage and economics, and bring them to market. Our goal is to reduce fuel 65 66.6 67.0 65.2 consumption and CO2 emissions without sacrificing the pleasure and ease of 60 driving. By fiscal 2022, we aim to achieve a 40% reduction in CO2 emissions* 2000 2005 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） compared to fiscal 2000 levels. * From new vehicles in the Japanese, U.S., European and Chinese markets. In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions in Nissanʼs main markets of Japan, the U.S., Europe, and China were 34.8% lower than fiscal 2000 levels, as measured by Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE). Especially, improved in China from 2018 due to EV expansion and fuel consumption improvement. * Reduction in CO2 emissions calculated by Nissan. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 063 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI302-5 Electrification and Internal Combustion Engine Launched in October 2017, the new Nissan LEAF is a zeroInitiatives emission vehicle equipped with Nissan LEAF Sales Exceed 470,000, Further Reducing innovative semi-autonomous Environmental Burden drive technologies like ProPILOT, ProPILOT Park and The Nissan LEAF emits no CO2 or other exhaust during operation. Since its e-Pedal. It offers greater power launch in 2010, it has earned high praise for the smooth, strong acceleration output, a longer driving range and quiet operation of its electric motor powered by a lithium-ion battery. and more convenience than Nissan LEAF As part of our midterm plan, Nissan NEXT,, we are aiming for annual ever. aggregate sales of 1 million 100% electric vehicles (EVs) and e-POWER The Nissan LEAF rated highly throughout the world, in Japan, it won the vehicles by fiscal 2022. Total cumulative sales of the Nissan LEAF Japan Automotive Hall of Fame (JAHFA) “Car Technology of the Year” worldwide exceeded 470,000 vehicles as of March 2020. In China, we award. In the United States, at the 2018 CES®, it was among the “Best of manufacture the Nissan Sylphy Zero Emission model, which inherits the Innovation Award” winners for 2018; at the 2018 New York International core technologies of the Nissan LEAF, for the local market. While the low Auto Show, it was recognized as the “2018 World Green Car” and it also environmental impact of Nissanʼs EVs is attractive, these figures were likely received the “J.D. Power Engineering Award for Highest-Rated Vehicle driven at least in part by consumer awareness of other factors, such as Redesign” at the 2019 SAE International World Congress Experience. In low fuel and maintenance costs and superior acceleration and steering Europe, it received the “Best Electric Car” award at the 2018 What Car? performance. Awards. Nissan calculations show that the Nissan LEAF and other EVs can produce This significant improvement in power output and driving range is made fewer CO2 emissions over their entire lifecycle compared to gasolinepossible by a lighter and more compact high-capacity lithium-ion battery. powered vehicles of the same class―from the extraction of raw materials, By adopting a new material*1 capable of storing energy at a higher density, manufacturing, logistics and use, to end-of-life disposal. By contributing Nissan is able to decrease the batteryʼs size while increasing its capacity. to the shift to renewable energy, EVs play an essential role beyond This innovation made it possible to expand the Nissan LEAFʼs driving range transportation in helping to achieve a low-carbon society. from 200 kilometers (JC08 mode) to 400 kilometers*2 for the new Nissan LEAF, while at the same time improving electricity consumption. * For more information on Nissan LEAF lifecycle assessment. In January 2019, Nissan introduced the Nissan LEAF e+, equipped with a >>> P107 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 064 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors newly developed electric powertrain Serena that further enhances its acceleration capabilities during high speed operation and increases its maximum speed by about 10%.*3 *1 Our newly adopted layered structure for cathode material contributes to larger battery capacity by helping to store lithium ions at high density. *2 322km in WLTC mode, 150 miles under U.S. EPA standards. *3 458 km in WLTC mode. The maximum range is 226 miles under U.S. EPA standards and 385 km in European WLTP (combined cycle). Enhancing Our 100% Electric-Motor-Powered Previous Current New model e-POWER Drivetrain model model In November 2016, in Japan, we launched the first vehicle to feature our * CO2 emissions calculated from the fuel consumption rate in JC08 mode (measurement method of Japanʼs Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism). innovative new e-POWER drive system: the new compact Note e-POWER. In March 2018, the e-POWER system was further expanded to the Serena, The e-POWER system combines an electric motor, which drives the wheels, also for the Japanese market. Both the Note e-POWER and the Serena with a gasoline engine that charges the vehicleʼs battery. e-POWER is a e-POWER have received high praise from customers, achieving No. 1 sales technology that balances smoothness and the strength of a 100% motor rankings in their respective segments again in 2019 as in the previous drive with the highest level of fuel efficiency. In addition, because the actual year. Favorable evaluations also included receiving the 2019 annual “RJC drive comes from an electric motor, it offers driving comfort similar to that Technology of the Year” award, the Global NEV Top Innovation Technology of an EV, making e-POWER a new powertrain completely different from the Award at the first 2019 World New Energy Vehicles Congress (WNEVC) hybrid systems commonly used in previous compact cars. sponsored by the China Association for Science and Technology and As the gasoline engine does not directly drive the wheels, it can be run other organizations, and “The Ichimura Prize in Industry for Distinguished under optimal conditions (RPM, load) at all times to generate electricity. In Achievement” by the Ichimura Foundation for New Technology. city driving, where it is expected to see frequent use, the Serena e-POWER achieves top-class fuel economy* compared with standard hybrid vehicle types. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 065 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors In e-POWER Drive mode, the driver can accelerate or decelerate simply by provides a convenient and safe electrical power source that comes in handy using the accelerator pedal, while the regenerative brake system also helps for offsite jobs and outdoor events as well as emergencies. At construction improve fuel economy by charging the battery. sites, the e-NV200 contributes to reducing noise levels by providing electricity in place of engine generators. * As of when the model first went on sale, as measured in JC08 mode: Serena e-POWER, 26.2 km/L. Progress in Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles The e-NV200: A Practical, Sustainable City Delivery Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs) are hybrid cars that can run Vehicle on electricity charged from an external source as well as fuel. With this combination of engines and electric motors, they provide motor operation Based on the Nissan NV200, a multipurpose commercial van, the equivalent to EVs. We are actively developing PHEVs, leveraging Alliance e-NV200 retains the roominess and versatility of the NV200 and adds the technologies with a view to launching them in the future. acceleration performance and refinement of an EV. It has been produced at our Barcelona Plant in Spain since June 2014 and is sold mainly in Europe as well as Japan. The e-NV200 is used by taxi services in Barcelona and Fuel-Cell Electric Vehicles Amsterdam. In Japan, it has been adopted by a wide range of customers, Powered by electricity generated from hydrogen and oxygen, fuel-cell from urban delivery businesses to local authorities. electric vehicles (FCEVs) are another type of zero-emission vehicle that Compared to commercial vehicles using internal combustion engines, does not produce CO2 or other harmful emissions. We believe that, as part the e-NV200 reduces of building a sustainable mobility society, both FCEVs and EVs are viable operating costs and options from an energy diversity perspective. excels in environmental In alignment with Japanese government policies, we joined forces with performance with reduced Toyota Motor Corp., Honda Motor Co. and other companies to establish noise pollution and other Japan H2 Mobility, LLC (JHyM), targeting the full-fledged development features. Equipped with of hydrogen stations for FCEVs in Japan. Addressing the key issues two power outlets that raised during the initial stage of FCEV promotion, JHyM will ensure that can draw a maximum of infrastructure developers, automakers and investors all do their part to 1,500 watts of power from support the successful strategic deployment of hydrogen stations and As a mobile power source, the e-NV200 has a range of the battery, the vehicle business applications. effective operation of the hydrogen station business in Japan. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 066 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors New e-Bio Fuel-Cell Technology Announcement VC-Turbo : Worldʼs first variable compression ratio In June 2016, Nissan unveiled an e-Bio Fuel-Cell system that runs on bioengine in the market ethanol electric power. The new system ̶ a world first for automotive use ̶ The VC-Turbo is the worldʼs first mass produced variable features a solid oxide fuel-cell (SOFC) power generator. SOFC technology compression ratio engine, first deployed in November 2017 in the new can produce electricity with high efficiency using the reaction of oxygen with QX50, part of our INFINITI brandʼs premium vehicle lineup. The VC-Turbo has multiple fuels, including ethanol and natural gas. also been deployed in the United States and China, in the new Altima. This Infrastructure to support e-Bio Fuel-Cell usage is relatively easy to deploy, technology, which realizes a significant improvement in fuel efficiency, has and vehicles using this technology feature running costs as low as those of received high praise and several awards, which in Japan include the Society EVs, promising a smooth introduction to the market. Because our technology of Automotive Engineers of Japan, Inc., “Technological Development Award,” combines the efficient electricity generation of SOFC with the high energy the 54th Japan Society for the Promotion of Machinery Industry “Chairmanʼs density of liquid fuels, it can enable driving ranges on a par with gasolineAward,” and in the United States, the 2020 Wards “Wards 10 Best Engines.” powered vehicles. Commercial users that require higher uptime for their The engine swiftly selects the optimum compression ratio between 8:1 (for vehicles should increasingly be able to take advantage of this solution high performance) and 14:1 (for high efficiency) based on driving conditions thanks to the short refueling times it offers. and driver input. In addition to being lighter and more compact than comparable non-turbocharged engines, the VC-Turbo delivers reduced fuel consumption and emissions, lower noise levels and reduced vibration. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 067 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Development and Introduction of New Powertrains Initiatives for Lighter Vehicles Nissan is working to enhance fuel economy by improving gasoline-powered Toward Lighter Vehicles engines, the engines that are still the most widely used in the automobile market. Making vehicles lighter is an important part of improving fuel economy. In Europe, we adopted a new 1.0-liter, three-cylinder turbo gasoline engine Nissan promotes three methods to achieve this aim: substituting materials, in the Nissan Juke. The new engine features gasoline particulate filters to developing better forming and joining techniques and optimizing vehicle reduce air pollution, and improves fuel economy by 11% compared to the body structure. In terms of materials, we are rapidly expanding the adoption previous model equipped with a diesel engine through reduced wear loss of ultra-high tensile strength steel facilitating both high strength and and optimized designs for the combustion chamber and turbo system. formability, and in recent years, we have adopted this material for use in body The new “kei” minicar Nissan Roox released in Japan in March 2020 frame parts in a wide range of vehicle models, including “kei” vehicles such provides significantly improved fuel efficiency through the adoption of a new as the Nissan Dayz and Nissan Roox. 0.66 liter gasoline engine and a newly designed powertrain that combines a Further, in 2018, we adopted highly processible 980 megapascal (MPa) new CVT with a smart and simple hybrid system. Ultra High Tensile Strength Steel for the INFINITI QX50 that can be processed using conventional methods making it applicable for a wide range of parts. This results in the realization of enhanced driving performance and weight reductions, and achievement that was recognized in 2019 with the SAE/AISI Sydney H. Melbourne Award for Excellence in the Advancement of Automotive Steel Sheet. It also contributes to a reduction in total costs by reducing the amount of steel used and utilizing existing production lines. In addition to technological advances in materials and production methods, platform improvements, high-efficiency three-cylinder engines and other advances were adopted for the 2019 Nissan Juke and it realized to reduce vehicle weight by more than 20 kg while improving vehicle size and performance. Nissan will proactively promote the development of weight reduction technologies to reduce CO2 emissions and dependence on newly extracted natural resources. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 068 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Initiatives for Partnerships with Society Nissan Energy Share Nissan Energy: Solutions that Enrich Life and Society The electricity stored in the Nissan EVʼs battery can do more than just power with EVs the vehicle; it can be shared with homes, buildings and local communities through power conditioning systems. As part of our efforts to help build the EV ecosystem, we launched a Using inexpensive electricity during off-peak periods and excess electricity group of solutions we call Nissan Energy. Nissan Energy has three main generated by solar panels during daytime reduces electricity bill and helps components, each of which is designed to support our customersʼ lifestyles promote a model of local generation of electricity for local-consumption. with EVs in a different way. Furthermore, Nissan Energy Share makes it possible for EVs to provide backup power during blackouts or emergencies. Nissan Energy Supply Local communities can connect multiple EVs to regional power grids to Nissan Energy Supply includes various electric charging solutions that bring store or discharge electricity in accordance with power supply and demand ease and convenience to the lifestyles of our EV customers. balance, which contributes to the stability of the entire communityʼs power The majority of our EV customers find it convenient to charge their EVs at supply and promotes renewable energy use. EVʼs high capacity batteries are home. To help ensure that our vehicles can be safely charged, we guide highly expected as usage as social infrastructure, which enables to store customers to use suitable charging equipment and engage qualified renewable energy like solar power of which generation is difficult to control. installers to install electrical outlets dedicated to EVs. The Nissan LEAF, which offers an ample driving range for daily use, utilizes a fast-growing charging network, providing drivers with confidence during Local Energy Production and Consumption and EVs longer distance drives and short outings. Since 2018, Nissan along with Nippon Telegraph and Telephone West Our dedicated EV app lets customers find and check the real-time status of Corporation and NTT Smile Energy has verified the efficacy and business charging stations. This not only makes charging easier and more convenient potential of Vehicle-to-Building (V2B) by conducting projects combining but also provides a seamless charging experience. As of the end of fiscal remote control EV charging and discharging with solar power generation 2019, approximately 32,300 quick chargers conforming to the CHAdeMO systems in an attempt to simultaneously reduce both electric power protocol have been installed worldwide. consumption and CO2 by reducing office building peak energy consumption. Also, since 2018, Nissan, the Tohoku Electric Power Co., Ltd., and other companies have participated in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Agency for Natural Resources and Energy “Virtual Power Plant Construction NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 069 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Demonstration Project That Utilizes Demand-side Energy Resources.” In a new solution for fixed storage batteries built with used batteries from the anticipation of the introduction of wind power and other energy sources Nissan LEAF. To get started, we launched a proof-of-concept demonstration of which generation varies at any time, we are conducting technical of “procuring electric power from renewable energy at 7-Eleven stores in verifications to understand how EVs are effective in adjusting supply 10 locations across Kanagawa Prefecture. Under this scheme, 7-Eleven will and demand aiming for Vehicle to Grid (V2G), by remotely controlling the introduce a package consisting of the Nissan LEAF electric vehicle and fixed charging and discharging of multiple EVs. storage batteries built with used batteries from the Nissan LEAF. The Nissan LEAF, which will be introduced as a commercial vehicle, will become a Nissan Energy Storage stationary storage battery after its use as a car has ended. The introduction of a package like this facilitates the creation of a circular system that takes The life of an EV battery is not over when it has finished its first life of into account the reuse of batteries. powering a car. As more and more customers switch to EVs, the supply of batteries capable of secondary use is expected to increase significantly. In 2010, Nissan, as an EV pioneer, joined forces with Sumitomo Corp. to Launched Testing to Expanding EV Usage in California establish 4R Energy Corp., which specializes in repurposing lithium-ion Californiaʼs active promotion of five million zero-emission vehicles by 2030 batteries. The intention is to fully utilize resources by promoting the four Rs has helped make it the U.S. state with the largest volume of private EV of lithium-ion batteries̶ reuse, resell, refabricate and recycle ̶ with the aim sales. Even so, drivers still tend to use EVs for short-distance travel such as of building an efficient cycle of battery use. shopping or commuting. At the request of NEDO, and with the California governmentʼs cooperation, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (NML) and Kanematsu Reuse system realized using EV batteries Corp. started a project in November 2016 in partnership with U.S. charging infrastructure service provider EVgo to install over 55 fast chargers in In conjunction with 4R Energy Corp., Nissan aims to create secondary usage more than 25 new locations along one of Californiaʼs most important travel method business models compatible with the capacity changes of individual arteries. Additionally, the project has created information service systems Nissan EVs and batteries that will be fully utilized (cascade reuse) throughout to guide EV users to the most appropriate fast charger. These initiatives are the electric vehicle lifecycle. part of a pilot business to demonstrate the efficacy of expanding the driving In September 2019, Nissan and 4R Energy announced the establishment of range of EVs. The project is designed to expand the driving range of EVs NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 070 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors to include intercity travel, and will run until September 2020, collecting and for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, we have been testing analyzing a range of EV data to establish models for further expansion of EV ultracompacts as rental cars for sightseeing on the island of Shikine-jima, usage. Tokyo, since May 2018. This is a trial business aimed at expanding the use of EVs on small islets, an idea promoted by the Tokyo metropolitan government. The Nissan New Mobility Concept We make full use of the knowledge and information acquired from all of our nationwide projects, offering advice on new uses for EVs and ways to The Nissan New Mobility Concept is an ultracompact 100% electric vehicle improve traffic flow and implement smart mobility for the next generation. that was developed in response to social trends like rising numbers of senior citizens, single-member households and the increasing use of automobiles * For more information on Climate Change (Products) for short-distance trips by just one or two people. Even smaller than a “kei” >>> P213 minicar, the Nissan New Mobility Concept offers the driver excellent visibility and a good feel for the dimensions of the vehicle, making it an ideal choice for use in residential neighborhoods and other areas with narrow streets and poor visibility, as well as regional cities and islands pursuing compact-city policies. Since fiscal 2011, with cooperation from Japanʼs Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), we have conducted tests and surveys through driving trials held together with corporations and local governments. Based on MLITʼs January 2013 announcement of an authorization system for use of ultracompact vehicles on public roads, we are currently testing vehicles in 25 areas, including the area covered by Choimobi Yokohama, a round-trip urban ride-sharing service that we operate together with the city of Yokohama. To date, the vehicles have mainly been The Choimobi Yokohama round-trip ride-sharing service using used for tourist purposes as part of regional revitalization, but, in preparation the Nissan New Mobility Concept. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 071 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Policies and Philosophy for Corporate Activity Long-Term Vision and Road Map Initiatives Long-Term Vision of Reducing CO2 Emissions from Corporate Activities As a long-term vision for climate change, we aim to realize an 80% reduction Reducing CO2 Emissions from Corporate Activities in CO2 emissions per vehicle from corporate activities by 2050 (vs. 2005). Nissan is taking steps to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions from corporate activities by promoting energy efficiency measures and also the NGP2022 Long-Term Vision use of renewable energy. 100% Based on calculations incorporating the findings of the Fourth Assessment 20% 30% 80% Report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Nissan established the goal of reducing its overall corporate CO2 emissions by 80% compared with 2005 levels by 2050. As part of the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), we set the midterm goal of a 30% reduction in overall corporate CO2 emissions by 2022. Manufacturing is our largest emissions source, but we are also aiming to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from logistics, offices and dealerships, setting targets and taking action in each area. 2005 base 2016 2022 2050 * CO2 emission per vehicle NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 072 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 Management of Corporate Activity Initiatives NGP2022 Objectives Targets for each link in the value chain under the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) aimed at achieving our long-term goals in 2050 are as follows: Manufacturing Logistics Overall: 30% reduction in CO2 emissions from global corporate activities by 36% reduction in CO2 12% reduction in CO2 2022 (vs. 2005/per vehicle sold) emissions from logistics emissions from global in Japan, North America, manufacturing sites by Europe and China by 2022 2022 (vs. 2005/per vehicle (vs. 2005/per vehicle manufactured) manufactured) Offices Dealerships 12% reduction in CO2 12% reduction in CO2 emissions from global offices emissions from dealerships in by 2022 (vs. 2010/per floor Japan by 2022 (vs. 2010/per area) floor area) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 073 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI302-2 GRI305-1 GRI305-2 GRI305-4 GRI305-5 Corporate Activity Initiatives: Achievements to control at low temperatures, realizing a low-temperature body paint. This enables the simultaneous painting of the body and bumpers, reducing CO2 30% Reduction in Emissions from Corporate Activities emissions by 25%. In the past, residual airborne paint was mixed with water In fiscal 2011, Nissan broadened the scope of its CO2 reduction objectives and disposed of as waste. However, the adoption of dry booths do not use to include logistics, offices and sales companies, as well as production sites. any water at all and enable to collect 100% of the residual airborne paint, We expanded our emission-related initiatives, introducing high-efficiency which is reused as an alternative to auxiliary agents to remove impurities in equipment, energy-saving measures and the use of renewable energy, and the iron casting process. also strengthened our management of these initiatives. Our objective is to * Click here for more information on Nissan Intelligent Factory reduce CO2 emissions associated with corporate activities by 30% globally https://global.nissannews.com/en/releases/release-ca298f94d2418782118342f5fd0448b6by fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2005 levels, as measured by the index of 191128-02-e CO2 emissions per vehicle (total emissions generated from Nissan global corporate activities divided by total Nissan vehicles sales volume). In fiscal 2019, we achieved a 34.0% reduction from the fiscal 2005 t-CO2 /vehicle level. * Global CO2 emissions per vehicle: The total volume of CO2 emissions produced through Nissanʼs corporate activities globally divided by the number of Nissan vehicles sold globally. Next-Generation Vehicle Manufacturing Concept: Nissan Intelligent Factory In line with the acceleration of vehicle electrification, intelligence and the Nissan Intelligent Mobility concept promoted by Nissan, vehicle functions and construction are becoming increasingly complex. As further technological innovations will be essential in the production process, we announced the Nissan Intelligent Factory vehicle manufacturing concept. These innovations include Nissanʼs development of a new water-based paint that successfully controls the viscosity of body paint, which had been difficult NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 074 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI302-1 GRI302-4 Saving Energy in Global Production booths can reuse air without dehumidifying it, reducing energy consumption to less than half its previous levels. Most CO2 emissions in the manufacturing process come from the consumption of energy generated by fossil fuels. We engage in a variety of *1 Source: Nissan energy-saving activities in the manufacturing process in pursuit of the lowest energy consumption and CO2 emissions of any automaker. Three-Wet Paint Process (Combined Primer and Topcoat Application) In the realm of automotive production technology, we are introducing highly Conventional Primer Topcoat Primer efficient equipment, improving manufacturing techniques and using energyprocess Preparation Primer oven finishing (base and clear coat) Topcoat oven Topcoat Electrocoating finishing saving lighting in our assembly plants. Another key approach is our threeVehicle Sealing Assembly body wet paint process. Vehicle painting is responsible for approximately 30% of Processes consolidated in single primer booth all CO2 emissions from plants; and shortening or eliminating baking stages New substantially reduces emissions. process Preparation Primer Topcoat (base and Topcoat clear coat) oven Topcoat The three-wet paint process adopted by Nissan removes the need to bake Vehicle Electrocoating Sealing finishing body Assembly between the primer and the topcoat layers. Instead, layers are applied successively before baking, reducing CO2 emissions by more than 30%*1, Oven process Reduces CO2 emissions by applying primer and topcoat (base coat and clear coat) layers in according to our calculations. Starting in 2013, we introduced this process succession, combining two processes ( ① and ② in the upper diagram) into one ( ① in the lower at Nissan Motor Kyushu (NMK), the Smyrna Plant in the United States, the diagram). second Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico (operational since November 2013), the Resende Plant in Brazil (operational since February 2014) and the COMPAS (Cooperation Manufacturing Plant Aguascalientes) manufacturing At the same time, in the powertrain production technology area, Nissan complex, a joint venture with Daimler México that started operations in is working to reduce holding furnace energy usage in cast iron melting December 2017, as well as the Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom processes conducted by the Casting Division. Traditionally, in the melting (operational since September 2018). At NMK, we were able to adopt the process, two holding furnaces were used to store two types of cast three-wet process with no shutdown of production lines, and as a result iron melts with adjusted carbon and sulfur component contents. Now, successfully shortened total production time. We also adopted dry paint intermediate molten metal with a low carbon and sulfur content is stored in booths at our Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom. Previously, systems one holding furnace. When transporting from the holding furnace to another for recycling air expelled from booths for reuse needed dehumidifying process, the ingredients are adjusted by adding additive materials, creating processing to ensure that the air was at the humidity required. Dry paint two types of molten metal and making it possible to eliminate one holding NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 075 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors furnace. As a result, power consumption was reduced by approximately To reach our defined objectives for CO2 emissions and energy use, we solicit 3,600 MWh per year (CO2 conversion: Approximately 1,700 tons per year; oil facility proposals from each global site, preferentially allocating investment conversion amount: Approximately 900 kiloliters per year). This corresponds based on the potential CO2 reduction compared to project costs. Making to about 11% of the power consumed in the melting processes conducted the value of carbon a key factor in internal evaluations lets us invest more by the cast iron factory located onsite at the Tochigi Plant. In light of this efficiently and be more competitive. In Japan, we converted outdated achievement, Nissan won the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy facilities into cutting-edge high-efficiency facilities with investments to Award in the Small Group Activities category at the Energy Conservation improve energy efficiency, including energy-saving roof insulation upgrades. Grand Prize Awards for fiscal 2019, sponsored by The Energy Conservation Our plants use finely controlled lighting and air conditioning for low-energyCenter, Japan (ECCJ). use and low-energy-loss operations. We promote CO2 emission reduction activities and introduced cutting-edge energy-conservation technology from Japan in our plants worldwide. Around the globe, our plants learn and share Cast iron melting process best practices with each other, while Nissan Energy Saving Collaboration (NESCO)*2 diagnoses energy loss at plants in regions where it is active and proposes new energy-saving countermeasures. These proposals amount to Before After Cupola Cupola a potential reduction in CO2 emissions of some 53,000 tons*3 in fiscal 2019, according to our calculations. Desulfurization Two kinds of molten metal Desulfurization/ process Gray cast iron When sourcing energy, we consider the balance of CO2 emissions for the carburization process Improvement Intermediate molten metal Ductile cast iron entire company alongside renewable energy usage rate and cost, choosing Gray cast iron Ductile cast iron suppliers best suited for achieving each goal. Through such activities, CO2 emissions per vehicle produced in fiscal 2019 were brought down to Holding furnace approximately 0.51 tons, a reduction of 30.1% from the fiscal 2005 level. Holding furnace Holding furnace Adding additives *2 Established in Japan in 2003, then in Europe, Mexico and China in 2013 *3 Source Nissan NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 076 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Energy Input （FY） （FY） Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total MWh 9,683,528 10,189,082 9,532,840 9,252,737 8,443,465 External By region Electricity MWh 4,979,114 5,247,663 4,755,897 4,711,467 4,445,380 (purchased) Japan MWh 4,115,353 4,497,562 4,084,912 3,700,532 3,522,281 Renewable MWh 141,076 157,226 133,212 135,574 153,773 energy*1 North America MWh 2,583,613 2,643,303 2,452,299 2,570,438 2,269,797 Chilled MWh 12,116 12,919 6,661 7,487 7,025 water Europe MWh 1,107,279 1,093,103 1,126,186 1,048,201 838,714 Heated MWh 4,630 4,690 5,000 5,000 5,000 water Other MWh 1,877,283 1,955,115 1,869,443 1,933,566 1,812,673 Steam MWh 100,000 136,593 128,038 102,324 126,811 By energy source Internal Primary Electricity (in-house MWh 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 12,164 generation) Natural gas MWh 3,346,141 3,537,674 3,701,640 3,579,998 3,126,933 Renewable energy*2 MWh 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 12,164 LPG MWh 303,826 249,426 179,945 191,405 175,996 Coke MWh 206,307 217,431 218,618 200,527 172,500 Total renewable MWh 150,499 169,073 147,821 148,788 165,937 energy Heating oil MWh 188,943 209,232 147,522 113,200 91,315 *1 Volume of renewable energy in electricity purchased by Nissan. Gasoline MWh 302,564 303,040 299,000 259,045 241,010 *2 Volume of renewable energy generated by Nissan at its facilities and consumed for its own purposes. Diesel MWh 55,099 57,488 48,259 53,074 23,044 Heavy oil MWh 34,289 43,853 27,652 15,995 16,287 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 077 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Energy Inputs and Energy Consumption Carbon Footprint of Corporate Activities （FY） The total energy consumption of our global corporate activities during fiscal 単位 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 was about 8.443 million MWh, a 9% decrease from fiscal 2018. This Scope 1 t-CO2 926,790 963,661 912,476 889,444 765,370 reduction was primarily due to the promotion of energy-saving activities at Scope 2 t-CO2 2,547,951 2,614,028 2,394,109 2,339,883 2,173,236 facilities and a decline in total production volume. Production sites globally accounted for 7.486million MWh* of total energy consumption. Scope 1+2 t-CO2 3,474,741 3,577,689 3,306,584 3,229,327 2,938,606 Japan t-CO2 1,479,572 1,579,089 1,333,335 1,208,303 1,142,233 * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. North t-CO2 800,724 823,340 683,332 738,234 607,605 >>> P100 America Europe t-CO2 208,088 176,285 228,998 221,692 182,973 * Energy inputs and CO2 emissions at global production sites are assured by a third party. Other t-CO2 986,359 998,976 1,060,920 1,061,098 1,005,794 （MWh） 10,189,082 Scope 3 t-CO2 144,145,000 150,462,000 213,715,000 203,106,900 173,138,601 9,683,528 9,532,840 10,000,000 9,252,737 8,443,465 8,000,000 4,115,353 4,497,562 4,084,912 In fiscal 2019, the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions was 2.939 million tons. 3,700,532 3,522,281 Japan Total CO2 emissions from manufacturing processes were 2.408million tons 6,000,000 (Scope 1 emissions: 0.670million tons; Scope 2 emissions: 1.738million 2,583,613 2,643,303 2,452,299 2,570,438 tons).* North 4,000,000 2,269,797 America 1,107,279 1,093,103 1,126,186 1,048,201 * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please 838,714 Europe 2,000,000 see here. 1,877,283 1,955,115 1,869,443 1,933,566 1,812,673 Other >>> P100 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 078 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI302-1 GRI302-4 Carbon Footprint of Manufacturing Activities Promoting Renewable Energy （1,000t-CO2） Nissan takes three approaches toward promoting the adoption and 3,138 3,000 2,824 2,610 integration of renewable energy in line with the characteristics of each 2,426 2,418 region: (1) generating our own power in company facilities; (2) sourcing energy with a higher proportion of renewables; and (3) leasing land, facilities 2,000 and other assets to power companies. As an example of the first approach, our Sunderland Plant in the United 1,000 Kingdom introduced 10 wind turbines supplying up to 6.6 MW of power. The plant also has a 4.75-MW solar farm, installed in 2016, and together 0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) these renewable sources account for about 8% of the power it uses. At our Iwaki Plant, the guest hall for plant visitors is powered by solar energy. By storing surplus electricity in secondhand Nissan LEAF batteries, the plant both stabilizes the energy supply and uses resources more effectively. At the Huadu Plant of Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle (DFL-PV) in China, solar panels with a total capacity of 30 MW have been in operation since Manufacturing CO2 per Vehicle Produced 2017, providing roughly 8% of the electricity used at the plant Regarding the second approach, our first Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico （t-CO2/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, our manufacturing 0.8 0.73 actively uses energy generated from biomass gas and wind power and has CO2 emissions per vehicle achieved a renewable energy usage rate of 50% since 2013. produced were 0.51 tons, 30.1% 0.6 0.53 0.50 0.49 0.51 Finally, we leased approximately 350,000 square meters of unused land less than fiscal 2005. in Oita Prefecture for solar power generation in May 2013, and the roof of 0.4 group company Nissan Kohkiʼs Samukawa Plant was leased for the same purpose in January 2014. 0.2 Through these efforts, we have enhanced the renewable energy usage rate 0.0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） at our production plants as part of reducing CO2 emissions. In fiscal 2019, our renewable energy usage rate reached 10%. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 079 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors *In addition, we installed a solar farm (with an output of approximately 200 kW) at a plant in in Japan are now transported by sea. Parts shipments to NMK from the Spain. Kanto area in and around Tokyo are nearly all conducted by rail and ship. The Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) has More Efficient Logistics and Modal Shifts recognized Nissan as an outstanding enterprise for this modal shift to sea In 2000, Nissan began sending chartered trucks for pickup and delivery transport. of parts. This approach ̶ adopted widely across the company, including at At Nissan sites outside Japan, transport methods are selected to best overseas manufacturing sites̶ has increased global operational efficiency. match the local geographical conditions. Transport of completed vehicles is We work together with suppliers to optimize the frequency of deliveries and increasingly shifting from truck to rail or ship, depending on the destination. transport routes and improve packaging specifications for better loading In China, we are increasing the proportion of completed vehicles that are ratios so fewer trucks are required. We are also pursuing a modal shift from transported domestically by ship or rail. trucks to rail for transport. Since 2010, we have also been promoting the use of energy-efficient Through a 2014 expansion of this approach to include cooperative transport vessels for sea shipments of our vehicles. Today, our fleet has grown to of production parts with other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), include seven energy-efficient car carriers.*1 in addition to complete vehicles and service parts, we are seeking further As we expand our global logistics operations, we will continue to increase efficiency in this area. We work from the design stage of new vehicles efficiency and effect a modal shift in transportation, targeting a 12% to reduce transportation distances by sourcing necessary production reduction in CO2 emissions by fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2005 levels, components for plants through localization as much as possible. as measured by the index of CO2 emissions per vehicle.*2 In fiscal 2019, CO2 Our engineers devise efficient packaging for the huge number of parts emissions per global vehicle were approximately 0.38 tons̶ a reduction of of different shapes and materials that go into automobiles. Through about 11.5%. simultaneous-engineering logistics, we work from the design stage to create *1 More information can be accessed on Nissanʼs energy-efficient car carriersʼ page. parts and develop new vehicles that enhance transportation efficiency, as *2 Total emissions generated from transportation to Nissan manufacturing sites and retail well as reduce parts shipments per vehicle. outlets in Japan, North America, Europe and China divided by the total number of vehicles In container transport, we have taken a range of measures to improve transported. container filling rates for parts transport, from 40-foot “high cube” containers * Data related to climate change (initiatives through corporate activities) is also available here. >>> P217 to software simulations that reduce wasted container space. We constantly review transport methods and are currently undertaking a modal shift to rail and maritime transport. Some 80% of completed vehicles NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 080 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors CO2 Emissions from Logistics （FY） CO2 Emissions per Vehicle Transported Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （t-CO2/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions Total t-CO2 1,598,891 1,926,477 1,567,248 1,482,982 1,144,338 0.5 per vehicle transported were 0.43 0.39 0.38 0.38 0.4 0.37 0.38 tons. Inbound* t-CO2 797,034 809,088 739,610 762,314 582,957 0.3 Outbound* t-CO2 801,857 1,117,389 827,638 720,667 561,381 0.2 Sea ％ 18.3 17.8 20.0 19.9 21.1 0.1 Road ％ 65.7 62.1 64.6 60.3 64.1 0.0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Rail ％ 5.4 5.6 7.0 6.7 5.9 Office Initiatives Air ％ 10.6 14.5 8.4 13.1 8.9 We promote efforts to reduce CO2 emissions at Nissan offices in Japan, * “Inbound” includes parts procurement from suppliers and transportation of knockdown parts; “Outbound” includes transportation of complete vehicles and service parts. North America, Europe and China. * Value in 2016 were corrected after recalculation. In Japan, through Nissan Trading, we operate the Nissan Power Producers and Suppliers (PPS) scheme, sourcing clean energy for which CO2 emissions and costs have been taken into account through Japanʼs PPS In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions from logistics were 1,144,338 tons, system. In 2019, approximately 26,657 MWh of clean energy was supplied to down approximately 23% from the previous fiscal year. Emissions from five Japanese business locations.* transportation of parts and completed vehicles declined due to air freight NESCO teams have also expanded the scope of their activities beyond reduction and production volume reduction in China and North America production plants to contribute to reducing emissions in the Nissan decreasing our overall CO2 emissions. Technical Center in Atsugi. Our efforts go beyond just CO2 management. We are pursuing other environmentally-friendly policies, such as improving our video and telephone conference facilities and using software to bring participants in multiple locations together when they need to share documents. This reduces the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 081 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors number of business trips required worldwide, improves workplace efficiency Dealership Initiatives and reduces costs. Nissan promotes CO2 management at dealerships with the aim of reducing * Global Headquarters, Sagamihara Parts Center, Nissan Education Center, Customer Service total emissions per floor area by 1% each year. Our retail outlets also work Center and Honmoku Wharf (all in Kanagawa Prefecture). continually to increase energy efficiency. Many have adopted high-efficiency air conditioning, insulation films, ceiling fans and LED lighting. During GRI103-1 GRI103-2 renovation work, some outlets have installed lighting systems that make use Green Building Policy of natural daylight, as well as insulated roofs. In addition, to source electricity Based on ISO 14001 management processes to evaluate environmental with low environmental load, we have broadened supply from PPS systems, impact, we make it a key task to optimize our buildings during construction including our own, to provide 123,115 MWh of power (equivalent to an annual or refurbishing to make all our structures greener. Evaluation metrics in this reduction of some 1,045 tons in CO2 emissions) to 760 retail outlets in the area include environmental footprint, such as CO2 emissions; waste and Kanto, Chubu, Tohoku, Kansai, Chugoku and Kyushu regions. emissions from construction methods; and use of hazardous materials and Since April 2000, we have run a unique environmental facility certification other quality control issues. Furthermore, one performance index for Nissan system based on ISO 14001 for dealerships called “Nissan Green Shop.” in Japan is MLITʼs Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Our environmental policy requires all dealerships in Japan to meet certain Efficiency (CASBEE)*. standards and undergo annual audits Among our current business facilities, our Global Headquarters in the city of performed by our teams. The dedicated Yokohama has earned CASBEEʼs highest “S” ranking, making it the second evaluation sheet has a total of 84 key Nissan structure to do so following the Nissan Advanced Technology Center performance indicators (KPIs) and (NATC) in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture. is regularly revised to reflect the Global Headquarters gained a Built Environment Efficiency Rating of 5.6, requirements of national legislation, the highest CASBEE rating for a new structure, making it one of Japanʼs local communities and the Nissan Green greenest office buildings. The buildingʼs use of natural energy sources to Program (NGP). Solar panels installed on the roof reduce its energy usage and its CO2 emissions were evaluated highly, as of a Kanagawa Nissan dealership. Power from the panels is supplied to were its methods of water recycling and its significant reduction in waste dealerships through the Nissan PPS produced. system. * Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 082 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors AIR QUALITY GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Air Quality Policies and Philosophy partnership with national and local governments, electric power companies and other industries. Nissan approaches air quality by focusing on two points: greener exhaust emissions and providing a pleasant in-cabin environment to customers. 2. Enhancing Internal Combustion Engines In this way, we will strive to consider ecosystems while pursuing mobility that provides more comfort and security to customers. According to the We have proactively set voluntary standards and emission-reduction targets State of Global Air 2018 report issued by the U.S.-based Health Effects for conventional internal combustion engines. With the ultimate goal of Institute (HEI), 95% of the worldʼs population currently lives in regions making automotive emissions as clean as the atmosphere itself, we have where particulate matter smaller than 2.5 μm (PM2.5) exceeds the 10 μ developed a wide range of technologies and achieved the results listed g/m3 basic level specified by World Health Organization (WHO) Air Quality below through cleaner combustion technologies, catalysts for purifying Guidelines. Furthermore, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and emissions and countermeasures against gas vapors from gasoline tanks. Development (OECD) predicts that the global population will exceed 9 billion We will continue our efforts to ensure cleaner exhaust emissions from by 2050, with around 70% of people concentrated in cities, making air internal combustion engines, which remain the most commonly used in the pollution in urban areas an even more pressing issue. automotive market. For an automaker, air pollution stands alongside climate change and congestion as an issue for cities in particular that must be remedied. Nissan •Sentra CA (released in the United States in January 2000): The is advancing its efforts to improve air quality with two approaches: worldʼs first gasoline-powered vehicle that satisfied all the exhaust gas requirements set by the California Air Resources Board to receive Partial 1. Promoting Zero-Emission Vehicles Zero Emissions Vehicle (PZEV) certification. •Bluebird Sylphy (released in Japan in August 2000): The first passenger Electric vehicles (EVs), such as the Nissan LEAF, which has cumulative vehicle made in Japan to achieve Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle (U-LEV)* global sales of more than 470,000 units as of March 2020, are an effective certification. tool for reducing air pollution in urban areas. As a leader in this field, we are promoting zero-emission mobility and infrastructure construction in * U-LEV: Vehicle that produces 75% less nitrogen oxide (NOx) and nonmethane hydrocarbon (NMHC) than the 2000 emission standards level in Japan. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 083 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Improving In-Cabin Air Quality Reducing VOC Emissions from Production With autonomous drive technologies currently in development and projected Nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur oxide (SOx) and VOCs are recognized as to be in practical use from 2020, drivers are expected to spend more time in common forms of emissions created by vehicle manufacturing facilities. We their vehicles, making it even more important for that space to be pleasant are taking firm measures to ensure that management standards and systems and safe. The Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022) is calling for for atmospheric emissions are thoroughly followed; and working to reduce research and development not just to make exhaust emissions cleaner but both VOC exhaust volumes and the use of VOC-emitting substances to also to improve in-cabin air quality as well. levels lower than required by national regulations. As part of our continued efforts concerning volatile organic compounds We are actively working to increase the recovery of cleaning solvents (VOCs)* such as formaldehyde and toluene, Nissan is further reviewing and and other chemicals in order to reduce the amounts of these substances reducing materials for seats, door trim, floor carpet and other parts as well emitted from our plants ahead of the implementation of new regulations as adhesives. We voluntarily set more stringent standards than those of the in each country where we operate. Also, we are systematically introducing Japanese government and automotive industry body regulations, and have water-based paint lines that emit fewer VOCs and improving thinner-solvent applied them to all new vehicles introduced to the market from July 2007 recycling rates to reduce our use of VOC-emitting substances. onward. As one example, the water-based paint line in the Nissan Motor Kyushu Plant has VOC emissions of less than 20 grams per square meter of painted * VOCs: Organic chemicals that readily evaporate and become gaseous at normal temperature surface, which is top-class in the industry. These lines have also been and pressure conditions. adopted at two Aguascalientes plants in Mexico, the Resende Plant in Brazil, the Smyrna Plant in the United States, the Huadu Plant in China and other plants. Additionally, we have adopted low-NOx burners as the heat source for the ovens and boiler equipment used in the car painting process and promote the switch from heavy oil and kerosene to fuels with low SOx emissions to reduce the emission and concentration of NOx and SOx. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 084 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI305-5 GRI305-7 Air Quality: Achievements Compliance with Emissions Regulations (By Region) （FY） unit 2019 Compliance with Emissions Regulations (Passenger Cars Only) 75% lower than 2005 standard and Japan ％ 92.1 50% lower than 2018 standard Nissan not only works to develop and promote zero emission electric vehicles (EVs) but continues to promote cleaner exhaust emissions from Europe Euro 6b/c ％ (TBD)* all of our engines. For example, the Qashqai released in Europe in October 2018 has a new fuel-efficient 1.3-liter turbo gasoline engine fitted with U.S. U-LEV/SULEV/ZEV ％ 99.8 a particulate filter that meets the Euro 6d-Temp* emissions standard. In Japan, our e-POWER electrification technology has resulted in a significant China National 5 ％ 100 lowering of fuel consumption while achieving 75% reductions in exhaust * Passenger cars and light commercial vehicles only. emissions from 2005 standards. As part of these efforts, our compliance To be updated in WEB site after EUR result is available. with emissions regulations goes far beyond current legal requirements to meet more stringent specifications. Due to differences in regulations, there is no direct way to compare by region or country, but the table below shows the percentage of Nissan vehicles in each location produced to the strictest local standards. * Euro 6d-Temp: All Euro 6 standards and the initial Real-Driving Emissions (RDE) limit for new car models. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 085 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Plant Emission Management Lower VOC Emissions We thoroughly implement systems and control standards at our production Volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which readily evaporate to become plants to reduce the amount of air pollutants emitted during operation. Our gaseous in the atmosphere, account for approximately 90% of the chemicals air pollution control targets are more stringent than those mandated by the released as the result of our vehicle production processes. Lowering VOC countries in which we operate. emissions is a challenge that we are working to address. We strive to In Japan, we have adopted strict measures for emissions of NOx and SOx increase our recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals in order to pollutants from our factories, reducing the amount of these emissions to limit the amounts of these substances emitted from our plants ahead of one quarter of the levels emitted in the 1970s. We have lowered NOx and implementation of new regulations in each country where we operate, while SOx emissions by introducing low-NOx burners in the ovens and boilers also advancing planned measures to increase the recycling rate for waste that provide heat for painting lines, and by switching the fuel used by those solvents. We are also introducing water-based paint lines that limit VOC burners from heavy oil and kerosene to alternatives with low SOx emissions. emissions to less than 20 grams per square meter of painted surface. We have adopted these lines in Nissan Motor Kyushu as well as at two plants in Aguascalientes in Mexico, the Resende Plant in Brazil, the Smyrna Plant in the United States, the Huadu Plant in China and the Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom. We achieved a reduction of 27.2% in fiscal 2019 in VOC emissions per painted surface area compared with fiscal 2010 levels. * For more information on Air Quality. >>> P223 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 086 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors RESOURCE DEPENDENCY GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy Long-Term Vision for Reducing Resource Dependency Resource usage With the worldʼs population forecast to exceed 9 billion by 2050, demand for per vehicle natural resources like minerals and fossil fuels is set to rise. This makes it 100% even more important to maximize the value obtained from these resources. 20% Non-new material resources, The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations such as recycled materials and biomaterials 70% in 2015 also emphasize the importance of managing resources sustainably and using them efficiently. Automobiles are made of many components, incorporating a diverse range 80% of resources. The combination of these resources creates new value. In New material resources addition to using resources as efficiently as possible, Nissan has increased 30% its resource diversification and improved the proportion of renewable resources and recycled materials among them. Giving due consideration 2010 2050 to ecosystems, we must become more competitive as we pursue green growth. Working toward the long-term vision of reducing dependency on new materials by 70% by 2050, we are striving to minimize our use of natural GRI103-2 GRI103-3 resources in order to maintain our new resource usage at 2010 levels. Resource Dependency Management In order to use the Earthʼs precious and limited resources efficiently, the environmental impact when extracting these resources must be kept to a minimum. At the same time, waste generated during vehicle production and scrap from end-of-life parts must be recycled as extensively as possible without compromising quality, producing materials that can be used in the same types of products. Based on this approach, known as closed-loop NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 087 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors recycling, we have focused our efforts on recycling steel, aluminum and Nissanʼs Circular Economy Concept resin ̶three kinds of material which account for a large proportion of vehicle content yet also have a major impact on the environment. Less energy, more efficient Wider range of Promote reuse material usage applications for cars As part of the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), Nissan is and resource developing systems for using resources efficiently and sustainably efficiency across their entire lifecycle, and has adopted the concept of the “Circular Economy” to maximize the value it provides to customers and society. In an Design Mobility services attempt to use resources efficiently with less energy, we will promote the Purchase use of recycled materials and recycling end-of-life vehicles, and strive to Manufacturing Recycle Remanufacture Reuse Repair Connected incorporate reusable resources in our activities at the design, purchasing and manufacturing stages. We are using fewer resources overall, both through appropriate use of chemical substances and making vehicles more lightweight. We will continue to promote the efficient use of resources with further reduced energy requirements and the expanded use of repaired and remanufactured parts as well as the secondary use of electric vehicle (EV) batteries in the vehicle use stage, and foster the development of biomaterials and dieless forming technology for practical use. We will also increase the value cars provide to society and ensure that cars can be put to best use by promoting electrification and autonomous drive in our products, pursuing connectedness and providing mobility services such as ride sharing. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 088 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI301-2 GRI301-3 Resource Dependency: Achievements automobiles by weight. Nonferrous metals made up another 15% and resins 14%, with miscellaneous materials making up the final 10%. To further Reducing Dependence on Newly Extracted Resources reduce our use of natural resources, we are advancing initiatives to expand to 70% the use of recycled materials in each of these categories. Demand for mineral and fossil resources is rising rapidly with the growth of We are taking steps to reduce the steel and aluminum scrap left over in emerging economies. According to forecasts, if growth in extraction volumes the manufacturing process, and working globally with business partners to continues, all currently known mineral resources will have been extracted collect and reuse this scrap as material for new vehicles through closedby 2050. There are some existing mining sites and others under exploration loop recycling initiatives. For example, we use electric-furnace sheet steel that are located in areas with vulnerable local ecosystems, generating made from steel scraps in the Rogue, Murano and other vehicles produced concern about the environmental effects of topsoil excavation, deforestation in North America. End-of-life aluminum wheel rims are also collected for and wastewater. recycling to be used in new wheel and chassis components. In fiscal 2019, To address these issues, Nissan has implemented a policy of minimizing we collected about 3,000 tons of used wheel rims. the use of newly extracted natural resources and maximizing the use of recyclable materials from the early development stage while also making structural improvements to facilitate recycling. We are also reducing the use Initiatives to Expand Use of Recycled Materials (Resins) of resources in the manufacturing process and making more efficient use of In addition to our initiatives to expand use of recycled steel and aluminum, resources. Nissan also strives to use more recycled resins. In the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), our goal is to cut the As a closed-loop recycling initiative, we are collecting finished bumper scrap use of newly extracted resources by 30% per vehicle in fiscal 2022. We generated at our plants intend to increase the use of recycled materials in our vehicles on a global and sending it to our scale, including Japan, Europe and North America, in cooperation with our Oppama Plant, where we suppliers. process it by removing the paint film and recycling it. These recycled resins Initiatives to Expand Use of Recycled Materials (Ferrous have been given new life and Nonferrous Metals) as bumpers in the Nissan In 2018, ferrous metals accounted for 61% of the materials used in our LEAF and many other Research on optimization of ASR recovered resin recycling process. Left photo is ASR, right photo is resin recovered from ASR NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 089 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors new vehicles. This initiative was expanded to Dongfeng Motor Co. (DFL), our fiscal 2019, we achieved a final recovery ratio for ELVs of 99.2%*3 in Japan, joint venture in China, where they have been used to produce replacement greatly exceeding the target effective recycling rate of 95% set by the bumpers since 2014. Japanese government. Additionally, exchanged bumpers collected from dealerships are being ELV processing consists of four phases. First, Nissan ELVs entering the recycled as materials used in under covers and for other components. An dismantling process are recycled, including flat steel, cast aluminum, enhanced bumper return program allowed us to collect and recycle about bumpers, interior plastic parts, wire harnesses and precious rare earth 122,000 bumpers in fiscal 2019, representing 67.9% of bumpers removed at metals. Second, specific items like lithium-ion batteries are collected Japanese dealerships. individually and directed to a dedicated recycling process. Third, residues Furthermore, 30% of the automotive shredder residue (ASR) processed from the dismantling process are crushed and the metallic portions at dedicated processing plants is made up of resins. In order to use these recovered. Fourth, the resulting ASR is turned into recycled materials. resins in automobiles, we are running a number of R&D projects on topics Since 2004, Nissan and 12 other Japanese auto manufacturers have like optimizing the recycling process for resins recovered from ASR, supported ASR recycling facilities, as called for in Japanʼs End-of-Life liquidation of auto waste plastic and recycling polypropylene with microbes.* Vehicle Recycling Law, as an integral part of a system to recycle ASR effectively, smoothly and efficiently. Nissan is taking an important role in this *These R&D projects are undertaken as part of our recycling optimization support business joint undertaking. using surplus money from recycling fees deposited for three specified components (refrigerant, We have also established a take-back system for ELVs in Europe. This airbags, ASR) based on Japanʼs End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law. network of Authorized Treatment Facilities was developed for individual countries in collaboration with contracted dismantlers, contracted service providers and governments in alignment with a European ELV directive. End-of-Life Vehicle (ELV) Recycling Additionally, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. Nissan considers the three Rs̶ reduce, reuse and recycle ̶from the established a common scheme for recovering used lithium-ion batteries design stage for new vehicles. Since fiscal 2005, all new models launched along with a system for processing these batteries appropriately, and put in the Japanese and European markets have achieved a 95% or greater both into operation in fiscal 2018. recyclability rate.*1 We have also joined forces with other automotive companies to promote the *1. Calculated based on 1998 Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association definition and calculation guidelines (in Japan) and ISO 22628 (in Europe). recycling of end-of-life vehicles (ELVs*2) through dismantling and shredding. *2. ELV is an acronym for end-of-life vehicle. Based on Japanʼs End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law, Nissan has achieved *3. Based on Nissan research at least 95% effective recycling rate of ELVs in Japan since fiscal 2006. In NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 090 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Developing Biomaterials Defined Chemical Substance Nissan is promoting technical (Substances) 4,043 4,069 3,912 research to replace plastics and 4,000 other resin materials used in automobiles with biomaterials 3,500 derived from plants. NGP2022 3,216 3,216 Seat coverings made from biomaterials in the 3,000 contains concrete goals for new Nissan LEAF. biomaterials development, and 2,500 these materials are already being used in cars. For example, the coverings 2,000 on the seats in the new Nissan LEAF are made using biomaterials. 1,500 GRI305-7 Proper Use of Regulated Chemical Substances 1,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Nissan revised its standard for the assessment of hazards and risks in the Renault-Nissan Alliance, actively applying restrictions to substances more stringent than existing regulations in areas of growing concern around the world. As a result, the number of substances covered by the Nissan Engineering Standard in fiscal 2019 rose to 4,069. These steps are thought Expansion of Remanufactured Parts to be necessary for future efforts in the repair, reuse, remanufacture and Parts with the potential for recycling include those reclaimed from end-ofrecycle loop for resources. life vehicles, as well as those replaced during repairs. In Japan, we collect * Please click below for further details related to our governance system for chemical and thoroughly check the quality of these secondhand parts. Those that substances. receive a passing grade are sold through our retail outlets as Nissan Green >>> P102 Parts. We sell these parts in two categories: remanufactured parts, which are disassembled and have components replaced as needed, and reusable parts, which are cleaned and tested for quality before sale. In NGP2022, we are enhancing the deployment of Nissan Green Parts NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 091 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors As the EV market expands, we anticipate a need to utilize reusable lithiumion batteries more effectively. In 2010, we launched 4R Energy Corp., a joint venture with Sumitomo Corp., that is engaged in establishing EV battery reuse and refabrication technologies. With the establishment of these technologies and an increase in the number of used batteries collected, in March 2018, operations commenced at Japanʼs first base and plant for the reuse and refabrication of used lithium ion-batteries located in the town of Alternator Air conditioning compressor Starter motor Namie, Fukushima Prefecture. in Japan, and weʼre also strengthening management to deploy similar 4R Energy is actively engaged in the development and production of kinds of activities in Europe and North America, aiming for twice the parts various battery storage systems built with used Nissan LEAF batteries coverage in 2022 compared to 2016. This initiative provides customers at the Namie facility. One example of these efforts is the development of who seek to use cars for a long period of time with the new option of using stationary power storage systems that reuse 40 kWh batteries used in the remanufactured parts. Nissan LEAF for the purpose of enhancing resiliency. Since September 2019, this reuse stationary power storage system has been used in trials for procuring electricity using renewable energy at ten 7-11 convenience stores in Kanagawa Prefecture. Additionally, in conjunction with IKS Japan Co., Ltd., Joint Venture to Promote Second-Life Use for Batteries we are developing new models with vehicle-to-everything (V2X) functions Lithium-ion batteries used in Nissanʼs electric vehicles (EVs) retain that can also utilize electric power from EVs, sales of which are scheduled to capacity well beyond the useful life of the vehicles themselves. The “4R” launch by the end of fiscal 2020. business model ̶ which reuses, refabricates, resells and recycles lithiumAt the same time, 4R Energy acquired the worldʼs first UL1974*1 certification ion batteries̶ allows for their effective use as energy storage solutions in in June 2019, which is an international evaluation standard for evaluating a range of applications, thus creating a much more efficient energy cycle of repurposing batteries, and 4R Energy has been certified by a thirdbattery use. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 092 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors party organization for reusage and refabricating processes and product *1. The UL1974 Standard for Evaluation for Repurposing Batteries defines the process for determining and classifying the suitability of usage when battery packs, modules or cells manufacturing with an emphasis on safety. Furthermore, in recognition of used to drive EVs have finished their intended period of use. Evaluating reused batteries in these activities, in October 2019 4R Energy was presented with the Frost & accordance with this process enables the provision of reused batteries that are safe and give Sullivan*2 “2019 Strategy Innovation and Leadership Award,” and in March a clear understanding of remaining capacity to meet a variety of demands. 2020, in conjunction with Nissan, 4R Energy and Nissan won the “Sixth *2. Frost & Sullivan provides research and consulting services in 80 countries and over 300 major markets through a global network of more than 40 locations. Annual Japan Resilience Award 2020,ʼ sponsored by the Association for *3. In light of the results of the National Resilience Ministerʼs Private Advisory Committee Resilience Japan*3 . “National Resilience Roundtable,” to ensure the “Fundamental Plan for National Resilience” We are extensively involved with 4R activities globally as well. is executed smoothly, the Council aims to build a resilient nation with cooperation among industry, academia, government and the private sector. 4R Concept Overview of proof of concept for procuring electricity through renewable energy Battery module structure will be redesigned to create new packages that satisfy the varying voltage or capacity needs of customers. Daytime use Nissan LEAF Solar panel Building Storing a portion of electricity Transmission is Battery recovery possible even in the 45kWh event of a disaster After their primary Refabricated batteries automotive use is over, can be used for multiple the lithium-ion batteries purposes, such as clean Original storage Nissan LEAF retain enough energy energy storage or as battery + V2X 40kWh/62kWh capacity for secondary use. backup batteries in case of emergency. Used batteries can be recycled to recover useful resources. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 093 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Reducing Use of Scarce Resources As a new initiative, Nissan is also promoting the development of rare earth metal recovery technologies from drive motor magnets. Up to now, in order to recycle magnets used in motors, multiple processes including manual Rare earth elements are scarce resources that are necessary components disassembly and removal of the magnets have been required, making of EV and hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) motors. Reducing their usage is economic efficiency an issue. Nissan and Waseda University collaborated to important because of procurement challenges, as rare earth elements are establish technologies for recovering rare earth metals in highly pure states unevenly distributed around the globe, and the shifting balance of supply and through direct dissolution using borate as a flux, eliminating the need to demand leads to price fluctuations. dismantle the motor rotors. Going forward, we will conduct trial testing aimed Nissan is expanding its use of an electric motor developed in 2012 that at practical implementation. requires 40% less dysprosium (Dy) compared to conventional EV motors. In these ways, with respect to motors, which are a key technology, Nissan is The motor was first adopted in the Nissan LEAF, and reduced-dysprosium engaged in developments corresponding to the circular economy concept, motors are now seeing increased use in hybrid vehicles as well. The 2016 from reducing the amount of rare earth metals used to reuse after use, that Note e-POWER achieves a 70% reduction in Dy in its motor magnets, utilize resources efficiently and sustainably. and these were also adopted for the new Nissan LEAF in 2017 and the Serena e-POWER in 2018. We are conducting technical research on further reductions in the future. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 094 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI306-2 Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Waste Reduction Waste generated globally in fiscal 2019 amounted to 188,556 tons, a slight decrease from 206,645 tons in fiscal 2018. Thorough Measures for Waste Materials Waste generated globally from production sites in fiscal 2019 was 184,573 Nissan actively promotes measures based on the 3R approach in its tons.* production processes whenever possible, striving to minimize the waste generated and maximize recycling efficiency by thoroughly sorting waste. * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. At the end of fiscal 2010, we achieved a 100% recovery rate at all of our >>> P100 production sites in Japan, including five manufacturing plants, two operation （FY） centers and five affiliates. Overseas, we have reached 100% rates at plants 単位 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 in Mexico and elsewhere. We are striving to bring rates to industry-leading Total ton 159,345 158,939 152,674 206,645 188,556 levels in each global region. We have been making great efforts to reduce the number of wooden pallets By region and cardboard boxes used in import and export parts shipping. We began Japan ton 63,630 61,115 61,327 69,829 63,315 replacing them with units made from steel more than 30 years ago, and we North America ton 49,129 45,459 35,177 64,514 57,762 rolled out plastic substitutes over 20 years ago that are foldable and can Europe ton 37,204 41,110 45,268 49,662 48,187 be reused. We have also been working with our Alliance partner Renault to Other ton 9,382 11,255 10,903 22,639 19,291 expand use of globally standardized, returnable containers. Through design activities carried out concurrently with logistics operations, we have recently By treatment method considered ways to optimize the shape of parts from the development stage, Waste for disposal ton 11,355 8,707 8,041 7,231 6,414 thus helping to reduce the packaging materials required. Recycled ton 147,990 150,231 144,633 199,414 182,141 Through such efforts, we plan to reduce waste from our production factories * For more information on Resource Dependency (Facility Waste). by 2% annually in Japan and by 1% annually worldwide ̶ as compared to >>> P226 business as usual (BAU), that is, waste levels expected if no special steps had been taken. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 095 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors WATER SCARCITY GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Policies and Philosophy for Water Resource sustainable development. Globally, the agricultural sector accounts for the largest share of water Management consumption at roughly 70%. The industrial sector comes second, Demand for water is expected to continue to increase globally, driven by consuming around 20% of water globally, and the municipal sector accounts rising populations and economic development. With rain patterns also for the remaining 10%. Automakers are not considered to face particularly changing due to extreme weather events, the stability of water supplies is high water risks within the industrial sector. However, we believe that likely to become a more pressing social concern with every passing year. reducing dependence on water resources is important to being a sustainable Forecasts suggest that the world will face a 40% shortfall in water supplies company and are taking steps to improve water quality management and by 2030, and extreme weather events, natural disasters, water crises and reduce water usage across our production sites. other water-related risks rank highly in the annual Global Risks Report issued by the World Economic Forum. “Clean Water and Sanitation” * Full title: An IPCC Special Report on the Impacts of Global Warming of 1.5℃ Above PreIndustrial Levels and Related Global Greenhouse Gas Emission Pathways, in the Context of is also one of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by Strengthening the Global Response to the Threat of Climate Change, Sustainable Development, the United Nations in 2015. The 1.5℃ Special Report* released by the and Efforts to Eradicate Poverty. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) in 2018 reported that risks and effects from extreme weather events, such as heavy rain and drought, would increase if temperatures rose by 1.5℃, and that such risks and effects would be even more severe and become widespread if temperatures rose by 2℃. Water resource management to mitigate water shortages, flooding and many other challenges is a key factor in promoting NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 096 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 Water Resource Management Global Water Risks Nissan manages wastewater quality to even stricter standards than required by local regulations at each of its production sites. At sites in Japan, we have further strengthened measures against water pollution by attaching water quality sensors to the discharge points of our wastewater treatment facilities to automatically suspend water discharge if water quality problems are detected. Processing recycled water using reverse osmosis (RO) systems has allowed some sites to achieve zero wastewater discharge. Under the Nissan Green Program 2022 (NGP2022), we aim to reduce water intake at global production sites by 21% by 2022. In order to achieve this, we are taking steps to reduce water usage, such as sharing best practices among plants, investing in equipment and expanding the Nissan Energy Saving Collaboration (NESCO) team into “r NESCO” (r[esource] NESCO). Created based on the World Resources Instituteʼs Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (aqueduct.wri.org). Additionally, since the water resource situation varies considerably from region to region, we assess water risk using our own methods for each of our production sites throughout the world. At sites where a high level of risk is found, we prioritize measures to expand dedicated water sources by building reservoirs to collect rainwater, improving wastewater recycling efficiency and reducing external water intake. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 097 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI306-1 Water Resource Achievements find new ideas for reducing water usage, such as by Water Use Reduction filtering wastewater from prePlants producing Nissan vehicles and parts are located throughout the painting processes and thus world, and they all use water as part of the production process. Nissan improving water quality. strives to manage and reduce water usage at every plant, aiming to achieve We are also working to a 21% reduction per vehicle produced by fiscal 2022 from 2010 levels. As of reduce water usage at fiscal 2019, we had already reduced water usage by 23%, when compared Nissanʼs Global Headquarters to 2010. in Yokohama, Japan by To help achieve this goal, we built reservoirs to collect rainwater at the processing rainwater and Chennai Plant in India and the second Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico, wastewater from kitchens and other internal sources to be reused for and installed wastewater recycling equipment at the Chennai Plant, the flushing toilets and watering some plants. Huadu Plant in China and the Oppama Plant in Japan. Our efforts at the Chennai Plant, in particular, were recognized as an excellent example of water resource management by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). At Innovative Car Wash Technique Introduced Nissan North America (NNA), plants are competing among themselves to at Service Centers in India Since 2014, the service centers of Nissan Motor India (NMIPL) have offered Water Usage per Vehicle customers car washes that utilize an advanced foam washing technique. Produced (Global) A traditional car wash requires about 160 liters of water for one car, but （%） NMIPLʼs new service cuts consumption to approximately 90 liters̶ a 45% 100% reduction in water use. Three years after the introduction of the foam wash 23.0% 21% technique, the total amount of water saved across Nissan service centers in India reached roughly 6,100 kiloliters̶ equivalent to the daily water consumption of 25,000 Indian households. Along with reducing water consumption, the foam wash service is environmentally friendly due to the non-use of hard chemicals, shortens 2010 2019 2022 target washing time, and even enhances the gloss of cars by roughly 40%. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 098 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI303-1 GRI306-1 Water Input for Corporate Activities Cleaner Effluent Through Wastewater Treatment In fiscal 2019, water input for corporate activities was 23,714 km3 , a 10% Nissan thoroughly processes wastewater at its various plants. Wastewater decrease compared with the fiscal 2018 level. Water input from production from two Nissan plants in Aguascalientes, Mexico, is used to maintain sites was 22,613,338 m3 .* landscaping on the sites, with no offsite discharge. We also are strengthening water pollution prevention measures in our * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please Japanese plants. In preparation for unexpected occurrences, such as the see here. discharge of oil, we have attached water quality sensors to the discharge >>> P100 points of wastewater treatment facilities. Discharge of water outside the grounds is automatically suspended if water quality problems are detected. （FY） Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Total 1,000m³ 28,570 29,118 26,197 26,420 23,714 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 1,000m³ 20,680 20,516 17,410 17,345 15,512 Japan 1,000m³ 14,990 15,563 13,115 13,022 11,932 North America 1,000m³ 5,427 5,483 4,905 4,930 4,776 Japan 1,000m³ 12,976 12,681 10,376 10,472 9,438 Europe 1,000m³ 2,330 2,299 2,155 2,093 1,798 North America 1,000m³ 3,916 4,028 3,382 3,190 2,752 Other 1,000m³ 5,823 5,774 6,023 6,376 5,207 Europe 1,000m³ 1,740 1,767 1,564 1,539 1,528 Other 1,000m³ 2,048 2,040 2,088 2,143 1,794 Quality Chemical oxygen kg 28,042 29,730 26,451 21,149 18,795 demand (COD) Japan only * Click here for more information on Water Resource Management. >>> P228 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 099 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors THIRD-PARTY ASSURANCE GRI102-56 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 100 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors [Remarks] Basis of calculation for CO2 emissions, waste generated and ■ Scope 3 emissions figures are estimates subject to varying inherent water input subject to third-party assurance uncertainties. ■ Waste generated from production sites: Calculated based on Nissan ■ CO2 emissions from production sites: Calculated based on Nissan internal internal standards. The discharged waste is based on data from truck standards. The energy use data of each site is based on invoices from scales at the sites or data reported by disposal contractors. All discharged suppliers, which are multiplied by a CO2 emissions coefficient publicly waste within the sites concerned is targeted. However, non-steady and available for each production site. irregular generated waste, waste generated in canteens, waste from ■ CO2 emissions resulting from employee commuting Calculated based permanently stationed companies at the sites, waste generated by on the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard. Specifically, the annual CO2 external vendors and waste from construction are excluded. In addition, emissions resulting from each employeeʼs commute are calculated materials recycled in-house, used in reproduction (reused by Nissan) or using a standard unit of measurement announced by Japanʼs Ministry of recycled (as salable, valuable materials) are not categorized as generated Economy, Trade and Industry, Ministry of the Environment, and Ministry of waste. Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. This figure is calculated on ■ Water input from production sites: Calculated based on Nissan internal the basis that employees working at Global Headquarters commute by standards. Water input is the water withdrawal amount according to billing train and other employees use cars that are average vehicles designated meters or company meters installed on site. The water withdrawal amount by Nissan. This is multiplied by the number of employees at each facility includes drinking water (tap water) , industrial-use water, underground or office. water (spring/well water) and rainwater or the like. ■ CO2 emissions from the use of sold products: Calculated using the average regional CO2 emissions per vehicle multiplied by the regional estimated average lifecycle mileage and multiplied by fiscal 2019 sales volumes. The average CO2 emissions for the use phase (including direct emissions only) per unit are calculated for each of our main regions (Japan, U.S., EU and China) and extrapolated from average emissions of these markets for other markets. The Sustainable Mobility Project (SMP) model issued by the International Energy Agency was used to determine estimated average lifecycle mileages. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 101 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors STRENGTHENING OUR BUSINESS FOUNDATIONS TO ADDRESS ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES GRI103-2 GRI103-3 Environmental Governance year (once during the management review conference) so that Nissan can decide on needed improvements. * For more information on our Environmental Governance >>> P051 To confirm that management is functioning properly with respect to environmental management, we periodically retain third-party organizations Enhancing Environmental Management Based on to conduct audits. Additionally, to strengthen compliance, we conduct ISO 14001 internal audits with respect to areas covered by third-party audits as well as all other environmental activities, prioritizing adherence to government As of January 2011, the Nissan Global Headquarters and all other main reporting requirements and identifying risks. These third-party and internal Nissan facilities in Japan have acquired ISO 14001 certification for audit initiatives are aimed at establishing a system capable of detecting environmental management systems. We have appointed an environmental human error, however small, and pursuing improved operations. management officer to oversee our environmental activities. Through steady Nissanʼs production plants outside Japan have also acquired ISO 14001 application of the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle, we are improving our certification. Nissanʼs policy is to establish environmental management environmental performance worldwide. The coordinated goals set by the systems in all regions where we operate in accordance with the same environmental management officer for the Company-wide management standards. system are cascaded down to the employees working in all facilities through local offices. Nissanʼs Voluntary Operational Standards Nissanʼs ISO secretariat oversees companywide efforts, while local offices in Japan are responsible for activities at each facility and division, and Stricter controls on environment-impacting substances are being for coordinating the proposals submitted by employees. By engaging in implemented in countries around the world. Examples include the European discussions at least once a month, the ISO secretariat and local offices ELV Directive, the European Unionʼs Registration, Evaluation, Authorization confirm progress made toward established goals, to share best practices, and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation, which went into effect to improve management systems, to develop plans for the next fiscal year in June 2007, and Japanʼs Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and to communicate requests from local facilities and divisions. The items and Regulation of Their Manufacture. The Japan Automobile Manufacturers discussed are reported to the environmental management officer twice a Association has launched a voluntary program to help minimize the potential NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 102 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors release of formaldehyde, toluene and other volatile organic compounds Every year, we revise the Restricted Use of Substances standards to reflect (VOCs)* in vehicle cabins. This program utilizes the VOC guidance value changes in international laws and regulations and to add new substances established by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare for specific covered by our voluntary internal standards. For the 2017 revision, the substances in January 2002 to be met for all new models manufactured or members of the Renault-Nissan Alliance implemented shared standards sold in .Japan after April 2007. based on a reassessment of select criteria for hazards and risks that go Nissan is strengthening its management of environment-impacting beyond the level of compliance, strengthening Alliance activities. substances, adhering to a planned schedule for their reduction and We build and maintain communication and management systems throughout advancing the use of alternative substances. In 2005, we drew up policies the supply chain. For example, we disclose information to users and submit regarding the use of substances scientifically recognized as being hazardous REACH reports to the relevant authorities about the vehicles and parts or carrying high hazard risks, as well as those identified by NGOs as produced in or exported to Europe from Japan and other countries (including dangerous. In 2007, these policies, which restrict environment-impacting some from the United States). We also comply with Classification, Labeling substances even more than the domestic laws of the countries where we and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures regulations. operate, were rolled out globally. Based on the above-referenced policies, Nissan developed a specific * VOCs: Organic chemicals that readily evaporate and become gaseous in the atmosphere. Nissan Engineering Standard (NES) for the Restricted Use of Substances, which identifies the chemical substances whose use is either prohibited or controlled. The NES is applied in material selection and also in the GRI306-3 GRI307-1 components and parts used in our vehicles from initial development onward. Sanctions and Government Guidance at Nissan For example, four heavy metal compounds (mercury, lead, cadmium and Production Facilities hexavalent chromium) and the polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) flame During fiscal 2019, in relation to the environmental management system, retardant have been either prohibited or restricted in models (excluding none of Nissanʼs production facilities received notifications or sanctions from OEM vehicles) launched globally since July 2007. To control VOC use in the government regarding significant violations of environmental laws or car interiors, Nissan adopted the voluntary targets of the Japan Automobile regulations. Manufacturers Association as our own standards for global operations, and we are reviewing and reducing the use of prohibited and controlled chemical substances in materials and adhesives for seats, door trim, floor carpet and Raising Employee Awareness other parts. Nissanʼs environmental activities are enabled by the knowledge, awareness and competency of its employees. Based on ISO 14001 standards, we will NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 103 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors conduct employee education rooted in the Nissan Green Program 2022 employees to think proactively and propose ideas to improve environmental (NGP2022) regarding CO2 emission reductions, energy, water consumption aspects of our business. Managers encourage the active participation of and waste. In addition, education regarding environmental accident employees by communicating how these activities of QC circles are linked prevention and the management of hazardous materials is provided every to the achievement of our midterm business plan. The ideas proposed by year to all employees, including those from affiliated companies working in employees are evaluated by managers and QC circle secretariats for their our production facilities. Training programs with quantitative evaluation are potential contribution to environmental improvement, among other factors, deployed to improve the skills and knowledge of each employee on how to after which we may implement those with the highest potential. reduce environmental impact in their activities. The content of these training The knowledge and skills of the frontline employees on CO2 emission programs is updated every year. reduction, energy management, water conservation and waste and In Japan, we implement a curriculum to educate new employees during landfill reduction have been compiled in a best practices manual and orientation and organize seminars for middle managers to deepen their shared among global facilities. We hold contests in some facilities during understanding of NGP2022 and environmental issues surrounding the auto officially designated months in Japan to keep employees motivated about industry. We also hold “town hall” meetings to promote dialogue between participating in environmental activities. These include the Energy Use executives and employees. Employees can stay up to date on our latest Reduction Idea Contest in February (energy-efficiency month), the Water environmental initiatives through features in the intranet, internal newsletters Usage Reduction Idea Contest in June (environment month) and the Waste and in-house video broadcasts. In addition, all employees receive an Reduction Idea Contest in October (3R promotion month). Environmental Policy Card with a pledge to pursue personal environmental We also use various methods to reward employees for their contributions to activities, which they carry at all times. environmental improvement activities. These activities are included in the Overseas, we share information and provide education to employees through “commitment and target” annual performance goals used at some Japanese the intranet, videos, events and various other communication approaches and overseas locations. This system assesses employeesʼ achievement of suited to each region. goals, reflecting this in performance-related elements of employee bonuses. Employees are also recognized for environmental improvement through Employee-Initiated Activities and Evaluation System Nissan prizes presented by the CEO or other executives, awards given by plant heads and “THANKS CARD” recognition from managers for excellent In fiscal 2008, we added “environment” to the range of kaizen issues work or achievements. addressed by quality control (QC) circles. This has created opportunities for NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 104 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Global Top Selling Modelʼs Lifecycle Improvements Impact We have been expanding the application of the LCA method and enhancing the understanding of the environmental impact of our products in Nissan ensures solid environmental management policy by routinely quantitative terms, especially our best-selling models worldwide. LCAs have assigning personnel to conduct risk management and having supervisors been conducted for over 90% of these models. confirm their suitability and periodically conducting inspections. We also identify potential risks by conducting lifecycle assessments (LCAs). The LCA method is used to quantitatively evaluate and comprehensively assess LCA Conducted Product Ratio in Sales Volume (EU Market) environmental impact, not just while vehicles are in use, but at all stages of their lifecycle, from resource extraction, manufacturing and transport to Small disposal. March/Micra Note Pulsar Juke NV200/NV200 Vanette During the period of NGP2022, we are applying the LCA method to Lower Medium Qashqai Rogue/X-Trail Frontier/Navara/NP300 ensure steadfast implementation of our environmental activities, such as 94% by identifying their progress and examining ways to further reduce our Upper Medium Skyline environmental impact. We are also carrying out LCAs for new technologies to develop environmentally friendlier vehicles. Executive Q70 Our LCA methods have been certified by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry since 2010 and since 2013 by thirdElectric Vehicle Nissan LEAF e-NV200 party TÜV Rheinland in Germany (ongoing as of November 2019). The latter certification is based on ISO 14040/14044 standards and validates the environmental impact calculations in our product LCAs. We will use the above-certified calculations during the NGP2022 period With the Altima and Rogue, for example, improvements in internal to conduct LCAs of new vehicles and technologies and enhance efficiency combustion engine efficiency and vehicle weight reduction have led to both during both the manufacture and operation of vehicles with the aim of enhanced safety features and lower CO2 emissions. further reducing environmental impact during the lifecycle of Nissan vehicles. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 105 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) used to generate electricity. （%） （%） As a result, e-POWER vehicles achieve lower exhaust emissions and 100 100 better fuel efficiency for driving than conventional gasoline engines. Also, since an e-POWER vehicle only requires a small battery (unlike one that 80 80 is 100% electric), emissions from the manufacture of dedicated EV parts such as batteries can be kept at a level only slightly above that for parts for 60 60 conventional vehicles. 40 40 There is future potential for further reductions in CO2 emissions through additional weight reductions and the optimization of e-POWER energy 20 20 management. 0 Previous model Current model 0 Previous model Current model ＊1 Juke Rogue (X-Trail)＊2 Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) ■ Production & logistics ■ Fuel & electricity production ■ Usage ■ Maintenance ■ ELV ＊1 （%） （%） Production in EU, 150,000 km driven in EU (basis for comparison). ＊2 Production in EU, 150,000 km driven in EU (basis for comparison). 100 100 80 80 60 60 LCA Comparison for e-POWER Models 40 40 Nissan introduced its new e-POWER powertrain in 2016, marking another 20 20 significant milestone in the electrification strategy with lifecycle emission improvements. 0 Same class gas-powered vehicle e-POWER 0 Same class gas-powered vehicle e-POWER Compared to their gasoline-powered counterpart models, the Note Note Serena e-POWER and Serena e-POWER have achieved an 18% ̶27% reduction ■ Production & logistics ■ Fuel & electricity production ■ Usage ■ Maintenance ■ ELV in CO2 emissions, respectively. Electrified e-POWER vehicles use a system Production in Japan, 100,000 km driven in Japan (basis for comparison). in which a gasoline engine operates only under certain circumstances and is NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 106 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors LCA Comparison for the New Nissan LEAF Lifecycle Improvements Beyond Climate Change Compared to conventional vehicles of the same class in Japan, the Nissan Nissan is expanding the scope of LCAs to include not just greenhouse LEAF results in approximately 32% lower CO2 emissions during its lifecycle. gases but also a variety of chemicals amid growing societal concerns over We are making efforts to reduce CO2 emissions during EV production by air quality and ocean acidification and eutrophication. Our calculations show improving the yield ratio of materials, using more efficient manufacturing that, compared to conventional gasoline engines, the Serena e-POWER is processes and increasing the use of recycled materials. significantly more environmentally friendly, achieving 11% ̶27% emission We are also continuing to pursue technology development for electric reductions for all targeted chemical substances and achieving environmental powertrains, power savings on ancillary devices and the use of renewable benefits throughout its lifecycle. energy to reduce CO2 emissions over the entire lifecycle of EVs. Also, at the end-of-life stage, used batteries can be utilized for energy storage in various ways, contributing to reduced CO2 emissions in society. Emissions Improvement in the New Serena e-POWER over Its Lifecycle CO2 Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) 100% 80% （%） NMVOC 60% 73% CH4 100 40% 86% 81% 20% 80 ■ Production & logistics 0% ■ Fuel & electricity production 60 ■ Usage 89% 84% ■ Maintenance SO2 N2O ■ ELV 40 83% Production in Japan, 20 100,000 km driven in Japan NOx (basis for comparison). 0 Same class Conventional gas-powered vehicle Nissan LEAF e-POWER Production in Japan, 100,000 km driven in Japan. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 107 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI308-1 GRI308-2 Stakeholder Engagement Kaizen activity with Suppliers) activities, a joint improvement program that emphasizes trust and cooperation with suppliers. Regarding energy Working with Suppliers use (electricity and gas) and CO2 emission reduction in particular, we As part of NGP2022, we are working to improve suppliersʼ environmental are taking the lead in cooperating with our main suppliers as part of the performance via the following three initiatives: energy-efficient THANKS activities, based on the initiatives of our internal •We encourage all our global suppliers to manage parts and materials with production facilities. a shared environmental philosophy in alignment with the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. These guidelines are based on The Renault-Nissan Chinaʼs environmental regulations have become more stringent in recent Purchasing Way and the Renault-Nissan Supplier CSR Guidelines and years, forcing many companies to discontinue their business, temporarily provide detailed information regarding environmental matters. In August suspend operations or to relocate their factories. Under the circumstances, 2018, based on NGP2022, we revised the content of the guidelines, we conducted an independent survey in fiscal 2019 of suppliersʼ compliance adding requests that suppliers undertake their own environmental with environmental regulations. The results will be utilized to build a more activities. Additionally, in May 2019, in order to strengthen management of resilient supply chain. environment-impacting substances, we added requirements dealing with supplier self-diagnosis of environment-impacting substance management Working with Consolidated Production Companies and related topics, and asked all suppliers to follow them. We encourage our consolidated production companies in a variety of •We also participate in the supply-chain program of CDP (previously known markets to acquire ISO 14001 certification and to undertake other as the Carbon Disclosure Project), an international nonprofit, through environmental initiatives based on their respective policies. Meetings with which we request information on climate change and water from suppliers major consolidated production companies in Japan are held to exchange and conduct comprehensive performance reviews. During fiscal 2019, we views on cooperation toward the goals outlined in NGP2022. The meetings asked our large contract suppliers to take part in the supply-chain program lead to a deeper shared understanding of the details of NGP2022 and the to provide responses on their environmental activities. 83% of them initiatives undertaken by each company. participated in the CDP program on climate change data and 77% in the CDP program on water security. Based on the results from these surveys, Working with Dealerships we engaged with a number of suppliers in order to incentivize work on the ongoing improvement of their environmental initiatives. Our dealerships in Japan have introduced an original approach to •We are promoting THANKS (Trusty and Harmonious Alliance Network environmental management based on ISO 14001 certification called the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 108 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors “Nissan Green Shop” certification system. This program is managed through • Introduce our environmental initiatives, such as the Nissan LEAF electric internal audits conducted by the dealerships every six months, in addition to vehicle and our other green technologies annual reviews and certification renewal audits carried out every three years Through environmental education, the program encourages participants to by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (NML). As of the end of March 2019, the system adopt eco-friendly activities in their daily lives. has certified approximately 2,700 dealerships of 156 dealers, including parts dealers, as Nissan Green Shops. Working with NGOs Nissan believes that environmental activities are critical in social contribution Working with Future Generations activities, thus we are engaged in various activities to realize a lowTodayʼs youths are the future leaders of our society. We are working to share carbon society, including implementing educational programs to deepen information on environmental issues with the younger generation, and to understanding of global environmental issues. At the same time, in order to raise awareness among tomorrowʼs leaders. respond to the increasing complexity of environmental issues, we believe We have been conducting environmental programs for students in school that it is effective to collaborate with NGOs, NPOs, governments and various visits in Japan since 2008 in which more than 100,000 students had other stakeholders to enhance these activities while making the most of our participated as of March 2020. In NGP2022, we will further expand the mutual strengths. program in Japan and in other countries. Our Corporate Philanthropy Goal is to realize a cleaner, safer and more inclusive society. NGP2022 seeks to support local communities through Key Activities in NGP2022 various projects by collaborating globally with NGOs to respond to issues such as climate change and water scarcity. Youth education programs, such as Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School, an interactive program delivered by Nissan employees to Key Activities in NGP2022 schoolchildren, will be expanded globally to: ・Collaboration with the World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan) on • Share knowledge of global environmental climate change mitigation issues Support for WWF Japanʼs climate & energy project Continue participation in WWFʼs worldwide Earth Hour environmental enlightenment campaign for greenhouse gas emission reduction NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 109 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors ・Collaboration with Conservation International on protection of a critical balance environmental preservation and economic progress as they pursue watershed area their business activities. Support for a forest restoration project through a Ridge to Reef approach in Using methods identified in the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review, we Bali, Indonesia. have evaluated the value chain from the extraction of material resources to Create jobs and build capacity* by developing community-based vehicle production and operation. We have identified three response priority environmental conservation projects. areas as an automobile manufacturer: energy sourcing, mineral material * Build and improve capacities that groups, organizations and society need to achieve their goals sourcing and water usage. We published a report titled “Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector”*2 in 2010 collating the outcome of this work. Our calculations in June 2013 showed that more than 20 times as much GRI304-1 GRI304-2 GRI304-3 GRI304-4 water was used upstream in the supply chain than by Nissan itself. Priority Issues for Automobile Manufacturers Regarding We are following up by re-evaluating and further developing our existing the Protection of Air, Water, environmental initiatives and ecosystem conservation efforts from the viewpoint of business risks and opportunities. Soil and Biodiversity The United Nations Millennium Ecosystem *1 Developed by the World Resources Institute in cooperation with the World Business Council Assessment report issued in 2005 for Sustainable Development and Meridian Institute, based on the U.N. Millennium Ecosystem concluded that ecosystem services Assessment. had degraded over the past 50 years *2 Click here for more information on “ Ecosystem Services and the Automotive Sector. ” more rapidly and extensively than in any https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/ENVIRONMENT/SOCIAL/ecosystem_ services_and_the_automotive_sector.pdf comparable period in history. Humankind For more information on how we are strengthening our business foundation to address depends on a number of ecosystem environmental issues. >>> P229 services, including the provision of food and fresh water, climate regulation and protection from natural disasters. The automotive industry must recognize both its impact on ecosystems and its dependence on these services. Companies today face the pressing need to NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 110 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Social Social Policies and Philosophy …………… 112 Supply Chain Management ………………… 152 Human Rights…………………………………… 114 Human Resource Development …………… 160 Diversity and Inclusion………………………… 118 Labor Practices ………………………………… 165 Traffic Safety …………………………………… 131 Employees' Health and Safety ……………… 171 Product Safety and Quality ………………… 142 Community Engagement …………………… 175 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 111 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors SOCIAL POLICIES AND PHILOSOPHY GRI102-15 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Nissanʼs business activities are supported by various stakeholders. As well sales service, covering all the activities involved until the finished product as respecting the rights of all stakeholders, as a global company we conduct reaches our customers. our business activities with a constant awareness of societyʼs needs and With respect to Employees, we are expanding opportunities for our social responsibility in order to contribute to the sustainable development of employees to learn so that they can each achieve their maximum potential. society. We aim to make continuous learning and talent development a part of Through an assessment of various business risks and opportunities, we our corporate culture, and to create a dynamic work environment where have identified six key areas in the Social dimension as part of Nissan the health and safety of our staff is a top priority. Furthermore, as local Sustainability 2022, and we are conducting initiatives in these areas. The communities are an essential part of Nissanʼs business in every region, we six areas are Traffic Safety, Diversity and Inclusion, Quality, Supply Chain, are working to promote Community Engagement around the world in three Employees, and Community Engagement. strategic areas: environment, traffic safety, and diversity. In the area of Traffic Safety, we are promoting development and implementation of driver assistance technology and other traffic safety For this Sustainability Report, activities within these six areas were selected technologies to achieve our ultimate goal of virtually zero fatalities involving to be reported on, based on an assessment of their potential business our vehicles. Regarding Diversity and Inclusion, we are proactively hiring impact as well as the level of interest from stakeholders. more diverse talent with different backgrounds to embrace gender and national diversity as a strength for the organization. We also aim to be a truly inclusive company so that employees can demonstrate their potential to the fullest. Quality is fundamental to Nissanʼs activities. Rooting the basis of all of our activities to the practice of listening to each one of our customers, we are making sure that employees are aware at all levels of the organization regarding the importance of quality improvement. We are strengthening our sustainability initiatives in all phases of our Supply Chain, from the procurement of raw materials to manufacturing, distribution, sales, and afterNISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 112 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Report Themes and the Six Areas REPORT THEMES SIX AREAS TRAFFIC SAFETY TRAFFIC SAFETY HUMAN RIGHTS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY QUALITY SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN HUMAN RESOURCE LABOR PRACTICES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEESʼ HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 113 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors HUMAN RIGHTS GRI103-1 GRI102-16 Human Rights Policies and Philosophy Human Rights Policy Statement As the value chains of global corporations expand, the international As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, Nissanʼs respect for community is ever more concerned about respect for human rights and how human rights is informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights business affects these rights. The automobile industry is also recognizing and the International Labor Organizationʼs Declaration on Fundamental the issues of human rights as they relate to its labor environment and Principles and Rights at Work. handling of natural resources, water and conflict minerals. Nissan considers Based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights the strict adherence to corporate rules and applicable laws and practices (UNGPs), we have formulated the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement* fundamental to its business activity in every country and area where to actively prevent adverse human rights impacts. This policy statement it operates. We are committed to delivering engaging, worthwhile and makes our commitment to protecting human rights clear to all stakeholders sustainable mobility to people and acknowledge that, for this to be achieved, and underpins our initiatives in this area. the human rights of all stakeholders must be respected and all employees must act while upholding the highest ethical standards. We do not * Click here to download the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement. https://www.nissan-global.com/COMMON/DOCS/CSR/LIBRARY/nissan_human_rights_ discriminate on the basis of race, nationality, gender, religion, disability, age, policy_e.pdf place of origin, gender identity, sexual orientation or any other characteristic. We also work to rectify and eradicate working practices that infringe human rights throughout our entire supply chain, such as forced labor and child labor. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 114 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-17 GRI103-2 GRI408-1 GRI409-1 GRI412-1 Human Rights Management We are also strengthening communication with our sales companies and promoting consistent sustainability management, including on human rights The Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement is applicable to all of Nissanʼs issues. executives and employees. Nissanʼs fundamental ethical expectations are At the same time, we have deployed the SpeakUp system, a globally also clarified in the Nissan Global Code of Conduct, and all executives and consistent system that allows not only employees but also other employees recognize the importance of applying the statement beyond stakeholders as well to report matters internally. Nissanʼs own operations. At every level of our global supply chain, we aim to conduct ethical, social and environmentally conscious business activities. We * For more information on supply chain-related human rights initiatives. also work together with suppliers, contractors and other business partners to >>> P154 achieve this goal. * For more information on internal reporting systems. >>> P206 Since 2006, we have shared a set of common values and processes around purchasing known as The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way with its worldwide See below for more details about our guidelines. network of suppliers. Common values regarding human rights and labor are ・ Nissan Global Code of Conduct also shared via the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers, in which https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/2017/NISSAN_GCC_E.pdf ・ Renault-Nissan Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines for Suppliers we detail our expectations and request implementation regarding respect https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/CSR_Alliance_Guidelines.pdf for human rights and prohibition of child labor and forced labor. In addition, ・ Nissan Global Minerals Sourcing Policy we require businesses we deal with to take the initiative on responsible https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/Minerals_Sourcing_Policy_e.pdf procurement of minerals and carry out due diligence on conflict minerals. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 115 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI406-1 GRI407-1 GRI411-1 GRI412-2 Human Rights Achievements In June 2018, we launched our new sustainability strategy, Nissan Sustainability 2022, specifying the main goals through fiscal 2022 for the Nissan recognizes the need to take a comprehensive approach to managing aspects of Environmental, Social and Governance. For the Social aspect, the human rights. After identifying actual or potential risks related to human strategy also reiterates the importance of respecting all stakeholdersʼ rights. rights that we might have inadvertently caused or contributed to, we consider In 2018, we cooperated with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), it vital to monitor and assess such risks, as well as to develop appropriate a US organization promoting sustainability to implement a human rights response strategies. assessment, allowing us to identify four key areas of potential risk related to In the 2001 Nissan Global Code of Conduct, we detailed our policies human rights, namely supplier labor conditions, employee labor conditions, regarding equal opportunity and respect for diversity. In 2004 we were product safety and customer privacy*1. Furthermore, in 2019 we worked with a frontrunner among our industry peers in signing the United Nations BSR to conduct a human rights assessment at Nissan South Africa (Pty) and Global Compact, accepting reporting obligations that we continue to fulfill confirmed human rights risk was clearly low at that company. We formulated today. Regarding suppliers, in 2010 we published the Renault-Nissan an action plan to remediate items requiring improvement and have been CSR Guidelines for Suppliers, clarifying our respect for human rights implementing a PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle in this area from fiscal and commitment to eliminating forced and child labor and sharing our 2020. We plan to expand our human rights assessment reviews of affiliated sustainability policies. companies in the Asian area going forward. In 2017, referencing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), we formulated and issued the Nissan Human Rights Policy Statement. This policy makes it clear that, we respect all our stakeholdersʼ human rights, and require our employees to act according to the highest ethical standards. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 116 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors We also work to build awareness of human rights among employees and *1 Click here for more information related to identifying key areas related to human rights >>> P014 conduct several e-learning seminars, for example, “Global Code of Conduct” *2 For more information on initiatives to support LGBT staff. and “Unconscious Bias”. “Unconscious Bias e-learning” is for all indirect >>> P122 employees and has been completed by 15,225 people (12,687 in fiscal *3 For more information on our global reporting system. 2018 and 2,538 in fiscal 2019). In addition, a total of 350 people have taken >>> P206 * For more information on Responsible Minerals Sourcing part in our LGBT seminars, held annually since fiscal 2014. Since fiscal >>> P158 2016, all senior managers have been required to take an e-learning program * For more information on Global Code of Conduct training. about LGBT issues. In fiscal 2020 the content of the e-learning program has >>> P204 been updated and made mandatory training for managers and staff. We also have proactive initiatives to support LGBT staff.*2 As described in the Nissan Global Code of Conduct, employees can submit inquiries related to human rights issues via a global reporting system.*3 We are committed to investigating, addressing and responding to any concerns reported, and employees who make inquiries are protected from any form of retaliation. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 117 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI406-1 Diversity and Inclusion Policies and Philosophy Respect for Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Employees with different personalities and ways of thinking putting their We have established the Nissan Global Code of Conduct, which describes heads together leads to the creation of new value while meeting the how employees should act and applies to all Nissan Group companies increasingly diverse needs of our customers. Employees are the driving force worldwide. for the sustainable growth of Nissan, and this diverse body of employees is a Nissan has mandated that all employees respect one anotherʼs human valuable asset for the company. We place great importance on establishing rights, and that discrimination or bullying on the grounds of race, nationality, a workplace where employees can demonstrate their potential to the fullest, gender, religion, disability, age, place of origin, gender identity, sexual and which is truly inclusive. That is why one of Nissanʼs corporate strategies orientation or other reasons is unacceptable. There are rules in place is to respect and promote diversity and inclusion. to prevent any passive acceptance of an environment in which such discrimination occurs. At the same time, we respect the diversity of our Sustainable Growth Diversity Inclusion employees, work to maximize the performance of each individual and actively Creating Innovation Diversity means to Inclusion means strive to create an environment in which teams can come together and work Embrace having diverse talents An appreciative toward ambitious goals. with different backgrounds environment where such as gender, nationality, employees respect culture, age, gender identity, each other and everysexual orientation, career one demonstrates their background, education and potential to the fullest. Diversity and Inclusion as Strategy lifestyle. The global expansion of Nissanʼs corporate activities has meant growing Lifestyle Academic Background Culture Values diversification of not only Nissanʼs customers but also its employees. Work Gender Career Nationality and lifestyle choices are changing, driven by demographic changes such as LGBT Background Race Age an aging population and urbanization. We believe that for employees to work in a worry-free, self-initiated manner, they need to be able to pursue their careers regardless of gender, nationality or other factors and at the same Diversity ＆ Inclusion time choose from among various workstyles to suit their particular stage of NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 118 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 life. Skill development programs are another essential part of making the Diversity and Inclusion Management workplace attractive to employees. We believe that diversity and inclusion are a source of competitiveness In order to promote diversity and inclusion across Nissanʼs global operations, for the company. By having employees from a range of backgrounds work policies are set by a committee of executives representing company together while respecting one anotherʼs different values, new concepts and divisions. Dedicated organizations then work on local initiatives needed for ways of thinking are born and even greater value and creative solutions are their implementation. We aim to be a truly inclusive company with a diverse produced, leading to even better business results. The automotive industry workforce, in which individual employees can demonstrate their potential to is in the midst of a transformation that is said to occur only once in a century. the fullest. We promote diversity and inclusion based on four approaches: With the rapid advances in such technologies as autonomous vehicles, “Developing leaders with skills to manage diverse organizations,” “Enabling connected cars, and mobility as a service, diversity and inclusion are growing diverse human resources,” “Embedding culture of respect for diversity and even more vital to enhancing our competitiveness in order to respond swiftly inclusion” and “Promoting inclusive workstyles.” to this transformation. We have made diversity and inclusion part of our Sustainable Growth corporate strategy and are promoting them in all workplaces. This enables us Creating Innovation address the diverse needs of our global customers and to deliver innovative products and services through each of our highly motivated employees. Meet the diverse needs Create & provide greater value of our customers Diversity Management Personal growth A culture without discrimination or prejudice, Academic where you can demonstrate your uniqueness to the fullest Lifestyle Background Culture Values Gender Nationality Career LGBT Background LifeAcademic Race Age Values style Background Culture Gender Nationality Career LGBT Background Race Age Diversity ＆ Inclusion NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 119 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Diversity and Inclusion: Decision-Making and ActionDiversity and Inclusion Promotion: Issues and Approaches Driving Bodies Issues Approaches We have set up the Global Diversity Steering Committee (Global DSC), which Developing leaders with skills to consists of executives from its different divisions and makes decisions on ・Management skills development manage diverse organizations global diversity and inclusion policies and initiatives. The implementation of these in various geographical areas is spearheaded by Regional Diversity ・Human resources development, career support Steering Committees (Regional DSCs). In Japan, we have set up the ・Enhanced recruitment* Enabling diverse human resources Diversity Development Office, which helps put diversity and inclusion policies ・ Targets: 16% female into practice. In North America, we established the Americas Diversity managers globally, and 13% in Japan by 2023 Office. In other regions, local human resource departments and other bodies ・Promotional activities for all work to promote diversity. Embedding culture of respect for employees to understand values diversity and inclusion of diversity and inclusion Global key initiatives ・Work-life balance support Global DSC Promoting inclusive workstyles ・Development of infrastructures review and discussion that realize flexible workstyles Sharing Report directions * Guidelines at Nissan Japan for female new staff recruitment are 50% for office positions, 20% for engineering positions and 20% for technical roles. Europe Regional Regional North America DSC DSC Regional China Regional DSC DSC Japan Regional Regional DSC Each region’s DSC Africa and key initiatives Latin America Asia review and Regional Middle East Oceania discussion DSC NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 120 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI405-1 Diversity and Inclusion Achievements receive support for their personal growth through two-way dialogue with highly knowledgeable and experienced senior employees, as well as help in Enabling Diverse Human Resources dealing with the issues they encounter during their career development and in solving worries and issues in the workplace. Female Talent Development: Initiatives and Achievements Thanks to these various initiatives, women now comprise 10.1% of managers Enablement of women as leaders in projects and organizations is essential in Japan (as of April 2020). This compares favorably to the average of 3.3% to providing diverse value to customers. In order to increase female for Japanese manufacturers with 1,000 or more employees (according to representation through all management levels, Nissan provides trainings to the 2019 Basic Survey on Wage Structure from Japanʼs Ministry of Health, ensure that top candidates will be ready to take on greater responsibility. Labour and Welfare). Female managers also work in all Nissan divisions, Support is provided for womenʼs career development in every region where including development and manufacturing, and are involved in all operational we operate. processes. Furthermore, as of April 2020, a total of 7.4% of general As a result of these initiatives, the percentage of women among Nissan manager or higher positions are filled by women ̶ 3.7 times larger than the managers globally has increased from 7% in 2008 to 13.9% in April 2020, 2008 level of 2.0%. At the executive level, the international race driver Keiko and women are active at Nissan globally. Ihara became Nissanʼs first female outside director in June 2018; Jenifer In Japan, we provide personalized Rogers followed her in June 2019. support for female employees through Managers Retention individual counseling sessions with Transition in the Ratio of Women in Management Positions career advisors. Female employees Enhancement Career of recruiting Group Leaders receive tailored support via career Retention 13.9 Development activities development seminars and meetings Employees with career advisors. They are also Retention encouraged to actively network with 10.1 （7.4% general manager or higher） other professional women outside of Career development One-on-one the company and with women who have and retention actions in Japan interviews Career developrisen into management roles in Nissan. ment seminars Network building We have also put in place a mentoring Information sharing （Year） on company intranet （Global） Nissan （Japan） Nissan program as part of our personal Mentoring Training support initiatives. Younger employees NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 121 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Rather than simply increasing the number of female managers, we create an Inter-cultural Cooperation environment in which women can participate in all business processes, from A vital part of Nissanʼs success rests on ensuring that people are welcome new model development to sales, including those working at affiliate and no matter where they come from, what language they speak, how old they sales companies. are or what their background or training is. Nissanʼs top decision makers In the car development stage, models like the Nissan Serena minivan include individuals of many different nationalities. released in Japan in August 2016 reflect womenʼs requirements. For example, designers and engineers adopted recommendations for a capless fuel tank, allowing drivers to refuel the vehicle without dirtying their hands, and dual back doors that require minimal force to open and allow cargo to be Establishing a Culture of Respect for Diversity and loaded even in confined spaces. Inclusion We are also promoting human resource and career development initiatives In order to leverage diversity as a true strength, create greater value, and for women at our manufacturing sites. In October 2017 the Nissan meet the diverse needs of customers, we believe it is important to establish Groupʼs first female plant manager took up her role at the Oppama Plant a culture of diversity and inclusion, where employees with all sorts of in Yokosuka, Kanagawa prefecture, and other female plant managers have differences, not just of gender and nationality but also sexual orientation, been appointed since then. gender identity, disability, age and career history, acknowledge and accept Many female car-life advisors (CAs) are active at our sales companies as each other without discrimination or prejudice. well where Nissan sales staff respond to the various needs of and questions To further foster a culture of diversity and inclusion, in fiscal 2018 in Japan, from customers. As of end-February 2020, 1,202 female CAs were active we introduced an “Unconscious Bias e-learning” for all indirect employees, across Japan, accounting for 10.6% of the national total, an increase from in which employees can learn the influence of the unconscious biases that 1,196 at the end of February 2019. Additionally, to enhance the satisfaction everyone has as well as techniques to mitigate their effects. In fiscal 2019, of female customers with after-sales service experiences, female technical implemented this initiative in Latin America and the Caribbean (LATAM), we advisors (TAs) have been appointed to bridge the gap between customers plan to gradually expand this initiative across our global sites. and dealer technicians. To enable members of the LGBT community and other employees with diverse sexual orientations and gender identities to perform their jobs without experiencing discrimination in the workplace, we have been working to support and promote understanding through such initiatives as annual LGBT seminars held since 2014. We have participated in Tokyo Rainbow NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 122 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Pride, the largest LGBT event in Japan, for three consecutive years since set in which all participants can join meetings between the local hours of 2017. In fiscal 2016, members of the LGBT community and allies (those 7 a.m. and 8 p.m. By combining this with home-working, we can provide an supportive of LGBT) within the company launched a self-initiated employee attractive work environment in all regions. network. In recognition of these initiatives, the private organization, work with Pride, awarded Nissan its most prestigious Gold “PRIDE Index” to recognize corporate initiatives to support LGBT employees, a first for a Japanese Initiatives for Employees Balancing Work with Childcare automobile company. In 2019, we won Gold for the third year in a row. or Nursing Care We also provide a work place where older employees and those with Japanʼs low birthrate and aging population mean that it is important to disabilities can fully participate. Necessary training programs are provided provide a work environment that supports employees raising children for those who have built up their career at other companies so that they can or giving nursing care to the elderly. We are building an environment to quickly perform to the best of their ability at Nissan. help employees who balance work with childcare through both facilities, In addition, we hold local diversity-themed events and run diversity training such as in-house childcare centers, and initiatives, such as seminars and programs for employees all over the world. Employees can also learn about organizational support. In fiscal 2017 Nissanʼs first plant childcare center̶ Nissanʼs vision and initiatives relating to diversity and inclusion via diversity March Land Oppama ̶ was opened at the Oppama Plant. The centerʼs articles on the company intranet and e-learning programs. opening times are set to fit the plantʼs shift schedule, thereby helping female employees to continue their work at the plant. A group called “Escargot” has also been set up by working mothers themselves as a forum to exchange Promoting Inclusive Workstyles information. We strive to create a work environment where every member of a diverse The number of employees balancing work with the nursing care to the workforce can demonstrate his or her potential to the fullest. For example, elderly is expected to increase, and in Japan we have held seminars since a system in which employees can freely choose to spend up to 40 hours a fiscal 2015 where employees can learn the basics of nursing care and month working from home was introduced so that staff can work flexibly explore how company policies and local services can help them maintain the according to their individual needs. work-care balance. In fiscal 2017 we launched an external support service to Also, in order to make it easier for staff in different regions to work together, support employees who face difficulties in nursing care. in 2017 we established basic rules for the timing of meetings between sites in different regions. Although in the past global meetings have taken place during the middle of the night in some regions, guidelines have now been NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 123 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Creating an Environment Conducive to Work-Life Balance In-house Childcare Centers for Nissan Employees Expansion to plants Comprehensive Support for Employees March Land Atsugi March Land Atsugi Axt March Land Minatomirai March Land Oppama Nissan Global Nissan Global Supporting employees: Supporting managers who have Nissan Technical Information System Headquarters Nissan Oppama Plant Career development and work-life employees engaged in childcare Center (Atsugi) Center (Atsugi) （Yokohama） (Yokosuka) balance support and nursing care Capacity* 42 10 15 10 ”Seminar for expecting parents” Guidance on offering promotion Hours 7:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-6:30 p.m. 8:00 a.m.-8:00 p.m. 5:00 a.m.-7:30 p.m. ”Seminar for Back-to-Work After exams before parental leave Established April 2005 October 2012 January 2013 April 2017 Parental Leave” Seminar for managers with employees Gives employees opportunities to think engaged in childcare *Capacity determined based on facility area. about their career paths before maternity Management training on balancing leave and back-to-work after parental leave work and childcare for staff employNursing care seminars ees engaged in childcare Management training on paternity Support Systems for Childbirth and Childcare (Japan) leave for staff employees engaged in childcare Pregnancy Childbirth 1 year old 2 3 6 9 12 Diversity management training for 6 wks. 8 wks. managers before due date after birth Maternity End of first April Leave leave 2 years old after child turns 2 Company infrastructure Maternity Parental leave protection leave Working from home Accompanying leave (three years Days off Family support leave (to promote childcare): Employees engaged in childcare and nursing maximum) From pregnancy to child's 6th year of elementary school; 12 days/year (5 paid, 7 unpaid) care can spend up to 50% of the required Re-employment policy minimum monthly work hours, while others In-house childcare center (four sites) are allowed up to 40 hours per month. 1. Supports employees by helping them Reduced Shortened work hours (for childcare): All employees except those in manufacturing balance work and childcare and perform working hours For employees with children through the 6th year of elementary school; 3 hours/day processes are eligible. at their best Super-flextime without core time 2. Supports employees' return to work Shorter working hours（ for employees when they wish, rather than when care Childcare centers on company sites engaged in childcare or nursing care） waiting lists in Japan allow it Family support program（special paid Lending of personal computers to holidays for marriage, childbirth by employees on leave Other Allowance for babysitting spouse, childcare, nursing care and (for intranet and email access) fertility treatment） MM care room (lactation room) Childcare leave, nursing care leave, External nursing care hotline Work-from-home program (childcare/nursing care type) maternity protection leave Legally mandated Decided by Nissan For parents regardless of gender NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 124 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Workstyle Reform “Happy 8” Achievements at Overseas Sites We are implementing a series of workstyle reforms that provide a crucial Initiatives to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in North foundation for supporting diversity and inclusion, allowing employees with a America range of values and life needs to perform at their best. At Nissan North America, diversity and inclusion is embedded in our culture. We have been striving to make workstyles more flexible. In the 1990s By actively using our diversity in thought and experience, we better develop we began encouraging employees to take their allotted paid leaves and ideas and people, and ensure our companyʼs continued growth. We do this implemented a “super-flextime” system with no core time when employees by creating opportunities that empower people to grow and achieve more. must be at their workplace. Ultimately, we focus on helping people succeed and making a positive In 2015 we introduced the Happy 8 program, a work reform emphasizing the impact on the communities in which we work and live. ideal of an eight-hour workday. By communicating this ideal to employees, We continuously strive to reflect the consumers we serve in our workforce, Happy 8 aims to increase individual and organizational productivity while and that world is increasingly diverse and evolving. also improving work life, private life, and health. As part of welcoming more flexible workstyle in February 2017 we also began promoting our Happy Friday program, encouraging employees to leave the office at 3 p.m. on the last Friday of each month. Mentoring Additionally, to give each employee the opportunity to reflect on their own To recruit, cultivate diverse talent and sustain this talent long into the future, workstyle from a new perspective, each fiscal year since 2014 we have Nissan North America offers a wide range of employee benefits including held a Workstyle Symposium mentoring. We believe mentoring is necessary to attract and retain talent. featuring invited guest Mentoring opportunities are available in a variety of formats, including speakers from outside the informal, formal, small group, individualized and topical. company. Under the slogan “Eight productive hours! Richer lives, better health, Happy 8,” we will continue striving for more flexible and attractive workstyles. A Workstyle Symposium for employees NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 125 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Business Synergy Teams (BST) Supports members in becoming the parents they Nissan Alliance of would like to be at major life milestones from the time Nissan North Americas offers employees the opportunity to join and/or Parents children are born until they graduate from college while lead Business Synergy Teams (BST). In tandem with executive sponsorship, maintaining the career path they desire. BSTs were developed by active groups of employees with shared interests Makes contact with veterans and seeks opportunities Veterans Business to support and promote military activities within our and values. BST members focus on supporting each otherʼs achievement Synergy Team Nissan community. of business goals, professional development, and interaction with local Wellness at Work Encourages and supports employeesʼ desire to choose communities. Since the first BST launched in 2007, Nissan employees have (W@W) a healthy lifestyle. embraced these groups and formed BSTs at every major US location as well Women's Business Provides its members with networking, professional as Canada and Mexico. Synergy Team development and community involvement opportunities. Business Synergy Nissan North America partners with many charitable and social causes that Concept underlying activities Team (BST ) enhance the well-being of the local communities where we live and work. Serves to be a catalyst for a culture of equality at We invite our employees to serve as volunteers, mentors or advisors, offering Gay Straight Nissan that provides a safe, respectful, inclusive and Alliance at Nissan their time, talent and expertise to help nonprofit organizations carry out their supportive environment for all LGBT employees, vendor (GSAN) partners and customers along with their allies. missions. We have a shared commitment to build a better, more sustainable Generations world for all of us. Works to transfer the Nissan experience and technical Business Synergy expertise across all employee generations. Team Preserves transparency and communicates Green Team information on company and local community initiatives related to sustainability and the environment. Conducts “Celebrate Humanity” activities that Interfaith Nissan contribute to local communities and respects, (iN) recognizes, and accepts all beliefs. Supports diversity and inclusion activities within Nissan Multicultural and the local communities that we work and live in. Business Synergy MBST is open to everyone who would like to share and Team（MBST） learn from Nissanʼs vibrant culture. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 126 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Achievements in Diversity and Inclusion in North America We hold career fairs and provide support for female employees as they continue their careers to encourage increased hiring of women with Acknowledgment of Nissan North Americasʼ commitment and engineering or other technical degrees. Nissan is playing an active role in accomplishments in supporting diversity has come from a broad spectrum career development and dedicating time and resources not only internally, of organizations and media. We appreciate that the marketplace has but also externally. In addition, the Nissan Skills Foundation was established recognized our efforts consistently throughout the years. in 2014 at our plant in Sunderland, England, which provides a variety of In 2019, Nissan Canada(NCI) was selected as a Top 100 Ideal Employer for educational programs for elementary, middle, and high school students. As the fourth consecutive year. This is Canadaʼs largest and longest-running of November 2019, 60,000 students had participated in career development student ranking of companies with participation by over 20,000 students and engineering or STEM events run by the foundation. Female students from 159 universities. NCI was also certified as a Great Place to Work® by accounted for approximately 46% of the participants. Our offices in Spain an organization that conducts anonymous surveys of employees working at participate as sponsor in a mentoring program provided to female students companies worldwide. The survey bases its certification criteria on corporate pursuing engineering and technical degrees and female executives also culture, workplace experience, compensation, communication, and employee contribute as mentors. trust in leadership. NCI received especially high marks for diversity and fairness. We are focusing on developing the capabilities of women through mentoring and coaching sessions and are implementing career development plans at the individual level. In 2019, our “Thrive female leadership development Initiatives to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in Europe program” was launched for the first time and was attended by 18 female In Europe, as part of our efforts to promote gender diversity, we undertake a middle managers. holistic approach by applying this philosophy in our production and supplier relationship, processes and management. In September 2019, events were held all over Europe for the regional The diversity and inclusion activities are focusing on the full employee Diversity Week. In December 2019 we celebrated December International lifecycle from recruitment to engagement. Moreover we pay special Day of Persons with Disabilities by inviting a Paralympic gold medalist as a attention on gender, nationality and ability as primary areas to strengthen speaker to deepen understanding of colleagues, suppliers, and customers understanding of diversity and inclusion in Europe. with disabilities. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 127 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Nissan Russia was ranked third in Forbes Woman Ranking 2019. The Forbes technology, even with simple movements, we have raised the issue by Woman Rating is the first of its kind in the country to evaluate the best saying that it is necessary to create automobiles and maintain usage companies for women's careers. Sixteen indicators have been identified and environments that reflect cultural differences and diversity. evaluated in five blocks: gender composition (25%), compensation (25%), In parallel, we led a multi-stakeholder campaign through various channels, career opportunities (25%), corporate programs (15%) and special benefits driving awareness for Nissanʼs approach to diversity and its participation (10%). in the event. In the European region, online training has been implemented for all Latin America and the Caribbean (LATAM): employees, and we will continue to pursue initiatives to promote diversity and In Brazil, 40 hours of sign language training was conducted for 55 inclusion. employees including plant leaders to enhance communication with hearing-impaired employees working at the plant. Initiatives to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in Other In addition, in October Regions: 2019 the event WOMEN TALK was held inviting an Asia & Oceania (A&O): instructor from the UN. 68 In Asia & Oceania (A&O), a great example in this area is our participation female employees attended in the Womenʼs Forum Asia 2019 held in Singapore in September 2019 the presentation on the for the second year consecutively, as a Gold Partner. We sent a diverse economic empowerment delegation of 20 Nissan employees to learn at the event and further the of women and female dialogue on how to accelerate diversity and inclusion in the company. participation in the labor Furthermore, we had four A&O business leaders speak at various events, market. The event “WOMEN TALK” sharing Nissanʼs approach to workforce diversity, talent development, and how diversity data helps Nissan to be more inclusive in the way we serve customers of different genders and cultures. One example of panel discussion talk was driving etiquette and autonomous driving due to cultural differences. Flashing headlights can have different implications in different countries. With the spread of autonomous driving and 5G NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 128 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Africa, Middle East and India (AMI): including the head of human resources, business managers, HR staff from At Nissan Africa, Middle East, India (AMI), we were successful in companies in China with which Nissan has alliances. The participants increasing the number of females in external hiring positions by 25% were certified as in-house trainers after learning about the characteristics versus 2018, by mandating shortlisting both male and female candidates of each generation, methods for managing uncertainty, dialogue for the interview stage by the hiring manager. We have taken measures depending on roles, and the motivations of teams and individuals. These to promote Nissan as a diverse employer, including but not limited to trainers then conducted training on intergenerational leadership at each introduction of flexible working guidelines, holding female progression of their companies. awareness sessions and establishing nursing rooms (lactation rooms) at NCIC also conducted diversity and inclusion workshops for senior leaders all major facilities in 2019. in June 2019 where the participants enhanced their awareness and At the International Womenʼs Day in March 2019, we promoted diversity understanding of diversity and inclusion and reconfirmed their importance and inclusion by holding presentations and workshops and other events to lead the business to succeed. They also confirmed that promoting with AMI leaders as speakers. diversity and inclusion build a stronger corporate culture, creating a work AMI region sponsored the Women Economic Forum event, which was place in which employees work with trust and passion. held in Cairo, Egypt on March 2020, aiming to strengthen our position as “Diversity Employer”. We enjoyed meaningful media and local coverage. External Recognition for Diversity and Inclusion at In 2020, we plan to introduce programs to develop skills of female Nissan* employees to further support the enablement of women. Both Nissanʼs diversity and inclusion initiatives and its attitude of placing emphasis on employee diversity, have received considerable external China (NCIC and Nissan China JVs): recognition. Generation diversity in the work place and understanding differences As noted above, NCI was selected as a Top 100 Ideal Employer for the between generations are helpful to improve teamwork, innovation, and fourth consecutive year and have also been certified as a Great Place to productivity. Awareness and learning across generations are viewed Work®. In addition, in Russia Nissan ranked third in Forbes Woman Ranking as important elements in setting higher goals for the organization, and 2019. therefore “train the trainer” (TTT) training on intergenerational leadership In 2015, we became the first company in Kanagawa prefecture to earn was conducted in April 2019 by Alliance China Academy for the Nissan Platinum Kurumin certification, which is granted to Kurumin-accredited China region including NCIC and Nissan China JVs. companies (certified as supporting childcare) that provide an even higher The training took place for 21 hours over three days with 33 participants standard of childcare support. Then in 2017 we received the highest thirdNISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 129 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors level Eruboshi accreditation as a company that successfully promotes female participation in the workplace. Additionally, we were the first Japanese carmaker to receive a PRIDE Index top Gold award, a scheme which recognizes efforts to support LGBT employees; in 2019, we received the same award for the third year in a row. These awards are a clear sign that Nissanʼs commitment to diversity and inclusion is producing results and that our efforts to make diversity a key element of its competitive strategy are steadily bearing fruit. * Click here for data on the main examples of external recognition of our diversity and inclusion initiatives to date. >>> P235 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 130 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors TRAFFIC SAFETY GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-2 Traffic Safety Policies and Philosophy Traffic Safety Management The automobile has transformed peopleʼs lives, bringing mobility, Nissanʼs goal of “zero fatalities” means aiming for virtually no fatalities due to convenience and the pleasure of driving. In recent years, the automotive traffic accidents involving Nissan vehicles. Since 2004, our R&D department industry has made significant advances, particularly in autonomous driving has been striving to develop technologies based on our unique Safety technologies and driver-support solutions. The world is also undergoing Shield concept of “vehicles that help protect people”. Many different types of major structural shifts due to aging populations and the rapid progression of Nissan vehicles are already equipped with the results of this work, including urbanization. Technological innovation in the automotive sector is expected technologies to help prevent collisions or reduce the damage when a to help realize societies with less urban traffic congestion and more ways for collision is unavoidable. Today, we are working toward the implementation of senior citizens to move about safely. autonomous driving as the next advancement among our preventative safety Nissan designs and engineers cars that embody the pleasure and richness and driver-assist technologies. of driving while prioritizing a high level of safety. More than 90% of traffic To help people gain a better understanding of traffic safety, we are accidents are caused by human error. Our goal is “zero fatalities”: reducing committed to educational activities to boost safety awareness and support the number of deaths from accidents involving Nissan vehicles to virtually activities to improve driversʼ skills. zero. To this end, we continue working to enhance the safety of our vehicles, We are working alongside government and municipal authorities, universities partly through the development and adoption of autonomous driving and other companies to realize a safer and more pleasant mobility society. technologies. We also conduct a wide range of other activities to help build a safer and more pleasant mobility society, including educational initiatives to raise safety awareness among drivers, pedestrians and others in the community. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 131 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Goal of Nissanʼs Activities to Improve Traffic Safety Nissanʼs ultimate goal: Nissanʼs approach to safety is focused on the real world and aims to help Virtually zero fatalities involving Nissan vehicles create a society with virtually zero avoidable traffic accidents. In 2019, there Nissanʼs approach: were 3,215 fatalities in Japan caused by traffic accidents. While this is 317 less than in 2018, there are still more than 3,000 deaths per year due A triple-layered approach, to traffic accidents. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), targeting vehicles, individuals and society approximately 1.35 million people die each year in traffic accidents globally. Unless urgent steps are taken, traffic accidents could become the seventh Society leading cause of death worldwide by 2030. We set the target of reducing the number of fatalities involving Nissan Individuals vehicles to half their 1995 level by 2015, and reached this target in Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom. Today, we are striving to halve Vehicles this number once again in these markets by 2020. Our ultimate goal is a world with virtually no fatalities resulting from traffic accidents. To reduce traffic accidents and achieve this zero-fatality goal, it will be necessary to develop and deploy effective safety technologies in as many vehicles as possible. Comprehensive efforts are needed, encompassing individuals and the driving environment as well. We take a triple-layered Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Japan U.S. U.K. approach, targeting vehicles, individuals and society to contribute to the Vehicles Vehicles Vehicles creation of a truly safe automobile society. Virtually Virtually Virtually zero zero zero Source: Institute for Traffic Accident Source: Fatality Analysis Reporting System Source: STATS19 data, U.K. Research and Data Analysis Department for Transport NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 132 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI416-1 GRI417-1 Traffic Safety Achievements highest score for a “kei” minicar in JNCAP ʼs Active Safety Assessment for fiscal 2019. The assessment has added a rigorous test of the autonomous Vehicles: Developing Safety Technologies emergency braking system for pedestrians at night to simulate driving on roads without streetlights. In addition, through fiscal 2019, 13 major models To promote safe and enjoyable driving, as well as ensuring that all our brands featuring Intelligent Emergency Braking were approved under the Advanced comply with laws and regulations addressing automobile safety, Nissan is Emergency Braking System certification launched by the Ministry of Land, working to develop automotive technologies that can help minimize risk to Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in fiscal 2018. vehicle occupants to the extent possible based on its unique Safety Shield concept. Major External Safety Ratings (Based on 2019 Assessments) Our Safety Shield concept divides the conditions surrounding a vehicle into Regions External Assessments Models Rating the six phases of “risk has not yet appeared”, “risk has appeared”, “crash Collision Safety 5★ may occur”, “crash is unavoidable”, “crash”, and “post-crash,” and guides the Performance Nissan Dayz (Highest rating) Assessment development of various technologies in which the vehicle can help protect Preventive Safety Nissan Dayz (highest score for a ASV+++ people in each phase. This concept is the basis of our efforts to develop Japan JNCAP*1 Performance “kei” minicar) (Highest rating) Assessment Serena (perfect score) safety technologies. Automatic Accident SOS+ Emergency Call Nissan Dayz (on-board type) System Assessment Enhancements to Nissanʼs Safety Technology and INFINITI QX60, INFINITI QX50, Murano, Altima, Pathfinder, 5★ Overall Rating External Ratings Received NCAP*2 Maxima, Sentra (2020 model year) 4★ U.S. INFINITI QX80, Armada, In January 2015, we expanded Intelligent Emergency Braking to more Frontier (Crew Cab), Rogue Overall Rating (2020 model year) models. By the end of fiscal 2015, the technology was available on nearly all Maxima 2020 Top Safety Pick+ IIHS*3 vehicle categories sold in Japan, including electric vehicles and commercial Altima 2020 Top Safety Pick vehicles, and standard on all major models. In North America, it is now Europe Euro NCAP Juke 5★ China C-NCAP Sylphy 5★ standard on several models including the Pathfinder, Altima and Rogue. In Europe, it is available on the Juke, X-Trail, Qashqai, Micra and other key *1 JNCAP: The Japan New Car Assessment Program. An automobile assessment program run by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the National Agency for models. Automotive Safety and Victimsʼ Aid (NASVA). Our vehicles have earned high safety ratings on many public and *2 NCAP: The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administrationʼs New Car Assessment Program. governmental tests held in various regions. In particular in Japan, the *3 IIHS: The U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. Serena minivan received a perfect score and the Nissan Dayz received the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 133 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Aiming for Virtually Collision-Free Cars Risk has not yet appeared ■ProPILOT assist Our Safety Shield concept supports the safety of vehicle occupants in ■Intelligent Distance Control ■Navigation-enabled Intelligent Cruise a variety of scenarios from a comprehensive perspective, from danger Control with full-speed range following Helps the driver drive with peace of mind prevention and avoidance to protecting occupants. capability ■Adaptive Front-Lighting System (AFS) For example, during normal driving or parking, sensors and cameras can ■Intelligent Around View Monitor monitor vehicles and pedestrians that may be difficult for drivers to see; ■Intelligent Rear View Mirror this supports drivers and allows them to drive with peace of mind. In times Risk has appeared of potential danger, the vehicle can judge in an instant how to help avoid or ■Intelligent Forward Collision Warning ■Lane Departure Warning lessen the danger. ■Intelligent Lane Intervention We have set ourselves the goal of providing optimal mobility worldwide. ■Blind Spot Warning ■Intelligent Blind Spot Intervention We are committed as an automobile manufacturer to swift and widespread Helps the driver ■Intelligent Back-up Intervention avoid or mitigate popularization of our safety technologies. ■Intelligent Driver Alertness dangerous situations ■Rear Cross Traffic Alert Crash may occur ■Intelligent Emergency Braking ■Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) ■Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) ■Emergency Brake for Pedal Misapplication Crash is unavoidable ■Front Pre-Crash Seatbelts Crash Helps minimize ■Zone Body Construction injuries when ■SRS Airbag Systems a collision is ■Pop Up Engine Hood unavoidable Post-crash ■Automated Airbag-Linked Hazard Lamps ■SOS call (HELPNET) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 134 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Latest Safety Technologies* Lane Departure Warning/Intelligent Lane Intervention The Lane Departure Warning system alerts the driver when the car appears *All terminology and functionality as seen in the Japan market. to drift out of its travel lane with a visual warning in the meter display and an audible signal. The Intelligent Lane Intervention system can also Intelligent Emergency Braking automatically help the driver return to the travel lane by redirecting the When the front-mounted camera detects a vehicle or pedestrian ahead and vehicle toward it. the risk of collision increases, visual warnings appear in the meter display and an audible signal warns the driver to take appropriate action. If the driver Intelligent Driver Alertness does not reduce speed appropriately, braking is applied to help avoid or When the Intelligent Driver Alertness system detects via the driverʼs steering reduce the severity of a frontal collision. activity that driver alertness may be reduced, a visual warning in the meter display and an audible signal urge the driver to take a break. Emergency Assist for Pedal Misapplication This technology uses sonar to detect walls and other obstacles in the Intelligent Rear View Mirror direction of travel. When the accelerator pedal is depressed too strongly When the switch is flipped on, the Intelligent Rear View Mirror shows or the system determines that there is a risk of collision, audio and visual the view through a rear-mounted camera, helping provide clear rearward warnings alert the driver as the system reduces engine or motor output visibility. Any cargo or vehicle occupants inside the vehicle do not impede and brakes to prevent or reduce the severity of a collision. According to our the mirrorʼs rearward view. Additionally, the sensitivity of the camera can be accident analysis, pedal misapplication is not restricted to parking lots and increased at night or in other low-light conditions, providing the driver with a similar spaces but also often occurs on the road. Our latest system supports clear rearward view in a variety of circumstances. the driver in a wider range of situations in that it can detect vehicles and pedestrians with a front-mounted camera installed in the upper portion of the windshield when traveling at speeds of up to 25 km/h. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 135 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Intelligent Around View Monitor Dissemination of Advanced Driver Assistance Images showing the vehicle from a virtual birdʼs eye view clearly convey the Technologies: ProPILOT relationship between car and parking space, assisting the driver in parking. Brought to market in 2016, ProPILOT is a driver assistance system that can If the system detects moving objects around the car, the monitor alerts the provide speed control, lane centering and brake assist functionalities. driver. The system also supports the driver with safety checks when entering ProPILOT 2.0 is the worldʼs first advanced driver assistance technology that a garage or exiting a parking space. offers a wide range of support for drivers traveling on a multi-lane highway by setting their destination in the navigation system to set a predefined Rear Cross Traffic Alert travel route, such as hands-off driving while cruising in a given lane and lane The Rear Cross Traffic Alert warns changes for passing and branching off. In September 2019, ProPILOT2.0 drivers backing out of a space was equipped as standard in the all-new Nissan Skyline hybrid. The when a risk is detected of vehicles technology is highly acclaimed, winning Best Innovation Award in the 2019approaching behind them from either 2020 Japan Car of the Year awards and the RJC Technology of the Year at side. the RJC Car of the Year awards. We are progressively deploying ProPILOT globally in a wider range of vehicle Blind Spot Warning types. So far, in Japan, has been available in the Serena, Nissan LEAF and When the Blind Spot Warning system X-Trail. In the United States, ProPILOT is available in the INFINITI QX50, detects a vehicle diagonally behind Rogue, Rogue sports, Altima, and Nissan LEAF. In Europe, it is available the vehicle, it indicates the presence in the Nissan LEAF, Qashqai, X-Trail and Nissan Juke. And in China, it is of this vehicle to the driver. When the offered on the Altima, X-Trail, and INFINITI QX50. The new Nissan Dayz, driver has the turn signal indicator was the first “kei” vehicle to offer this feature and its now also offered in on, visual and audible warnings are the Nissan ROOX, and in total, more than 660,000 vehicles equipped with provided. ProPILOT have been sold as of the end of March 2020. We intend to deploy the technology in 20 models for sale in 20 markets by the end of fiscal 2023, when the number of ProPILOT-equipped vehicles sold annually is expected to reach 1.5 million. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 136 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors From Preventive Safety to Autonomous Driving autonomous driving technologies may one day be able to help reduce traffic accidents, providing peace of mind to drivers and increased mobility to the We are enhancing our preventive safety technologies to support the four rapidly growing number of senior citizens. We believe that autonomous basic steps in avoiding accidents: sensing, cognition, judgment and action. driving technologies are a major breakthrough offering new mobility value. Today we are developing autonomous driving technologies as the next We are proactively developing these technologies and working to bring them step in our approach to driving safety. We believe that autonomous driving to market. could help reduce traffic accidents̶ more than 90% of which have human error as a contributing factor̶ and help realize a society with virtually no traffic accidents. Autonomous driving A Nissan autonomous driving test vehicle. vehicles equipped with millimeter-wave radar, laser scanners and cameras continually monitor their surroundings in every direction. If they approach other vehicles or objects, artificial intelligence selects the appropriate action based on the information stored in its knowledge database. The goal is an autonomous driving vehicle that can correctly assess the situation, make decisions and drive safely even in complex traffic environments, such as crossroads with no traffic lights or when passing parked vehicles. Nissan implements field-testing of autonomous driving on a global basis. In 2019 the U.K. Human Drive Project, an autonomous driving vehicle ran for 370km over the wide-ranging and unique driving environment in the United Kingdom, including suburban roads, highways and city streets. In a society facing issues including aging populations and urban congestion, NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 137 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI416-1 GRI417-1 Nissanʼs Traffic Safety Activities: Involving “Wheel Spinning (Guru-Guru) Exercise”, developed in March 2020, which promotes and encourages safe driving among senior drivers. People To create a better mobility society, it is important for as many people as * Traffic Safety Project ToLiTon (Town, Life and Transportation) Safety Initiative possible to share an understanding of traffic safety, from drivers and vehicle This project was named to promote proposals to town, life, and transportation that are not occupants to pedestrians. We take part in educational activities to help bound by past conventions boost this safety awareness, including measures to improve driving skills and a range of other safety promotions. Omoiyari Light Promotion On November 10, designated “Day Initiatives in Japan of Good Lighting”, we hold various interesting and fun activities Traffic accidents are statistically more likely to occur during the dusk hours around Japan to remind drivers from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. As part of the Hello Safety Campaign, Nissanʼs of the importance of turning on Omoiyari Light Promotion urges drivers to turn on their headlights earlier their headlights early in the evening. In 2019, approximately 540 people in the evening. We have been involved in this campaign since 2010 and participated in an on-street campaign to encourage drivers to turn on their promote civic activities with two-way communication to raise public headlights before dark at 14 locations across Japan: Obihiro in Hokkaido awareness of traffic safety. prefecture; Yamagata in Yamagata prefecture; Sagamihara in Kanagawa Furthermore, we launched a traffic safety project * in 2018 together with prefecture; Niigata in Niigata prefecture; Asahi (Nyuzen) in Toyama a research department in Niigata University. They specialize in kinesiology, prefecture; Tsuruga and Echizen (Sabae) in Fukui prefecture; Higashikagawa and they have been promoting traffic safety through the involvement of in Kagawa prefecture; Aki district in Kochi prefecture; Nagasaki, Matsuura, the local community. We are engaged in a wide range of activities that Hirado and Emukae in Nagasaki prefecture; and Iriki in Kagoshima traverse industry sectors, regions, and generations with the aim of realizing a prefecture. These volunteers were subsequently invited to attend a Traffic mobile society with zero traffic fatalities, that embraces diversity and leaves Safety Roundtable. The participants shared information on initiatives under no one behind. We stand by the members of society who are at a social way in various regions and issues they faced, which enabled all to foster disadvantage including in the area of transportation, such as small children, strong exchanges. the elderly, foreign visitors and those cut off from public transportation because of depopulation. One of the outcomes from these efforts is the NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 138 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Throughout the year, Global Headquarters Gallery hosted daily presentations function declines, it has various negative impacts on the ability to drive a at dusk by Nissanʼs “Miss Fairlady” PR staff members about the Omoiyari vehicle. Light Promotion. From 2019 they have been holding up signboards that The exercise has three main benefits: improving circulation to help refresh encourage turning on headlights while they explain. By urging greater the body, building strength through a somewhat strenuous motion, and awareness of, and action on, safety among corporations, nonprofit stimulating the brain to enhance cognitive abilities. So they are easy to organizations, car-lovers and other stakeholders, these activities have helped remember, all the moves are completed in four beats over three seconds our Omoiyari Light Promotion steadily gain broad acceptance among the and the movements are repeated in a rhythmical manner. The exercise can public. be performed before operating a vehicle or any time one has some time to spare. It can also be done without the steering wheel prop and it is also effective to a degree, even if it is done while sitting and watching television or listening to music. A video showing senior citizens, pre-school children and university students performing Wheel Spinning (Guru-Guru) Exercise and participants enjoying a workshop to make their own one-of-a-kind steering wheels to be used in the exercise was posted to Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter. Volunteers in Obihiro, Hokkaido calling for drivers to Regions participating in the campaign to turn turn on their headlights on headlights Wheel Spinning (Guru-Guru) Exercise for Senior Citizensʼ Traffic Safety This exercise was developed to support safe driving primarily by senior citizens by improving their muscle strength and enhancing their cognitive Wheel Spinning (Guru-Guru) Exercise Workshop to make steering wheels for the exercise abilities. Senior citizens tend to lose motor function due to a lack of exercise. Research by the Niigata University (kinesiology) has shown that when motor NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 139 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI416-1 Partnership with the FIA for Traffic Safety Society: Working Together with Society In 2014, Nissan and the Fédération Internationale de lʼAutomobile (FIA) We believe we can help create an even safer mobility society by using formed a partnership to make the worldʼs roads safer through the FIA information from the traffic environment surrounding vehicles on the road. In Action for Road Safety campaign. We were an official supporter of the FIAʼs collaboration with a wide range of governmental agencies, universities and innovative awareness-raising campaign, launched to bolster the United companies, we are participating in various projects aimed at realizing a safer, Nations Decade of Action for Road Safety. more pleasant mobility society. As part of this partnership, we worked worldwide to promote the FIA Golden Rules which aim to reduce the number of deaths from traffic accidents. Helping Reduce Wrong-Direction Accidents By signing the FIA Online Pledge, campaign supporters publicly commit to driving safely. Recently, Japan has seen an increased number of incidents involving We leveraged events like the Nissan Safety Driving Forum and other vehicles traveling in the wrong direction on expressways. Working together outreach efforts to educate drivers about the FIA Golden Rules and FIA with West Nippon Expressway Co., Ltd., we have developed a navigation Online Pledge. program that uses GPS to notify expressway drivers of vehicles driving the wrong way. The system detects these vehicles based on GPS coordinates, maps, vehicle speeds and other data, and their drivers receive audible and visual warnings. It first appeared in the Nissan Fuga Hybrid released in October 2010 and is now available as an option on every type of vehicle we sell in Japan, including commercial vehicles. Now that the technology has been licensed to Pioneer Corp., this function is available to customers who use Pioneer car navigation systems as well. Our Initiatives for the Future Applying NASA Technology to Develop AI for Autonomous Vehicles To realize fully autonomous city driving, we are developing the Seamless Autonomous Mobility system (SAM). SAM will be able help cars safely navigate unforeseen situations like accidents, road construction and other obstacles. When autonomous decision-making is difficult, a remote operator NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 140 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors draws up an ideal route to manage the situation and sends it to the vehicle for execution. Field Testing Commercial Mobility Services Using Driverless Vehicles Nissan and the Japanese Internet firm DeNA Co., Ltd. are jointly developing a new mobility service called Easy Ride using driverless vehicles. In March 2018, field tests of the Easy Ride service were conducted in the Minatomirai district of Yokohama in Kanagawa prefecture. The field tests used monitors in test cars equipped with autonomous driving technology to assess and check the service. In February 2019, we conducted tests under more realistic circumstances by expanding the test field and randomly choosing starting points and destinations. In February 2020, we held a test drive event for representatives of National government agencies, regional and municipal authorities, transportation operators, local companies, and other stakeholders. Nissan and DeNA will work together to develop service designs for driverless environments, expand service routes, optimize distribution logic for when vehicles share congested roads with driver-operated vehicles, establish pick-up/drop-off processes, and explore the possibility of multilingual support. We aim to launch the full service in the early 2020s. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 141 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Product Safety and Quality Policies and Fair and Swift Action on Major Quality Issues Philosophy Our primary responsibility as a manufacturer is to make every effort to ensure that product issues do not occur in the first place. Another duty is to Product evaluations and automaker brand value are entirely dependent on ensure that vehicles, which are extraordinarily complex industrial products, customer perception of quality. In the automotive industry, rapid technical are manufactured to handle a range of eventualities. Our approach to recalls innovations are seeing customers demand ever-higher levels of quality in the is to conduct them transparently, fairly and promptly. The decision to conduct products they purchase. A company can strengthen its brand by consistently a recall is based on compliance with relevant laws and consideration of how providing the value customers expect, but failing to meet expectations even the issue may affect customersʼ safety. When a recall is judged necessary, once makes it harder to maintain a platform for providing new value to those we implement it swiftly, placing top priority on customer safety and customers. minimizing the disruption to their lives. As mobility needs rise worldwide, driven by increased urbanization and structural changes in the global economy, Nissan is expanding production to fulfill its mission of offering people everywhere the rich benefits of mobility. At the same time, we believe that automakers have an important responsibility to always offer customers the kind of quality they expect. We aim to earn our customersʼ trust by addressing quality as a companywide issue. This means providing top-level quality to customers at every stage, from the planning of new vehicles through development, manufacturing, distribution and sales to aftersales service. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 142 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Quality Policies and Philosophy Product Safety and Quality Management Quality has many aspects, and we seek to provide high quality at all stages Ensuring the safety of customers who purchase Nissan cars and of the customer experience: how it feels to use the product itself, the way consistently providing the quality they expect are both important parts of customers are treated by sales staff in showrooms, the response if problems gaining their trust. In order to earn that trust and achieve sustainable growth, arise with the product. To achieve this, we pursue effective companywide Nissan has set the companywide goal of being recognized by customers cooperation at the cross-functional and cross-regional levels. We aim to as a brand offering top-level quality. We have created systems to promote be recognized by customers as a brand offering top-level quality in both quality improvement globally, with top executives taking responsibility for products and sales and services. ensuring these promotions are successful. All Nissan employees work Vehicle product quality is essential for safe and comfortable long-term use. together as one to improve quality around the world. We aim to provide a high level of quality that meets customer expectations over the entire lifecycle of the product. This includes the perceived quality Management Systems for Product Safety and Quality when a customer opens the vehicleʼs door in the showroom, sits in the seat and takes a test drive; the initial quality in the first year after purchase; and To achieve top-level quality, we have assigned a number of Senior Vice the durability that allows the vehicle to provide many years of use. Presidents, headed by the Chief Quality Officer (CQO), to focus exclusively We also conduct initiatives to increase customer satisfaction (CS) regarding on quality issues. A CQO meeting, chaired by the CQO, is held every month sales and service quality. Our aim is to exceed expectations at every and attended by executives representing each division and region. These customer contact point, including dealership visit, purchase, maintenance, meetings work to promote the swift solution and improvement of issues inspection and repurchase. related not just to product quality but also to sales and service quality We listen to customers and incorporate their feedback in every process experiences before and after purchase. throughout the company in our pursuit of CS. Additionally, in order to fully implement compliance, we have established a three-layer monitoring and audit system and are working to strengthen our audit activities. The first layer consists of each division implementing monitoring activities to ensure strict observance of laws and standards. In the second layer, the Conformity Audit Office conducts audits of those efforts to observe laws and standards. And in the third layer, the Internal Audit Office conducts risk-based audits in accordance with annual plans. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 143 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 Product Safety and Quality Achievements to executives and senior managers. Employees who buy Nissan vehicles are also customers and important Reflecting Customer Feedback in Activities to stakeholders. The “Quality Listening Box” on our intranet lets employees Enhance Quality actively contribute information to raise the quality of products and services. Quality reflects how successfully Nissan interacts with its customers. In order to provide the value that customers expect and respond rapidly if Incorporating Customer Feedback into Products and they are not satisfied, we listen to all feedback and put what we learn to Services use in measures to improve quality at every stage, from product design and development to aftersales service. We have implemented a system for reflecting customer feedback in our products and services. Reliable information sharing ensures that this feedback is incorporated in the work of all functions, including product Responding Rapidly to Customer Feedback and Timely planning, R&D, manufacturing and sales. Sharing of Information Product quality is about more than just a lack of mechanical faults̶ it includes any factors that could affect customer satisfaction (CS). We see We receive and respond to customer comments and questions worldwide these factors as issues requiring action and strive to improve quality across through a range of contact points, including dealers, call centers and all areas. surveys. The value that customers expect from products varies according to their Our customer call center in Japan, for example, receives around 280,000 region, age, and personal tastes and can also be affected by market factors, comments and questions from customers annually. All catalogs, instruction such as product diffusion levels or even climate. manuals and similar materials published over the last 50 years have been Although we have basic specifications for global design, we fine-tune these digitized for easy searching, letting operators address customer concerns as to meet regional needs. The Chief Quality Engineer (CQE) performs this role, quickly as possible. Operators also have access to a database of frequently participating in the vehicle manufacturing process from the product planning asked questions and their answers, organized into three segments by vehicle stage in order to enhance CS and reduce defects. We glean customer models, keywords and categories. perspectives from market information and employee monitors and prioritize Opinions and comments received by our customer call center in Japan are our response to these from the planning and development stages for both anonymized and shared companywide on the intranet, where employees can products and services. access and view them at any time. Information is also promptly sent by email NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 144 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Adopting a Customer Perspective and Fostering a CS Improving Product Quality Mindset Product quality is a basic feature in allowing customers to use a product To improve quality across the company, all employees must consider the safely and comfortably over the long term. For Nissan, a leading customerʼs perspective and keep CS in mind as they work. For this reason, automaker with a strong history of monozukuri, Japanʼs tradition of careful we implement numerous activities for incorporating customer views. One of craftsmanship, product quality is the foundation for our sustainability as a these is regular CS mindset training. company. We consider quality from the customerʼs perspective at all times This training covers quality improvement measures and CS policy in the and respond quickly if a defect occurs, striving to prevent recurrence so as Nissan Group, incorporating actual feedback from customers in group not to inconvenience the customer. We ascertain customer dissatisfaction discussions. Employees discuss what we can do for our customers and what and address it through all possible means, improving quality to increase actions are necessary in the current situation, which fosters a CS-based satisfaction. quality-improvement mindset among individual employees. This training is We categorize product quality into areas like perceived quality, initial quality currently offered in Japan, with further expansion ongoing around the world and durability. Quality improvement efforts target the entire lifecycle of a in a growing number of departments. product, from planning and design to R&D, manufacturing, logistics, sales Since 2003, we have also held Nissan Quality Forums for executives, and aftersales service. We monitor the results of quality surveys, using them employees and suppliers. These annual forums use information displays, as internal indices and making improvements through the PDCA (plan, do, video presentations and actual vehicles and parts to showcase our latest check, act) cycle. quality results, customer feedback and activities aimed at meeting targets. The forums are organized cross-functionally by all divisions from R&D to service. In recent years experiential events that lead to actions being taken have been organized in order to raise all employeesʼ awareness of CS and quality-improvement issues. They are held globally in Japan, North America, Latin America, Europe and Southeast Asia. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 145 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Approaches in Development and at Manufacturing Plants Producing Products of Consistent Quality Worldwide We have adopted the 4G Strategies to produce high-quality products Improving Perceived Quality and Developing Vehicles with Valued globally. These strategies let us quickly create optimum production Designs structures for providing consistently high-quality products to customers Perceived quality is the quality that customers feel when seeing, touching around the world. and operating a vehicle. For example, when customers come to the showroom, they open vehicle doors, sit in seats and check things like the Nissanʼs 4G Strategies texture of interior fittings. The perception of quality is a particularly subjective matter, and applying Global Production Global Professional Engineering Center (GPEC) Development Center (GPDC) objective criteria requires thorough studies. We conduct consumer researches around the world targeting customers who have purchased The GPEC develops optimized The GPDC trains logistics production processes through focused specialists to work at or are considering purchasing a Nissan car in order to understand their trials and analysis of new vehicles. As manufacturing bases. Training perceptions better and incorporate those perceptions in new vehicles. Our well as dramatically improving quality includes parts packaging design, in the vehicle production preparation packaging testing and evaluation perceived quality specialists communicates the voice of customers around stage, it strives to establish global methods, CAD and optimum the world and support us to develop attractive styling vehicle that are valued quality consistency by spreading high logistics cost management to standards to manufacturing plants in maintain high quality. by our customers. and outside Japan. Global Launching Expert Global Training Center (GTC) (GLE) Manufacturing quality and productivity The GLE helps resolve depend greatly on the skills of issues related to monozukuri individual workers. To raise these skills (production) during the to a competitive level in our plants new vehicle launch phase. worldwide, the GTC runs classroom Evaluations and advice from lectures and skills training activities GLE core members and support based on the Alliance Production Way from GLE registered members (APW). Graduates of Master Trainer help us meet QCT (quality, cost, programs take part in training programs for local staff in regional training time) targets on every new centers, efficiently passing their skills vehicle launch. on to others. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 146 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Implementing Quality Tests Envisioning a Myriad of Situations shares information with the R&D and manufacturing divisions to investigate Each of our production cars and development models is evaluated using the causes and come up with countermeasures. These countermeasures a system called AVES* to monitor quality on a daily basis. Feedback from are incorporated in production models on the market. In this way, we seek customers is incorporated in standardized evaluation criteria, which are permanent solutions to prevent outflow of quality issues. used to train quality assessment specialists. Only these company-certified The global expansion of our corporate activities has increased our potential experts, known as “AVES Masters,” can perform our strict daily assessments. exposure to customer dissatisfaction and quality issues in more regions The assessment process evaluates the vehicleʼs interior and exterior and around the world. In response, we have established Field Quality Centers tests it while it is in operation, focusing on whether it meets quality standards (FQCs) with the goal of promptly gaining an understanding of regional defined in terms of customer requirements. quality issues and analyzing their causes locally. There are now 19 FQCs in During the running tests, carried out on actual roads, assessors check the Japan, the United States, Europe, China, Mexico, Brazil, South Africa, India, vehicle in areas including unexpected noise, vibration, stability of handling Australia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia and other locations. and the functionality of its various advanced systems. Conceptual representation of the five phases of Final responsibility for overall quality is the responsibility of the CQE, who market quality research and analysis envisages different use scenarios for Nissan vehicles and carries out Collecting and analyzing information Phase １ stringent quality checks accordingly. Clarification of the fact Confirmation of the phenomenon with parts and vehicles * AVES stands for “Alliance Vehicle Evaluation Standard.” AVES is a quality evaluation system Phase 2 Sharing the facts with R&D/manufacturing/suppliers used across the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance, in which specially trained experts assess Sharing the fact and Agreement on investigation items/responsibilities with R&D/ decision of investigation manufacturing/suppliers vehicles using more than 300 quality assessment criteria established from the customerʼs items and responsibilities perspective. Phase 3 Identification of the root cause from failure cause analysis & Test Root cause analysis & result planning countermeasure Planning countermeasure proposal based on technical proposal standard (design/manufacturing) and failure effect analysis Activities to Improve Market Quality Agreement and decision of countermeasure with R&D/ Phase 4 manufacturing/suppliers Swiftly Improving Quality in Local Markets Validation of Countermeasure adoption at production line and deployment in countermeasure content market We are strengthening direct communication with sales companies and customers to promptly identify and respond to customer dissatisfaction and Phase 5 Recurrence prevention Revision of the technical standard (design/manufacturing) defects. Our TCSX addresses customer dissatisfaction and quality issues and horizontal Revision of the management process deployment based on information from sales companies and the customer call center. It NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 147 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Our FQCs conduct market quality research and analysis in five phases. Enhancing Durability First, they recall problem products from the market to clarify the facts Product life is affected by durability issues that can arise from long vehicle and conduct detailed interviews to replicate the defects (Phase 1). Next, use: molded resin parts changing color or deforming, surface materials they bring suppliers together with our R&D and manufacturing divisions becoming abraded, chrome stripping away and material fatigue producing to share information, decide on areas for further investigation and assign odd noises in the vehicle. We consistently obtain data of warranty after responsibilities (Phase 2). Based on the findings of these detailed studies, the initial sale and conduct quality checks on recovered vehicles and parts staff members gather again to scientifically pinpoint the cause of the actually used by customers to identify defects earlier. Analyzing this data problem and decide on specific countermeasures (Phase 3). These helps us develop technologies that are more resistant to durability issues. measures are incorporated in future R&D and manufacturing activities and new management structures are put in place to prevent recurrence of reliability issues or incidents (Phases 4 and 5). Improving Initial Quality Initial quality issues involve defects that occur within a year of a new car purchase. To ensure that customers are satisfied, we maintain a firm commitment to enhancing quality at the manufacturing stage for every single product that comes off the line. To this end, we have adopted the Alliance Production Way (APW) as our fundamental approach in this area. The Chief Vehicle Engineer (CVE), who is responsible for development, meets with the CQE to share information from the market in order to promptly respond to customersʼ wishes and potential satisfaction concerns. We confirm quality improvements for each process and explore necessary risk-reduction measures by visualizing potential risks at the planning stage. Applying all of these processes with transparent criteria lets us ensure that new models offer high quality from the outset. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 148 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Approaches with Suppliers delivered by suppliers to confirm their high quality. To determine whether new suppliers are able to carry out these tests, we As our production network expands worldwide, the risk of problems related developed the ASES system.*2 The ASES contains 240 evaluation criteria to the quality and supply of parts increases. Our efforts to ensure product to determine if a component is defective and analyze the systems in place quality include working with suppliers to improve quality at all production to prevent problems occurring. The ASES is applied on-site, at the supplierʼs sites from the design stage onward. factory. New suppliers undergo ANPQP training and are certified as trainers themselves after they reach a specified level. They then conduct training Promoting Risk Evaluation and Reduction Management Among on the supplierʼs premises and build a system for supplying precision-built Suppliers components. We promote stronger global management at the head offices of our Suppliers already dealing with Nissan are given a “Supplier Score Card” suppliers with global operations even as we work to enhance our own global containing an assessment of diagnostic measurements like delivered quality quality management. Nissan representatives visit each supplierʼs plants and and market quality. In addition, the SHC*3 system also involves periodic check the quality control conditions on their production lines. We also offer inspections of supplier factories to check their management system. This support for suppliersʼ efforts to meet the quality control standards we require. ensures that suppliers maintain their systems for consistently delivering In addition to these activities, we have prepared checklists based on high-quality components and conduct new initiatives to further improve successful resolution of past issues and work not only with direct suppliers quality. but also with tier-2 suppliers to implement quality improvement measures. *1 ANPQP stands for “Alliance New Product Quality Procedure.” We created the ANPQP based Supplier Inspections and Training for Improving Product Safety and on IATF16949, a standard for automotive sector quality management systems published by Quality the International Automotive Task Force (IATF), in order to establish supplier quality assurance standards. To ensure product safety, we work together with suppliers and conduct Click here for more information on ANPQP. inspections for products as well as components. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/QUALITY/PRODUCTS/GLOBAL_SP/GUARANTEE/ Each component from our suppliers represents the end-product of a complex manufacturing process that includes planning and development *2 ASES stands for “Alliance Supplier Evaluation Standard.” The ASES is used to evaluate if a vendor qualifies to become a suitable supplier. Based on 240 criteria at five stages, potential validation, turning design blueprints into prototypes, performance testing vendors are ranked A, B, C or D. We then form business relationships with the top-ranked and, finally, mass production. We have created a system called ANPQP*1 industry suppliers. for regulating the necessary quality assurance across this entire series of activities. The ANPQP requires tests to be carried out on every component *3 SHC stands for “Supplier Health Check.” The SHC is our unique system for checking our suppliersʼ quality management systems and how they are actually being implemented. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 149 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Improving Sales and Service Quality Updating Global Dealership Standards As well as aiming to produce high-quality vehicles, we work to increase the In response to the diversification of our customersʼ expectations and quality of our sales and aftersales service during the purchasing process, lifestyles, we are introducing a new initiative called the Nissan Retail seeking to exceed customer expectations at all contact points. Through Concept (NRC) to dealerships around the world to promote standardization. effective management of sales and service quality at dealerships in major We aim to improve CS by improving sales and service quality through a markets around the world, we strive to improve CS by adhering to the Nissan globally consistent brand experience. With the rapid spread of digitalization, Sales and Service Way (NSSW). Our goal is to achieve top-level CS in 20 consumersʼ purchasing behavior and ownership experiences are changing key national markets, including Japan, the United States, China, and major dramatically. To respond to these changes, we have introduced global European markets, boosting our brand image worldwide. standards for improving our dealership operations, from new standard shop designs to digital environments for dealerships. Adoption of the new standards has already begun in key countries, and more than 1,800 stores The Nissan Sales and Service Way (NSSW) had completed the adoption process by the end of fiscal 2019. We will continue to deploy the new concept in our stores around the world. The Nissan Sales and Service Way (NSSW) is a set of global guidelines The new dealership layout and design is intended to appeal to all customers, designed to improve customer perceptions of our brands and products and from those who have come to purchase a new car to those returning for increase satisfaction with our sales and marketing activities and aftersales vehicle inspection or servicing, creating comfortable, welcoming spaces service. We conduct a range of activities to increase CS and improve sales that offer needed services as efficiently as possible. We aim to standardize and service quality based on the NSSW. our entire sales and service process for customers in response to diverse In particular, as well as improving our dealership facilities, we set global customer needs, in order to improve satisfaction among customers who visit standards and carry out initiatives to provide customers with a consistent dealerships. sales and service experience. We aim to respond rapidly to customer With the adoption of digital tools, we are aiming to make dealership dissatisfaction and other issues and review business processes to operations more efficient and assist customers considering the purchase of incorporate feedback collected through contact centers, dealerships, email, a new car. To ensure that the new standards are adopted in each country, social media and other channels. the Nissan Academy, a special team for educating dealers, will develop and conduct training for dealership staff and management, teaching them to provide an experience that goes beyond customer expectations. NRC also incorporates key Nissan brand elements such as Nissan NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 150 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Intelligent Mobility, electric vehicles, the NISMO performance sub-brand, light commercial vehicles and Nissan Intelligent Choice (our premium certified pre-owned car program). We hope to improve customer satisfaction and convenience even as we promote the Nissan brand and expand our business. To boost the quality of sales and service activities at dealerships, we train specialist staff and continually improve these activities. These specialists analyze dealer operations, develop improvement plans based on their individual situations and support implementation. For example, they visit dealerships after analyzing CS surveys and the voice of the customer, clarify issues by observing workplace operations and interviewing staff, and then discuss potential solutions with the staff and provide guidance allowing the dealership to continue making autonomous improvements. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 151 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT GRI102-9 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI308-1 GRI414-1 Supply Chain Strategy Nissanʼs Approach to the Supply Chain The challenges facing modern societies, such as climate change and energy To optimize purchasing activities, the Alliance partners established a issues, are increasingly global in their scope. To meet these challenges, it common purchasing company, the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Organization is essential for Nissan to identify relevant issues at each stage along the (RNPO), in 2001 and have steadily increased the scope of its activities in supply chain and make ongoing efforts to address them. As a business the years since then. The organization now covers all purchasing domains, with worldwide operations, Nissan has a supply chain that extends across incorporates all purchasing functions and builds mutually profitable business the globe. We promote consistency in purchasing activities throughout the partnerships with all suppliers. Its name was changed to the Alliance global supply chain, sharing our vision and policy with business partners and Purchasing Organization (APO) in April 2018, after Mitsubishi Motors joined strategically collaborating with them to ensure their adoption. the Alliance. The new organization aims to help each company in the Alliance We aim to achieve sustainable growth built on a foundation of mutual trust achieve sustainable performance through the steady development of the with its business partners. We listen closely to and work with our suppliers Alliance as well as through the advantage of economies of scale. as equal partners, developing and maintaining cooperative and competitive We use common, transparent processes and criteria worldwide to select relations that enable us to implement best practices. suppliers and are open to doing business with new partners, regardless of nationality, size or transaction ties in the past. Suppliers are selected after the relevant Nissan divisions meet to examine submitted proposals from a range of perspectives. We explain our decisions to every supplier that takes part in the supplier selection process as part of a thoroughly fair, impartial and transparent system. Transactions with suppliers are based on the three values that the Alliance regards as important: trust (work fairly, impartially and professionally), respect (honor commitments, liabilities and responsibilities) and transparency (be open, frank and clear). Nissan and Renault have produced a booklet, The Renault-Nissan NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 152 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Purchasing Way,* outlining the values and processes the Alliance sees as Processes from Supplier Selection to Mass Production important when doing business. This booklet has been shared with tier-1 Design Renault and Nissan suppliers since 2006. In Japan, we also adhere to the Choice of Selection of Prototype production Mass “proper trading guidelines” issued by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and supplier Sourcing suppliers Evaluation for mass production candidates production Industry for the automotive industry. * Click here to download The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/Renault_Nissan_Purchasing_Way_ English.pdf Performance monitoring Supply Chain Company Organization The Alliance Purchasing Organization (APO) created by Renault, Nissan, and Mitsubishi Motors Working with Suppliers We aim to make our global supply chain sustainable by conducting ethically, socially and environmentally responsible business at every stage. We collate and manage a database of plant locations, total purchase values and other Purchasing domains : All (components, materials, equipment, molds, basic information for all suppliers. We are working together with all suppliers service support) to promote the sustainability principles set out in the Renault-Nissan CSR Purchasing functions : All (planning, procurement, projects ［vehicles/units］ , Guidelines for Suppliers and the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. management, supplier quality, etc.) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 153 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI406-1 GRI407-1 GRI408-1 GRI409-1 GRI411-1 Supply Chain Management Policies and 2. Safety and Quality: Ensuring the safety and quality of products and services, etc. Philosophy 3. Human Rights and Labor: Prohibition of child labor and forced labor, Promoting Widespread Permeation through the Renaultcomplying with working hours and remuneration laws, etc. Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers 4. Environment: Environmental management, reducing greenhouse gas emission and industrial waste volumes, and managing chemical To effectively implement sustainability practices worldwide, Renault and substances, etc. Nissan revised the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers* in 5. Information Disclosure: Open and impartial communication with December 2015. Renault and Nissan distributed the revised guidelines to all stakeholders, etc. their suppliers and have also asked suppliers to share the revised guidelines In addition, suppliers are requested to undergo assessments by third parties. with their own business partners to ensure they permeate throughout the The guidelines mandate that suppliers comply with laws and regulations. supply chain. Renault and Nissan drew up the first edition of the guidelines If suppliers are found to be in a state of non-compliance, the guidelines for distribution in 2010 with reference to the CSR guidelines of the Japan prescribe required responses, such as filing a report immediately, conducting Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc. an investigation and formulating corrective measures. In the case of a nonKey revisions and clarifications in the 2015 edition included, as a response compliance incident, we will take firm action based on our regulations and do to new laws and ordinances: (1) updating the procurement policy to include everything necessary to prevent a recurrence. In fiscal 2019 no human rights responsible mineral procurement and the elimination of antisocial forces violations, such as discrimination, occurred, and no supplier was found to be based on new Japanese governmental guidelines and regulations; (2) at serious risk of forced labor or child labor. requiring a shared commitment to sustainability activities with suppliers at the time the guidelines are distributed and (3) beginning third-party * Click here to download the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers. assessment of supplier sustainability activities as an Alliance initiative from https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/CSR_Alliance_Guidelines.pdf fiscal 2016. As part of efforts to promote sustainability practices among business partners in emerging countries, the revised guidelines were Suppliers and Environmental Activities published in Chinese as well as English and Japanese. Nissan has shared its environmental philosophy and environmental To help suppliers review their corporate activities from a sustainability action plan with suppliers since the mid-1990s. To improve environmental perspective and take sustainability actions, the guidelines explain expected performance throughout the supply chain jointly with suppliers, we first initiatives in 26 categories across the following five areas: published the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines in 2001 and have 1. Compliance: Complying with laws, preventing corruption, etc. actively promoted environmental activities at suppliers in line with these NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 154 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors guidelines since then. After Nissan and Renault integrated their technical water usage, waste production and other data related to our burden on standards for management of chemical substances in fiscal 2016, a revised the environment. To further enhance our activities in this area, in fiscal version of the guidelines were published in January 2017. Furthermore, 2014 we adopted the supply chain program run by CDP, an international in August 2018, based on the midterm environmental action plan, Nissan environmental NPO that manages a global system for disclosing Green Program 2022 (NGP2022),*1 we revised the content of the corporationsʼ environmental impact and strategies. In fiscal 2019, based on guidelines, adding requests that suppliers undertake their own environmental these surveys, we continued encouraging some suppliers to improve their activities. Additionally, in May 2019, in order to strengthen management of environmental activities. environment-impacting substances, we added requirements dealing with ＊1 Click here for more information on NGP2022. supplier self-diagnosis of environment-impacting substance management https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ENVIRONMENT/GREENPROGRAM/FRAMEWORK/ and related topics, which all suppliers are asked to follow.*2 ＊2 Click here to download the revised version of the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/Nissan_Green_Purchasing_ The Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines are part of the detailed explanation Guideline_e.pdf in the environment-related section of the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for ＊3. The European Union (EU)ʼs Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Suppliers. Chemicals (REACH) Regulation and European Reusability/Recyclability/Recoverability Environmental activities undertaken with suppliers involve the core (RRR) Directive, etc. components of compliance with environmental regulations and Nissanʼs basic environmental principles, along with activities to reduce the burden on The Role of the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines the environment. The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way As for the former, in response to global trends*3 in such regulations as the Basic Alliance principles for purchasing Nissan Green Program 2022 Shared values with suppliers European Unionʼs Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of (trust, respect, transparency) Midterm environmental action plan Chemicals (REACH) Regulation and the European Reusability/Recyclability/ Supplier sourcing process Support for suppliers Recoverability (RRR) Directive, we have added new items to the list of banned substances and globally expanded component data management. When selecting suppliers for new models, we check their management of Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers Compliance with regulations and Nissan's and activities regarding environmentally hazardous substances, informing Compliance basic environmental principles them of specific actions needed to comply with the REACH Regulation and Safety and Quality Establishment of management system Human Rights and Labor Management of chemical substances requesting their compliance. Environment Activities to reduce environmental load Based on the NGP2022, we hold annual environmental briefing sessions Information Disclosure Completion of surveys on CO2 emissions, water usage, other environmental factors and have since fiscal 2012 conducted surveys to ascertain CO2 emissions, NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 155 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI308-1 GRI414-1 Supply Chain Management We also conduct sustainability training in our purchasing department to ensure that employees conduct checks of suppliersʼ sustainability activities Nissan has been always working to improve its supply chain through in their daily work. activities including third-party assessment of suppliersʼ sustainability If there are issues with the supply of parts and materials, they may activities and sustainability training for workers in its purchasing department. lead to problems not only for Nissanʼs production but also supply chain We have also instituted an awards system to recognize suppliers whose as a whole. We therefore position the following measures as part of performance is outstanding. This awards system aims to encourage sustainability activities and implement: (1) confirming supply risks under suppliers in the global supply chain to embrace Nissanʼs management normal circumstances; (2) following up annually on quality, cost, delivery, approach, which balances the economic activities of quality, cost reduction development and management (QCDDM) performance and (3) working with and technological development with social responsibility and environmental suppliers to craft response plans for natural disasters to ensure production concern. continuity or early restoration of capacity. We monitor compliance from the perspective of supplier management, Evaluation, Monitoring, and Auditing of Supplierʼs constantly assessing the situation at each supplier based on a range of Sustainability Practices factors. When high risk is identified, we work with the supplier to rapidly draft Nissan has been confirming suppliersʼ acceptance of the Renault-Nissan and implement countermeasures. CSR Guidelines for Suppliers and check their environmental management In fiscal 2019 there were no suppliers whose compliance was problematic, systems and their willingness to advance environmental activities with us at and no supplier contract was terminated for such a reason. the time of supplier selection. Among newly selected suppliers in fiscal 2019, 100% of them met both Nissanʼs social standards and basic environmental principles. In 2016 the Renault-Nissan alliance began third-party assessment of suppliersʼ sustainability activities to raise standards through mutual confirmation. When results do not meet Alliance standards, suppliers are asked to draw up plans for improvement. We then monitor their implementation. By now, more than 80% of Nissan's purchase demands are covered by a third party assessment. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 156 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Promotion of Monozukuri Activities with Suppliers Engagement with Suppliers We work to continually improve the competitiveness of our products through Providing suppliers with timely and accurate information is a key task for the Monozukuri Activities program, a collaboration between suppliers Nissan. Suppliersʼ meetings are held in Japan and overseas to spread and Nissan that was launched in 2008. Since 2009 these activities have understanding of Nissanʼs purchasing policy for the fiscal year, midterm expanded through the joint THANKS Activities initiative, which emphasizes business plan and other matters. In Japan, we hold monthly meetings and trust and cooperation between Nissan and its suppliers. With the goal of directly inform suppliers of our production plans, activities and requirements. working with suppliers to become cost leaders under todayʼs challenging The meetings are also an opportunity for Nissan to respond to supplier market conditions, we strive to improve product quality, reduce costs questions and requests. and rationalize manufacturing through measures that include increasing production volume per part, promoting localization and improving logistics. In fiscal 2013 we introduced the Total Delivered Cost (TdC) Challenge, Recognizing Supplier Contributions Worldwide aiming to optimize all fluctuating costs, including for specifications, materials, Each year we recognize the contributions of our suppliers to the exchange rates and logistics. Our various functional departments, together development of our business and improvement of our performance with with suppliers, are continuously working to forcefully advance the TdC awards presented at the global level as well as in each of the regions where Challenge and improve both quality and supply. we operate. At the Nissan Global Supplier Awards, we present Global Quality Awards to suppliers showing exceptional performance in quality for the year, and Global Innovation Awards to suppliers whose innovative initiatives improved Nissanʼs brand and product power. Global Quality Award recipients are selected by Nissanʼs purchasing, quality and other divisions using standard criteria applied worldwide. Global Innovation Award recipients are selected from suppliers nominated by Nissanʼs production, development and other divisions in two categories: product technology and process management. In fiscal 2019, five companies received Global Quality Awards, while Global Innovation Awards went to seven companies. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 157 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI412-1 GRI414-1 Responsible Minerals Sourcing Responsible Minerals Sourcing Management Conflict Minerals Management Minerals Sourcing Policy We began conducting conflict-mineral surveys in our major areas of operation (Japan, North America and Europe) in fiscal 2013. Starting in In 2013, Nissan moved quickly to establish a policy against use of conflict fiscal 2014, we gradually expanded the scope of these surveys to other minerals and published the policy on its website. Following this in July 2020, areas. Surveys on a massive scale are required to grasp the status of it formulated and published its new Global Minerals Sourcing Policy and minerals usage throughout the global supply chain. We therefore collaborate expanded the scope from the conflict minerals known as 3TGs (tin, tungsten, with organizations including the Japan Automobile Manufacturers tantalum, and gold) to all minerals including cobalt from conflict-affected and Association, Inc., the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association, and the high-risk areas. Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association to hold Nissanʼs goal is to conduct ethical, social and environmentally conscious regular working group sessions to consider methods for investigation and business practices at every level of our global supply chain. We monitor our analyzing the results of those investigations. supply chain to assess whether the mineral resources contained in materials The surveys track minerals back through the chain of suppliers using or components used to manufacture our products have any harmful social documents called CMRTs (Conflict Mineral Reporting Templates) provided effect, such as on human rights or the environment. When there are by the RMI.* This enables Nissan to identify smelting and refining companies concerns about the minerals being used, Nissan actively works to end that that are not procuring minerals that are a source of funds for armed groups use. in their regions. Based on its Global Minerals Sourcing Policy, Nissan references the OECDʼs We provide the suppliers we survey with manuals describing how to fill in due diligence guidance to implement due diligence related to minerals required forms and what tools to use to collate results. In this way, we work sourcing in its supply chain. We work with our suppliers to assess risks and to increase understanding of conflict-mineral issues throughout the supply will strengthen our efforts to take corrective actions furthermore whenever chain. issues are identified. In fiscal 2019 we conducted surveys in 11 markets, Japan, the United * Click here to download Nissan Global Minerals Sourcing Policy. States, Mexico, Europe, China, Thailand, Indonesia, Taiwan, India, South https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/Minerals_Sourcing_Policy_e.pdf Africa and Brazil. No suppliers were found to be using minerals from smelters/refineries believed to be connected to armed groups. Going forward, we plan to make our surveys more effective by improving its methodology in conjunction with the member companies of the Japan NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 158 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc., and the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association. We will also continue to seek responses from suppliers that did not reply to the survey. * RMI stands for Responsible Minerals Initiative, an organization with member companies and associations from the information and communications technology and other industries that works to improve global social and environmental awareness. * Click here for more information on our measures against conflict minerals. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/Conflict_Minerals_e.pdf Management of Cobalt Nissan is aware that not only geopolitical risk but also environmental impact and human rights issues related to cobalt mining have been pointed out. Together with suppliers, Nissan aims to carry out responsible cobalt sourcing. Since 2018, Nissan has conducted interviews with its major battery suppliers and follows up with them on a regular basis. We are enhancing our approach to identifying cobalt smelters/refineries by referencing the OECDʼs due diligence guidance. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 159 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI404-2 GRI404-3 Human Resource Development Policies and Human Resource Development Management Philosophy Continually Improving Human Resource Systems Nissan believes that for employees to work in a worry-free, self-initiated Nissan values the skills and capabilities of all employees, working constantly manner, they need to be able to pursue their careers regardless of gender, to improve its human resource systems to achieve an organization enabling nationality or other factors. Skills development programs are another employees to reach their full potential. The evaluation-based remuneration essential part of making the workplace attractive to employees. system used to appropriately evaluate employee contributions to the We believe that employees should “design their own careers” and that company is structured in a way that motivates them to set and achieve we should actively assist their efforts to do so. Learning is an essential high goals. An employeeʼs salary is determined through a combination of preliminary step for value creation, and a corporate culture of learning performance evaluations measuring to what extent the employee achieved cannot exist without the desire to create value. As an organization that grows certain goals and competency evaluations measuring their skills, knowledge through constant learning, we support our employeesʼ personal growth and attitude. through proactive human resource development. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 160 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Support for Self-Designed Careers Offering Learning Opportunities At Nissan, all employees have an opportunity to discuss their careers Based on our firm belief that employees are our most important asset with their supervisors. Through a formalized process specifically aimed at and that cultivating their skills is critical, we support them by providing supporting career development, employees, together with their supervisors, numerous learning opportunities. We have developed various programs to review their “Performance Evaluation” and “Competency Evaluation,” agree help employees improve their management and business skills and engage on next steps and what path to take. in leadership development. In these ways, employees are encouraged to Training programs to raise the supervisorsʼ evaluation skills also contribute enhance their skills, to build their careers, and demonstrate their abilities to to enhancing the career designing capabilities of employees. We use the fullest. specialized tools to keep track of evaluation records so that even a Specifically, we implement training programs allowing employees to gain the newly instated supervisor can ascertain employee progress at a glance, specific skills needed for each position in the organization, and providing maintaining consistency in human resource development. We conduct them with opportunities to extend their knowledge in fields of their choosing. surveys to gain employee input regarding the evaluation meetings and to These measures create a culture of constant learning at the global level. learn their level of understanding and comfort with the system. Based on the results, we implement measures and make improvements if necessary. We Monozukuri University monitor employee satisfaction regarding the meetings with their supervisors, There is a rapid pace of innovation and increasing technological and there has been an improvement in employee understanding and sophistication in the auto industry today. To maintain and develop acceptance of the evaluation system. our monozukuri tradition of careful craftsmanship that underpins our Employees in Japan have the chance to take on the challenge of a new internationally competitive product manufacturing, we need individuals position through the Shift Career System (SCS) and the Open Entry who have an understanding of the latest technologies that go into building System (OES). The SCS enables employees to apply for positions in other an automobile and also have well-rounded personalities with outstanding departments and work in areas that interest them regardless of whether management skills. We founded Monozukuri University with the aim of there is a position immediately available. The OES allows them to apply for developing capable leaders to play a central role in monozukuri and pass all openly advertised positions. During fiscal 2019, a total of 297 employees down our technologies and skills to future generations. This is another applied for approximately 500 open posts, and 140 of them succeeded in example of how we offer learning opportunities and promote activities to getting the positions they applied for. develop human resources. Monozukuri University consists of three organizations: Nissan Technical College, Genba Kanri (shop-floor management) School and Engineering NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 161 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors School. It offers a variety of programs aimed at developing engineers and Education for Technicians technicians who carry forward the “Nissan DNA” and achieve continued In order to improve the day-to-day management skills of shop-floor success through the implementation of the Nissan Way. supervisors in all of the plants operated by Nissan, Renault and Mitsubishi around the world, a common production method known as the Alliance Production Way (APW) has been defined. We are also developing a shared Engineering and Technical Skill Education Around the Alliance framework for APW training, which we aim to implement worldwide. World To strengthen our efforts to expand our business globally, we must further improve the engineering skills of individual employees working across the Improving Management Quality globe. We offer opportunities for personal growth equally to all employees in We are working to improve the quality of our management at the global level. both R&D and manufacturing, whether they work in Japan or elsewhere, to In Japan, we have established a training framework for assistant managers help them enhance their capabilities. through to general managers. This gives them opportunities to promote activities that put the Nissan Way into practice and to extend their skills in Education for Engineers managing people and business operations. We developed a Global Training Program (GTP) that enabled foundational Specifically, we engage in (1) cultural diversity training to promote training of 19,000 engineers at development facilities worldwide from 2012. understanding of the actions and mindsets described in the Nissan Way; Furthermore, in recent years, we have moved forward with plans for more (2) business skills and leadership training to nurture professionals and (3) advanced and specialized training, including training in the areas of Electric training in on-site management to teach the importance of operational Vehicles (EV), Autonomous Driving (AD) and Connected Car Services (CCS), excellence and people motivation and to achieve maximum results through in order to develop talent that can lead R&D related to autonomous vehicles collaboration. These three core components of the training framework are and connected cars. supplemented with additional programs, while we also encourage proactive learning. In North America and Europe, meanwhile, the Nissan Way Leadership Academy program for managers examines how the Nissan Way has been put to use most effectively and shares those actions as part of training tools to elevate management quality overall. In addition, since the start of fiscal 2020 we have adopted a globally NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 162 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors consistent framework for recognizing activities related to talent development plans are made. Nissanʼs strategic talent management system is globally and collaboration and are strengthening our foundations to allow people to coordinated and active at the global, regional and functional levels. We aim grow with the organization. to foster a culture of learning by establishing an environment that enables employees to take the initiative in building their careers, with the support of managers and the company as a whole. Training Future Leaders To create an environment where employees can learn anytime and anywhere, we are also expanding the use of e-learning and other digital To continually foster future managers and specialists who will lead the tools. company, we take a strategic and systematic approach to training, job rotations and recruitment. Specifically, we engage in leadership training aimed at fostering human resources who can demonstrate their skills either at Nissan or elsewhere The Nissan Expert Leader System: Passing Down within the operations of the Alliance. These programs are offered at various Nissanʼs Technologies and Expertise development stages, including those for young employees, regional middle Helping employees develop specialized skills over the medium to long managers and corporate officers. Training consists of group sessions for term is vital for a company to achieve sustainable growth. The Nissan intensive training in business skills, team exercises where participants tackle Expert Leader System is a means of strengthening and fostering further issues actually facing Nissan, and cultural diversity classes to promote development of specialized skills in a wide range of technical and understanding of the issues. nontechnical areas like purchasing and accounting. In fiscal 2020, the Staff rotations beyond divisions and regions are strategically and systemʼs 15th year, there were 47 employees active as Expert Leaders and systematically implemented to give candidates for future leaders the two management-level employees as Nissan Fellows in a total of 88 fields of experience needed to serve in management posts and direct global specialization. The Expert Leaders and Fellows make use of their specialized functions as capable managers and leaders. knowledge to contribute to Nissanʼs business endeavors overall. In addition We are reinforcing our human resources not only through the recruitment to sharing their knowledge with others via the corporate intranet and other of new graduates but also by actively hiring mid-career talent and mid-level communication tools, they contribute to the fostering of the next generation management candidates from outside the company. of experts by passing on their specialized skills in seminars and training These talent management schemes are effectively operated through regular courses. human resource meetings among corporate officers. In these meetings, outstanding talents are identified, then development plans and succession NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 163 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI404-1 Human Resource Development Achievements Training Program Achievements at Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Performance Indicators for FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Training Programs Number of learners 171,949 241,674 263,240 Total hours of training 689,536 482,103 590,696 Hours per learner 30.6 21.5 26.0 Learner satisfaction (out of 5) over 4.2 over 4.2 over 4.2 Investment per employee (¥) 73,000 86,000 90,000 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 164 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors LABOR PRACTICES Respecting the Rights of Workers GRI102-12 GRI102-13 GRI103-1 Policies and Philosophy on Respecting the environment free from sexual and other forms of harassment. In addition, we have implemented a system called SpeakUp, which enables internal Rights of Workers reporting of any suspected breaches of all internal policies, including the Nissan has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact Global Code of Conduct. since 2004, observing its universal principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Nissan promotes the management * For more information on our human rights initiatives. >>> P114 of sustainability strategies pursuant to the compactʼs 10 principles. We * For more information on Business Ethics: Management have expanded and enhanced our wide-ranging activities to ensure that >>> P206 employeesʼ basic rights are respected. GRI103-2 GRI406-1 Achievements in Respecting the Rights of Management That Respects the Rights of Workers Workers Diversifying Work Styles with “Happy 8” Under the “Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity” code within the Global Code of Conduct, Nissan requires its employees to respect and value Nissan has striven to create workplaces that let individual employees choose the diversity found among the companyʼs employees, business partners, from a wide range of work styles to suit their values and life needs through customers and communities, while rejecting discrimination and harassment its “Happy 8” work style reform. in all forms, regardless of magnitude. Nissan executives and employees * Click here for more information on “Happy 8.” must respect the human rights of others and may not discriminate against https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/DIVERSITY/WORK/ or harass others based on race, nationality, gender, religion, disability, age, place of origin, gender identity, sexual orientation or any other reason; nor may they allow such a situation to go unchecked if discovered. We also work to ensure that all employees, both male and female, can work in an NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 165 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors LABOR PRACTICES Dialogue with Employees GRI103-1 Policies and Philosophy on Dialogue with Guidelines for Dialogue with Employees Employees We established two guiding principles for communication that aim to encourage higher employee engagement: “build trust between the For a company to continue offering new value in the face of rapid changes in company and employees” and “increase employee motivation.” We utilize the social and business climate, it is essential for its employees to embrace various communication tools to deepen employeesʼ understanding of our the companyʼs corporate purpose as well as its mission and consciously business, products and brand, as well as to explain the direction in which work toward realizing them. we are heading in order to generate employee confidence in their day-toNissan conducts its internal and external communication activities with the day activities and in the future of the company. By organizing events and aim of enhancing and maintaining the company corporate and brand values offering opportunities for employees to increase their motivation and realize while at the same time enabling the company to achieve its shortand longthat they are an integral part of the company, we nurture a sense of pride term business goals. In terms of internal communication, we are delivering a in our employees, which in turn will encourage them to contribute to our variety of information to our employees globally to foster a genuine interest sustainable growth. and fondness for the company, which will encourage them to engage in tackling challenges as well as proactively enhance the value of the company as “ambassadors” of Nissan. Enhancing employee engagement Building trust Increasing motivation NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 166 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 GRI103-3 Management to Promote Dialogue with Achievements in Dialogue with Employees Employees For both Nissan and its employees to continue to grow in the face of globally It is paramount for Nissan, a company with more than 100,000 employees expanding business activities, employees need to understand the direction working globally at production sites and offices, to offer enriching internal in which the company is heading and implement their own actions toward the communication that instills our corporate mission and management achievement of the companyʼs objectives. Overcoming challenges to achieve strategies in our employees, make each employee feel integral to the those goals can lead to personal growth for the employee and contribute organization and strengthen corporate governance. to the realization of our corporate purpose. Nissan is strengthening its The Global Internal Communications Department is playing a key role in communication with employees in order to enhance their engagement. deploying messages in a thoughtful manner, such as through the corporate intranet system that delivers information to all employees globally, materials Employee Engagement shared with senior managers or information shared in each region. Employee-executive exchange is also held on a regular basis with the aim Enhancing employee engagement of building trust. Furthermore, we offer opportunities for employees to voice their views and share them with company executives in an effort to promote Building trust continuous improvement. An annual action plan for internal communication activities is created with the aim of improving communication both quantitatively and qualitatively. Surveys are conducted on these communication initiatives on an annual basis, as well as on individual communication activities. Survey results are reflected in future communication activities and action plans for the following fiscal year. Increasing motivation By creating a shared awareness of sustainable growth through communication with employees, the entire organization is united. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 167 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 Strengthening Communication to Build Trust and Enhancing Communication Channels Increase Motivation To build trust with employees, companies must disclose information in a fair We are currently working to achieve the objectives of Nissan NEXT*, our and open manner, so we punctually provide our employees with information transformation plan, calling on all employees to embrace our corporate on business results including financial announcements. The integration of purpose and understand the significance of the plan. Employeesʼ Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance teams in such areas as purchasing, R&D, confidence in the companyʼs activities and performance is essential for manufacturing and supply chain is accelerating and generating a range of the planʼs success. At the same time, we also need to motivate employees, synergies. Information on these activities is shared broadly with employees, encouraging them to take self-initiated action. Therefore, internal enabling them to understand the value that the Alliance can provide. communication activities focus on building trust among employees and In order to get employees engaged and motivated, swift communication on increasing their motivation. information regarding Nissan Intelligent Mobility initiatives as well as the companyʼs other products, services and technologies is provided, which Click here for more information on Nissan NEXT. enables employees to deepen their understanding on these important https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/MIDTERMPLAN/ initiatives. We proactively update our employees on our leadership in achieving a zero-emission society, development of autonomous driving technologies, new services using connected technology and other long-term projects, as well as providing test-drive opportunities and other chances for employees to participate in company activities. In addition, in 2019 we dispatched employees from each department chosen through an internal selection process to the Shanghai Motor Show and regional employees to the Tokyo Motor Show. Participants in the program were able to see first hand the results of their work in the form of new models. These events were also a valuable opportunity to deepen understanding of local markets. We are enhancing coordination among our various departments and with executives and actively sharing information that contributes to relationships of mutual trust and higher employee motivation. Every new fiscal year starts with the CEO delivering the presidential address, NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 168 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors reflecting on the past yearʼs performance and highlighting the direction This is intended to promote workplace communication, deepen employee for the new year. Topics based on employee interest are also broadcasted understanding and raise motivation. In addition, in Japan a printed in-house through live web conferences called Management Information Exchanges newsletter called Nissan News is published monthly for employees at (MIE), which encourage engagement between Executive Committee (EC) Nissan production sites, providing them with the necessary information in a members and senior managers. timely manner. Employee motivation is also raised through new model announcements and test-drive events, where employees gain a deeper understanding of Nissanʼs products and learn to convey product features and attractiveness to their friends and families more effectively. These have been well received, with participants stating that their enhanced knowledge of Nissan products has boosted their pride in the company and their work motivation, and they have been highly effective in developing “ambassadors” for Nissan. Since we introduced a corporate intranet system accessible by all employees globally called WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan), it has been actively used to promote communication, information sharing and collaboration among employees. WIN has expanded beyond the Nissan Group, and the audience has now begun to include Nissanʼs major affiliates as well. In fiscal 2014 Nissan began issuing Engagement Kits summarizing its global operations, business performance and major achievements. These kits are distributed to senior managers every month and are used as communication tools for information sharing. The senior managers receiving WIN introduces readers to the activities of a range of employees. this information are responsible for sharing it in their respective departments. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 169 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Strengthening Communication Between Executives and Employee-Executive Exchange Employees In order to build trust, it is important for Nissan to stay aware of its We have proactively held communication events where executives and employeesʼ thoughts and opinions and ensure that they are shared with employees can directly communicate with each other. In fiscal 2019 we top management. We are making efforts to communicate information held town-hall meetings at our Global Headquarters (GHQ) for face-to-face that will lead to greater employee trust toward the achievement of Nissan dialogue between employees and the CEO to mark the start of our new NEXT transformation plan objectives. These efforts are monitored on an management structure. The meeting was also live-streamed to all operations ongoing basis through key performance indicators (KPIs) and reflected in in Japan. internal communication activities. For these activities, we conduct regular Employees who participated in such communication events made comments surveys, and the results are conveyed to company executives. The survey such as “I was able to obtain necessary information,” “top management results are also used to run a PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle, leading made an effort to communicate the facts” and “I could feel the sincere to future planning that clarifies the scope of the audience and content of enthusiasm of top management.” communications. Plan Plan based on employee feedback Act Do Define audience Implement improvement and implement actions based on communication survey results activities Check Convey survey results to executives A town-hall meeting linking GHQ and other sites. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 170 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors EMPLOYEESʼ HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI403-4 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI103-3 GRI403-1 GRI403-2 GRI403-3 GRI403-4 GRI403-6 Employeesʼ Health and Safety Policies and Employeesʼ Health and Safety Management Philosophy Nissan has adopted a Basic Policy on Safety and Health so that all Nissan places great importance on occupational health and safety in the employees can focus on their work in a safe environment. We give top collective agreement between the company and its labor unions. Nissan has priority to worker safety as well as their well-being as a matter of company formulated a Basic Policy on Health and Safety and is promoting various policy. The work environment relating to employee safety and health is health and safety practices in the workplace. In the Basic Policy, as a shared managed uniformly according to the Basic Policy at all Nissan sites, both in core value, we tout “Safety and Health is our core value and top priority.” Our Japan and globally. Basic Policy states that “From top management to each individual employee, In Japan, we hold a Central Safety and Health Committee meeting each Nissan recognizes that the health and safety of everyone is our top priority. year chaired by the executive in charge of human resources and attended The company continuously and aggressively strives toward realizing zero by management and labor union representatives from Nissan facilities. accidents, zero-illness, and vigorous workplace safety by optimizing the Activities over the past year are reviewed in such areas as workplace working environment and promoting individual physical and mental health.” safety, fire prevention, mental health, health management and traffic In accordance with the Basic Policy, we promote practices that reduce the safety, and then plans are laid out for the following year. The Safety and burden on workers and make it easier to carry out their work, as well as Health Committee at each facility meets each month, and these meetings ensuring that employeesʼ health is a top priority. They have been established are attended by labor union representatives. A safety and health officer as key tenets in Nissanʼs companywide Basic Policy on Health and Safety. and a traffic safety officer are assigned at each workplace to ensure the effectiveness of day-to-day safety activities. Globally, each facility applies the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle. A teleconference is held twice a year linking all Nissan facilities worldwide to share information and discuss key issues. Regional managers for employee safety and health also meet every other year for a Global Safety Meeting. In the event of an accident, its details and responses are swiftly shared with facilities around the globe in an effort to prevent the recurrence of similar NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 171 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors accidents. Our global midterm goal is to reduce fatal accidents to zero, Specialized Mental Healthcare including people from other companies working at Nissan premises, and to We have established a specialized team led by a mental health professional halve the fiscal 2016 number of industrial accidents by fiscal 2022. to care for the mental well-being of employees. In 2005, in cooperation Many facilities both in Japan and globally have introduced the OHSAS with external mental healthcare specialists, we introduced the Employee 18001*1 occupational safety and health standard while at the same time, Assistance Program (EAP), a mental healthcare program providing compliance with the new standard ISO 45001*2 is also progressing at employees with consistent care covering everything from prevention and these facilities. These efforts create a strong structure for ensuring the early diagnosis to treatment and recovery. Since fiscal 2007 the program implementation of employee safety and health activities. has expanded to include production-line workers, giving employees and *1 OHSAS 18001: An internationally recognized standard for occupational safety and health their family members access to mental-health professionals for consultation, management systems. Certification can be obtained from a third-party accrediting body. diagnosis and counseling. We also offer specialized care programs that *2 ISO 45001: Another internationally recognized standard for occupational safety and health respect employee privacy, such as the yearly “Stress Check,” through which management systems that replaces OHSAS 18001. employees receive advice from a doctor via email or letter. From fiscal 2011, our mental health training was extended to cover items bolstering the A Uniform Set of Global Safety Standards emotional health of individual employees. We promote mental healthcare To allow all employees to maximize their performance, we design workplaces through a wide range of approaches. with employee safety and health in mind. We have developed and implemented our own methods for assessing and Rehabilitation Center to Facilitate Return to Work managing safety and fire-related risk, work proactively to identify potential Appropriate support systems are required to facilitate an employeeʼs return risks of accidents in the workplace, develop measures to address them and to work in case of long-term or recurrent absence due to a mental or make it easier for employees to get their job done. In 2010, we standardized physical ailment. Nissanʼs support in this area includes rules established in the safety indices that previously differed from one global site to another. 2008 for the use of external rehabilitation centers to ease employeesʼ return Safety performance is monitored quarterly for each production site. to the workforce following long-term or recurrent absence. An in-house rehabilitation facility opened in 2012. By offering various programs suited to the needs of the respective workplaces, we are seeing improvements in the return-to-work ratio. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 172 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI403-2 GRI403-5 GRI403-6 GRI403-7 GRI403-9 Employeesʼ Health and Safety Achievements inviting employees from Nissan facilities around the world to undergo training on workplace safety. Responsible managers and leaders also Creating Safe Workplaces received training in SES and F-PES in preparation for the implementation of these programs at all Nissan facilities worldwide, a process that began in Accident Frequency Rate (Japan) fiscal 2014 and was completed in fiscal 2015. （％） Since 2011 we have been systematically carrying out Kiken Yochi Training 3.0 (KYT) ̶ literally “risk-prediction training” ̶ at plants in Japan to raise awareness among individual workers of the risk of accidents and thereby 2.5 help prevent their occurrence. This training instills an awareness of danger 2.0 among workers, thus reducing the risk of their becoming involved in work accidents. Worker sensitivity is enhanced through repeated training on an 1.5 ongoing basis. We have established standards for reporting on work accidents or outbreaks 1.0 0.49 of fire that occur in any of the production sites, and these standards are 0.37 0.35 0.5 applied globally. If any serious work accidents such as fatalities, or outbreaks of fire that may have an impact globally occur, the person in charge where 0.0 2017 2018 2019 （FY） the accident or fire occurred must report without delay to Nissan Motor Nissan employs its own safety management diagnostic methods, as well Co., Ltd. (NML). NML will dispatch information and measures as well as as a risk-assessment approach to workplace management, to help reduce instructions to each company site, based on the report. This helps prevent hazards in the work environment and prevent accidents. Two tools developed similar disasters or accidents. internally by Nissan to identify the risks of work accidents are the Safety There were no fatal accidents involving Nissan employees globally in fiscal Evaluation System (SES) and the Fire-Prevention Evaluation System 2019, as was the case in fiscal 2018. However, in fiscal 2011, 2012 and (F-PES). Applied in Japan, they call for workplace patrols in accordance 2013 there was one fatality each year in South Africa, Spain and North with established evaluation standards to identify potential dangers and fire America, respectively. In fiscal 2016, two fatal accidents occurred ̶ one in risks to help reduce incidents. The use of these tools has been effective in North America and the other in India. We investigated these fatal accidents achieving these aims. and have implemented strict countermeasures to prevent such accidents Global initiatives to avoid accidents and create a safe workplace include from happening again at any of our plants. We monitor accident frequency NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 173 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors rates,* and have confirmed rates are generally in line with the automobile Certified Health and Productivity Management industry average. As we are currently transitioning to a more comprehensive Organization Recognition Program (White 500) approach to frequency rate aggregation, this report contains only Japanʼs Increasingly in todayʼs society, employee health is being viewed less as an domestic rates. individual issue and more as a key element to the survival of corporations. * Accident frequency rate: Total injury cases ÷ total working hours × 1 million This has put strategic management of employee health and productivity from a business perspective in the spotlight. At Nissan, we believe that investing Improved Production-Line Environment in employee health improves both vitality and productivity, energizing the entire organization and improving results. Accordingly, we take a Nissan seeks to fulfill its mission of engaging in “human-friendly production” strategic approach to creating safe and pleasant workplace environments by continuously improving the workplace environment at its manufacturing that promote both physical and mental health among employees. We facilities worldwide. At workplaces with high summer temperatures, for accomplish this by setting up a task team at each facilityʼs health and example, the physical burden on employees is heavy and there is the risk safety management department, under the supervision of the health and of suffering from heat stroke. We have installed internal cold-air ducts and safety management office at headquarters, headed by the responsible ensured there are set breaks to drink water, particularly in locations with human resource executive. Based on these principles and their successful considerable workloads. Constant improvements are being made to allow application, NML was recognized by Japanʼs Ministry of Economy, Trade and employees to work in a comfortable environment. Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi (literally, “Japan health conference”) under the 2020 Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program in the large enterprise category (White 500), announced in February 2020, retaining its recognition from 2019. The White 500 honors organizations with particularly effective health and productivity management based on regional health initiatives and programs promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. Nissan will continue to strengthen its health maintenance activities aimed at staff of all ages. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 174 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT GRI102-11 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 GRI203-1 Community Engagement Policies and Nissanʼs Approach to Community Engagement Philosophy We reviewed our policies for social contribution activities in 2017, deciding to push forward with activities focused on the three areas of zero emissions, In addition to delivering innovative, exciting vehicles and outstanding zero fatalities and zero inequality. In addition to zero emissions and zero services to customers worldwide, Nissan believes it is important to play an fatalities, areas where any automotive manufacturer should make sincere active role as a community member, applying its special characteristics to efforts, we are promoting zero inequality (in other words, diversity) as an contribute further to society. important corporate value with the aim of realizing a cleaner, safer and more When a company provides a range of resources to communities, supporting inclusive society where everyone is given equal opportunities. We will not their development and proactively tackling issues, it is, in part, fulfilling its only provide financial assistance for activities in these areas but also ensure social responsibility as a good corporate citizen. Such actions also benefit that those activities are “distinctly Nissan,” making full use of our automotive the companyʼs own operations, fostering a better business environment and heritage, expertise, products and facilities. creating new markets that can grow sustainably. We emphasize communicating and working with specialized nonprofit and We work with a variety of stakeholders, both governmental and nongovernmental organizations that have great expertise in their fields to nongovernmental, pooling our respective strengths to address increasingly ensure that its social contributions complex social issues. In line with Nissanʼs corporate social contribution are effective. We actively support the policies, regional offices and affiliates work on initiatives that address issues involvement of our employees in social relevant to their operations and the communities in which they operate. contribution activities. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 175 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-2 Community Engagement Management Three Focus Areas for Nissanʼs Social Contributions Program Nissanʼs production sites have expanded globally, increasing the companyʼs engagement with various communities through its businesses. Nissan Zero Emissions is active in promoting social contribution activities and recognizes that Nissanʼs environmental philosophy is a “Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and contributing to the development of communities by sharing its own Nature.” We actively engage in efforts to reduce the environmental burden management resources also enhances the business environment and on the planet and prioritize the environment in our social contribution promotes market growth. In such activities, policies are decided at the global activities. Central to our approach are educational programs that cultivate level and implemented in each region. a deeper understanding of environmental issues toward achieving a lowWe developed a wide range of activities to meet the needs of regions carbon society. centered on the three focus areas of zero emissions, zero fatalities and zero Since 2017 we have expanded our partnerships with international inequality set forth in the policy revision of 2017. environmental protection organizations. We continued a forest conservation program in Indonesia in collaboration with Conservation International, an environmental NGO, and supported climate change education and awareness with the environmental conservation organization WWF Japan. Company Organization for Community Engagement Nissanʼs corporate social contribution policies are discussed and approved by the Global Sustainability Steering Committee and shared globally. These corporate policies provide the basis on which initiatives are implemented Zero Fatalities across each country and region. In addition to making vehicles safer through autonomous driving technology, we also promote traffic safety through activities to raise the safety awareness of drivers and pedestrians and to protect the socially vulnerable, including children and senior citizens. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 176 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Zero Inequality Nissan as a Community Member We embrace diversity as a management strategy in recognition of its crucial We aspire to be a good corporate citizen that people are glad to have role in boosting corporate competitiveness. Nissanʼs social contribution in their community. As such, we strive to be a valuable member of and activities share this awareness and are aimed at mitigating poverty, providing active contributor to local communities wherever we operate. We support assistance to the financially and socially disadvantaged and sending communities in a variety of ways, such as by assisting with local events, emergency relief to disaster-stricken communities. In 2019 we continued sponsoring neighborhood cleanups and other environment-improvement our partnership with the NGO Care International Japan and have worked activities near Nissan facilities and opening those facilities to public tours. closely to expand our educational program in Thailand, in addition to existing Many employees actively participate as volunteers. humanitarian efforts in collaboration with Habitat for Humanity. We engage in activities during ordinary times and also contribute to resolving social issues by supporting local communities during the natural disasters that occur with frequency around the world. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 177 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI103-3 GRI201-1 GRI203-2 Contributing to Local Communities: Breakdown of FY2019 Social Contributions (Nissan Global) Achievements Philanthropic Monetary In-kind donations Sponsorships, Total activities donations (cash equivalent) etc. Social Contribution Achievements in FY2019 Amount 549 741 60 264 1,614 (¥ million) Global social contributions (FY2019): ￥1.61 billion % of total 34.0 45.9 3.7 16.4 100 Social contributions include: ・ Expenses for implementing philanthropic activities (excluding labor costs) Disaster Contribution in FY2019 ・ Monetary donations and NPO membership fees for philanthropic purposes • To supply power to areas suffering outages, ・ Cash equivalents of in-kind donations Wide-area power Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. provided 53 Nissan outages caused ・ Sponsorship fees for philanthropic initiatives by Typhoon Faxai LEAF electric vehicles with portable power stations to local government authorities and (Japan) welfare facilities, etc. • ¥10 million donation from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to Japan Platform • Donation from employees of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. plus matching donation from the company to Japan Platform Torrential rains from • Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. lent out 68 vehicles Typhoon Hagibis to the disaster-struck area and dispatched Donations (Japan) employee volunteers to Iwaki City (275 for disaster relief volunteers in total) • Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. and dealership lent out four Nissan LEAF to the volunteer center for disaster relief in Nagano to supply electricity Volcano eruption • Donation from Nissan Philippines (NPI) of (Philippines) three Navara • Donation of 5 million RMB and 100,000 Novel coronavirus masks from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., Nissan (COVID-19) outbreak (China) Investment (NCIC) and Dongfeng (China) Motor Co., Ltd. Tornado in • Donation of $150,000 to the American Red Tennessee (U.S.) Cross from Nissan North America (NNA). NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 178 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Zero Emissions In China, Nissan (China) Investment (NCIC) and three joint venture companies offer educational opportunities; the Nissan Dream Classroom, an School-Visit Programs (Japan, U.K., China and Brazil) online education program developed with the assistance of UNESCO China. Since 2007 Nissan has put its automobile manufacturing know-how and One of the six modules, Eco Classroom, includes environmental learning, technologies to work by conducting school-visit programs. The programs understanding how electric motors work and an experiment involving a target older elementary school students and are conducted by Nissan model car. employees. In 2019, NISSAN DO BRASIL AUTOMOVEIS (NBA) began an environmental One educational program is the Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School,* designed education program Escola Verde (Green School) at one elementary school to deepen schoolchildrenʼs understanding of global environmental issues in a neighborhood at the Resende City, located near a Nissan plant in Brazil. and the initiatives undertaken by Nissan to solve them. Through experiments Escola Verde teaches about climate change and about rainwater use and with model cars, test rides in the Nissan LEAF and other demonstrations, nutritional diversity, which includes a component to raise vegetables in participants experience the latest environmental technology. As well as schoolyards. In addition to engaging children to live in harmony with nature, teaching participants about environmental issues, the program encourages the lessons also filter through to the community to the children and teachers them to reexamine how environmentally friendly their own daily activities can at other schools and parents, building environmental awareness. be. This program has been well received, so that the number of Eco School classes in Japan has increased. As of the end of March 2020, more than 100,000 children in all have participated in Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School since its launch. The program is conducted not only by visiting elementary schools but also by inviting schoolchildren to our Tochigi, Iwaki, Yokohama, Oppama and Kyushu Plants. Moreover, 130 Eco School instructors are now in dealerships to organize the program at dealers and local events. Outside Japan, under the banner of the Nissan Skills Foundation, Nissan School children participating in Escola Verde (the green school) Motor Manufacturing (U.K.) in Sunderland runs a wide-ranging series of educational programs from primary and secondary schools, including Eco * Click here for more information on the Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School. School, a six-hour course in which students learn about environmental issues https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/CITIZENSHIP/PROGRAMS/EDUCATION/index.html and NMUKʼs wind power program. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 179 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors and local communities. Partnership with the World Wide Fund for Nature Japan (WWF Japan) In addition, we are working to find supplemental sources of income for We have entered into a partnership with the environmental conservation local citizens, such as helping them to create, market and sell sustainable body WWF Japan to support its climate & energy project. WWF Japan products derived from locally grown plants. supervised the materials used in Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School, and we work in partnership on a wide range of fronts, such as the planning of jointly held events. In addition, we supported WWF Japanʼs Earth Hour 2020 environmental awareness event, with Nissanʼs regional companies around Urban Green Lab (UGL): A Unique Environmental Education Program the world taking part in a symbolic lights-off event. (U.S.) Nissan North America (NNA) supports a nonprofit organization in Nashville, Tennessee called Urban Green Lab (UGL). UGL gives children the opportunity to think and learn about environmentally friendly, sustainable Partnership with lifestyles, connecting these with their own experiences. With Nissanʼs Conservation support, and in partnership with Vanderbilt Universityʼs Peabody College International (CI) of Education and the Dept. of Environment & Conservation, UGL created (Indonesia) Tennesseeʼs first-ever statewide curriculum on sustainable living and waste In 2017, we began prevention and launched it at public schools in both Nashville and Memphis. working with the In fiscal 2019, 57 Nashville school “learning communities” (clusters of environmental teachers) were established and 183 teachers trained. UGL and Nissan NGO, Conservation have a special partnership due to their shared concern for the well-being International (CI), to of their communities and the valuable natural resources we share. Each Three thousand sandalwood seedlings were raised and planted in restore degraded year Kiddovation is a fun event where our organizations partner together January 2020. forests around as UGL brings the Mobile Lab which UGL produced using a Nissan TITAN Indonesiaʼs Mount Agung, so that they may continue to provide fresh water XD to NNA Headquarters and educates employeesʼ children on sustainable to the urban areas of Bali. This initiative takes a comprehensive approach to practices that they can implement at home with their parents. improve the environment around rivers and coastal areas by restoring forests in mountainous upstream regions, in conjunction with government bodies NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 180 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors daily exercise a part of their lifestyles so they can continue to drive safely. Zero Fatalities Nissan and Niigata University worked together on the concept, while Niigata University choreographed the exercise. Partnership with the Federation Internationale de lʼAutomobile (FIA) (Global) Nissan is an official supporter of FIA Action for Road Safety, a campaign to raise public awareness of safer roads, as advocated by the Federation Internationale de lʼAutomobile (FIA). We widely publicize the campaignʼs message about the importance of safe driving and promote the FIA Golden Rules, a compilation of rules for traffic safety. Hello Safety Campaign to Protect Children (Japan) “ Wheel Spinning (Guru-Guru) Exercise” created together with Niigata Since 1987 we have collected donations from employees for the Hello University Safety Campaign, which we launched in Japan in 1972 to contribute to the promotion of traffic safety awareness campaigns near our business sites. In addition, donations to help prevent traffic accidents were sent to children in the neighborhoods of Nissan business sites through local traffic safety associations, municipalities and other organizations. In fiscal 2019 we created the “Wheel Spinning (Guru-Guru) Exercise” with Niigata University to promote and encourage awareness of safe driving among elderly drivers. This exercise is designed to support mainly elderly drivers in raising their muscle strength and cognitive abilities by making NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 181 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors workshops. Zero Inequality Since its launch in 2017, the Youth Leadership Development Program has reached more than 1,400 students across 10 schools in Ayutthaya, Rayong Educational Program in Cooperation with CARE International and Samut Prakarn provinces and inspired more than 60 student projects. (Thailand) Since 2017, we have run the Youth Leadership Development Program for students in middle and high schools in Ayutthaya and Rayong provinces in Thailand. In these classes, held in cooperation with local schools, students Partnership with learn leadership, teamwork and other qualities necessary in community Habitat for Humanity development, along with science, technology, engineering and mathematics (North America) (STEM) content. The program also includes occupational skills training in NNA has been a micro-business activity, with a focus on supporting female students in collaborating with particular. the NGO Habitat for Humanity (Habitat) Since fiscal 2018, the program was expanded to schools in Samut Prakan continuously since province, near Nissan Motor Thailand (NMT). Nissan employees play an 2005. Habitat, an important role in the initiative, volunteering to be part of activities and international aid organization that fosters The team of NNA employee volunteers hope by helping people build or improve their homes, has a vision of “a world where everyone has a decent place to live.” The nonprofit works to construct homes, revitalize neighborhoods and support familiesʼ self-reliance in more than 70 countries across the world. Since the partnership began in 2005, NNA and Habitat have worked directly with more than 135 families to build safe, affordable and sustainable homes. Up until now, Nissan employees have logged more than 116,000 volunteer hours cumulatively building homes with Habitat for Humanity. Youth Leadership Development Program through STEM Education NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 182 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Since the inception of the Nissan Canada Foundation's partnership with Outreach to Pupils to Talk About Monozukuri (Japan, China, U.K. and Habitat in Canada in 2008, more than 1,400 Nissan Canada dealership Other Countries) and head office employees have spent over 9,000 hours volunteering, Through activities that are engaging and fun, we deepen young peopleʼs contributing to 50 home builds from Halifax to Vancouver. In total, the Nissan understanding of monozukuri, Japanʼs tradition of craftsmanship and Canada Foundationʼs contribution of donations and volunteer hours toward manufacturing. Habitat has exceeded 1 million CAD, an important milestone for Nissan In Japan, the magic of monozukuri is shared by Nissan employees through Canada. elementary school-visit programs: the Nissan Monozukuri Caravan and the Nissan Design Waku-Waku Studio.* Some 22,000 children participate in the programs every year. In China, NCIC and other regional companies hold classes for pupils. Sponsorship of Disability Sports (Japan) The Nissan Monozukuri Caravan also operates in the United Kingdom at In December 2019, we sponsored the Nissan Cup Oppama Championship the Sunderland Plant. The program runs five days per week during school 2019 (20th National Wheelchair Marathon) in Yokosuka, Kanagawa terms, welcoming more than 4,500 primary pupils per year. The Nissan Skills prefecture, co-hosting the event with local organizations.* The competition Foundation was established in 2014. As of November 2019, it has engaged has been held since 2000 with the aim of increasing the profile of disability more than 60,000 sports, improving the level of competitors, engaging people in the area and students from building caring communities. A total of 198 participants competed in the schools across road race held on public roads between GRANDRIVE, Nissanʼs proving the region through ground in Oppama Plant, and Oppama Station, on the Keihin Kyuko Line. In various activities addition 337 Nissan employee volunteers joined local community volunteers, to inspire the supported running the event by being part of the steering committee, engineers and managing the road race and preparing and keeping order on the course. manufacturers of the future. The * Click here for more information on the Nissan Cup Oppama Championship (Japanese only). Skills Foundation https://www.nissan-global.com/JP/CITIZENSHIP/NISSANCUP/ now supports three International STEM The Nissan Skills Foundation promotes STEM education for female students. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 183 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors challenges for school children, VEX IQ robotics, FIRST Lego League and F1 in schools and in this yearʼs competitions teams supported by Nissan all Education Support for Children and Youth (China) qualified from Regional and National events through to International finals. Since 2013, NCIC has operated the Nissan Dream Classroom educational For all of these activities Nissan supports local teams with equipment, program, which helps elementary pupils. The program has gradually resources and knowledge. One core program for the foundation is Industrial expanded its area of operation and the scope of its classes to include such Cadets, a nationally recognized program aimed at helping pupils aged 13 ̶ topics as the environment, monozukuri, design, painting, intelligent driving 14 to engage with manufacturing and engineering professionals. More than and the basics of automotive culture and engineering, as well as special2,100 students have been through the program. The foundation also fosters edition programs for Nissan dealerships. A total of four companies in China diversity through the Girls in Monozukuri, Manufacturing and Engineering began holding these classes in 2015, expanding in scale each year and (GIMME) and GIMME Booster programs. These introduce young girls to actively engaging in educational programs. available career options and help improve their chances of getting through NCIC has expanded Nissan Dream the recruiting process. These female only sessions have now engaged Classroom activities toward society. with over 2,000 young women, and female participation in all programs is Through cooperation with Nissan 46%. In 2019, the skills foundation also rolled out a new initiative for Year 3 dealerships, Beijing Auto Museum and Primary school (age 6-7) where activity boxes are provided to local school local auto shows, the program was full of all the resources and instructions for schools to do projects on Nissan. offered in various platforms and benefited This includes making their own Daruma Heads and activities focusing on 500,000 students by the end of 2019. In Japanese culture and the heritage of the business. December 2019, a group of 67 students In addition, the company donates vehicles and engines to universities and and teachers from primary schools in vocational schools to be used for instructional purposes in many countries. China and members of UNESCO Gansu Access to real-world vehicles helps students build their skills and practical Provincial Association visited Nissan GHQ knowledge. and Oppama Plant. The visit could become Nissan Dream Classroom in Gansu their valuable experience to deepen what province * Click here for more information on the Nissan Monozukuri Caravan and the Nissan Design they have learned from “Nissan Dream Waku-Waku Studio. Classroom”. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/CITIZENSHIP/PROGRAMS/EDUCATION/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 184 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Developing the Next Generation of Scientists and Engineers (U.S.) In the United States, NNA is investing in the workforce of tomorrow through “Onigiri Action” helps support of STEM initiatives and technical education training programs. provide school lunches We provide financial support to develop STEM programs for students to children in developing in elementary, middle and high schools and to support university STEM countries in partnership programs. with Nissan Serena Through its branding of the In Tennessee, where Nissan has two major assembly plants, Nissan and its Nissan Serena, Nissan has employees support the Music City BEST (Boosting Engineering Science and participated as a flagship Technology) Robotics Competition in Nashville. Student teams design and top sponsor in “Onigiri build working robots from standard Action”, a program run by Children holding cups containing school lunches kits of simple building materials the nonprofit organization and then compete to perform TABLE FOR TWO International (TABLE FOR TWO). The organization aims specific tasks in three minutes. to right the global food imbalance by providing healthy school lunches to In fiscal 2019, 302 students took children in developing countries. “Onigiri Action” is a program in which five part, and 22 Nissan employees school lunches are donated to children in Africa and Asia each time a picture volunteered as team mentors or related to onigiri (rice balls) is posted on social media through the program. competition judges. In this projectNissan has supported this program since 2018, believing TABLE FOR based STEM program the students Music City BEST Robotics Competition 2019 TWOʼs philosophy was aligned with Nissan Serenaʼs concept of “continuing solved real-world science and to be a minivan for families that broadens the potential of children”. As an engineering problems, helping Nissan initiative as a top sponsor of Onigiri-Action related to the Nissan them to develop technological literacy skills that may help shape their longSerena, Nissan donated 10 school lunches for every social media post– term education and career direction. double the ordinary amount–and encouraged customers visiting Nissan showrooms nationwide to upload photos of themselves enjoying onigiri. Through these activities, Nissan provided approximately 110,000 school lunches in two years (2.65 million meals were provided overall through NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 185 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Onigiri Action). In 2019, Onigiri Action received the SDGs Deputy-chiefʼs tsunami, and toured by bus the “difficult-to-return zones” due to radiation that Award (by the Minister of Foreign Affairs) at the “Japan SDGs Award” in currently make up 80% of Namie. recognition for its activities. Nissan as a Community Member Support for regions affected by Great East Japan Earthquake (Japan) Employee Volunteer Activities in Hirono and Namie, Fukushima Bringing Smiles to Children in Disaster-Stricken Areas prefecture Nissan established the Nissan Smile Support Fund in 2011 with the goal We provided various forms of support in the immediate wake of the Great of helping children in disaster-stricken areas smile again. The Nissan East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, and we have continued to Smile Support Fund offers assistance that meets the changing needs of help affected regions rebuild through strong employee participation. In such regions, operating free schools and places to go after school and fiscal 2019, we continued our support activities from the previous year in providing learning venues for deepening regional understanding as well the district of Futaba, Fukushima prefecture, with the participation of 26 as recreational and nature experience programs. Programs are conducted employees from several Nissan facilities. Together with the Iwaki OtentoSUN by 10 NPOs that are independently active in Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima Enterprise Cooperative, based in Iwaki, Fukushima, Nissan employees prefectures. engaged in various activities, including preparing a disaster-prevention green belt, maintaining organic cotton fields in Hirono, and removing weeds and planting flowers in the area surrounding Addressing Other Natural Disasters Namie train station. In addition, we visited the Wide-area power outages caused by Typhoon Faxai (Japan) Ukedo district, which The Nissan LEAF proved uniquely suited to providing relief in times of was devastated by the natural disaster as a mobile storage battery, during the widespread power outages that continued at evacuation centers and welfare facilities in Chiba prefecture caused by Typhoon Faxai in September 2019. A group photo during volunteer activities in Hirono and Namie NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 186 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Nissan provided electricity by bringing 53 Nissan LEAF electric vehicles Novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak (China) and portable power stations (known as Power Movers) at local government In January 2020, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., Nissan (China) Investment (NCIC) authorities, welfare facilities, childcare facilities and other locations. These and Nissanʼs joint venture in China, Dongfeng Motor Company Limited (DFL) were used primarily to run fans to prevent heat stroke and to charge mobile together donated 5 million RMB and 100,000 masks to support the fight phones to ensure residents had access to information as well as a power against the COVID-19 in Hubei province. source to light up water supplies at night. In addition, 50 charger cables provided by Nissan employees were used to charge mobile phones. Torrential rains from Typhoon Hagibis (Japan) Tornado in Tennessee (U.S.) Nissan donated ¥10 million and matched employee donations raised to Nissan North America (NNA) donated $150,000 to the American Red provide funds in relief of those suffering damage from torrential rains when Cross to support relief efforts for those affected by a tornado that struck Typhoon Hagibis struck in October 2019. Nissan employees volunteered Tennessee in March 2020. in Iwaki and 68 vehicles were lent out in Iwaki and Koriyama in Fukushima prefecture to support disaster relief efforts. In addition, Nissan and Nagano Foundation Support Activities (U.S., Australia and Brazil) Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. lent out four Nissan LEAF to the volunteer center for In the United States, we support many communities through the Nissan disaster relief in Nagano to supply electricity. Foundation, which funds educational programs encouraging people to value the cultural diversity that exists within American society. Established in 1992, the Nissan Foundation has contributed over $11.5 million to more than Volcano eruption (Philippines) 150 nonprofit organizations across the country as of the end of March 2020. Nissan Philippines (NPI) donated three Navara to the Philippine Red Cross In fiscal 2019 the foundation donated $740,000 to 30 U.S. organizations. to support relief efforts for those affected by the Taal Volcano eruption in Nissan Motor Australia (NMA) supports philanthropic activities through January 2020. the Nissan Australia Foundation. Since fiscal 2017 it has supported small and medium-sized Australian charitable organizations, helping to expand or NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 187 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors continue their activities. NMA has adopted a new employee policy, allowing museums and other educational institutions that have dramatically increased staff to take volunteer leave each year to contribute to the communities in interest in science among female students. which they work and live. Furthermore, from fiscal 2019, we started a program to develop the talent Additionally, Nissan Do Brasil Automoveis (NBA) reexamined the activities of the future and launched a project to create a class designed for future of the Instituto Nissan, established in 2013 for philanthropic purposes, leaders based on joint research with Waseda University. revitalizing and strengthening its programs for encouraging employee volunteer activity. During fiscal 2019, Instituto Nissan developed a series * Click here for more information on the Nissan Global Foundation. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/CITIZENSHIP/FOUNDATION/ of programs, from environmental education to social engagement and * Click here for more information on the Nissan Global Foundation official website in Japanese. open innovation, interacting with a variety of stakeholders that support the https://www.nissan-zaidan.or.jp/ organization on its social contribution to a very important region in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Nissan Global Foundation (Japan) Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies, Oxford (U.K.) The Nissan Global Foundation* pursues the vision of realizing a prosperous Founded at the University of Oxford in 1981, the Nissan Institute of future society through human resource development by conducting various Japanese Studies* is a well-known European center for research on modern training programs. Japan that contributes to the promotion of mutual understanding between One main focus is enhancing science education at elementary and middle Japan and Europe. schools and science workshops by fostering logical and scientific thinking skills among schoolchildren. The foundation grants ¥700,000 per project for * Click here for more information on the Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies. teaching material in two years. In addition, the foundation grants “Science https://www.nissan.ox.ac.uk/ Education Awards” to schools with the best performance so as to encourage competition and promote dynamism. Additionally, since fiscal 2018, the foundation has awarded the Nissan Global Foundation “Rikajo” Prize to elementary and middle schools, NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 188 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Governance Governance Policies and Philosophy ……… 190 Corporate Governance ……………………… 191 Risk Management ……………………………… 199 Compliance ……………………………………… 201 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 189 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GOVERNANCE GRI102-15 GRI102-16 GRI102-26 GRI103-1 GRI103-2 Governance Policies and Philosophy in our business management. We have selected a new corporate form consisting of a company with three statutory committees, separating Rapid technological advances are transforming every industry, including the management from supervision, oversight and auditing. Our global approach automotive industry, and the global economy is undergoing a period of great to governance is founded on three pillars: improving the transparency of change. The risks that companies face are becoming ever more complex the decision-making process and making business execution speedier and and require finely tuned responses. more flexible; carrying out compliance based on high ethical standards In order to create unique and innovative automotive products and services, among all employees; and establishing an effective and appropriate riskand deliver superior measurable value to all stakeholders, Nissan will management system. enrich peopleʼs lives as a company that is trusted by society, and address improvement of corporate governance as one of its most prioritized *1 Click here for more information on the Global Code of Conduct. managerial tasks. In addition to addressing risks and opportunities https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/2017/NISSAN_GCC_E.pdf associated with climate change, we will conduct our business while *2 Click here for more information on the Corporate Governance Guidelines. https://www.nissan-global.com/PDF/190625-02_01_EN.pdf considering societyʼs expectations and our social responsibilities and devote ourselves to the development of a sustainable society by aiming for sustainable growth of our business. To be a sustainable company, Nissan must display a high level of ethics and transparency, as well as a strong foundation for the organization. It is also expected that we will actively disclose our initiatives to this end. We have extensive global operations with numerous stakeholders around the world. It is essential that we continue to earn their trust while ensuring the high ethical standards and compliance of all employees. In 2001, we established the Global Code of Conduct,*1 which is rigorously followed by Group companies around the world. Corporate governance,*2 compliance and risk management are key factors NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 190 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI102-18 GRI102-22 GRI102-23 GRI102-24 GRI102-28 GRI405-1 Corporate Governance System in Detail supervision, oversight and auditing by the Board of Directors and other corporate bodies heightening the effectiveness of our structures in terms of In developing new structures to strengthen our corporate governance internal controls, compliance and risk management. Officers and employees, system, on June 25, 2019, a new corporate form was selected consisting of including executive officers, will sincerely respond to this supervision, a company with three statutory-committee, clearly separating management oversight and auditing. functions and supervisory, oversight and auditing functions. In the past, In addition, we announce clear management targets and policies to all directors supervised the execution of important business operations as stakeholders and disclose our performance promptly with a high degree of well as the duties of individual directors, but the change in structure to a transparency. company with three statutory committees has separated execution from We have also established a corporate governance system that maintains supervision. Those with the newly established executive officer role are business transparency. The system allows us to implement various responsible for the execution of business operations, while members of monitoring systems, as well as assess and manage risks that have the the Board of Directors focus on supervision of their assigned duties. This potential of preventing us from achieving our business goals. In addition to has improved the transparency of the decision-making process and also carrying out cooperation among sites in the regions in which we operate, made business execution speedier and more flexible. Furthermore, by we have set up global management systems and provide relevant training increasing the number of outside directors to a majority of the board, we programs to our employees and business partners. We aim to disclose are working to reflect a diversity of viewpoints into our management and governance information with even greater transparency in future. strengthen our supervision function still further. The Board of Directors has established three committees: the Nomination Committee, which decides * Click here for more information on the Nissan Corporate Governance Overview on candidates for director positions; the Compensation Committee, which https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/CORPORATEGOVERNANCE/pdf/ sets compensation for directors and executive officers; and the Audit Overview_EN.pdf * Click here for more information on the Corporate Governance Guidelines Committee, which audits the business execution of directors, executive https://www.nissan-global.com/PDF/190625-02_01_EN.pdf officers, and those with similar responsibilities. Outside directors make up * Click here for more information on Governance Data more than half of each committee, and play a leading role in the Nomination >>> P239 and Compensation Committees. This ensures healthy governance, with NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 191 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-18 GRI102-19 GRI102-22 GRI102-23 GRI102-28 GRI405-1 Corporate Governance System Transformation Board of Directors System On June 25, 2019, Nissan transitioned to a three statutory-committee Our Board of Directors, led by independent outside directors, decides the format, establishing nomination, compensation and audit committees. basic direction of management by taking a variety of perspectives into account and plays the role of supervising the executive directors. The New System Key Points number of directors on the board is sufficient to facilitate lively discussions (1) Separation of management and supervisory functions and swift decision-making. In order to create an environment where (2) Increased independence of Board of Directors discussions in board meetings are led by independent outside directors, (3) Transparency of decision-making process these directors constitute a majority of the board, with one of them serving (4) Speedy and flexible business execution as board chair. The Board of Directors decides on basic management policies and important matters set forth under the law, articles of incorporation and Role of The Board of Directors regulations of the Board of Directors itself. In order to carry out effective General Shareholders Meeting Roles of the Board of Directors and flexible management, as a general rule, the Board of Directors ・ The Board of Directors has primary responsibility to shareholders for the welfare delegates much of its power to decide on business activities to executive Responsible of the company. officers. As of March 31, 2020, the Board of Directors consists of 12 SUPERVISING ROLE ・ The Board of Directors, led by the independent Board of Directors outside directors, decides the basic direction directors, seven of whom are independent outside directors (of whom two of management by taking a variety of are women). Nomination Compensation Audit perspectives into account and plays the role of Committee Committee Committee supervising the executive directors. * Click here for more information on each member of the Board of Directors. Major authorities of the Board of Directors https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/EXECUTIVE/ Supervise Basic management ・ Medium-term/annual business plan policy ・ Strategic/important alliances Execute & report * Click here for more information on the Board of Directorʼs activities in fiscal 2019 General Shareholders ・ Convocation Meeting ・ Agendas >>> P018 Executive Officers EXECUTING ROLE ・ Appointment of board chair and Appointment/ representative executive officers Execute or delegate ・ Appointment/dismissal of executive dismissal officers ・ Appointment of committee members Perform & report ・ Financial statement Finance ・ Dividends Corporate officers and other employees Others ・ Basic policy for internal control NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 192 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 GRI102-24 GRI102-22 GRI102-35 Nomination Committee System and Authority Compensation Committee System and Authority AUTHORITY / ROLE RESOLUTION ITEMS AUTHORITY / ROLE RESOLUTION ITEMS ・To determine the content of the ・Proposal of election/dismissal of ・To determine the policy on decisions ・Policies and systems regarding General Shareholders Meeting director candidates on the content of the compensation compensation for directors and agenda concerning the appointment ・Proposal of election/dismissal of for individual directors and executive executive officers (compensation and dismissal of directors as provided representative executive officer officers, and the content of the principles, level and composition of for in the Corporate Law ・Succession plan for CEO compensation for individual directors compensation, base salary system, ・To determine the content of the ・Proposal of appointment/dismissal and executive officers short/long-term system, benefits etc.) Board of Directors meeting agenda BOD chair and vice chair ・To determine the specific amount, or, ・Specific amount or (in the case of concerning the appointment and ・Proposal of appointment/dismissal in the case of non-cash compensation, non-cash compensation) specific dismissal of the representative committee chair and members the specific content of compensation, content of compensation for each executive officer for each individual director and individual director and representative ・To formulate an appropriate representative executive officer executive officer succession plan regarding the ・Specific amount or content of president and CEO and review it at compensation for each individual least once a year executive officer As of March 31, 2020, the Nomination Committee chaired by independent As of March 31, 2020, the Compensation Committee consists of four outside directors consists of six directors, five of whom are independent directors, all of whom are independent outside directors (of whom two outside directors (of whom one is a woman). The committee has the are women). The committee has the authority to determine the policy on authority to determine the content of the general shareholderʼs meeting decisions on the content of the compensation for individual directors and agenda concerning the appointment and dismissal of directors. In addition, executive officers and the contents of the compensation for individual the committee has the authority to decide on the content of the Board directors and executive officers. In addition, the Compensation Committee of Directors meeting agenda concerning the appointment and dismissal has the authority to determine the specific amount for each individual of the representative executive officer and the authority to formulate an director and representative executive officer. appropriate succession plan regarding the President and Chief Executive Officer. * Click here for more information on the Compensation Committeeʼs activities in fiscal 2019 >>> P021 * Click here for more information on the Nomination Committeeʼs activities in fiscal 2019 >>> P020 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 193 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 Audit Committee System and Authority Executive Officer periodically and exchanges opinions in various areas. Further, the Chair attends important meetings etc. to state his opinions, reviews internal approval documents and other important documents, and, AUTHORITY / ROLE RESOLUTION ITEMS when necessary, requests explanations or reports from executive officers ・To audit (monitor and supervise) ・Annual audit reports to be submitted and employees. The Chair shares his collected information with other executive officersʼ business execution to shareholders meeting members of the Audit Committee in a timely manner. and directorsʼ performance of their ・Audit policy/rules and annual audit duties. plan/budget of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee, in conducting its audits, cooperates with the internal ・To make executive officers and ・Proposal for shareholders meeting audit department and the independent auditors in an appropriate manner, employees/subsidiaries report on concerning the appointment/ making efforts to enhance the effectiveness of “tri-parties” audit. Under business execution and investigate dismissal of external auditors the status of operation and financial ・Assignment of staff employees of the leadership of the Audit Committee, collaboration among three parties conditions Audit Committee secretariat is contributing to the enhancement of the effectiveness of internal control ・To seek injunctions against illegal acts ・Annual audit plan, budget and HC of directors, executive officers and of Global Internal Audit Office, systems by sharing information on the issues pointed out by their respective employees assignment and evaluation to the audits and the status of their remediation in a timely manner. Further, the ・To produce annual audit reports head of Global Internal Audit Office Audit Committee supervises the internal audit department, periodically ・To select/dismiss external auditors ・Filing of litigation against directors/ ・(Appointed Audit Committee member) executive officers receives reports from them on the progress and results of their internal to represent the company in any audit activities conducted in accordance with their internal audit plan and, as litigation brought against directors/ necessary, gives them instructions regarding internal audit. executive officers The Audit Committee is the contact point for whistleblowing with doubts regarding the involvement of management such as executive officers, and As of March 31, 2020, the Audit Committee chaired by independent deals with whistleblowing by establishing a system where relevant executive outside directors consists of five directors, four of whom are independent officers cannot know the whistleblower and the content of whistleblowing. outside directors (of whom one is a woman). As part of audits on business execution including the organization and operation of Nissanʼs internal * Click here for more information on the Audit Committeeʼs activities in fiscal 2019 control systems, the Audit Committee receives reports from executive >>> P022 officers, corporate officers and employees on their business execution for Nissan and its group companies, in accordance with the Audit Committeeʼs annual audit plan and on an ad-hoc basis as necessary. In addition, the Chair has meetings with executive officers including the President and Chief NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 194 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 Board Features Director independence standards To ensure high independent representation on the Board of Directors, Nissan strictly defines the High independent representation in board and Diversity of nationality qualification of independent directors. They must not fall into any of the following categories: committee composition and gender Prohibited categories ・Majority of Board of Directors are independent outside Nationality directors. 1 Executive or employee of Nissan (within last 10 years) ・Majority of Nomination Committee and Audit Committee, and all members of Compensation Committee, are 5 Nationalities 2 3 Major shareholder of Nissan (within last five years) Director, statutory auditor, statutory accounting advisor or executive of a independent outside directors. company of which Nissan is a major shareholder ・All chairs of the Board of Directors and three committees 4 Major business partner of Nissan Gender are independent outside directors. Executive of an organization that received a significant amount of donations and 17% 5 contributions from Nissan Board of Directors 7 out of 12 are independent directors Director, statutory auditor, statutory accounting advisor or executive of a Female 6 company that has a director who was seconded from Nissan 7 Major creditor of Nissan Nomination 2 Female 5 out of 6 are independent directors Certified public accountant or tax attorney appointed as statutory Committee 8 accounting auditor/advisor of Nissan Compensation 4 out of 4 are independent directors Attorney, certified public accountant, tax attorney or any other type of Audit 4 out of 5 are independent directors 10 Male 9 consultant who has received significant business from Nissan Member, partner or any other executive of an accounting firm, tax firm, or 10 consulting firm that has received significant business from Nissan 11 Family member of any of the above categories 12 Person who has served as director of Nissan (for more than 6 years) Person who may otherwise consistently have substantial conflicts of 13 interest with the shareholders of Nissan Important: All items stated above are summaries of the full qualifications as defined in Nissan Director Independent Standards. For more details for each category, please visit the Nissan website for Nissan Director Independent Standards; https://www.nissan-global.com/PDF/190625-02_02_EN.pdf NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 195 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Executive Officer System * Please refer to the Nissan Corporate Governance Overview for details on the internal control system (P46) Executive officers decide on business activities which are delegated in https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/CORPORATEGOVERNANCE/pdf/ Overview_EN.pdf accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors and execute the business of the Nissan Group. Several conference bodies have been established to deliberate on Audit System and discuss important corporate matters and the execution of daily We have adopted a system under which the outside directors, Auditing business affairs. Furthermore, in the pursuit of more efficient and flexible Committee, department for internal audit and outside accounting auditors management, the authority for business execution is clearly delegated as coordinate to improve the effectiveness of our internal control systems. much as possible to corporate officers and employees. Independent outside directors lead our Board of Directors, deciding the As of March 31, 2020, eight executive officers, two of whom are basic direction of management and supervising the execution of duties by representative executive officers, are appointed. directors, executive directors, and others with similar responsibilities. The Audit Committee takes charge of the department for internal audit and * Click here for more information on each executive officer https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/EXECUTIVE/ instructs it with regard to auditing, and the department for internal audit shall report to the Audit Committee the status of the performance of duties Basic Principles of the Internal Control System and any findings therefrom on an ongoing basis. The Audit Committee also receives similar reports from the accounting auditors, as well as detailed We aim to provide superior value to all stakeholders, consider healthy explanations on the status of the quality control of internal audits, to confirm governance the foundation for this, and are engaged in a range of activities whether their oversight is at a suitable level. to achieve it. In line with this principle, and in accordance with Japanʼs Companies Act and its related regulations, the Board of Directors has Independent Internal Audits decided on internal control systems to pursue these goals and its own basic policy. The board continually monitors the status of implementation An independent, global internal audit function department has been regarding these systems and the policy, making adjustments and established under the control of the Audit Committee. In each region, improvements if necessary. The internal control system that was established internal audit departments located at supervisory companies handle in 2007 is chaired by CEO under the monitoring and supervision of auditing tasks, while global specialized teams conduct audits across each the Board of Directors. All executive officers, corporate officers and region in the areas of sales finance and IT. Under the control of the Chief departments, as well as group companies, cooperate closely under the CEO Internal Audit Officer, all internal audits are carried out efficiently and to improve the internal control system. uniformly across the globe. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 196 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-19 Nissanʼs Corporate Governance System Delegation of authority outline Delegation of authority (DOA) is a part of Nissanʼs decision-making rules that defines who must Shareholders meeting Appoint/dismiss be involved in important corporate decisions Make proposal to appoint/ dismiss directors Appoint/dismiss directors Accounting auditor Role of DOA Accounting Supervision audit report Make Board of Directors Coordinate proposal to appoint/ Clarify decision-making process Maintain and enhance management quality dismiss Make proposal to Audit/report appoint/dismiss accounting DOA provides a clear framework for the DOA improves overall management quality at auditor representative Determine committee members decision-making process and defines who is Nissan by increasing the speed and efficiency executive officer responsible for the decision of decision-making Determine compensation Scope of DOA Nomination Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Overall decision-making rule ⅰ.DOA covers only important corporate decisions Board of Directors/ Delegate, BOD* regulation ⅱ.Besides DOA, there are other decision-making rules such as committee operation appoint/dismiss Audit Report representative executive the business process standard document Board of Directors Office officers/executive officers DOA ⅲ.DOA also applies to Nissanʼs consolidated subsidiaries Determine compensation including foreign companies except where there are special (representative executive Global Internal circumstances officers/executive officers) Audit Office Function/ ⅳ.DOA is classified as global, regional or local DOA according to department rule its scope of application Supervise Report/ Audit *BOD: Board of Directors submit Delegation of authority governance Execution Representative executive officer Report For the purpose of enhancing management quality as well as clarifying the process of decisionmaking, fair and transparent delegation of authority (DOA) is appropriately implemented and Executive Committee, executive officers Internal Control Committee strictly controlled Delegate Report/propose, etc. Monitor 01 Robustness 02 Transparency Management Committees, individual functions, Group companies Any revisions, creation and deletion DOA defines the appropriate are strictly controlled by the DOA individuals who must propose, validate Committee, which is chaired by and decide, are disclosed in the Nissan corporate officers group employeeʼs intranet 03 Fairness 04 Effectiveness Aside from Proposer and Decider, the DOA representatives and coordinators Validator, who provides expertise to a are assigned in each function and Decider in the Validatorʼs relevant area, region for efficient operation and for is set in the DOA items enhancing global management NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 197 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-25 Avoidance of Conflict of Interest Three key pillars of Director Conflicts of Interest In case of any transaction that involves any conflict of interest between the Resolution Policy company and a director or executive officer, the Board Regulations provide Three key pillars of Director Conflicts of Interest Resolution Policy that board approval, as well as a post-facto report to the board of important facts associated with the transaction, are required. Given the possibility Resolution Resolution Duty to report of conflict of interest, the representative executive officer of the company group procedure must not concurrently serve as a director, executive officer, or any other Mandates two affirmative Establishes the Director Establishes procedures to officer or employee of a major shareholder; Mitsubishi Motors Corporation, duties for directors; Conflict Resolution resolve director conflicts ⅰ.Timely reporting of Group, comprising (of at before and during board/ which is one of the other parties of the Alliance; or any subsidiaries or actual and potential least) three independent committee meetings affiliates of the above. If an executive officer serves in such position at the conflicts; directors, led by the chair including: time of assuming the office of representative executive officer of Nissan, ⅱ.Advance disclosure of of the Audit Committee. ⅰ.Maintaining a database that officer and Nissan shall promptly take the necessary measures for the interested transactions The chair can prevent a of all specific conflicts officer to leave the other company. director from: of interest identified, Regarding the designation of Audit Committee members, the companyʼs ⅰ.Receiving materials, ⅱ.Suspending or Corporate Governance Guidelines provide that, given the potential conflict ⅱ.Presenting at any postponing the matter discussion, and, in question, and, of interest with minority shareholders, it is not desirable that the Audit ⅲ.Participating in any ⅲ.Excluding the conflicted Committee should include any person who has experience serving as a vote, related to any member from the director, executive officer or other officer or employee at a major Nissan specific conflict of meeting shareholder or a subsidiaries or affiliate of same (except for a person interest reported. seconded from Nissan). In addition, in 2019, the company established a Director Conflict of Interest * Click here for more information on Corporate Governance Report. Resolution Policy which defines conflicts of interest between a director and https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/GOVERNANCE/g_report.pdf the company, requires directors to report any actual, potential or perceived conflicts and also establishes procedures to resolve such conflicts. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 198 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors RISK MANAGEMENT GRI102-30 GRI418-1 Risk Management Systems processes and tools for risk management, as well as related information, throughout the Group. Risk management must be a real-world activity that produces concrete In addition, we have created an area on our intranet called “Corporate Risk measures. Based on its Global Risk Management Policy, the Nissan Management.” Information relating to risk management is also distributed to Group carries out activities on a comprehensive, groupwide basis. subsidiaries in Japan, North America, Europe and other overseas regions, as To respond to changes in our business environment, we have set up well as to major affiliated companies. a department in charge of risk management that carries out annual The business environment in which we operate has been increasingly interviews of corporate officers, carefully investigating various potential volatile in recent years, including such aspects as the widespread adoption risks and revising the “corporate risk map” in line with impact, frequency of new technologies and growing geopolitical risks. We will continue to and control level. The Executive Committee make decisions on risk bolster our activities in this area so we can appropriately meet these issues that must be handled at the corporate level and designate “risk changes. owners” to manage the risks. Under the leadership of these owners, we design appropriate countermeasures. At the end of each fiscal year, Protecting Personal Data and Reinforcing Information the head of risk management assesses the control level of each risk Security and determines the effectiveness of each risk management activity. The progress of these activities is regularly reported to the Executive We share our Information Security Policy with Group companies worldwide Committee and the Internal Control Committee, and also to the Board of as a basis for reinforced information security, implementing via the Directors, when appropriate. Information Security Committee measures enhanced through the PDCA With respect to individual business risks, each division is responsible for cycle. We reliably address issues by identifying internal and external taking the preventive measures necessary to minimize the frequency of information leaks as they occur worldwide and reinforce information security risk issues and their impact when they do arise as part of its ordinary on a timely basis. To thoroughly educate and motivate employees to adhere business activities. The divisions also prepare emergency measures to to relevant policy, we institute regular in-house educational programs. put in place when risk factors materialize. Nissan Group companies in Moreover, we recognize our social responsibility to properly handle Japan and overseas are strengthening communication to share basic customersʼ personal information in full compliance with the respective NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 199 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors personal information protection law in each region. We have set up internal management for both ongoing and future projects. Appraisal involves an systems, rules and procedures for handling personal data. All Nissan Group objective evaluation of whether risk exists and the level of such risk for our companies are fully enforcing these processes. company and the assignment of responsible persons based on the level for There were no major instances of loss or leaking of personal information at follow-up activities. These processes are implemented by the Quality Risk any Nissan Group company during fiscal 2019. Management Committee, chaired by an executive tasked with heading this activity, twice a year. * Click here for more information on Risk Management. Regarding response to environmental issues and climate change, in order https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/2020/SR20_E_RiskMgnt.pdf to address diversifying environmental issues and promote comprehensive environmental management on a global basis, the Global Environmental GRI102-29 GRI102-30 GRI102-33 Management Committee (G-EMC), which is co-chaired by a board ESG Risk Management member and convenes twice a year, and the Environmental Management Committees (EMCs) in seven regions worldwide confirm the progress of Nissan sees risks related to environmental, social and governance activities and decide companywide policy and the content of reports to the (ESG) factors―that is, “product strategy,” “product quality,” “response Board of Directors. to environmental issues and climate change” and “compliance and Regarding compliance and reputation, our compliance with laws and ethical reputation”― as issues involving business strategy and the maintenance of standards is monitored by regional and local compliance committees, competitiveness and therefore promotes risk management in the Group as a which report to the Global Compliance Committee. We also have a globally whole based on the Global Risk Management Policy. integrated whistleblowing system, which allows employees to report Regarding product strategy, as part of our product strategy developing suspected compliance issues to management. process, we monitor the impact of various risk scenarios, such as global In addition, we have created sets of internal rules and policies globally market changes and demand deteriorations, on our future profitability based covering the prevention of insider trading, personal information on the product lineup plan. We periodically monitor the impact of these management, information security and prevention of bribery and corruption. scenarios to secure future profitability and sustainable growth, as well as We make efforts to prevent noncompliance and reputation risk by raising updating our future lineup plan periodically based on the results. awareness through the implementation of various activities, including Regarding product quality, in addition to such activities as quality assurance education and training programs. for new model projects and day-to-day quality improvement activities, we have introduced and operate a “Quality Risk Management” framework. The * Click here for more information on Risk Management. framework represents a higher-level system to ensure successful quality https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/2020/SR20_E_RiskMgnt.pdf NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 200 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors COMPLIANCE Nissan understands that acting with integrity and high standards is of enforcing compliance and awareness thereof in all operational areas. paramount importance, not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because it allows all employees to perform at the highest levels. Nissan *Click here for more information on nonconforming final vehicle inspections. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/SUSTAINABILITY/VEHICLE_INSPECTIONS/ expects all employees to maintain the highest ethical standards as they carry out their duties. To raise compliance awareness throughout the company, Nissan has established a Global Compliance Office, as well as Executing an Overhaul of Compliance Checks specialized departments, and appointed officers to promote compliance in At Nissan, following the discovery of nonconformities in the final vehicle each region where it operates. inspection process at vehicle assembly plants in Japan, we were determined to ensure that such a thing could never happen again. Accordingly, in GRI103-1 GRI419-1 fiscal 2018, an overhaul of compliance checks were carried out and some Enhancing Compliance monitoring items were defined. In fiscal 2019, compliance office and relevant functions started to monitor those items periodically twice a year. Preventing a Reoccurrence of Nonconforming Final In fiscal 2019, comprehensive compliance checks for affiliate companies in Vehicle Inspections at Nissanʼs Plants in Japan Japan was undertaken and no relevant findings were identified. This project After the discovery in September 2017 of nonconformities in the final will be expanded to overseas entities in fiscal 2020. vehicle inspection process at its plants in Japan, Nissan began a full and comprehensive investigation of the facts, including the causes and Working with Dealerships background. We have since implemented appropriate countermeasures Nissan undertakes various measures to ensure that its approach to based on the results. Strict compliance is a top priority for our management, compliance is shared with dealerships and to enhance its internal controls. and we have taken it upon ourselves to examine the current situation with We are strengthening lines of communication with dealerships to further regard to compliance in every area of our business. When issues do arise, improve our sustainability management. We carry out activities on an we take appropriate measures, and we are committed to promoting and ongoing basis aimed at helping dealerships in Japan enhance their compliance. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 201 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI205-1 Nissan organizes self-inspection programs at all dealerships to enhance Anti-Bribery understanding of compliance matters and improve their compliance management status. The dealerships check their current compliance status Anti-Bribery: Policies and Philosophy and issues based on Nissanʼs self-assessment checklists and use the PDCA Nissan does not tolerate corruption of any kind, whether individual or cycle to make voluntary improvements. Nissan also annually updates, edits systemic, committed by a company or a government. The Nissan Global and expands the checklists based on our internal audit results, informing Anti-Bribery Policy* establishes a global framework for preventing and dealerships of changes and ensuring compliance. The program status is responding to corruption. Different cultural contexts may result in what seem shared among applicable Nissan departments and reports are made to the to be gray areas, and Nissan respects local customs and traditions, but Board of Directors of dealerships. Through measures to check improvements corrupt practices are never acceptable. and their effectiveness, and a unified approach with dealerships, Nissan strives to further improve its sustainability management. *Click here for more information on the Nissan Global Anti-Bribery Policy. When major compliance issues occur, the legal, communications, external https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/2013/NIS_SUS2013E_POLICY.pdf and government affairs and other applicable Nissan departments work Click here for more information on the Avoidance of Conflict of Interest. together with dealers to take prompt and appropriate action. >>> P198 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 202 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI205-2 GRI419-1 GRI102-16 GRI102-17 GRI419-1 Anti-Bribery: Management Business Ethics Nissan has established a Global Code of Conduct* and Global Compliance Business Ethics: Policies and Philosophy Office as well as departments and officers at each of its operations worldwide with responsibility for promoting compliance measures. Employees and Compliance Moreover, all Group-affiliated companies have introduced their own codes Nissanʼs sustainability efforts are based on each employeeʼs ability to do based on the Global Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is supported by his or her job with a high level of integrity. In 2001, we established a Global training courses to ensure full understanding of its content. Code of Conduct containing practical guidance for employees. Today this Nissanʼs overall policy management strategy was redesigned in fiscal 2016 Code of Conduct is applied at all Nissan Group companies worldwide. in order to support the promotion of compliance knowledge, including We also provide guidance on compliance for directors and corporate the creation of a Policy on Policies and related standardized procedures. officers, holding regular seminars and educational activities to ensure strict With this enhanced process, Nissan seeks to ensure across-the-board adherence to the rules. understanding, making sure all employees are fully aware of Nissanʼs Under the oversight of our Global Compliance Committee, we have policies and able to act appropriately when faced with compliance issues. established a Regional Compliance Committee in each region of operation, Nissan has created a series of internal regulations that are applied forming a worldwide system for detecting and deterring illegal and unethical globally, covering areas such as decision-making, insider trading, personal behavior. Global Headquarters works with all regions and bases of operation information management, information security, bribery and corruption to ensure full awareness of compliance issues and prevent illegal activity, and use of social media. With these policies in place, Nissan is working to and has processes in place to take appropriate disciplinary action against heighten awareness and reduce infractions. those who violate or infringe the Global Code of Conduct or the law. Our Employee education programs to promote compliance are held regularly in Global Compliance Office further increases the rigor of our compliance all regions in which Nissan operates. For example, training sessions based management. In addition, to enhance compliance at the regional level, standon the Global Anti-Bribery Policy have been conducted in all regions. alone, independent, regional compliance officers have been hired in the Japan, Asia and Oceania (A&O), China, North America, Latin America and *Click here for more information on the Global Code of Conduct. the Caribbean (LATAM), Europe, and Africa and Middle East and India (AMI) https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/SR/2017/NISSAN_GCC_E.pdf regions. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 203 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-16 GRI102-17 GRI419-1 Fiscal 2019 Global Compliance Committee Organization Global Code of Conduct (As of March 31, 2020) Nissanʼs Global Code of Conduct contains our core principles for doing Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Board of Directors business with honesty and integrity, in full compliance with established laws and regulations in all locations in which we operate. The Code of Conductʼs Internal Control Committee Executive Committee (EC) Audit Committee standards apply to all employees within Nissan Group companies, and every employee is responsible for upholding and adhering to the Code. The Code Global Compliance Committee (GCC) of Conduct is reviewed for revision at least once every three years to ensure Global Compliance Committee Global Compliance Officer that it evolves along with the company and society. The Code is also updated promptly, outside the regular review cycle, in response to significant changes Management Committees (MCs) to laws or other major factors affecting it. The Code of Conduct was most Regional Compliance Committees* recently updated in 2017, when employee and customer safety were proactively added as a new key pillar of the Code. Japan A&O China North America LATAM Europe AMI In fiscal 2019, updated Global Code of Conduct training material was delivered to all regions. The e-learning material for indirect employees was *Each Regional Compliance Committee oversees various local compliance committees as available in 20 languages and accessible in number of formats including appropriate. via portable devices like smartphones and tablets. Factory-focused training material was prepared for factory workers, who received the training via regular shift-start messaging or in a seminar setting. This global Code of Conduct training is mandatory for all Nissan employees every year as well as Board members and Corporate Officers. The fiscal 2019 global completion ratio is over 95%. ① Comply with All Laws and Rules Nissan employees are expected to follow all laws and regulations of the country in which they work as well as all Company policies and rules. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 204 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors ② Promote Safety ⑥ Be Transparent and Accountable Nissan is committed to employee safety and wellness. Nissan employees Accounts and records shall be maintained with integrity. Nissan employees are expected to engage in safe work practices to promote a healthy work shall make accurate, transparent, timely and appropriate disclosures of the environment. Nissan is also committed to the safety of our customers and Companyʼs business activities to our stakeholders, including shareholders, their passengers and Nissan employees are expected to continually promote management, customers, other employees and local communities. safety of Nissan products. ⑦ Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity ③ Avoid Conflicts of Interest We value and respect the diversity of our employees, suppliers, customers Employees are expected to act in the best interest of Nissan. It is not and communities. Discrimination, retaliation or harassment, in any form or permitted for employees to behave, act, or use information in a way that degree, will not be tolerated. conflicts with Company interests. Furthermore, employees must attempt to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. ⑧ Be Environmentally Responsible Nissan employees shall strive to consider the environment and ④ Preserve Company Assets environmental protection when developing products and services, promote Nissan employees are accountable for preserving and safeguarding recycling and conserve materials and energy. Company assets. The unauthorized or improper use of Company assets, including funds, confidential business information, physical property and ⑨ Be Active; Report Violations intellectual property, is prohibited. Nissan employees are expected to carry out their work in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who suspect that a violation of the Code ⑤ Be Impartial and Fair of Conduct has occurred are obligated to report it as soon as possible. Nissan employees must maintain impartial and fair relationships with Employees are encouraged to use the SpeakUp system to report their business partners, including dealers, suppliers and other third parties. suspicions. Employees who act in good faith and report suspected violations will be protected from retaliation. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 205 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI419-1 Business Ethics: Management Security-Related Export Controls Internal Reporting System for Corporate Soundness To help maintain both national and international peace and security, we Nissan has established a globally integrated reporting system to promote rigorously comply with export control laws and regulations in Japan and thorough understanding of compliance among employees worldwide other countries and regions where we operate to keep sensitive goods, and facilitate sound business practices. The system, known as SpeakUp, software and technologies from reaching sponsors of terrorism, espionage can be used by employees to ask questions or voice concerns to the or human rights violations. Our export compliance program is implemented company, thereby improving workplaces and operations. Where allowed by under a system headed by the representative executive responsible for law, SpeakUp permits anonymous reporting by and two-way confidential export control. Specifically, our Export Control Global Secretariat, consisting communication with employees and other stakeholders. It is available 24 of a Global Director and Regional Managers, works with each of our hours a day, 365 days a year, in more than 20 languages. Employees are businesses to set control and monitoring mechanisms ensuring compliance encouraged to report violations of the Code of Conduct or other company with security-related export controls, and these mechanisms are strictly rules, and are protected from retaliation by our non-retaliation policy, a applied to all operations. cornerstone of our compliance program. We recognize our responsibility for compliance with all regulations related In fiscal 2019, 1,681 issues and questions were reported globally. Among to export controls on goods, software and technologies in our areas of those, 485 compliance-related matters were identified. The number of operation. In 2017, we formulated a Global Export Regulatory Compliance reporting has been increased since SpeakUp was introduced. This trend Policy to ensure proper compliance with such regulations across the is as expected, and indicates both that our compliance program is working Nissan Group. Based on this global policy, we are working to develop effectively and that employees are taking an interest in using it to raise their regional policies for each of the regions where we operate, such as export concerns. regulatory compliance policies issued in fiscal 2019 for Latin America, updates to North America and have begun discussions for the Europe, AMI (Africa, Middle East, India) and A&O (Asia & Oceania) regions. We also respond in a timely manner to export control regulation changes and related developments around the world, including the enforcement of the Export Control Reform Act (ECRA) in the U.S., amendments to the EU export control list and moves to deploy export control regulations in China, Thailand, India and the Philippines. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 206 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors With the overall aim of improving our level of internal control, we strive to Global Export Control Policy Framework conduct regular risk-assessment activities in connection with export controls in each region, create monitoring mechanisms aligned with regulatory Representative executive responsible for export controls requirements and business demands, and continually improve our operations. To make employees more familiar with compliance risks, we are reviewing our training system and materials, including information about complying Export Control Global Secretariat with relevant customs and trade laws. From fiscal 2018, we began annual Japan, Asia & Oceania, China, training in Japan based on the new system. In addition, we deployed North America, Latin America, mandatory training globally starting in fiscal 2019 with North America, Latin Africa, Middle East, & India, America, AMI, and China completing this training, and A&O and Europe Europe under development. We have been addressing export control of advanced technology on a global level to prepare for the future of our company. To hasten the implementation of our Global Export Regulatory Compliance Policy, we continue to promote Functions Regions export control for advanced technologies, such as autonomous driving Japan, Asia & Oceania, China, and connected-car technologies at Nissan sites in Japan, the U.S., and Marketing and sales, R&D, North America, Latin America, Europe as well as other locations around the world, where warranted. supply-chain management, IT, Africa, Middle East, & India, At our development sites in Japan, we are improving our classification production, etc. Europe process for sensitive goods, software and technologies using IT systems. By making export control procedures an integral part of our development and design operations, we aim to strengthen our compliance. In addition, we are renewing and collecting information on controlled goods, software and technologies in each region and are implementing comprehensive and sound export controls for each business operation through the systematic global sharing of this information. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 207 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI419-1 GRI207-1 GRI207-2 GRI207-3 Nissanʼs Commitment to Tax Transparency related entities trade with each other as if they were unrelated. Nissan is transparent about its approach to tax. Nissan aims to pay the Nissanʼs Approach to Tax appropriate amount of taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates, and to Based on its Global Code of Conduct, Nissan is committed to complying avoid tax-related interest payments and penalties for failure to comply. with the laws and regulations of all countries in which Nissan Group does The CFO reviews and approves the tax strategy. The Global Head of Tax and business, as well as with international tax treaties and tax-related financial the CFO update annually the Board of Directors on Nissanʼs tax risks and reporting rules. In order to conduct business properly and efficiently in many adherence to its tax strategy. markets across the globe, Nissan established a documented tax policy from *Click here for information on Nissanʼs U.K. tax strategy. 2015. This document is continuously revised in order to keep up with the https://www.nissan.co.uk/legal/nissan-uk-tax-strategy.html legislative and regulatory changes. This policy document includes details of the companyʼs governance arrangements, tax risk management strategy Nissanʼs Tax Management and its approach to dealing with tax authorities, although it is currently not publicly available in full. Nissan is consistently fulfilling all tax disclosure Nissan effectively manages tax risks within the Group by participating in requirements such as OECD Country-by-Country Reporting and other and ̶through the delegation of authority process at a global, regional and mandatory country-specific transparency requirements like those in Australia local level ̶ validating key business decisions from a tax perspective in a or the United Kingdom*. consistent manner. Nissan effectively manages its tax risks by providing tax input into key Nissanʼs global brand reputation and the continuing success of its business decisions. Nissanʼs Tax Department collaborates with and supports manufacturing and distribution operations are of paramount importance. other functions to ensure tax implications are properly evaluated and Consequently only a low level of tax risk is considered acceptable as also addressed in operational and strategic decision-making. In particular in demonstrated by proactive discussions with tax authorities. relation to transactions, restructurings, legal entity modifications, and other Where Nissan has tax audits, the company seeks to reach an agreement business changes, as necessary to support Nissanʼs business strategy. with the Tax authorities on the treatment that will apply. In case Nissan is Through the delegation of authority process, the tax function validates key unable to successfully negotiate, Nissan will uphold its tax positions in court business decisions from a tax perspective, thereby ensuring the tax strategy and defend its application of the law through litigation. is aligned with the wider business objectives, in a consistent manner. Nissan has several methods for identifying and managing tax risks. Nissan applies established international standards like OECD principles The Global Tax Controversy Report is Nissanʼs global tax function tool for to its dealings between the companies within the group. Intercompany central management of tax risk. It includes all tax exposure: both direct and transactions are priced on an armʼs-length basis, which means that Nissanindirect taxes. Key findings are discussed quarterly with top management. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 208 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Specifically for income tax, Nissan has a process in place at local, regional Nissanʼs stakeholder engagement and global level to recognize uncertain tax positions as required by the and management of concerns related to tax International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). Nissan Nissan seeks to maintain a long-term, open and constructive relationship adopted IFRIC 23 from the beginning of fiscal 2019. with national tax authorities by proactively engaging with them, as well as Regarding transfer pricing topics, the tax function has internal procedures other governmental and relevant industry bodies directly and indirectly. and controls in place to identify transfer pricing risks, assess and mitigate First, Nissan strives to develop cooperative relationships with tax authorities such risks, and to monitor and escalate and report material risks to all through regular meetings and partnership programs. Nissan has ongoing stakeholders. Profitability by product basis and by company basis is communication with tax authorities including, where applicable, use of monitored regularly to identify the tax risks in terms of transfer pricing. When advance rulings and advanced pricing agreements (APAs). Nissan engages potential tax risks are identified, they are reported to the finance executive in in APAs with tax authorities to obtain certainty regarding transfer pricing for charge. The executive-level position within the organization accountable for intercompany transactions. compliance with the tax strategy is the Global Head of Tax, reporting to the Then, Nissan regularly engages with policy makers to support the CFO. development of tax rules and regulations based on sound tax policy Compliance with the tax governance and control framework is evaluated principles. Nissan also provides input to industry groups and international regularly by the global tax team, the compliance departments and internal economic organizations, such as the Tax Executives Institute (TEI) and audit checks. Global policies on tax governance and control are published the business at OECD. As a Japanese automaker, Nissan is a member of on Nissanʼs internal website. Compliance departments (at regional, local Keidanren, one of Japanʼs major private sector business associations and and global level) check with tax departments as the policy owner how the also part of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA). policies are enforced and are in line with the business (through regular Finally, Nissanʼs Investors Relations Department engages with the Global updates of the policies). Tax Department each time there is a question from stakeholders related to Nissan has a hotline which is called SpeakUp where employees have a tax topics. The Tax team will assist so that the information is provided in a way to report unethical or illegal activities they have witnessed or that satisfactory way. they suspect. It is publicly filed within Japan according to required laws and regulations. Nissan reports IFRS consolidated financial statement information to Renault. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 209 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors ESG Data Corporate Overview …………………………… 211 Environmental Data …………………………… 213 Social Data ……………………………………… 233 Governance Data ……………………………… 239 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 210 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Corporate Overview GRI102-2 GRI102-3 GRI102-7 GRI102-7 Corporate Profile Financial Data Date of Establishment December 26, 1933 （¥ billion） Location of Organizationʼs 1-1, Takashima 1-chome, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Headquarters Kanagawa 220-8686, Japan Net sales 11,951.2 11,574.2 9,878.9 The Nissan Group consists of Nissan Motor Co., Operating income (loss) 574.8 318.2 (40.5) Ltd., subsidiaries, affiliates and other associated Group Structure and companies. Its main business includes sales and Ordinary income 750.3 546.5 44.0 Business Outline production of vehicles and related parts. The Nissan Group also provides various services accompanying Profit (loss) before tax 710.7 477.7 (573.0) its main business, such as logistics and sales finance. Net income (loss) Brands Nissan, Infiniti, Datsun attributable to owners 746.9 319.1 (671.2) of the parent Consolidated Number of Employees 136,134 Capital expenditure 485.4 509.9 509.2 (as of March 31, 2020) Depreciation 384.2 377.8 372.9 R&D: 17 markets Research and (Japan, U.S., Mexico, U.K., Spain, Belgium, development costs 495.8 523.1 544.8 Germany, Russia, China, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia, India, South Africa, Brazil, Argentina; Global Network total of 47 sites) Click here for more information on Financial Data. (as of March 31, 2020) Design: 7 markets https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/ (Japan, U.S., U.K., China, Brazil, Thailand, India; total of 8 sites) Automobile Production: 34 bases in 18 markets (excludes plants providing OEM vehicles to Nissan [Renault, Mitsubishi Motors, Fuso, Suzuki, etc.].) NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 211 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-6 GRI102-7 Global Sales Volume and Production Volume （Thousand units） FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Others Japan 14.3% 10.8% Global sales volume 5,770 5,516 4,930 Japan 584 596 534 Europe FY2019 10.6% Global Sales Volume China China 1,520 1,564 1,547 North America 2,091 1,897 1,620 4,930 thousand units 31.4% Europe 756 643 521 North America Others 819 816 708 32.9% （Thousand units） FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan Global production 5,672 5,362 4,757 15.9% volume FY2019 Japan 986 901 758 Others Global Production Volume North America North America 1,694 1,587 1,340 45.2% 4,757 28.2% Europe 777 661 508 thousand units Others 2,215 2,213 2,151 Europe 10.7% Click here for more information on Financial Data. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 212 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI302-5 Environmental Data Climate Change (Products) Climate Change (Products) ………………………………… 213 CO2 Emissions from New Vehicles (Global)* Climate Change (Corporate Activities) …………………… 217 （%） 100 100 Air Quality ……………………………………………………… 223 95 90.1 34.8％ reduction Resource Dependency: Achievements in Reuse ……… 225 90 Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) ………………… 226 85 77.7 Water Resource Management ……………………………… 228 80 73.2 75 70.1 Strengthening Our Business Foundations 67.6 67.4 70 to Address Environmental Issues…………………………… 229 65 66.6 67.0 65.2 Material Balance ……………………………………………… 232 60 Environmental Conservation Cost ………………………… 232 2000 2005 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Estimates (as of July 2020) have been used for the FY2019 actuals for CO2, VOC, industrial In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions in Nissanʼs main markets of Japan, the U.S., waste, and water at European facilities. Europe, and China were 34.8% lower than fiscal 2000 levels, as measured by Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE). Especially, improved in China from 2018 due to EV expansion and fuel consumption improvement. * Reduction in CO2 emissions calculated by Nissan. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 213 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE, JC08 Mode) in Japan comparatively heavier models have received more market acceptance which （km/L） decreases the CAFE from 28.8 mpg to 27.8 mpg. 24 21.2 22.6 Updated 2018 results on PC to 39.9 from 39.8mpg and LDT to 28.8 from 19.7 20.0 19.7 19.5 20.6 18.2 20 16.3 28.5 due to revision in the official report. 15.3 16.1 16 13.6 14.2 14.0 14.0 CO2 Emission Index from Nissan Vehicles in Europe* 12 8 4 （g-CO2/km） In 2019, average CO2 emission in 150 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Europe was improved by 1g due In fiscal 2019, mainly due to strong sales of the Serena e-POWER and new 140 to EV mix increase and heavier DAYZ, the average fuel economy improved to 22.6 km/L. This represents an models mix decrease. improvement of 7% compared to fiscal 2018. Provisional values determined 130 by Nissan are used. 120 115 117 117 115 114 110 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019（CY） Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) in the United States *2018 result was updated. （mpg） Corporate Average Fuel Consumption in China 50 39.1 40.0 41.9 40.6 39.8 39.9 41.4 （L/100km） In 2019, fuel economy for 40 33.7 34.0 34.1 35.2 32.0 32.2 28.2 29.2 28.0 28.5 29.7 29.4 29.5 30.1 29.1 28.8 12 domestically produced and 30 26.2 22.9 23.1 25.7 24.9 24.8 24.4 27.1 27.5 27.8 Import 20.8 20.7 20.7 21.7 21.2 21.7 21.9 9.2 9.3 20 10 8.2 imported vehicles improved 8.0 7.9 10 8 6.9 6.7 6.6 6.3 approximately 8% and 1%, 0 Domestic 5.8 respectively. The incremental 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 6 Production introduction of EVs and fuel PC LDT 4 In fiscal 2019, sales resulted in a CAFE of 41.4 mpg for passenger cars, the consumption improvement for 2 same performance observed for fiscal 2018. In the light-duty truck segment, ICEs are the main factor for 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019（CY） domestic production models. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 214 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Revenue, Global Sales Volume and Production Volume Data （¥ billion） （k unit） （k unit） FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 Revenue*1 12,968.7 11,217.6 Global Production Global Sales Volume*2 5,516 4,930 5,362 4,757 Volume*2 Japan 596 534 Japan 901 758 North America 1,897 1,620 North America*3 1,587 1,340 Europe 643 521 Europe*4 661 508 Asia 1,888 1,821 Asia*5 2,046 1,991 Other 492 434 Other*6 167 160 *1 Management pro-forma basis (includes Chinese joint ventures in proportionate consolidation). *4 Production in the U.K., Spain, Russia and France. *2 Global sales volume and global production volume for China and Taiwan consider values from *5 Production in Taiwan, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, China, India and South Korea. January to December. *6 Production in South Africa, Brazil, Egypt and Argentina. *3 Production in the U.S. and Mexico. Powertrain Type Ratios (Shipment-Based) Gasoline-powered Diesel-powered Natural-gas drive Unit vehicles vehicles e-POWER vehicles Electric vehicles Hybrid drive vehicles vehicles Japan ％ 63.7 2.4 21.5 3.2 9.2 0.1 North America ％ 98.7 0.4 0 0.9 0.1 0 Europe ％ 67.7 24.1 0 8.2 0 0 Other ％ 91.3 7.4 0 0.8 0.5 0 Global ％ 87.8 6.4 2.5 1.9 1.3 0 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 215 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors EVs The Xtronic Transmission EV and e-POWER Vehicle Sales ICE with CVT* Sales （k unit） （M unit） In fiscal 2019, we sold 2.7 million 240 217 3.5 3.2 3.1 additional Xtronic CVT vehicles, 204 2.9 3.0 210 3.0 2.7 bringing the cumulative total to 180 151 2.5 29.7 million. 150 108 2.0 120 1.5 90 53 1.0 60 30 0.5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019（FY） 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019（FY） *Includes the sale of EVs by joint ventures in China. *CVT: Continuously Variable Transmission Hybrids Hybrid Units Shipped （k unit） 120 116 102 95 100 81 80 62 60 40 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019（FY） NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 216 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI305-1 GRI305-2 GRI305-4 GRI305-5 Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Energy Input （FY） （FY） Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total MWh 9,683,528 10,189,082 9,532,840 9,252,737 8,443,465 External By region Electricity MWh 4,979,114 5,247,663 4,755,897 4,711,467 4,445,380 (purchased) Japan MWh 4,115,353 4,497,562 4,084,912 3,700,532 3,522,281 Renewable MWh 141,076 157,226 133,212 135,574 153,773 energy*1 North America MWh 2,583,613 2,643,303 2,452,299 2,570,438 2,269,797 Chilled MWh 12,116 12,919 6,661 7,487 7,025 water Europe MWh 1,107,279 1,093,103 1,126,186 1,048,201 838,714 Heated MWh 4,630 4,690 5,000 5,000 5,000 water Other MWh 1,877,283 1,955,115 1,869,443 1,933,566 1,812,673 Steam MWh 100,000 136,593 128,038 102,324 126,811 By energy source Internal Primary Electricity (in-house MWh 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 12,164 generation) Natural gas MWh 3,346,141 3,537,674 3,701,640 3,579,998 3,126,933 Renewable energy*2 MWh 9,423 11,847 14,609 13,214 12,164 LPG MWh 303,826 249,426 179,945 191,405 175,996 Coke MWh 206,307 217,431 218,618 200,527 172,500 Total renewable MWh 150,499 169,073 147,821 148,788 165,937 energy Heating oil MWh 188,943 209,232 147,522 113,200 91,315 *1 Volume of renewable energy in electricity purchased by Nissan. Gasoline MWh 302,564 303,040 299,000 259,045 241,010 *2 Volume of renewable energy generated by Nissan at its facilities and consumed for its own purposes. Diesel MWh 55,099 57,488 48,259 53,074 23,044 Heavy oil MWh 34,289 43,853 27,652 15,995 16,287 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 217 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI302-1 GRI302-3 GRI302-4 Global Energy Consumption Energy per Vehicle Produced （MWh） （MWh/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, energy per 10,189,082 3.0 9,683,528 vehicle produced was 1.78MWh 9,532,840 10,000,000 9,252,737 8,443,465 2.5 increased by 3.3％ compared to 1.86 1.80 1.78 fiscal 2018. 4,497,562 2.0 1.68 1.73 8,000,000 4,115,353 4,084,912 3,700,532 3,522,281 Japan 1.5 6,000,000 1.0 2,583,613 2,643,303 2,452,299 2,570,438 0.5 North 4,000,000 2,269,797 America 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 1,107,279 1,093,103 1,126,186 1,048,201 838,714 Europe 2,000,000 1,877,283 1,955,115 1,869,443 1,933,566 1,812,673 Other Data for the Japan region includes the manufacture of powertrains and 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） other components for overseas assembly. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the region, this tends to result in higher values for Japan. The total energy consumption of our global corporate activities during fiscal 2019 was about 8.443 million MWh, a 9％ decrease from fiscal 2018. This By region Unit 2019 reduction was primarily due to the promotion of energy-saving activities at Japan MWh/vehicle 4.70 facilities and a decline in total production volume. Production sites globally North America MWh/vehicle 1.69 accounted for 7.486million MWh* of total energy consumption. Europe MWh/vehicle 1.65 Other MWh/vehicle 0.84 * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. >>> P100 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 218 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI302-1 GRI302-3 GRI302-4 Energy per Revenue Carbon Footprint (FY) （MWh/million ￥） In fiscal 2019, global Nissan Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1.2 facilities saw energy per revenue Scope 1 t-CO2 926,790 963,661 912,476 889,444 765,370 1.0 result of 0.76 MWh, increased by 0.79 0.76 0.8 0.72 0.72 0.71 20% from 2018. We are taking Scope 2 t-CO2 2,547,951 2,614,028 2,394,109 2,339,883 2,173,236 0.6 ongoing steps toward decoupling Scope 1+2 t-CO2 3,474,741 3,577,689 3,306,584 3,229,327 2,938,606 financial capital generation from 0.4 energy use. 0.2 Japan t-CO2 1,479,572 1,579,089 1,333,335 1,208,303 1,142,233 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） North America t-CO2 800,724 823,340 683,332 738,234 607,605 Europe t-CO2 208,088 176,285 228,998 221,692 182,973 Other t-CO2 986,359 998,976 1,060,920 1,061,098 1,005,794 Scope 3 t-CO2 144,145,000 150,462,000 213,715,000 203,106,900 173,138,601 In fiscal 2019, the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions was 2.939 million tons. Total CO2 emissions from manufacturing processes were 2.408 million tons (Scope 1 emissions: 0.670 million tons; Scope 2 emissions: 1.738 million tons).* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. >>> P100 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 219 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Corporate Carbon Footprint per Vehicle Sold Manufacturing CO2 per Vehicle Produced ％ 100 In fiscal 2019, overall corporate （t-CO2/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, our manufacturing 100 emissions were reduced by 0.8 0.73 CO2 emissions per vehicle 77.7 34.0％ compared to fiscal 2005, produced were 0.51 tons, 30.1％ 80 70.8 68.6 66.0 0.6 0.53 0.50 0.51 representing steady progress 0.49 less than fiscal 2005. 60 toward our fiscal 2022 goal. 0.4 40 0.2 20 0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019（FY） 0.0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Carbon Footprint of Manufacturing Activities Scope 1 and 2 Emissions per Revenue （1,000t-CO2） （t-CO2/million ￥） In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions 3,138 2,824 0.35 from our global operations 3,000 2,610 2,426 0.28 2,418 0.30 0.26 0.26 were 0.26 ton per ¥1 million of 0.25 0.25 0.25 revenue. 2,000 0.20 0.15 1,000 0.10 0.05 0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） * Value in 2018 was corrected. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 220 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Logistics Volume CO2 Emissions from Logistics (FY) (FY) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total mil ton-km 35,546 39,930 35,635 34,903 28,288 Total t-CO2 1,598,891 1,926,477 1,567,248 1,482,982 1,144,338 Inbound mil ton-km 11,221 10,634 9,699 10,164 8,083 Inbound* t-CO2 797,034 809,088 739,610 762,314 582,957 Outbound mil ton-km 24,325 29,296 25,935 24,739 20,205 Outbound* t-CO2 801,857 1,117,389 827,638 720,667 561,381 Sea ％ 60.1 60.9 57.6 60.9 63.8 Sea ％ 18.3 17.8 20.0 19.9 21.1 Road ％ 26.5 24.8 25.9 23.3 23.0 Road ％ 65.7 62.1 64.6 60.3 64.1 Rail ％ 13.0 14.0 16.1 14.9 12.7 Rail ％ 5.4 5.6 7.0 6.7 5.9 Air ％ 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.9 0.6 Air ％ 10.6 14.5 8.4 13.1 8.9 *“Inbound” includes parts procurement from suppliers and transportation of knockdown parts; “Outbound” includes transportation of complete vehicles and service parts. * Value in 2016 were corrected after recalculation. In fiscal 2019, global shipping decreased by around 19% compared to the previous fiscal year, to 28,288 million ton-km. We continue to strengthen our In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions from logistics were 1,144,338 tons, down efforts to reduce shipping by upsizing trucks, improving truck loading rates, approximately 23％ from the previous fiscal year. A substantial contribution improving the fuel economy of car-transporting ships and shifting to rail and to the reduction of overall CO2 emissions was made by production volume sea shipping. decrease and reduction of air shipping. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 221 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors (FY) CO2 Emissions per Vehicle Transported Category Unit 2019 （t-CO2/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, CO2 emissions per 1.Purchased goods & services kt-CO2 15,620 0.5 vehicle transported were 0.38 2.Capital goods kt-CO2 994 0.43 0.39 0.38 0.38 3.Fueland energy-related activities kt-CO2 358 0.4 0.37 tons, 4.Upstream transportation & 0.3 kt-CO2 583 distribution 0.2 5.Waste generated in operations kt-CO2 171 0.1 6.Business travel kt-CO2 221 7.Employee commuting kt-CO2 238* 0.0 2005 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 8.Upstream leased assets kt-CO2 0 9.Downstream transportation & kt-CO2 760 distribution 10.Processing of sold products kt-CO2 8 GRI305-3 11.Use of sold products kt-CO2 153,428* 12.End-of-life treatment of sold kt-CO2 369 Scope 3 Emissions by Category products We conducted a study based on the Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) 13.Downstream leased assets kt-CO2 389 Accounting and Reporting Standard from the GHG Protocol and found that 14.Franchises kt-CO2 0 about 90% of Scope 3 emissions were from the use of sold products. 15.Investments kt-CO2 0 Total 173,139 * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. >>> P100 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 222 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI305-7 Carbon Credit Air Quality Nissan Motor Iberica, S.A. in Barcelona and Cantabria, Spain, entered EUEmissions ETS, and the verified allowance earned for fiscal 2019 was 38,845 tons. In fiscal 2019, NOx and SOx emissions from Nissan facilities in Japan were 380 tons and 14 tons respectively. both NOx and SOx reduced due to production volume decrease in 2019. Employee Commuting CO2 Emissions （FY） Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Public transportation NOx ton 450 430 619 418 380 12% SOx ton 37 31 36 34 14 Private car 88% Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) In fiscal 2019, VOCs from manufacturing plants were 6,465 tons globally, a reduction from fiscal 2018. We actively continue to promote activities to reduce VOCs, such as switching to materials including water-based paints. In fiscal 2013, Nissan introduced a companywide CO2 reduction plan for car （FY） commuting employees in Japan. This plan encourages car commuters to Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 shift from internal combustion engine vehicles to electric vehicles. For fiscal Total ton 10,820 11,933 10,564 8,433 6,465 2019, CO2 emissions from car commuting in Japan were approximately 28 kton*, or 2.6 ton-CO2 /vehicle annually. Japan ton 2,850 3,580 3,232 2,188 2,016 North America ton 5,309 4,851 4,284 3,847 3,135 * Calculated by using the parameters below together with vehicle homologation data: Average car commuting range (Japan): 9,227 km/vehicle-year Europe ton 2,661 3,502 3,048 2,397 1,315 CO2 emission factor for gasoline-powered vehicles (National Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report of Japan [2009]): 0.33 kg-CO2e/km * Value in 2017 and in 2018 were corrected after recalculation. CO2 emission factor for electricity (Tokyo Electric Power Company [FY2018]): 0.000455 t-CO2 /kWh Employees of Nissan offices and manufacturing plants in Japan, fiscal 2018 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 223 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors VOCs per Vehicle Produced Released Substances Designated by PRTR Law (Japan)* （Kg/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, VOCs per vehicle In fiscal 2018, released substances designated by the PRTR (Pollutant 4.0 produced were 1.36 kg. Release and Transfer Register) Law in Japan were 3,914 tons, decrease 3.5 from fiscal 2017. 3.0 （FY） 2.5 2.08 2.11 Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1.97 1.9 2.0 1.5 1.36 Japan site total ton 3,879 4,129 4,472 4,422 3,914 1.0 Oppama ton 402 488 872 796 715 0.5 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） Tochigi ton 1,317 1,435 1,179 920 655 Kyushu ton 1,152 1,173 1,406 1,697 1,573 （FY） Yokohama ton 547 531 545 559 539 By region Unit 2019 Iwaki ton 114 132 144 62 54 Japan kg/vehicle 2.66 NTC ton 347 370 325 388 378 North America kg/vehicle 2.34 * The table shows chemical substance emissions calculated based on the Japanese government Europe kg/vehicle 2.59 PRTR guidelines. PRTR emissions show total volume excluding substances adherent to the product. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 224 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI301-2 GRI301-3 PRTR Emissions per Vehicle Produced (Japan) Resource Dependency: Achievements in Reuse （kg/vehicle） In fiscal 2018, PRTR emissions 4.84 5.0 4.45 4.40 4.48 4.35 per vehicle produced in Japan Proper Use of Regulated Chemical Substances 4.0 were 4.35 kg, a decrease from (Substances) 4,043 4,069 Nissan revised its standard fiscal 2017. 3,912 3.0 4,000 for the assessment of hazards 3,500 and risks in the Renault-Nissan 2.0 3,216 3,216 Alliance, actively applying 3,000 1.0 restrictions to substances not 2,500 0.0 yet covered by regulations 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 （FY） 2,000 but increasingly subject to 1,500 consideration around the 1,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) world. As a result, the number of substances covered by the Nissan Engineering Standard in fiscal 2019 rose to 4,069. These steps are thought to be necessary for future efforts in the repair, reuse, remanufacture and recycle loop for resources. For more information on chemical substances governance. >>> P102 Recycled Plastic Usage in Vehicle We are making efforts to expand the use of recycled plastic in our vehicles, as well as developing technologies for this. Recycled plastic use in fiscal 2019 was 11%, based on the rate achieved by our best-selling model in Europe. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 225 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI306-2 Automotive Shredder Residue to Landfill Ratio Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) After removing ferrous and nonferrous metals from ELVs, in accordance with Waste the End-of-Life Vehicle Recycling Law in Japan, the ratio of ASR taken to landfills for final disposal was zero in fiscal 2019 as same as 2018ʼs result. Waste generated globally in fiscal 2019 amounted to 188,556 tons, a slight This was achieved by enhancing recycling capability through the acquisition decrease from 206,645 tons in fiscal 2018. Waste generated globally from of additional facilities that comply with the law. production sites in fiscal 2019 was 184,573 tons.* * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. Material Ratio >>> P100 In 2019, ferrous metals accounted for 61% of the materials used in our （FY） automobiles by weight. Nonferrous metals made up another 12% and resins Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 15%, with miscellaneous materials making up the final 13%. To further Total ton 159,345 158,939 152,674 206,645 188,556 reduce our use of natural resources, we are advancing initiatives to expand By region the use of recycled materials in each of these categories. Japan ton 63,630 61,115 61,327 69,829 63,315 North America ton 49,129 45,459 35,177 64,514 57,762 Recovered Bumpers （parts / year） Europe ton 37,204 41,110 45,268 49,662 48,187 Number of parts recovered Recovery rate 250,000 82.4% Other ton 9,382 11,255 10,903 22,639 19,291 79.3% 80.0% 200,000 77.5% 166,000 164,800 67.9% By treatment method 164,000 162,000 150,000 122,000 Waste for ton 11,355 8,707 8,041 7,231 6,414 100,000 disposal 50,000 Recycled ton 147,990 150,231 144,633 199,414 182,141 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019（FY） NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 226 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Waste per Vehicle Produced Waste for Disposal per Vehicle Produced （kg/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, waste per vehicle （kg/vehicle） In fiscal 2019, we reduced the 60 produced slightly increased to 10 volume of waste for disposal to 50 39.64kg. 8 a total of 1.35 kg per vehicle 38.54 39.64 40 produced as same level of 30.63 6 30 28.11 26.92 2018ʼs. 4 20 2.18 1.54 1.42 1.35 1.35 10 2 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 （FY） （FY） 地域別 Unit 2019 Japan kg/vehicle 83.53 North America kg/vehicle 43.11 Europe kg/vehicle 94.86 Other kg/vehicle 8.97 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 227 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI303-1 GRI303-3 GRI303-4 Water Resource Management Cleaner Effluent Through Wastewater Treatment Water Input for Corporate Activities Nissan thoroughly processes and is promoting activities to reduce wastewater at its various plants. In fiscal 2019, water input for corporate activities was 23,714 km³, a 10% （FY） decrease compared with the fiscal 2018 level. Water input from production 単位 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 sites was 22,613,338 m³.* Total 1,000m³ 20,680 20,516 17,410 17,345 15,512 * This figure is subject to assurance by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. For details, please see here. >>> P100 Japan 1,000m³ 12,976 12,681 10,376 10,472 9,438 North America 1,000m³ 3,916 4,028 3,382 3,190 2,752 Europe 1,000m³ 1,740 1,767 1,564 1,539 1,528 （FY） Other 1,000m³ 2,048 2,040 2,088 2,143 1,794 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Quality Total 1,000m³ 28,570 29,118 26,197 26,420 23,714 Chemical oxygen Japan 1,000m³ 14,990 15,563 13,115 13,022 11,932 demand kg 28,042 29,730 26,451 21,149 18,795 (COD) North Japan only America 1,000m³ 5,427 5,483 4,905 4,930 4,776 Europe 1,000m³ 2,330 2,299 2,155 2,093 1,798 Other 1,000m³ 5,823 5,774 6,023 6,376 5,207 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 228 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI303-4 GRI306-1 Water Discharge from Corporate Activities (Per Vehicle Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Produced) Address Environmental Issues In fiscal 2019, water discharge (㎥/vehicle) per vehicle produced was 3.26 Global Top Selling Modelʼs Lifecycle Improvements 10 m³, which was a 1% increase We have been expanding the application of the LCA method and enhancing 8 compared to fiscal 2018. the understanding of the environmental impact of our products in 6 quantitative terms, especially our best-selling models worldwide. LCAs have 3.97 3.63 4 3.07 3.23 3.26 been conducted for over 90% of these models. 2 LCA Conducted Product Ratio in Sales Volume (EU Market) 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) （FY） Small March/Micra Note Pulsar Juke NV200/NV200 Vanette By region Unit 2019 Lower Medium Qashqai Rogue/X-Trail Frontier/Navara/NP300 Japan m³/vehicle 12.45 94% North America m³/vehicle 2.05 Upper Medium Skyline Europe m³/vehicle 3.01 Executive Q70 Other m³/vehicle 0.83 Electric Vehicle Nissan LEAF e-NV200 Data for the Japan region includes the manufacture of powertrains and other components for overseas assembly. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the region, this tends to result in higher values for Japan. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 229 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors With the Altima and Rogue, for example, improvements in internal LCA Comparison for e-POWER Models combustion engine efficiency and vehicle weight reduction have led to both Nissan introduced its new e-POWER powertrain in 2016, marking another enhanced safety features and lower CO2 emissions. significant milestone in the electrification strategy with lifecycle emission improvements. Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) Compared to their gasoline-powered counterpart models, the Note （%） （%） e-POWER and Serena e-POWER have achieved 18% ̶27% reductions in 100 100 CO2 emissions. 80 80 Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) 60 60 （%） （%） 100 100 40 40 80 80 20 20 60 60 0 Previous model Current model 0 Previous model Current model Juke＊1 Rogue (X-Trail)＊2 40 40 ■ Production & logistics ■ Fuel & electricity production ■ Usage ■ Maintenance ■ ELV 20 20 ＊1 Production in EU, 150,000 km driven in EU (basis for comparison). ＊2 Production in EU, 150,000 km driven in EU (basis for comparison). 0 Same class e-POWER 0 Same class e-POWER gas-powered vehicle gas-powered vehicle Note Serena ■ Production & logistics ■ Fuel & electricity production ■ Usage ■ Maintenance ■ ELV Production in Japan, 100,000 km driven in Japan (basis for comparison). NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 230 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors LCA Comparison for the New Nissan LEAF Lifecycle Improvements Beyond Climate Change Compared to conventional vehicles of the same class in Japan, the Nissan Emissions Improvement in the New Serena e-POWER over Its LEAF results in approximately 32% lower CO2 emissions during its lifecycle. Lifecycle We are making efforts to reduce CO2 emissions during EV production by CO2 improving the yield ratio of materials, using more efficient manufacturing 100% processes and increasing the use of recycled materials. 80% NMVOC 60% 73% CH4 40% 86% Lifecycle CO2 Equivalent Emissions (CO2, CH4, N2O, etc.) 81% 20% （%） 0% 100 89% 84% SO2 N2O 80 ■ Production & logistics 83% ■ Fuel & electricity production 60 ■ Usage ■ Maintenance NOx ■ ELV 40 Conventional Production in Japan, e-POWER 20 100,000 km driven in Japan Production in Japan, (basis for comparison). 100,000 km driven in Japan. 0 Same class Nissan LEAF gas-powered vehicle Nissan is expanding the scope of LCAs to include not just greenhouse gases but also a variety of chemicals amid growing societal concerns over air quality and ocean acidification and eutrophication. Our calculations show that, compared to conventional gasoline engines, the Serena e-POWER is significantly more environmentally friendly, achieving 11% ̶27% emission reductions for all targeted chemical substances and achieving environmental benefits throughout its lifecycle. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 231 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI301-1 GRI302-1 GRI303-1 GRI305-1 GRI305-2 GRI305-7 GRI306-1 GRI306-2 Material Balance Environmental Conservation Cost （FY） Input （FY） 2018 2019 Unit 2019 Unit Investment Cost Investment Cost Raw materials ton 5,818,699 Total mil ¥ 3,790 171,245 2,538 183,578 Energy MWh 8,481,499 Business area mil ¥ 20 1,775 15 1,790 Renewable energy MWh 154,606 Upstream/ downstream mil ¥ 0 706 0 639 Water withdrawal 1,000m³ 23,714 Management mil ¥ 0 8,041 0 8,973 Output （FY） R&D mil ¥ 3,770 160,263 2,523 172,011 Unit 2019 Social activities mil ¥ 0 308 0 146 Vehicles produced Damage repairs mil ¥ 0 153 0 19 （FY） Global production volume k unit 4,757 Unit 2018 2019 CO2 emissions t-CO2 2,962,403 Total mil ¥ 8,262 6,207 Water discharge 1,000m³ 15,512 Cost reduction mil ¥ 372 540 Emissions Profit mil ¥ 7,890 5,667 NOx ton 380 * All environmental costs are based on the guidelines provided by Japanʼs Ministry of the SOx ton 14 Environment, and calculated for activities in Japan only. VOC ton 6,465 Waste For recycling ton 193,229 For final disposal ton 6,914 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 232 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Social Data GRI102-7 GRI102-8 GRI102-22 GRI102-41 GRI402-1 GRI405-1 GRI405-2 Employee Data （FY） Number of unionized employees*4 25,377 25,789 26,316 314 320 325 2017 2018 2019 Number of female managers Ratio 10.7 10.4 10.1 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. (%) 22,272 22,791 22,717 82 79 80 Female general and higher-level Number of employees Male 19,908 20,269 20,100 managers Ratio 8.2 7.6 7.4 Female 2,364 2,522 2,617 (%) 42.5 41.8 41.4 2 2 2 Number of female corporate Average age (years) Male 43.0 42.0 41.8 officers Ratio 3.8 4.1 4.1 (%) Female 38.1 38.2 38.3 0 1 2 19.4 18.4 17.7 Number of female board members Ratio Average length of service (years) Male 20.0 18.9 18.1 12.5 16.7 (%) Female 14.2 14.3 13.9 0 0 0 5.4 6.2 6.6 Female board members (internal) Ratio Employee turnover rate (%)*1 Voluntary 1.3 2.0 3.1 (%) leave 0 1 2 Average annual salary (yen)*2 8,184,466 8,154,953 8,102,672 Female board members (external) Ratio Disabled employment ratio (%) 2.08 2.30 2.22 33.3 28.6 (%) 255 380 386 0 0 1 Number of employees taking Male 29 40 51 Number of female auditors Ratio parental leave 20 Female 226 340 335 (%) Male employee parental leave 684 815 738 4 6 5 acquisition rate (%)*3 Number of new graduates hired Male 558 651 614 95.2 97.3 95.6 Female 126 164 124 Ratio of returnees from parental Male 100 100 97.2 *1 Employee turnover rate includes retirement. leave (%) Female 94.5 96.7 95.2 *2 Average annual salary for employees includes bonuses and overtime pay. 13 6 7 *3 Ratio of male employees taking parental leave: Number of employees taking Male 8 4 3 (Numerator) Number of male employees who take parental leave at least 1 day in the year. nursing care leave Female 5 2 4 (Denominator) Number of male employees whose spouses give birth in the year. Days of paid holiday taken 19.0 19.0 19.5 *4 Number of unionized employees includes full-time employees, Senior Partners (reemployment Taken paid holiday ratio (%) 97 97 99 after retiring) and contract employees. Number of unionized employees includes those of Average overtime hours/month 22.1 23.9 24.16 Nissan Motor Kyushu. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 233 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-7 GRI405-1 Consolidated Basis （FY） Diversity and Inclusion 2017 2018 2019 Ratio of Women in Management Positions Consolidated Consolidated number of 138,910 ↓ 138,893 ↓ 136,134 ↓ employees* (19,924) (19,240) (22,761) 13.9 Japan 59,431 58,966 58,134 North America 36,080 36,594 36,148 10.1 Europe 16,807 16,119 14,824 （7.4% general manager or higher） Asia 20,807 20,872 21,023 Other countries 5,785 6,342 6,005 （Year） * Numbers in brackets represent part-time employees not included in the consolidated number of （Global） Nissan Nissan（Japan） employees. Trade union Most of the companyʼs employees are affiliated with the Nissan Motor Workersʼ Union, for which the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions, and the Japanese Trade Union Confederation (RENGO) through the Confederation of Japan Automobile Workersʼ Unions. The labormanagement relations of the company are stable, and the number of union members was 26,316 including those of Nissan Motor Kyushu as of March 31, 2020. At most domestic Group companies, employees are affiliated with their respective trade unions on a company basis, and the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions. At foreign Group companies, employeesʼ rights to select their own trade unions are respected according to the relevant labor laws and labor environment in each country. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 234 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Nissanʼs Awards for Diversity* Year Award Sponsor 2019 PRIDE Index: Gold Award work with Pride 2018 PRIDE Index: Gold Award work with Pride 2017 PRIDE Index: Gold Award work with Pride Perfect Score (100) in Corporate Equality 2017 Human Rights Campaign (U.S.) Index (5th straight year)*1 Kanagawa Labor Bureau, Ministry of 2017 Level-three Eruboshi accreditation Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) 2017 Nadeshiko Brand (5th straight year) METI and TSE 2015 Incentive prize, Empowerment Award Japan Productivity Center 2015 Platinum Kurumin Mark Kanagawa Labor Bureau, MHLW Prize for excellence, 15th Telework Promotion 2015 Japan Telework Association Awards Japanʼs Minister of State for Special Missions Gender Equality Bureau, Cabinet 2015 Prize, Advanced Corporation Awards for the Office Promotion of Women DiversityInc Top 25 Noteworthy Companies 2014 DiversityInc (U.S.) for Diversity & Inclusion*2 2013 Diversity Management Selection 100 METI 2013 Grand Prize, J-Win Diversity Awards J-Win 2008 Catalyst Award Catalyst Inc. (U.S.) In the United States, Nissan has also received awards other than those listed above. *1, *2 Awarded to NNA. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 235 Society Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance Individuals ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Vehicles Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Traffic Safety Key Achievements for Nissan Safety Technology Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles In January 2015, we expanded Intelligent Emergency Braking to more models. By the end of fiscal 2015, the technology was available on nearly all Japan Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles U.S. Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles U.K. Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Vehicles vehicle categories sold in Japan, including electric vehicles and commercial vehicles, and standard on all major models. In North America, it is now standard on several models including the Pathfinder, Altima and Rogue. In Europe, it is available on the Juke, X-Trail, Qashqai, Micra and other key models. Our vehicles have earned high safety ratings on many public and governmental tests held in various regions. Virtually Virtually Virtually zero zero zero In particular in Japan, the Serena minivan received a perfect score and Source: Institute for Traffic Accident Source: Fatality Analysis Reporting System Source: STATS19 data, U.K. the Nissan Dayz received the highest score for a “kei” minicar in JNCAP ʼs Research and Data Analysis Department for Transport Active Safety Assessment for fiscal 2019. The assessment has added a rigorous test of the autonomous emergency braking system for pedestrians at night to simulate driving on roads without streetlights. In addition, through fiscal 2019, 13 major models featuring Intelligent Emergency Braking were approved under the Advanced Emergency Braking System certification launched by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in fiscal 2018. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 236 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI404-1 Major External Safety Ratings (Based on 2019 Assessments) Human Resource Development Regions External Assessments Models Rating Training Program Achievements at Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Collision Safety 5★ Performance Indicators for Performance Nissan Dayz FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Highest rating) Training Programs Assessment Preventive Safety Nissan Dayz (highest score for a ASV+++ Number of learners 171,949 241,674 263,240 Japan JNCAP*1 Performance “kei” minicar) (Highest rating) Assessment Serena (perfect score) Automatic Accident SOS+ Total hours of training 689,536 482,103 590,696 Emergency Call Nissan Dayz (on-board type) System Assessment INFINITI QX60, INFINITI QX50, 5★ Hours per learner 30.6 21.5 26.0 Overall Rating Murano, Altima, Pathfinder, (2020 model Maxima, Sentra Learner satisfaction (out of 5) over 4.2 over 4.2 over 4.2 year) NCAP*2 4★ INFINITI QX80, Armada, Overall Rating Investment per employee (¥) 73,000 86,000 90,000 U.S. Frontier (Crew Cab), Rogue (2020 model year) 2020 Top Maxima Safety Pick+ IIHS*3 2020 Top Altima Safety Pick Europe Euro NCAP Juke 5★ China C-NCAP Sylphy 5★ *1 JNCAP: The Japan New Car Assessment Program. An automobile assessment program run by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and the National Agency for Automotive Safety and Victimsʼ Aid (NASVA). *2 NCAP: The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administrationʼs New Car Assessment Program. *3 IIHS: The U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 237 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI201-1 GRI203-2 Contributing to Local Communities Breakdown of FY2019 Social Contributions (Nissan Global) Social Contribution Achievements in FY2019 Philanthropic activities Monetary donations In-kind donations Sponsorships, etc. Total (cash equivalent) Global social contributions (FY2019): ¥1.61 billion Amount (¥ million) 549 741 60 264 1,614 Social contributions include: % of total 34.0 45.9 3.7 16.4 100 ・Expenses for implementing philanthropic activities (excluding labor costs) Disaster Contribution in FY2019 ・Monetary donations and NPO membership fees for philanthropic purposes ・Cash equivalents of in-kind donations Wide-area power • To supply power to areas suffering outages, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. provided 53 Nissan ・Sponsorship fees for philanthropic initiatives outages caused LEAF electric vehicles with portable power by Typhoon Faxai stations to local government authorities and (Japan) welfare facilities, etc. • ¥10 million donation from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. to Japan Platform • Donation from employees of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. plus matching donation from the company to Japan Platform Torrential rains from • Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. lent out 68 vehicles Typhoon Hagibis to the disaster-struck area and dispatched Donations (Japan) employee volunteers to Iwaki City (275 for disaster relief volunteers in total) • Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. and dealership lent out four Nissan LEAF to the volunteer center for disaster relief in Nagano to supply electricity Volcano eruption • Donation from Nissan Philippines (NPI) of (Philippines) three Navara • Donation of 5 million RMB and 100,000 Novel coronavirus masks from Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., Nissan (COVID-19) outbreak (China) Investment (NCIC) and Dongfeng (China) Motor Co., Ltd. Tornado in • Donation of $150,000 to the American Red Tennessee (U.S.) Cross from Nissan North America (NNA). NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 238 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI102-22 GRI405-1 Governance Data Status of Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees in Fiscal 2019 (June 2019 through March 2020) Overview of Corporate Governance (as of March 31, 2020) Number of times Board of Directors 11 meetings were convened Organization form Company with three statutory committees Board of Directors Average attendance ratio per meeting 99％ Chairperson of the Board of Directors Independent outside director Number of times Nomination Committee 9 Number of directors 12 meetings were convened Nomination Committee Number of independent outside directors 7 Average attendance ratio per meeting 96％ Number of female directors 2 Number of times Compensation Committee meetings were convened 13 Chairperson of the Nomination Committee Independent outside director Committee Compensation Committee Average attendance ratio per meeting 100％ Number of directors 6 Number of times Audit Committee meetings 10 Number of independent outside directors 5 were convened Audit Number of female directors 1 Committee Average attendance ratio per meeting 100％ Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Independent outside director Number of directors 4 GRI102-27 Number of independent outside directors 4 Skill Matrix of Directors Number of female directors 2 Composition of Directors Chairperson of the Audit Committee Independent outside director The role of Nissanʼs Board of Directors is to decide the fundamental policies for corporate management from a wide range of perspectives and supervise Number of directors 5 business execution by executive officers and others. Number of independent outside directors 4 The Directors that comprise the Board of Directors are diverse in terms of Number of female directors 1 nationality and gender. In addition, each individual offers differing expertise and aims as a whole to achieve active discussion and swift decision-making. Click here for more information on Corporate Governance. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/DOCUMENT/PDF/GOVERNANCE/g_report.pdf NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 239 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Global Automobile Legal/Risk Finance/ Product/ Sales/ Government Governance CSR Management Industry Management Accounting Technology Marketing 1 Yasushi Kimura ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 2 Jean-Dominique Senard ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 3 Masakazu Toyoda ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 4 Keiko Ihara ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 5 Motoo Nagai ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 6 Bernard Delmas ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 7 Andrew House ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 8 Jenifer Rogers ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 9 Pierre Fleuriot ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 10 Makoto Uchida ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 11 Ashwani Gupta ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 12 Hideyuki Sakamoto ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ Click here for more information on Corporate Governance. https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/LIBRARY/GOVERNANCE/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 240 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 EDITORIAL POLICY GRI102-46 Nissan publishes an annual Sustainability Report as a way of sharing Scope of the Report GRI102-45 GRI102-50 information on its sustainability-related activities with stakeholders. This Period Covered: The report covers fiscal 2019 (April 2019 to March yearʼs report introduces Nissanʼs sustainability strategy and management 2020); content that describes efforts outside this period is indicated in the based on Nissan Sustainability 2022, the sustainability strategy adopted respective sections. in June 2018, and reviews the results achieved in fiscal 2019 in terms of Organization: Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., foreign subsidiaries and affiliated three aspects (important sustainability topics): Environmental, Social and companies in the Nissan Group. Governance, or “E,” “S” and “G” for short. Report themes (important sustainability topics) are selected on the basis of potential impact on our business activities and level of interest from stakeholders. Potential impact on our business activities is evaluated Referenced Reporting Guidelines GRI102-54 with reference to previously recognized issues as well as CSR guidelines This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core and trends and global current events inside and outside the automobile option. We provide specific GRI indicators within the report as well as a GRI industry. Stakeholder interest is evaluated based on interviews conducted content index. as necessary with both internal and external stakeholders and analyses provided by external consultants. Date of Previous Report GRI102-51 Sustainability Report 2019, issued September 30, 2019. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 241 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Reporting Cycle GRI102-52 For Further Information GRI102-53 Annually since 2004 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Sustainability Development Department Fax: +81(0)45-523-5740 Email: NISSAN_SR@mail.nissan.co.jp Third-Party Assurance GRI102-56 For more information on the third-party assurance. >>> P100 Sustainability Report 2020 Publication Date: September 30, 2020 Forward-Looking Statements GRI102-48 This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking statements on Nissanʼs future plans and targets and related operating investment, product planning and production targets. There can be no assurance that these targets and plans will be achieved. Achieving them will depend on many factors, including not only Nissanʼs activities and development but also the dynamics of the automobile industry worldwide, the global economy and changes in the global environment. NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 242 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Our Related Websites IR https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/IR/ CORPORATE INFORMATION INFO LIBRARY https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/PROFILE/ https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/COMPANY/LIBRARY/ SUSTAINABILITY PRODUCTS（GLOBAL） https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/SUSTAINABILITY/ https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/GLOBAL/ ENVIRONMENT PRODUCTS（JAPAN） https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ENVIRONMENT/ https://www.nissan.co.jp/ SAFETY https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/SAFETY/ QUALITY https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/QUALITY/ CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/CITIZENSHIP/ TECHNOLOGY https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/TECHNOLOGY/ ZERO EMISSION https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/ZEROEMISSION/ NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 243 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI102-55 General Disclosures 102-11 Precautionary Principle or P025, P032, P057, P175 GRI Reason for Omission / approach Disclosure Reference Standard Explanation Organizational profile 102-12 External initiatives P028, P038, P047, P165 102-1 Name of the organization Outline of Company 102-13 Membership of associations P165 Activities, brands, products, Strategy 102-2 P211 and services Statement from senior 102-14 P002, P007, P023 decision-maker 102-3 Location of headquarters P211 Key impacts, risks, and P012, P023, P025, P047, 102-15 Facilities in Japan opportunities P049, P057, P112, P190, 102-4 Location of operations Facilites Overseas Ethics and integrity Values, principles, P025, P033, P046, P114, 102-5 Ownership and legal form Outline of Company 102-16 standards, and norms of P190, P203, P204 behavior 102-6 Markets served P212 Mechanisms for advice and 102-17 P115, P203, P204 concerns about ethics 102-7 Scale of the organization P211, P212, P233, P234 Governance Information on employees 102-18 Governance structure P017, P191, P192 102-8 P233 and other workers 102-19 Delegating authority P017, P023, P192, P197 102-9 Supply chain P152 Executive-level Significant changes to the responsibility for economic, 102-10 organization and its supply Not applicable 102-20 P007, P051 environmental, and social chain topics NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 244 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI Reason for Omission / Communicating critical Disclosure Reference 102-33 P200 Standard Explanation concerns Consulting stakeholders on 102-21 economic, environmental, P029 102-35 Remuneration policies P017, P021, P193 and social topics Composition of the highest P017, P020, P021, P022, Process for determining Corporate Governance 102-22 governance body and its P191, P192, P193, P195, 102-36 remuneration Report:P2 committees P233, P239 Chair of the highest Stakeholdersʼ involvement Corporate Governance 102-23 P017, P023, P191, P192 102-37 governance body in remuneration Report:P2 Nominating and selecting Stakeholder engagement 102-24 the highest governance P017, P020, P191, P193 body 102-40 List of stakeholder groups P029 102-25 Conflicts of interest P198 Collective bargaining 102-41 P233 agreements Role of highest governance 102-26 body in setting purpose, P032, P190 Identifying and selecting values, and strategy 102-42 P029 stakeholders Collective knowledge of 102-27 P019, P032, P239 Approach to stakeholder highest governance body 102-43 P029 engagement Evaluating the highest P017, P022, P023, P032, Key topics and concerns 102-28 governance bodyʼs 102-44 P029 P191, P192 raised performance Identifying and managing Reporting practice P012, P014, P035, P047, 102-29 economic, environmental, P053, P200 Entities included in the and social impacts 102-45 consolidated financial P241 Effectiveness of risk statements 102-30 P199, P200 management processes Defining report content and 102-46 P025, P241 Review of economic, topic Boundaries 102-31 environmental, and social P032, P033, P051, P053 topics 102-47 List of material topics P014, P026, P033 Highest governance 102-32 bodyʼs role in sustainability P032 Restatements of 102-48 P242 reporting information NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 245 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI Reason for Omission / GRI 201：Economic Performance 2016 Disclosure Reference Standard Explanation Direct economic value 201-1 P178, P238 102-49 Changes in reporting Not applicable generated and distributed 102-50 Reporting period P241 Financial implications P012, P049 and other risks and 201-2 opportunities due to RISK MANAGEMENT AT 102-51 Date of most recent report P241 climate change NISSAN 102-52 Reporting cycle P242 Defined benefit plan Financial Information as of 201-3 obligations and other March 31, 2020: P97 retirement plans Contact point for questions 102-53 P242 regarding the report GRI 203：Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Claims of reporting in Infrastructure investments 102-54 accordance with the GRI P241 203-1 P012, P063, P175 and services supported Standards Significant indirect 102-55 GRI content index P244 203-2 P012, P063, P178, P238 economic impacts GRI 205：Anti-corruption 2016 102-56 External assurance P100, P242 Operations assessed for 205-1 P202 risks related to corruption Economic Communication and training about antiGRI Reason for Omission / 205-2 P203 Disclosure Reference corruption policies and Standard Explanation procedures GRI 103：Management Approach 2016 GRI 207：Tax 2019 Explanation of the material P025, P152, P154, P156, 103-1 topic and its Boundary P158, P190, P201 207-1 Approach to tax P208 P025, P032, P033, P035, Tax governance, control, The management approach 207-2 P208 103-2 P152, P154, P156, P158, and risk management and its components P190 Stakeholder engagement Evaluation of the P025, P032, P033, P154, 207-3 and management of P208 103-3 management approach P156, P158 concerns related to tax NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 246 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Environmental 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products P063, P064, P213 GRI Reason for Omission / and services Disclosure Reference Standard Explanation GRI 303：Water 2018 GRI 103：Management Approach 2016 Interactions with water as a P047, P056, P059, P069, 303-1 P099, P228, P232 Explanation of the material shared resource 103-1 P072, P082, P083, P087, topic and its Boundary P096 Information unavailable: Management of water 303-2 We have not collected discharge-related impacts P047, P056, P059, P062, the data requested. The management approach P069, P072, P073, P074, 103-2 and its components P082, P083, P087, P096, P097, P098, P102 303-3 Water withdrawal P228 P047, P063, P074, P085, Evaluation of the 103-3 P087, P089, P095, P098, 303-4 Water discharge P228, P229 management approach P102 GRI 301：Materials 2016 GRI 304：Biodiversity 2016 Materials used by weight or Operational sites owned, 301-1 P232 leased, managed in, or volume adjacent to, protected 304-1 P110 areas and areas of high Recycled input materials 301-2 P089, P225 biodiversity value outside used protected areas Reclaimed products and Significant impacts of 301-3 P089, P225 their packaging materials 304-2 activities, products, and P110 services on biodiversity GRI 302：Energy 2016 Habitats protected or 304-3 P110 Energy consumption within P075, P079, P218, P219, restored 302-1 the organization P232 IUCN Red List species Energy consumption and national conservation 302-2 P074 304-4 list species with habitats P110 outside of the organization in areas affected by operations 302-3 Energy intensity P218, P219 GRI 305：Emissions 2016 Reduction of energy Direct (Scope 1) GHG 302-4 P075, P079, P218, P219 305-1 P074, P217, P232 consumption emissions NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 247 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI Reason for Omission / GRI 307：Environmental Compliance 2016 Disclosure Reference Standard Explanation Non-compliance with Energy indirect (Scope 2) 307-1 environmental laws and P103 305-2 P074, P217, P232 GHG emissions regulations Other indirect (Scope 3) GRI 308：Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 305-3 P222 GHG emissions New suppliers that 308-1 were screened using P108, P152, P156 305-4 GHG emissions intensity P074, P217 environmental criteria Negative environmental Reduction of GHG 305-5 P074, P085, P217 308-2 impacts in the supply chain P108 emissions and actions taken Emissions of ozoneInformation unavailable: 305-6 depleting substances We have not collected (ODS) the data requested. Social Nitrogen oxides (NOX), GRI Reason for Omission / Disclosure Reference sulfur oxides (SOX), Standard Explanation 305-7 P085, P091, P223, P232 and other significant air GRI 103：Management Approach 2016 emissions GRI 306：Effluents and Waste 2016 P013, P112, P114, P118, P119, Explanation of the material 103-1 P131, P142, P143, P160, topic and its Boundary Water discharge by quality P165, P166, P171, P175 306-1 P098, P099, P229, P232 and destination P013, P112, P115, P118, P119, Waste by type and disposal The management approach 306-2 P095, P226, P232 103-2 P131, P142, P143, P160, method and its components P165, P167, P171, P175, P176 306-3 Significant spills P103 P013, P116, P121, P133, Evaluation of the P138, P140, P144, P158, 103-3 management approach P160, P164, P167, P168, Information unavailable: P171, P173, P178 Transport of hazardous 306-4 We have not collected waste the data requested. GRI 402：Labor/Management Relations 2016 Water bodies affected by Information unavailable: Minimum notice periods 306-5 water discharges and/or We have not collected 402-1 regarding operational P233 runoff the data requested. changes NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 248 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI Reason for Omission / Disclosure Reference Programs for upgrading Standard Explanation employee skills and 404-2 P160 GRI 403：Occupational Health and Safety 2018 transition assistance programs Occupational health and 403-1 P171 safety management system Percentage of employees receiving regular As we are currently 404-3 P160 performance and career transitioning to a more development reviews Hazard identification, risk comprehensive approach 403-2 assessment, and incident P015, P171, P173 to frequency rate GRI 405：Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 investigation aggregation, this report contains only Japanʼs domestic rates. Diversity of governance P121, P191, P192, P233, 405-1 bodies and employees P234, P239 Occupational health 403-3 P171 services Ratio of basic salary and 405-2 remuneration of women to P233 Worker participation, men consultation, and 403-4 communication on P015, P171 GRI 406：Non-discrimination 2016 occupational health and safety Incidents of discrimination P015, P016, P116, P118, No report applicable to 406-1 and corrective actions taken P154, P165 2019 Worker training on occupational health and 403-5 P173 GRI 407：Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 safety Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom No report applicable to 403-6 Promotion of worker health P171, P173 407-1 P015, P016, P116, P154 of association and collective 2019 bargaining may be at risk Prevention and mitigation of occupational health GRI 408：Child Labor 2016 403-7 and safety impacts P173 directly linked by business Operations and suppliers at No report applicable to relationships 408-1 significant risk for incidents P015, P016, P115, P154 2019 of child labor 403-9 Work-related injuries P173 GRI 409：Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 GRI 404：Training and Education 2016 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents No report applicable to 409-1 P015, P016, P115, P154 Average hours of training of forced or compulsory 2019 404-1 P164 labor per year per employee NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 249 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors GRI Reason for Omission / GRI 417：Marketing and Labeling 2016 Disclosure Reference Standard Explanation GRI 411：Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 Requirements for product 417-1 and service information and P133 Incidents of violations labeling No report applicable to 411-1 involving rights of P015, P016, P116, P154 2019 indigenous peoples GRI 418：Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 412：Human Rights Assessment 2016 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 418-1 P199 Operations that have customer privacy and losses been subject to human of customer data 412-1 P015, P016, P115, P158 rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 419：Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Employee training on Non-compliance with laws P201, P203, P204, P206, 412-2 human rights policies or P015, P016, P116 419-1 and regulations in the social P208 procedures and economic area GRI 413：Local Communities 2016 Operations with local Information unavailable: community engagement, 413-1 We have not collected impact assessments, the data requested. and development programs Operations with significant Information unavailable: actual and potential 413-2 We have not collected negative impacts on local the data requested. communities GRI 414：Supplier Social Assessment 2016 New suppliers that were P013, P016, P152, P156, 414-1 screened using social P158 criteria GRI 416：Customer Health and Safety 2016 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 416-1 P133, P138, P140 product and service categories NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 250 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors QUICK GUIDE FOR INVESTORS Key Topics Policies and Philosophy Management Initiative Areas Environmental Policy & •Policies and Philosophy for •Policies and Philosophy for Environmental ー Management Systems Environmental Issues P046 Environmental Issues P046 ESG Highlights：Scenario Analysis for Strengthening Climate Strategy P012 Climate Change Scenario Analysis to Strategies for 2050 ー ー Society P049 •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Achievements P063 •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Electrification and Internal Combustion GHG / Products Policies and Philosophy for Product Management of Product Initiatives P062 Engine Initiatives P064 Initiatives P059 •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Products) P213 •Climate Change (Corporate Activity •Climate Change (Corporate Activity •Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives): Achievements P074 GHG / Corporate Initiatives): Policies and Philosophy for Initiatives): Management of Corporate •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Activities Corporate Activity Initiatives P072 Activity Initiatives P073 P217 •Climate Change (Corporate Activity •Climate Change (Corporate Activity •Climate Change (Corporate Activity Initiatives): Achievements P074 Energy Consumption Initiatives): Policies and Philosophy for Initiatives): Management of Corporate •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Corporate Activities) Corporate Activity Initiatives P072 Activity Initiatives P073 P217 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 251 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Key Topics Policies and Philosophy Management Initiative Areas •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Achievements P063 Environmental •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Electrification and Internal Combustion •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Policies and Philosophy for Product Engine Initiatives P064 Management of Product Initiatives P062 Initiatives P059 •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Initiatives for Lighter Vehicles P068 Environmental •Strengthening Our Business Foundations •Strengthening Our Business Foundations •Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues: Responsibility in Product to Address Environmental Issues: to Address Environmental Issues: Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Impact P105 Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Products) P213 Environmental Impact P105 Environmental Impact P105 •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues P229 •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Achievements P063 •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): •Climate Change (Product Initiatives): Electrification and Internal Combustion Clean Tech Policies and Philosophy for Product Management of Product Initiatives P062 Engine Initiatives P064 Initiatives P059 •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Climate Change (Products) P213 •Resource Dependency: Resource •Resource Dependency: Resource Dependency Policies and Philosophy •Resource Dependency: Achievements P089 Dependency Management P087 Effective Utilization of P087 •Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues: •Strengthening Our Business Foundations Resources •Strengthening Our Business Foundations Stakeholder Engagement P108 to Address Environmental Issues: to Address Environmental Issues: •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Resource Dependency (Reuse) P225 Stakeholder Engagement P108 Stakeholder Engagement P108 •Air Quality: Air Quality Policies and •Air Quality: Achievements P085 Pollution ー Philosophy P083 •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Air Quality P223 •Resource Dependency: Resource •Resource Dependency: Achievements in Waste Reduction P095 •Resource Dependency: Resource Waste Materials Dependency Policies and Philosophy •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Resource Dependency (Facility Waste) Dependency Management P087 P087 P226 •Water Scarcity: Water Resource Achievements P098 •Water Scarcity: Policies and Philosophy •Water Scarcity: Water Resource Use of Water Resources •ESG Data (Environmental Data): Resource Dependency (Water Resource for Water Resource Management P096 Management P097 Management) P228 •Strengthening Our Business Foundations to Address Environmental Issues: Stakeholder Engagement (Priority Issues for Automobile Manufacturers Regarding the Biodiversity Protection of Air, Water, Soil and Biodiversity) P110 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 252 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Key Topics Policies and Philosophy Management Initiative Areas ESG Highlights：Nissanʼs Approaches to Respect for Human Rights P013 Social Human Rights •Human Rights: Human Rights Policies •Human Rights: Human Rights •Human Rights: Human Rights Achievements P116 and Philosophy P114 Management P115 •Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and •Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and •Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and Inclusion Achievements P121 Diversity Inclusion Policies and Philosophy P118 Inclusion Management P119 •ESG Data (Social Data): Diversity and Inclusion P234 •Product Safety and Quality: Product Product Safety and •Product Safety and Quality: Product •Product Safety and Quality: Product Safety and Quality Policies and Quality Safety and Quality Management P143 Safety and Quality Achievements P144 Philosophy P142 •Product Safety and Quality: Product Customer Relationship •Product Safety and Quality: Product •Product Safety and Quality Achievements：Reflecting Customer Feedback Safety and Quality Policies and Management Safety and Quality Management P143 in Activities to Enhance Quality P144 Philosophy P142 ESG Highlights：Nissanʼs Approaches to Respect for Human Rights P013 •Supply Chain Management: Supply Chain Supply Chain Strategy P152 Management •Supply Chain Management: Supply Chain •Supply Chain Management: Supply Chain Management P156 •Supply Chain Management: Supply Chain Management P156 •Supply Chain Management: Responsible Minerals Sourcing P158 Management Policies and Philosophy P154 •Labor Practices (Respecting the Rights •Labor Practices (Respecting the Rights •Labor Practices (Respecting the Rights of Workers): Achievements in Employment of Workers): Policies and Philosophy on of Workers): Management That Respects Respecting the Rights of Workers P165 Respecting the Rights of Workers P165 the Rights of Workers P165 •ESG Data (Social Data): Employee Data P233 •Human Resource Development: Human •Human Resource Development: Human •Human Resource Development: Human Resource Development Human Resources Resource Development Policies and Resource Development Management Achievements P164 Philosophy P160 P160 •ESG Data (Social Data): Human Resource Development P237 NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 253 Corporate Purpose / Nissan's Contribution Contents CEO Message CSO Message Sustainability at Nissan The Alliance ESG Highlights to the SDGs Environmental Social Governance ESG Data Editorial Policy GRI Content Index Quick Guide For Investors Key Topics Policies and Philosophy Management Initiative Areas ESG Highlights：Nissanʼs Approaches to Respect for Human Rights P013 Social •Human Rights: Human Rights Policies •Human Rights: Human Rights •Human Rights: Human Rights Achievements P116 and Philosophy P114 Management P115 Non-discrimination and •Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and Inclusion Achievements P121 •Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and •Diversity and Inclusion: Diversity and Equal Opportunity •Labor Practices (Respecting the Rights of Workers): Achievements in Inclusion Policies and Philosophy P118 Inclusion Management P119 Respecting the Rights of Workers P165 •Labor Practices (Respecting the Rights •Labor Practices (Respecting the Rights •ESG Data (Social Data): Employee Data P233 of Workers): Policies and Philosophy on of Workers): Management That Respects •ESG Data (Social Data): Diversity and Inclusion P234 Respecting the Rights of Workers P165 the Rights of Workers P165 •Labor Practices (Dialogue with •Labor Practices (Dialogue with •Labor Practices (Dialogue with Employees): Achievements in Dialogue with Dialogue with Employees Employees): Policies and Philosophy on Employees): Management to Promote Employees P167 Dialogue with Employees P166 Dialogue with Employees P167 ESG Highlights：Nissanʼs Approaches to Respect for Human Rights P013 Employeesʼ Health and •Employeesʼ Health and Safety: •Employeesʼ Health and Safety: Safety •Employeesʼ Health and Safety: Employeesʼ Health and Safety Achievements Employeesʼ Health and Safety Policies Employeesʼ Health and Safety P173 and Philosophy P171 Management P171 •Community Engagement: Community •Community Engagement: Community •Contributing to Local Communities: Achievements P178 Community Engagement Engagement Policies and Philosophy Engagement Management P176 •ESG Data (Social Data): Contributing to Local Communities P238 P175 •Reforming Corporate Governance P017 Governance Corporate Governance •Governance Policies and Philosophy •Corporate Governance: Corporate •ESG Data (Governance Data) P239 P190 Governance System in Detail P191 Risk Management •Risk Management P199 Anti-Corruption •Compliance: Anti-Bribery P202 Observance of Business •Compliance: Business Ethics P203 Ethics Nissanʼs Commitment to •Compliance：Nissanʼs Commitment to Tax Transparency P208 Tax Transparency NISSAN MOTOR CORPORATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 254
