Enhancing Resilience Sustainability Report 2019 96 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report Contents 97 About this Report 98 Board Statement 99 Our Sustainability Framework 100 Sustainability Value Chain 101 Managing Sustainability 106 Acting Progressively 116 Consuming Responsibly 122 Focusing on People 134 GRI Content Index Glossary For ease of reading, this glossary provides definitions of acronyms that are frequently used throughout this report Frasers Property entities Other acronyms FCT : Frasers Centrepoint Trust AS/NZS 4801 : Australia/New Zealand Standard for Occupational FCOT : Frasers Commercial Trust Health & Safety FHT : Frasers Hospitality Trust BCA : Building and Construction Authority, Singapore FLT : Frasers Logistics and Industrial Trust BREEAM : Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment FPA : Frasers Property Australia Method FPC : Frasers Property China DGNB : German Sustainable Building Council FPE : Frasers Property Europe EDGE : Excellence in Design for Greater Eﬃciencies FPHT : Frasers Property Holdings (Thailand) EHS : Environment, Health and Safety FPL : Frasers Property Limited EHSMS : Environmental, Health and Safety Management System FPS : Frasers Property Singapore ESG : Environment, Social and Governance FPT : Frasers Property Thailand GBCA : Green Building Council of Australia FPUK : Frasers Property United Kingdom GHG : Greenhouse Gas FPV : Frasers Property Vietnam GRESB : Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRI : Global Reporting Initiative ISO 14001 : International Organization for Standardization (Environmental Management System) ISO 18001 : International Organization for Standardization (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) ISO 50001 : International Organization for Standardization (Energy Management System) LED : Light Emitting Diode LEED : Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design NABERS : National Australian Built Environment Rating System NGOs : Non-governmental organisations OFSC : Oﬃce of the Federal Safety Commissioner SDG : Sustainable Development Goals SGBC : Singapore Green Building Council SSC : Sustainability Steering Committee SWC : Sustainability Working Committee TCFD : Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures UN : United Nations UNFCCC : United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNGC : United Nations Global Compact Annual Report 2019 97 About this This is our fifth Sustainability Report summarising the sustainability practices and performance of Frasers Property Report Limited (FPL, and together with its subsidiaries, the Group) for the period of 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2019 (FY19). This report has been prepared in accordance with the sustainability reporting requirements of the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (SGX-ST) Listing Manual (Rules 711A and 711B), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. We have also included consideration of the GRI G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures in the preparation of this report. Report Scope We have included activities and performance of our key business units1 and our listed trusts2 in this report. The report covers our significant locations of operations which are Singapore, Australia, the United Kingdom (UK) and China. Specific sustainability initiatives in Thailand and Europe are also shared in this report. Data disclosed covers the above scope, unless otherwise stated, for assets that we own and/or manage, over which we have operational control. We have also included health and safety data of our principal contractors’ employees working at our development sites in Singapore and Australia. Feedback As we seek to continuously improve our sustainability performance, your feedback is important to us. Please write to: Dr Pang Chin Hong, Vice President, Group Sustainability Frasers Property Limited Email: sustainability@frasersproperty.com 1 Frasers Property Singapore (FPS), Frasers Hospitality (FH), Frasers Property Australia (FPA), Frasers Property China (FPC), Frasers Property Thailand (FPT), Frasers Property UK (FPUK), Frasers Property Europe (FPE), Frasers Centrepoint Asset Management Ltd, Frasers Commercial Asset Management Ltd, Frasers Hospitality Asset Management Pte. Ltd, Frasers Logistics & Industrial Asset Management Pte Ltd. 2 Frasers Centrepoint Trust (FCT), Frasers Commercial Trust (FCOT), Frasers Logistics & Industrial Trust (FLT) and Frasers Hospitality Trust (FHT) 98 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report Board Dear Fellow Stakeholders, Statement At Frasers Property Limited (FPL, and together with its subsidiaries, the Group), we believe we are in the best business there is: creating communities and the experiences that matter to the members of the communities we interact with. We recognise this to be a privilege, one that comes with responsibilities. The most important of these responsibilities is that we manage the company to ensure that FPL will be here for the long term, continuing to benefit the people and communities across the markets we operate in, while taking care of the environment. We aim to achieve sustainable value for our business and our stakeholders. For us to be an enduring and progressive organisation, it is important to incorporate sustainability into our strategy and operations. In fact, for us, being a good corporate citizen is essential to creating long-term value for our investors. Since FY18, our Sustainability Framework has been firmly in place, setting out our sustainability priorities as a Group through to 2030. One of our priorities is to move towards carbon neutrality by proactively reducing our carbon emissions. In 2019, we deepened FPL’s commitment to sustainable development by mapping our Sustainability Framework and progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set out by the United Nations (UN). We have started to voluntarily report some of the climaterelated financial disclosures in four aspects recommended by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and will embark on more detailed analysis in the coming year. Today, fulfilling our mission in sustainability is more complex and challenging than ever before because the role of business in society keeps evolving. This report details our commitment to being a responsible and sustainable enterprise, and provides a summary of our eﬀorts and their positive eﬀects. We thank you for your interest in, and support of, FPL and our work. We know there is always more to be done, and we are focused on making progressive eﬀorts to operate to the highest standards in all of these areas. We look forward to sharing our sustainability progress with you in the years to come. Board of Directors Frasers Property Limited Annual Report 2019 99 Our Sustainability Framework Our Sustainability Framework demonstrates our commitment to all stakeholders that sustainability is a key agenda at FPL. Setting out our sustainability priorities for the Group through 2030, the Framework is driven by three pillars, namely Acting Progressively, Consuming Responsibly and Focusing on People. These three pillars form a multi-disciplinary approach that recognises 13 corresponding environment, social and governance (ESG) focus areas. Our key business units and listed trusts continuously review their practices, policies, performance and targets in relation to the ESG focus areas identified in the Framework. In FY19, we established a Global Sustainability Taskforce to drive the integration of sustainability into our operations across all our business units and listed trusts based on the Framework. Sustainability workshops were organised internally, using design thinking tools, to establish sustainability action plans and targets in each business unit. Pillars Acting Progressively Consuming Responsibly Focusing on People Focus Areas Innovation Materials & Supply Chain Community Connectedness Fostering an innovation Achieving the sustainable Considering social value culture that creates management and eﬃcient use of principles for communities value and strengthens material along the supply chain our competitive edge Health & Well-being Biodiversity Ensuring healthy and Resilient Properties Enhancing the environment balanced work and Strengthening our resilience and ecosystem through community environments and climate adaptive capacity our developments Diversity & Inclusion Risk-Based Management Energy & Carbon Empowering and promoting Comprehensive assessment Increasing substantially energy the social inclusion of all, to address environmental, eﬃciency and renewable irrespective of age, sex, health and safety risks energy used disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status Responsible Investment Waste Incorporating social, Reducing substantially waste environment and governance generation through prevention, Skills & Leadership criteria in the evaluation process reduction, recycling and reuse Developing skills and leadership programmes that support productive activities, creativity Water and innovation to deliver Increasing substantially water high-value products and services eﬃciency and the recycling and safe reuse of water discharged 100 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report Sustainability Value Chain As an integrated real estate company, our sustainability impacts extend across the value chain of activities from acquisitions, design and construction, to property and asset management, sales and transactions. Hence, we endeavour to embed sustainability elements in every stage of our value chain, guided by our Sustainability Framework. We strive to improve our sustainability processes and performance while identifying opportunities to provide better services and offerings for stakeholders. Acquisitions & Business FIRST Design & • LEED-Neighbourhood Development Development Platinum Construction >200 development in Thailand • Passive House pilot projects and properties development in Australia in Singapore and overseas • Retail mall targeting certified to international certification under Living green building standards Building Challenge in Australia $3.4 billion of green loans, accounting >85% for 18% of our Group's Developing Capabilities gross borrowings • Trained 83 staff Group-wide in Design Thinking reduction in severity rate • Embraced diversity with 48% for development projects of total employees and 37% of in Singapore and Australia Senior Management being women • Achieved average 36 training hours per employee Inclusive Spaces Engaging Community • $1.0 million and 7,600 volunteer Innovative Strong hours contributed across 480 community investment activities solutioning to improve accessibility at our retail customer satisfaction malls in Singapore via firstacross surveys of our ever hackathon challenge home buyers, tenants and hospitality guests Renewable Phasing out Sales & Energy single-use plastics and going paperless progressively at Property & sold to our home-occupiers our hospitality assets under Transactions and tenants in Australia management Asset Management Annual Report 2019 101 Managing Sustainability We believe that driving a sustainability agenda is as monitors sustainability performance, and communicates important as driving our business strategy and operational the progress through our annual Sustainability Report. agenda. We have established a clear definition of sustainability and mapped out the important ESG aspects To support our growing aspiration in advancing for the Group. This foundation has enabled us to set up a sustainability, we now have over 20 sustainability governance structure that is appropriate for driving the professionals across our key operations in Singapore, sustainability agenda across all our business units. Australia, Thailand and the UK. Having one of the largest sustainability teams in the real estate industry Sustainability Governance demonstrates our strong commitment to integrating Our sustainability governance centres around the sustainability into our business. To harmonise eﬀorts Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC) comprising across the Group, we assembled a Global Sustainability senior management. Chaired by our Group Chief Executive Taskforce in FY19. All business units were represented Oﬃcer, Panote Sirivadhanabhakdi, the Committee and supported by our sustainability professionals meets regularly to drive sustainability strategy, review from Singapore, Australia and Thailand. The aim of the sustainability performance and approve action plans to Taskforce is to help all business units establish their improve sustainability practice. It is supported by the sustainability action plans by leveraging the sustainability Sustainability Working Committee (SWC), comprising knowledge of more experienced colleagues. members from the senior and middle management in various business units and corporate functions. The SWC Green Awards At the GRESB 2019 global Our achievement in winning a number of industry awards is rankings, Frasers Property further testimony to our success in acting progressively to Australia (FPA) was crowned build a sustainable and resilient portfolio. Overall Global Sector Leader for Developers, ranked first among In Singapore, FPL received the prestigious Singapore 41 developers. FPA was also Environmental Achievement Award 2019 (Services Category named Global Sector Leader and Merit) from the Singapore Environment Council. This award Overall Regional Sector Leader recognised our contribution to environmental sustainability in Asia-Pacific for the Diversified – Oﬃce/Industrial category. eﬀorts in green building developments in Singapore, Thailand and Australia, and in engaging stakeholders globally to create At the same time, Frasers Logistics & Industrial Trust environmental awareness. The award further acknowledged (FLT) was named Global Sector Leader, Overall Regional our eﬀorts in championing green financing. Sector Leader in Asia-Pacific, and Regional Sector Leader in Australia for the Industrial/Distribution Warehouse category. This year, our three other REITs – Frasers Centrepoint Trust (FCT), Frasers Commercial Trust (FCOT) and Frasers Hospitality Trust (FHT) – participated in the GRESB assessment for the first time. We intend to leverage the insights from these results to help us capitalise on sustainability-related opportunities and improve our ESG performance. In addition, Dr Pang Chin Hong, Vice President, Group Sustainability, was conferred the Green Advocate of The Year  Award at the Singapore Green Building Council-Building and Construction Authority Sustainability Leadership Awards 2019. Singapore Environmental Achievement Award 2019 (Services Category – Merit) 102 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Managing Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement Through regular stakeholder engagement, we gather Key Stakeholders Key Topics of Concern valuable feedback to direct our sustainability efforts to areas where the most impact can be felt. To understand Contractors, Consultants • Health and safety and Suppliers their concerns better, we actively engage our key stakeholders through various channels. Customers • Customer satisfaction • Quality of facilities and services • Health and safety Employees • Career development • Employee engagement • Staff bonding • Health and safety • Impacts on the environment and society Investment • Financial results Community • Business performance and outlook • Corporate governance Local Community • Community investments • Business impacts on the environment and society Regulators and • Regulatory compliance Non-Governmental • Corporate governance Organisations (NGOs) • Regulatory/industry trends and standards Annual Report 2019 103 Mode of Engagement Frequency of Engagement and FY19 Highlights • Safety briefings, exercises and declarations • Daily, weekly and monthly safety briefings, exercises and declarations at our development sites • Customer service counters • 550,000 customers were engaged through rewards • Customer care and rewards programme programme in Singapore • Surveys and feedback channels • Surveys conducted for tenants, hospitality guests and homebuyers – results on page 130 • Training programme • 194,520 hours of training were completed • Surveys and feedback channels • 100% of staff with annual appraisal reviews • Team-building and annual activities • Annual Group-wide Frasers Property Environment and • Environmental and Health & Safety awareness Health & Safety Months activities • Results briefings • Half-yearly briefings • Annual General Meeting • Annual General Meeting • Investor conferences • 132 investor meetings and conferences • ESG surveys • 2019 GRESB assessment for FPL, FPA, FCT, FCOT, FHT and FLT • Feedback channels • Over 480 community development initiatives implemented • Staff involvement in local communities • Over 7,600 staff-hours volunteered • Community Development initiatives • Over $1.0 million contributed to community investment initiatives • Participation in NGOs • Participation in Company of Good by National Volunteer & • Surveys and focus groups Philanthropy Centre, Australia Property Industry Foundation, Singapore Security Tripartite Cluster, SGBC Board, GBCA Board, and BCA Green Mark Advisory Committee 104 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Managing Sustainability Materiality Assessment We regularly review and assess the relevance of our material topics to our business and our stakeholders. This year, several surveys were carried out with both internal and external stakeholders – including customers, tenants, property and project managers, and contractors across our operations – to seek their views in relation to ESG issues important to the Group. Through the surveys, we concluded that our material topics remain relevant to our business although there were several emerging topics identified for some of our business units to take into account. This year, we aligned our material topics to Sustainability Pillars Focus Areas What It Means to FPL Acting Responsible We invest strategically, taking into consideration financial and ESG criteria in the evaluation Progressively Investment process to deliver long-term economic performance. Risk-Based To future-proof our business, it is integral to comprehensively assess environment, Management health and safety and social risks associated with our business. Resilient It is critical to build the resilience of our properties and adapt to changes to stay ahead Properties through the way we operate. Innovation An innovative culture enables our business to stay relevant and meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Consuming Energy & The built-environment is one of the largest sources of energy usage globally. We recognise Responsibly Carbon its importance to building operations and proactively manage our energy consumption. Water Water is a scarce resource. We strive to conserve water whenever possible to reduce unnecessary usage and wastage. Waste We want to reduce our impacts on the environment. We encourage efficient use and management of resources to curb waste generation. Materials & Our impacts extend beyond our operations. We are aware of our roles in influencing Supply Chain our supply chain to create value across our value chain. Biodiversity We acknowledge the importance of biodiversity, and seek to conserve and enhance nature through responsible development. Focusing on Skills & A progressive leadership team and a well-developed workforce empowered to innovate People Leadership are central to our success. Diversity & We promote the social inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, Inclusion origin, religion or status. Health & We are mindful that our business operations may be vulnerable to health and safety Well-being incidents. Ensuring that our employees and contractors have a safe working environment is our top priority. Community We have the potential to create significant positive impacts in the communities that Connectedness we operate in through our properties. We endeavour to run a business that responds to our communities’ needs. Annual Report 2019 105 the 13 focus areas set out in our Sustainability Framework. We have also deepened our alignment to the UN SDGs to help us streamline our sustainability efforts. The table below shows how our material topics correspond to our focus areas and the relevant SDGs, and where we have caused or contributed to the impacts through our business relationships. Material Topics & GRI Indicators Boundaries Progress towards the SDGs SDGs • Economic performance FPL • Secured $3.4 billion green loan financing since Sep 2018 (GRI 201) • Achieved green building certifications for over 200 properties and projects globally to date • Environmental Compliance FPL, Contractors • Established policies and robust processes in place, with (GRI 307) a Board Diversity Policy added in FY19 • Anti-corruption (GRI 205) • Marketing and Labelling (GRI 417) • Emerging topic: Anti-competitive Behaviour (GRI 206) • Economic performance FPL, Customers • Implemented a Resilience Policy and Framework (GRI 201) and Tenants in Australia • Economic performance FPL, Contractors, • 83 staff members across the Group were trained in (GRI 201) Customers and Design Thinking to support a culture of innovation at FPL Tenants • Energy (GRI 302) FPL, Customers • Reduced 0.3% in energy intensity and 2.1% in greenhouse • Emissions (GRI 305) and Tenants gas emissions intensity for our investment properties globally in FY19 • Water (GRI 303) FPL, Customers • Reduced 0.7% in water intensity globally in FY19 and Tenants • Emerging topic: Effluents and FPL, Customers • Reduced waste intensity by 2.0% in our operating Waste (GRI 304) and Tenants commercial properties in Singapore, Australia, China, Vietnam and the UK in FY19 • Emerging topic: Materials FPL, Contractors • Began the progressive roll-out of Global Procurement (GRI 301) Supplier Conduct Guidelines for Frasers Hospitality • Established a Responsible Sourcing Group for FPA • Emerging topic: Biodiversity FPL • Began developing a Biodiversity Management and (GRI 304) Feature Plan in Australia • Employment (GRI 401) FPL • Delivered 194,520 training hours for employees in FY19 • Training and Education (GRI 404) • Dedicated over 2% of our payroll cost to learning and development • Labour/Management Relations FPL • Target to establish a Diversity & Inclusion Policy by FY20 (GRI 402) • Became one of the founding members of Women in • Emerging topic: Diversity and Industrial to attract diversity to the industrial and Equal Opportunity (GRI 405) logistics sector in Australia • Occupational Health and Safety FPL, Contractors, • Close to 90% of commercial and retail properties in (GRI 403) Customers and Singapore certified with OHSAS 18001 Tenants • Residential, retail, commercial and industrial units in Australia certified with AS/NZS 4801 • Developed a Health & Safety Policy and strategy in the UK • Local communities (GRI 413) FPL, NGOs • Contributed over $1.0 million and volunteered 7,600 and Local staff-hours to charities and community groups Communities • Implemented Corporate Social Responsibility Policy in Australia 106 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report Acting Progressively Acting Progressively Why As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are committed to upholding Our Is Acting human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption principles in carrying Contribution out our business operations. By integrating ESG considerations when Progressively to SDGs managing our extensive property portfolio, we effectively manage risk, Important? build resilience and practise good corporate governance. Approaching this with a progressive and innovative mindset, we strive to deliver exceptional customer experiences that would differentiate FPL from its competitors. How Establishing holistic overarching internal policies to Do We govern and guide management of the focus areas Manage? Adopting progressive practices that advance FPL in all focus areas on an on-going basis Risk-Based Management To ensure we maintain the highest standards of integrity, accountability and governance in our daily operations, we have established policies and robust internal processes with specific guidance areas. Corporate Policy Guidance Area Code of Business Conduct Company ethics and conduct in relation to compliance monitoring, record keeping, information confidentiality, conflicts of interest, insider trading, and dealings with key counterparties Whistle-blowing Policy Channel for reporting concerns, including in financial or professional misconduct, irregularities or non-compliance with laws and regulations, and corruption or bribery Anti-bribery Policy Prevention and management of bribery and corruption Policy for Disclosure and Declaration and approval requirements for any interested persons, directors Approval of Purchase of and employees of FPL, when purchasing property developed by FPL Property Projects Competition Act Compliance Manual Compliance with the Competition Act to protect and promote healthy competitive markets in Singapore Personal Data Protection Policy Compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act relating to the handling and processing of personal data, and complaint handling procedures Environment, Health & Safeguarding the health & safety of all relevant stakeholders and providing Safety Policy an environmentally friendly place for them to work in or to conduct their business Board Diversity Policy Seeking to achieve a Board composition with appropriate balance, diversity and mix of skills, business experience, background, age, gender, nationality, industry and geographic knowledge, professional qualifications and other relevant qualities Annual Report 2019 107 We also adopt the following practices to ensure our compliance with laws and regulations in the following areas: Area Practices Corruption and fraud • Conduct due diligence checks in respect of Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism for all parties who are interested in purchasing or leasing a property from us Environment, health & safety • Implement ISO 14001 (Environment) across key business units and ISO 50001 (Energy) Management Systems in Singapore Office Building Management • Adopt OHSAS 18001 and AS/NZS 4801 Occupational Health & Safety Management System across key business units Marketing communications • Adhere to the Singapore Code of Advertising Practice, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Singapore’s (URA) Housing Developers Rules and Housing Developers (Show Unit) Rules 2015 for all advertising materials, including unit rendering and show units To safeguard the independence of the internal audit function, our Group Internal Audit Head reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Independent internal audits are designed to, inter alia, evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. For further details, please refer to pages 143-173 on the Corporate Governance Report. In FY19, there were : • No substantiated bribery and corruption cases • Three whistle-blowing cases, out of which one was substantiated • No incident of non-compliance with regulations and industry codes concerning marketing communications • Five cases of environmental breaches due to noise pollution at a development site in Singapore that resulted in fines totalling $30,000 to the contractor • A case of safety breach which resulted in a stop-work order at a development site in Australia and a fine of A$3,600 • An infringement decision by the Competition and Consumer Commission of Singapore in relation to a hospitality property in Singapore • Data breach at two of our hospitality properties in the UK We continue to take progressive steps to minimise non-compliance incidences and breaches, and work together with stakeholders to ensure appropriate precautions are taken throughout our value chain. Responsible Investment In managing our asset portfolio, we consider ESG aspects Green Financing when making strategic decisions that help us achieve Through our sustainability initiatives, the Group has been our sustainability objectives. Our two-pronged approach able to raise funds through green loans. Following our towards a sustainable business involves greening both our first green loan in September 2018, we enhanced our ‘hardware’ and ‘software’ to deliver the positive outcomes environmental credentials further with another four envisioned. By greening hardware, we seek to develop and green loans in FY19. invest in properties that are green, efficient and resilient as well as to enhance any assets that could improve green Two of these loans were industry firsts in benchmarking performance. We also enhance our assets continuously to themselves to green building standards. In March 2019, ensure operational efficiency and savings for our tenants our A$600 million syndicated green loan to refinance and customers. In greening software, we engage regularly an existing debt facility due in 2020 in Australia was the with our customers, contractors and local communities to first to be linked to GRESB performance. In July 2019, we raise awareness on environmental issues. raised A$750 million, including an A$500 million tranche, which was Singapore’s first green loan linked to the BCA Green Mark performance. In March 2019, FPL secured a Green Club five-year term loan worth $785 million, to refinance existing loans relating to the development of Northpoint City South Wing. In June 2019, FLT undertook a A$170 million green loan. To date, the Group has raised more than $3 billion through green financing. 108 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Acting Progressively Green Portfolio Our portfolio of green properties is growing yearon-year. As at FY19, our portfolio comprised 31 BCA Green Mark certified properties in Singapore and 164 Green Star Properties in Australia. Three of our properties in Singapore are certified to the highest Green Mark Platinum level. In Australia, we have the highest rated Industrial Green Star portfolio in the country, averaging four stars in the Green Star certification. Most recently, The Waterfront Town Centre at Shell Cove was awarded a 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built Certification. This was our first retail centre to achieve the Design and As Built certification under the Green Building Wangnoi 2, Wangnoi, Ayutthaya, Bangkok • Thailand Council of Australia's Design and As Built tool. Three of our properties in Australia were certified as carbonneutral during the year. business parks are BREEAM-certified. In Thailand, six industrial properties are LEEDor EDGE-certified. Our In Europe, our industrial portfolio consists of five 12 hospitality properties in the UK have also received German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB)-certified awards under the Green Tourism certification scheme. and 17 Green Star-certified properties in Germany, DGNB and BREEAM are internationally-recognised green along with two Building Research Establishment building certification schemes widely adopted in Europe Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM)and the UK, while Green Tourism is an award certification certified and three Green Star-certified properties programme that holistically assesses tourism practices in the Netherlands. In the UK, seven buildings in our beyond the technical aspects of building attributes. Number of Green Mark Certifications in Singapore 16 17 15 14 15 12 13 11 7 7 7 9 5 5 4 4 4 8 3 6 6 7 7 7 4 5 5 2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Oﬃce | Retail | Residential Number of Green Star Certifications in Australia 64 50 13 27 2 12 1 14 20 12 1 2 11 11 1 65 84 65 12 51 51 5 9 1 2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Industrial | Retail | Corporate | Oﬃce | Development Annual Report 2019 109 Our Journey 2018 Mar Started construction of the first LEEDNeighbourhood Development Platinum project in Thailand 2016 First 6 Star Green Star May Community-rated Accorded Green Mark development in New Champion by BCA in South Wales, Australia Singapore Commenced work Dec 2006 2013 on World’s Most FPA portfolio awarded Our first BCA Green Largest multi-residential Sustainable Retail Mall, 4 Star Green Star rating Mark-certified building to achieve 5 targeting certification representing Best development in Star Green Star rating in by Living Building Practice in building Singapore Australia ChallengeTM in Australia operations 2008 2015 2017 2019 Our first Green Star First company to First 6 Star Green Star Apr certified development in make commitment to for an industrial project FPT to build two Australia achieve 5 Star Green in Australia large-scale industrial Star ratings for all new parks designed developments to achieve LEED certification Industry Firsts It features a 2,000-sqm rooftop garden to supply fresh During the year, we became the first major developer produce to local restaurants and provide composting in Australia to support the Passive House movement, a facilities and organic fertilisers to residents. In addition, sustainable building standard already well-established on-site rooftop solar panels will provide renewable energy in Europe. Passive Houses use features such as doubleto power the operations, while another system captures, glazed windows, continuous thermal insulation and treats and reuses water to be self-sufficient, with net airtight measures to reduce air leakage, regulate positive water. temperatures, drastically reducing heating and cooling costs and improving air quality. We are building our Passive House at Point Cook, with plans to test its economic and comfort benefits against the outcomes of a standard family home once the house is occupied by the start of 2020. In Melbourne, we are building Burwood Brickworks, the world’s most sustainable retail mall certified to the strictest environmentally friendly certification: The Living Building Challenge. Burwood Brickworks, Melbourne, Victoria • Australia 110 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Acting Progressively In Thailand, One Bangkok is poised to be the country’s largest integrated district that provides approximately 80,000 sqm of green open space. One Bangkok aims to be the first LEED-Neighbourhood Platinum development in Thailand with towers built to LEED and WELL Platinum standards. It will include features such as district cooling, fully-centralised security, and energy management systems, designed to international standards for sustainable long-term business operations, future growth, efficiency and resiliency for the entire district. We also launched The PARQ, the first WELL-certified mixed-use development in Thailand. Its design concept is based on the principles of work-life balance for healthier and more productive lives. It is also designed to achieve LEED Gold certification where more than 75% of construction waste will be recycled and reused. Targeted to open in 2020, it is set to achieve 13% energy savings using high-performance chillers and daylight dimmers. Artist's impression of One Bangkok • Thailand Artist's impression of The PARQ, Bangkok • Thailand Annual Report 2019 111 Affiliation with Industry Bodies The Group is committed to engaging and sharing knowledge with stakeholders on ESG issues. We believe in collaboration with industry bodies and like-minded stakeholders to promote and influence sustainability outcomes in the property industry. Industry Bodies Representatives from FPL and Positions Held Green Building Council of Australia Rod Fehring, Chairman of Board Livable Housing Australia Simone Dyer, Advisory Board Member Living Future Institute of Australia Paolo Bevilacqua, Chairman of Board Real Estate Developers’ Association of Singapore Christopher Tang, Honorary Treasurer Real Estate Investment Trust Association of Singapore Low Chee Wah, Vice President BCA Green Mark Advisory Committee Pang Chin Hong, Committee Member Singapore Hotel Association Colin Low, Board Member Urban Development Institute Australia Cameron Jackson, Vice President and Councillor, New South Wales Jill Lim, Secretary and Councillor, Victoria Cameron Leggatt, Member of the Board of Directors, Queensland Endorsement and Participation in Sustainability Initiatives • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) • Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Paris Agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) • Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP) • Net Zero Carbon Buildings Commitment of the World Green Building Council • Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) Resilient Properties We need to be flexible and resilient in the way we operate by developing scalable solutions and adaptable places. We are embedding integrated solutions, taking into consideration demographics, climate and lifestyle into our developments. We want to provide flexibility to minimise risks and capitalise on future social and environmental scenarios. We partner with strategic stakeholders to understand the market landscape and develop solutions to enhance social and environmental outcomes. We have implemented a Resilience Policy and Framework and embedded these within our Australian business. While we have been disclosing ESG performance in our sustainability reports since 2015, we recognise that it is increasingly important to strengthen the linkages and impacts of sustainability initiatives to economic performance. Hence, we have started to review the recommendations by the TCFD and have mapped out our disclosure accordingly. 112 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Acting Progressively Key Aspect Recommended Disclosure by TCFD Governance • FPL's Board of Directors has oversight on broader sustainability trends, risks and FPL’s governance around climateopportunities to connect sustainability with corporate purpose and strategy related risks and opportunities. of the Group. The Board ensures that we maintain a sound system of risk management, one of which is Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) risk, covered in our Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Refer to pages 141-142 for details. • Management has established a SSC, chaired by the Group CEO, which actively monitors the Group's EHS risks. The SSC also reviews the Group’s sustainability performance against our key material topics and identifies opportunities for improvement. Strategy and Risk Management Physical Risks Proactive approach to identify • Since the 1880s, the average global surface temperature has risen about 1 degree opportunities and risks associated Celsius. The physical impacts of climate change on the built environment are with climate change and to build two-fold. It creates stress on the resilience of buildings through rising sea levels resiliency in our portfolio. and also increases the frequency of extreme weather events such as heatwaves, droughts and floods. As we operate in multiple locations around the world, the economic risks that climate change poses to real estate portfolios, including ours, are varied and multi-dimensional. We will be taking steps to understand its full impacts on our portfolio via a deeper level of scenario analysis in the near future. Transition Risks • To mitigate climate risks at the national level, more than 45 governments worldwide have adopted carbon-related legislation, with more planning to implement them in the future. For example, Singapore implemented the first carbon tax scheme in Southeast Asia at $5/tCO2e in January 2019 and announced plans to increase it to between $10 and $15/tCO2e by 2030. Other countries with carbon-related legislation include the UK, European Union and China. • Other legislations also involve restrictions on the operation of carbon-intensive assets. Starting from April 2018, the UK’s Minimum Energy Efficiency Standard prevents commercial landlords from granting or renewing commercial leases of space in energy-inefficient properties to tenants. We recognise the potential financial impacts resulting from carbon emissions regulations on our business, and will carry out climate change scenario analysis on our portfolio. Opportunities • At the same time, new technologies present opportunities for our assets to become more efficient, allowing us to climate-proof our assets. Increased investor and stakeholder attention to climate change also presents an opportunity for us to tap into additional sources of funding. • Tapping into climate-related opportunities has the potential to improve our financial performance by reducing our operating expenditures via efficiency gains and cost reductions. Both risks in carbon price and energy costs are also reduced accordingly. These have the potential to increase the value of assets that are both high-quality and climate-resilient. Impact on financial performance • Both physical and transition risk will affect our business sustainability. For example, droughts, floods and rising sea levels can negatively impact the ability of our properties to operate. Extreme temperature fluctuations will increase our heating and cooling loads and the need for more preventive maintenance on our assets. Carbon prices in the jurisdictions where we operate in are also expected to increase in the future, hence indirectly increasing energy prices. In other cases, these present a risk to our future operating expenditures and asset values. Annual Report 2019 113 Key Aspect Recommended Disclosure by TCFD How do we mitigate risk and take advantage of opportunities? • FPL understands the impacts of climate change and strives to strengthen its resilience against extreme weather events and to prepare for more stringent regulatory requirements as well as societal expectations. In 2018, FPL developed its Sustainability Framework which sets out the Group’s sustainability priorities through to 2030. The Framework is driven by three pillars, namely Acting Progressively, Consuming Responsibly and Focusing on People, and recognises 13 corresponding ESG focus areas. Energy and Carbon, Water, Waste and Resilient Properties are amongst the priority areas identified in the Framework. • Recognising the impact of the building sector on the environment, FPL has embarked on the green building journey since 2006. To date, we have more than 200 properties and projects globally that have achieved green building certifications. We manage the potential climate risks by operating energyefficient assets and working on the transition to lower-carbon energy sources at our assets. For more information on our green portfolio, refer to page 108 for details. • FPL has also put in place an EHS policy and EHSMS (Environmental, Health & Safety Management System) that is aligned to the ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 standards, in key operational areas. The Group has achieved OHSAS18001 and ISO14001 certification through external certifying bodies for its key operations and is aiming to widen the coverage of certification to new businesses and operations acquired in recent years. Some operations, such as our property management of office and business space in Singapore, have gone the extra mile to achieve ISO50001 (Energy Management System) certification. • FPL has raised over $3 billion of green loan financing, thereby linking our commitment to sustainability with the discipline of the capital markets. FLT and FPA have also achieved stellar scores in the 2019 GRESB assessment, an investorled initiative to measure sustainability performance in the real estate sector. More information on these can be found on pages 101 and 107, respectively. Metrics and Targets • FPL has been publishing Sustainability Reports in accordance with GRI Standards Metrics used to assess climatesince 2015 to disclose information pertaining to our ESG performance. FPL has related risks and opportunities, and decreased its energy, Scope 2 GHG and water intensity by 0.3%, 2.1% and 0.7% performance against target sets for respectively during the year. In addition, FPA had its GHG emissions reduction material issues identified. targets approved by the Science-Based Targets partnership in June 2019. More information on these can be found on pages 116-118. At the Group level, we are taking steps to set sustainability targets that are in line with both industry standards and stakeholder expectations for our business units and expect to make further progress in the coming years. Innovation Innovation connects technology, data science, design and strategy to create better solutions to improve our business processes, enhance our customer experiences and future-proof our organisation. We encourage innovation across our business through partnerships and organic innovation. We also leverage our assets such as customer knowledge, engineering expertise and our extensive portfolio, putting our stakeholders at the core of our innovation pursuit. In FY19, we welcomed our first Group Chief Digital Officer to lead the development and execution of the Group’s digital vision and strategy. He is tasked with leading the digital transformation journey, identifying innovation opportunities and building new digital business models. FPT also appointed a Chief Digital Officer to lead the digital transformation journey in Thailand, strategically positioning the company to advance the automation of factories and warehouses to capture the increasing market demand for industrial robotics and automation. 114 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Acting Progressively Connecting through Workplace by Facebook We launched Workplace by Facebook Group-wide in November 2018. We believe this enterprise-grade platform helps facilitate closer collaboration and connectedness among colleagues across our multinational business. Workplace provides tools for sharing updates and feedback, as well as broadcasting announcements, hosting training sessions or meetings involving staﬀ based in diﬀerent countries. Townhalls organised at the Group and business unit levels are also broadcast live on Workplace to facilitate broader participation from staﬀ regardless of location. FPT's joint venture with PBA Group in Thailand Partnerships to Introduce Smart Automation FPT embarked on a joint venture to develop two large-scale smart industrial and logistics parks in Thailand’s prime industrial and logistics districts. The partnership with Mitsui Fudosan, Japan’s largest real estate developer, will leverage the strength of FPT’s market-leading position in Thailand as well as Mitsui Fudosan’s technology led-smart industrial and logistics experience to meet the growing demand for innovative solutions. The facilities and amenities will be designed and built according to the International Masterplan standard under LEED certification. Another partnership was forged with PBA Group, a Singapore-based technology provider of robotics and automation solutions, which has developed a full suite of solutions such as specialised material handling, automated forklifts, automated guide vehicles, and collaborative robots. The strategic tie-up aims to meet the increasing demand for industrial robotics and automation in Thailand. Workplace at Frasers Property Embracing Design Thinking During the year, FPL kicked oﬀ its Design Thinking journey, beginning with workshops attended by our senior leadership team as well as a pioneer batch of 41 Design Thinking Catalysts. Based on human-centred design principles, Design Thinking is a problem-solving approach that fosters creativity, and maps out new ideas against what is feasible, viable and desirable. To date, 83 staﬀ members have attended the workshops and are equipped to support a culture of innovation at FPL, as well as to contribute to implementing new ideas, from incremental to disruptive. Design Thinkers at work Annual Report 2019 115 Enhancing Dining Experiences We introduced an optimised version of our Makan Master app, which we had first launched in FY18 with our food and beverage partners across our retail properties in Singapore. Diners using the app can now make reservations with a better interface to manage orders and to make cashless payments. Makan Master is part of Frasers Experience, a multi-feature app designed to enhance customers' experiences across our retail and commercial properties. Makan Master, an F&B concierge service on the Frasers Experience app Evolving Hospitality Processes the HotSOS housekeeping workflow management system. Our unifying idea, experience matters guides our innovation HotSOS provides a cloud-based solution that automates approach for our hospitality business. To create memorable daily housekeeping operations, prioritising guestroom and enriching experiences for customers, we piloted several cleaning, digitalising checklist processes and virtualising the innovative solutions in Singapore and Australia. management of the department. We implemented a paperless check-in at Capri by Fraser, At Capri by Fraser, China Square, we introduced a RFID China Square and Capri by Fraser, Changi City in Singapore linen tagging system to eliminate the need to manually and four properties under management in Australia. In sort, count and deliver linen. The system has increased Australia, the initiative has resulted in 40% improvement in productivity levels, improved work eﬃciency and helped check-in eﬃciency and a reduction in paper use by 30%-40%. in staﬀ retention. At the same property, we further rolled At Capri by Fraser, China Square, we installed smart control out an automated conveyor belt system for staﬀ uniforms units to optimise lighting and air conditioning to create to save space and time for the housekeeping staﬀ and a comfortable environment for guests, with expected eliminate the need to allocate dedicated manpower to savings of 10% on our electricity bill. distribute uniforms every morning. To improve the concierge experience for guests, we launched Lola, a 24/7 chatbot that provides immediate assistance to guests at Capri by Fraser, China Square and Capri by Fraser, Changi City. Accessible conveniently through smartphones, Lola complements the existing concierge services by providing recommendations for dining, activities and events in Singapore. Believing that our employees’ experience matters, we have equipped employees with better tools to perform their work more eﬀectively. At Capri by Fraser, China Square, Capri by Fraser, Brisbane and Fraser Suites Perth, we implemented Paperless check-in at Fraser Suites Sydney • Australia Co-owning solutions to customer and business challenges FPA’s innovation initiative is in its fourth year of enhancing culture as well as customer experience. In FY19, FPA launched DASH, a ‘bottom-up’ innovation practice where staﬀ are invited to solve pressing customer and business challenges. DASH is a rapid-fire four week sprint with a new challenge posed each month. Solutions are shortlisted within a fortnight, with experimentation commencing immediately. To date, bottom-up innovation has been applied to challenges faced by our property management, community development and construction teams. Digital solutions to enhance work eﬃciency FPA developed and launched eTracker, an app that enables the systematic management of quality assurance checks, pre-settlement inspections and defect resolution, and YourSpace, an online portal for our industrial customers. In addition, to help gather insights for the next phase of digital growth, FPA conducted a deep dive into the residential customer experience gathering both data-driven and humancentred insights. 116 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report Consuming Responsibly Consuming Responsibly Why Our Buildings account for approximately 39% of the world’s energy consumption Is Consuming and greenhouse gas emissions, of which 28% comes from operational Contribution Responsibly assets. As a responsible corporate citizen, we seek to reduce our energy to SDGs Important? consumption and carbon emissions from electricity generation, as well as water consumption and waste generation to play our part in fulfilling the targets set by the Paris Agreement. How Do We Establishing policies that drive positive outcomes for the environment Manage? Adopting practices that help our employees and customers to manage and use resources eﬀectively Energy & Carbon Our energy initiatives have a compounded eﬀect on our FPL’s portfolio consists of an array of green properties emissions. Reduced energy consumption leads to reduced designed with energy-eﬃcient performance in mind. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Besides enhancing our properties, we have started oﬀering our expertise to In Singapore, Frasers Tower achieved BCA Green Mark our Australian tenants to calculate their emissions since Platinum certification. BCA has also ranked Alexandra May this year. This is part of our eﬀort to assist them Point, Causeway Point and Capri by Fraser, Changi City to purchase carbon oﬀsets. among the top 10 energy-eﬃcient properties respectively in the private oﬃce, retail and hotel categories in the past The Group’s total energy consumption increased by few years. Some energy-eﬃcient practices adopted at 6.4% in FY19 due to the expansion of our portfolio. these properties include the use of eﬃcient chiller plants However, the overall energy intensity dropped by 0.3% to with variable speed drives, LED lights and motion sensors. 108 kWh/m2 during the year, with intensity reductions in the Singapore oﬃce, Australia oﬃce and UK business park portfolios oﬀsetting increases in the Singapore retail and hospitality portfolios. In line with the reduction in energy intensity, our Scope 2 GHG emissions intensity decreased by 2.1% to 58 kgCO2e/m2 during the year. Annual Report 2019 117 Electricity Consumption (GWh) Energy Intensity (kWh/m2) 350 200 3 3 2 300 1 25 19 160 250 119 109 108 120 200 180 165 191 150 80 100 59 64 68 40 50 14 14 13 31 29 28 0 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 GHG Emissions (‘000 tonnes of CO2e) GHG Intensity (kgCO2e/m2) 200 100 2 2 1 1 6 160 5 80 120 60 66.0 114 117 59.4 58.2 101 80 40 40 25 27 20 28 12 12 11 13 12 12 0 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Hospitality | UK Business Park | China | Vietnam Hospitality | UK Business Park | China | Vietnam | Group Carbon Neutral Target in Australia conservation projects in Tasmania and Zimbabwe and a Thai In March 2019, we announced our commitment to build a cement biomass project. It was certified carbon-neutral by carbon-neutral business in Australia by 2028. FPA became NABERS in December 2018. the second Australian organisation in the property sector to have its GHG emissions reduction targets approved Gateway Building in Sydney, New South Wales, received by the Science-Based Targets partnership in June 2019. its carbon-neutral certification from NABERS against the The Science-Based Targets initiative is a not-for-profit Australian Government’s National Offset Standard for partnership between CDP, the UN Global Compact, the Buildings in February 2019. It offsets its remaining emissions World Resources Institute and the World Wide Fund for through investments in a Tasmanian forest conservation Nature (WWF). project and a hydropower project in China. FPA targets to reduce its Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by Arndell Park in Western Sydney, New South Wales, 50% per square metre and Scope 3 GHG emissions by 25% partnered with one of its key tenants, DHL Supply Chain, to per square metre by 2028. Three buildings in Australia were achieve GBCA’s whole building carbon-neutral certification successfully certified as Carbon Neutral Buildings in FY19. for its service centre in December 2018. The facility improved its efficiency and reduced its emissions through Building F in Rhodes, New South Wales, achieved a NABERS LED lighting upgrades and the installation of a 200kW solar Energy rating of 5.5 stars using a combination of energy photovoltaic (PV) system. It also turned off the warehouse efficiency measures, including building monitoring and air-conditioning during winter and staggered forklift tuning, along with a 100 kW solar system to minimise charging to reduce peak demand. All remaining emissions energy use onsite. For its remaining energy demand, the generated were offset by investing in a forest conservation building uses 20% GreenPower. Any remaining emissions project in Tasmania as well as a wind project in Maharashtra, generated by the building were offset by investing in forest India. Refer to Notes, page 137 for energy reporting scope 118 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Consuming Responsibly Water We observed a similar trend to our energy consumption We are committed to optimising our water usage and for our water consumption due to our portfolio expansion enhancing our assets towards becoming water-resilient in FY19. Our total water consumption increased by 5.6% in the future. Among our ongoing initiatives to improve during the year. However, as a result of our ongoing water water management at all our properties, we install optimisation initiatives in Australia and better water certified water-efficient fittings and appliances as well management practices in Australia and the UK, our water as rainwater storage tanks to collect rainwater for nonintensity decreased across our asset portfolio by 0.7% to potable uses. Our properties also utilise efficient irrigation 1.22m3/m2 during the year. systems with rain sensors and water treatment systems that reduce the water refill frequency of cooling towers. Water Consumption (mil m3) Water Intensity (m3/m2) 4.0 3.0 0.02 0.02 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.0 2.0 1.45 2.0 1.9 2.0 2.2 1.23 1.22 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.0 0.0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY17 FY18 FY19 Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Singapore Office | Australia Office | Singapore Retail Hospitality | UK Business Park | China | Vietnam Hospitality | UK Business Park | China | Vietnam | Group Water Management Innovations We adopted several new initiatives to manage our water consumption during the year. Hotel du Vin Winchester in the UK installed a water butt in the hotel’s garden ground to harvest rainwater. This initiative reduced annual freshwater use by as much as 6,000 litres for landscaping, particularly during the hot summers. The hotel is currently exploring other uses for the harvested rainwater, such as the cleaning of patios with the use of a water pressure washer. In India, Frasers Suites New Delhi introduced an automatic pool cleaning robot to reduce the water and manpower required to clean its swimming pool. The property previously required the pool to be emptied two to three times yearly and a dedicated team to scrub and flush the pool with brushes and cleaning chemicals. The cleaning robot, which is fitted with a vacuum bag, reduces the need for the pool filter backwashes from daily to twice per week and reduced the estimated water consumption by 120 m3 annually. Refer to Notes, page 137 for water reporting scope Annual Report 2019 119 Waste by 2.0 % to 19.53 kg/m2 mainly due to a decrease in the FPL adopts good waste management practices to prevent Singapore oﬃce and Australia oﬃce portfolios, oﬀsetting the contamination of air, water and food sources. We the increase in our Singapore retail portfolio. This year, encourage the 3Rs – reduce, reuse and recycle – to ensure we also started collecting recycling data, which showed the prudent use of resources and to divert waste from we attained a 11.8% recycling rate for our Singapore, landfills and incineration. Australia, China, Vietnam and the UK properties. Our waste generated were disposed of in accordance with In FY19, a total of 23,190 tonnes of non-hazardous waste local regulations by our contractors. Most of the nonwas generated in our Singapore, Australia, China, Vietnam recyclables waste generated were sent for energy and the UK properties. Our waste intensity decreased recovery via incineration in Singapore, China and the UK, and to landfills in Australia and Vietnam. Waste Generated ('000 tonnes) Waste Intensity (kg/m2) 25 60 0.35 2.6 0.02 0.02 0.34 0.35 2.6 50 20 2.6 40 15 30 16.0 16.8 10 19.93 19.53 20 5 10 0.7 0.7 2.3 2.7 0 0 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 Singapore Oﬃce | Australia Oﬃce | Singapore Retail Singapore Oﬃce | Australia Oﬃce | Singapore Retail UK Business Park | China | Vietnam UK Business Park | China | Vietnam | Group Reducing and Repurposing To strategically manage and find new uses for waste, we implemented various programmes in FY19. Frasers Hospitality began phasing out single-use plastics across its global operations. In this exercise, we replaced plastic straws, amenities and packaging with alternative or biodegradable materials. The Go-Paperless initiative, which Frasers Hospitality pioneered in Australia three years ago, was rolled out to 12 properties across four countries, as at September 2019. We were the first hotel group in Australia to fully implement Paperless Check-in, Tokenisation and EcoSign concepts to cut down the use of paper. As one of the pioneers to adopt the initiative, we achieved paper reduction of between 10% and 40% across the finance, front oﬃce and reservation departments. In Australia, we also used carpets made from recycled PET bottles in commercial and industrial assets and initiated a trial to use recycled materials in asphalt to pave roads in Perth. Frasers Property Environment Month 2019 We organised the annual Environment Month in March 2019, focusing this year around the theme of ‘Consuming Responsibly’. Through a line-up of events, employees were encouraged to reconsider their purchasing and disposal habits. These included an excursion to visit an e-waste recycling plant, a shoe donation eﬀort, and a charity garage sale to benefit the Children’s Aid Society. In Singapore, Frasers Tower organised its first car-free weekend, while Capri by Fraser, Changi City distributed reusable straw sets to guests. In addition, more than 100 properties worldwide participated in the Global Eco Challenge, which encouraged our employees to take steps to reduce their environmental footprint through their operations and everyday lives. Car-free Weekend at Frasers Tower • Singapore 120 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Consuming Responsibly Enhancing Recycling We collaborated with Fraser and Neave, We are conscious of the role we play Limited and NTUC Fairprice to install as property owner and manager in smart Reverse Vending Machines at engaging with our stakeholders – four retail malls in Singapore. These employees, tenants and customers – to machines incentivise customers reduce and manage waste efficiently. to recycle used bottles and cans in In Singapore, we support the exchange for NTUC FairPrice discount government’s vision of transitioning to coupons. Since piloting them at two a Zero Waste Nation by collaborating retail malls in January 2018, we have with partners to enhance our recycling successfully collected and recycled a programmes and enabling our tenants total of 50,604 bottles and cans, as at and customers to participate as well. April 2019. We have partnered with Starhub to In Singapore, we further partnered collect and recycle e-waste for several with Greensquare Textile Recycling to years. In FY19, 15,412 kg of e-waste organise a textile recycling event at was collected from 15 commercial Alexandra Technopark. Recycling boxes properties in Singapore, a 49% increase were provided for the collection of compared to the previous year due to E-waste recycling bins at all our retail clean clothes, paired shoes, accessories and commercial properties • Singapore the increase in public awareness. and household linen. Materials & Supply Chain Frasers Hospitality Global Procurement Supplier Understanding that sustainability extends beyond our Conduct Guideline operations to our supply chain, we seek to ensure that Key standards of conduct covering the following aspects: we source safe, renewable and responsible materials • Accuracy and Completeness of Records and Reports for our business. We have implemented various • Conflicts of Interests initiatives across the Group to work towards a healthy, • Confidential or Proprietary Information and safe and responsible supply chain. Intellectual Property • Dealing with Government Officials, Government A major source of environmental impact in the real Employees, Company Customers and Suppliers estate sector comes from building materials used in • Hiring Government Officials or Government Employees construction, which account for 11% of global carbon • Equal Employee Opportunity emissions. In FY19, we procured a total of 7,341 • Sexual Harassment tonnes of steel, 581 tonnes of timber, 61,271 tonnes • Corporate Social Responsibility of concrete and 110 tonnes of granite for two ongoing construction projects and one asset enhancement project in Singapore, amounting to a total Scope 3 In Australia, our Responsible Sourcing Working Group embodied carbon content of 21,870 tCO2e. Carbon has been working to pilot new and altered processes in emissions from electricity, gas and fuel use at these our Business Process Manual to respond to Australia’s projects amounted to 1,192 tCO2e. We will continue to Modern Slavery Act that will take effect in 2020. FPA expand on data collection at our construction projects also joined a consortium of developers to work with the and look at procurement processes to reduce embodied Property Council of Australia to assess suppliers based carbon going forward. on their risk of engaging in modern slavery. A reformed Responsible Sourcing group is tasked with overseeing Frasers Hospitality (FH) has been progressively rolling and implementing the recommended changes. FPA also out its Global Procurement Supplier Conduct Guideline established a Red List database for transparent and since 2017. The guideline provides an overarching sustainable products. standard of conduct for our suppliers relating to human rights, bribery and corruption, equal employment In the UK, FH and Frasers Property UK released a Modern opportunities, sexual harassment and environmental Slavery Act 2015: Slavery and Human Trafficking management. FH intends to implement this guideline Statement last year. The statement summarised FH's across all its operating properties. approach towards modern slavery and human trafficking and identified emerging risks of modern slavery, in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act. It reiterated the business’s commitment to prevent human rights abuses and to combat modern slavery and human trafficking across its operations, and to work with the industry to share best practices. Refer to Notes, page 137 for embodied carbon reporting scope Annual Report 2019 121 Fairwater, Sydney, New South Wales • Australia Biodiversity We strive to conserve and regenerate the natural environment and aim to leave every site we develop better than when we arrived. In Australia, we target to have biodiversity management and feature plans for all projects by 2020. The plan aims to help FPA celebrate and support biodiversity and biophilia in our projects. FPA is also conscious of the Biodiversity Conservation Act, which requires developers to purchase ‘biodiversity oﬀset credits’ if their developments are deemed to aﬀect the environment negatively. We work with a specialist consultant to prepare a Biodiversity Development Assessment Report to understand our impact on the environment. In Singapore, we work closely with National Parks Board and relevant parties when our developments are located within the proximity of nature reserves and parks to Baitang One, Suzhou • China protect flora and fauna. When we developed Waterway Point, the first integrated waterfront residential and retail development at Punggol Watertown, we designed Excellence Award and the Best Living Residential walkways linking the development to the entire Environment Award for creating the most liveable waterfront promenade, surrounding waterway and parks. residential precinct from the Suzhou Government in 2019. Our development, Baitang One in Suzhou, China, In Germany, we partnered with the German Nature which is located next to Baitang Botanical Park, boasts Conservation Association to create extensive green architectural features that incorporate the park’s natural spaces at the Hermes facility in Hamburg. At our Bosch greenery which extends into, and intertwines, with the facility in Tamm, we introduced the idea of keeping recreational gardens of these homes. The project had beehives on the rooftop. Honey collected from the hives is received several awards including the Construction given away to tenants. 122 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report Focusing on People Focusing on People Why Our Our business is people-focused. We strive to create a diverse and Is Focusing equal workplace for our employees to flourish. We are committed Contribution on People to supporting and protecting the interests and well-being of our to SDGs Important? stakeholders – employees, tenants, customers and communities – through our business practices and community investments as they are key drivers of our growth and success. How Establishing policies that focus on strengthening Do We our human capital and leaving positive impacts Manage? on communities where we operate Adopting practices that build synergies for our business, people and the community Diversity & Inclusion In FY19, our headcount was 4,960, an increase of 7% All employees are integral to the Group as they bring with year-on-year due to our portfolio expansion. Our gender them diverse experiences, perspectives and cultures to distribution was relatively balanced at a ratio of 52:48, deliver on our promise of ‘experience matters’. with 2,562 male and 2,398 female employees. Women currently represent 37% of our Senior Management Team FPL upholds inclusive and fair employment practices and (including those who report directly to the Executive principles, providing employees with opportunities based Management) and 9% of our Board of Directors. Our hiring on merit. We have an open appraisal system across the rate of 39% was higher than the voluntary turnover rate Group and review each employee’s performance annually. of 34% across the Group. A higher level of voluntary We are a signatory of the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and turnover was recorded for overseas staﬀ, especially in the Progressive Employment Practices in Singapore and a labour-intensive hospitality industry, as well as among member of the Singapore National Employer Federation. non-executive staﬀ. In Singapore, our turnover rate was at a moderate 17%. Number of Employees, New Hires & Turnover by Region 6,000 4,960 5,000 4,635 4,000 57% 60% 3,000 1,946 1,920 2,000 1,559 1,700 18% 15% 80% 77% 83% 80% 1,000 25% 25% 7% 6% 5% 8% 13% 17% 12% 12% 0 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 Permanent Employees | New Hires | Voluntary Turnover Singapore | Australia | Rest of Overseas Annual Report 2019 123 Employee Profile By Type (%) By Gender (%) FY19 FY19 FY18 32 FY18 29 68 71 48 48 52 52 Executive | Non-Executive Male | Female By Age Group (%) By Country (%) FY19 FY19 15 14 7 14 FY18 FY18 25 25 27 58 56 30 40 43 18 15 7 6 <30 years old | 30-49 years old | ≥50 years old SG | AUS | PRC | EMEA | Others Employee Type by Age Group (%) Employee Type by Gender (%) 70 70 9.7 9.9 60 60 32.8 31.5 50 50 34.3 40 34.3 40 30 5.0 30 4.7 14.8 16.9 37.7 20 20 36.6 21.6 23.8 26.5 24.0 10 10 14.6 15.0 3.2 3.0 0 0 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 Executive | Non-Executive Executive | Non-Executive <30 years old | 30-49 years old | ≥50 years old Male | Female 124 Frasers Property Limited Gender Equality FPL has made significant progress in gender equality over the past few years. We aim to adopt and strengthen policies that promote gender equality and empowerment of women at all levels. In Australia, we are working on a Flexible Working Policy, gender-neutral parental leave, domestic and family violence support, through our White Ribbon accreditation, and fostering emerging talent and pathways for women into non-traditional roles. FPA Celebrating International Women’s Day, Bangkok • Thailand has become one of 141 organisations nationally and one of five in the real estate industry to be recognised as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality from the Celebrating Women Workplace Gender Equality Agency by the Australian FPL celebrated International Women’s Day globally with government. This citation is designed to encourage, month-long activities to show appreciation to our female recognise and promote active commitment to employees. We featured a weekly ‘Women in Leadership achieve gender equality in Australian workplaces, in Series’ on Workplace, panel discussions in Australia and areas such as leadership, gender remuneration gaps, Singapore and wellness perks for our female colleagues. flexible working and other initiatives to support family Employees in Thailand sent appreciation messages responsibilities, employee consultation, prevention of to their female colleagues, while the UK team hosted sex-based harassment and discrimination and targets Olympic gold-medallist Kate Richardson Walsh as an for improving gender equality outcomes. inspirational speaker. FPA is also one of the founding members of Women in During the year, an FPA Sustainability Manager was Industrial (WiN), alongside other leading institutional accepted into the highly competitive Women4Climate owners and agencies. WiN is an industry body Mentorship Programme to be mentored by Emma established to attract diversity to the industrial and Herd, CEO of Investor Group on Climate Change, in the logistics sector by oﬀering employment, educational Sydney cohort of C40's global mentorship programme. and networking opportunities to interested persons. The programme matches committed leaders from the business sector, international organisations and community organisations with emerging female leaders. The aim of the Women4Climate Mentorship Programme is to support emerging women leaders to become expert influencers while mobilising others to be influential in their eﬀorts to accelerate action on climate change. Outreach Programmes In Australia, we hosted 100 teenage girls under the Property Council Australia Girls in Property Programme, helping them gain insight into the vast range of careers available within the property industry. The programme raises awareness of female participation in the property industry and hopes to increase exposure to the various careers available to women. In Singapore, we were the only real estate company to participate in the ‘We Got Your Back’ career fair organised by Mums@Work (Singapore). The event engaged more than 160 women looking to re-enter the workforce. We shared our family-friendly policies and flexible work arrangements to ease their transition back to the workplace. Two candidates were recruited to undergo four-month paid job trials to help them resume work. Through a collaboration with Singapore's Ministry of Social and Family Development, we also provided placements for youths-at-risk for work trials, ranging from Girls in Property Programme at Central Park Mall, Sydney, three to six months, to integrate them back into society. New South Wales • Australia Annual Report 2019 125 Skills & Leadership This year, we further improved the facilities in FPL’s Training and development present prime opportunities Learning Academy by enhancing the internal broadcast for our people to future-proof their careers and upgrade capabilities. We provided webcast solutions for live their professional skills to stay relevant. We provide streaming to enable our employees to reach out and a comprehensive range of learning and development interact with our global workforce through events such programmes, developed by our global network of as Group townhalls and learning seminars or talks. During in-house specialists, to support personal and career the year, Frasers Hospitality launched its e-learning advancement that in turn leads to greater job satisfaction academy to oﬀer more than 150 online courses endorsed and motivation. by the internationally renowned Institute of Hospitality to strengthen staﬀ hospitality skills. In FY19, we dedicated more than 2.0% of our payroll cost to learning and development. Globally, our employees Apart from formal training, we also conduct other forms clocked an average of 36 training hours each. We will of knowledge sharing sessions. These include the Lunch strive to achieve 40 hours per employee per year, going and Learn Series for peer learning across the business; the forward. Approximately 40% of total training hours were Heart-to-Heart Talk Series for our younger colleagues in recorded by executive employees, while non-executives Singapore to engage with our senior leaders; The Heart accounted for 60%. This year, we started collecting of Service foundational skills programme to help our training data by gender and recorded a balanced frontline colleagues refine their service delivery skills, and 36 training hours received by both male and female the TEN Talks collection of short videos contributed from employees. Australian employees to share their knowledge, expertise and experience. A conversation with Ambassador Chan Heng Wing • Singapore Sustainability Strategy Workshop, Bangkok • Thailand Training Hours Training Hours by Gender 57 300,000 60 150,000 40 36 36 50 250,000 45 50 44 30 200,000 36 40 100,000 32 150,000 30 20 100,000 20 50,000 10 50,000 10 60,351 77,337 187,818 117,183 248,169 194,520 92,460 102,060 0 0 0 0 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 Male Female Executive | Non-Executive | All Employees FY19 Total | Average Total | Average 126 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Focusing on People Health & Well-being We monitor closely the safety of both our staﬀ and A safe and healthy working environment gives security contractors’ staﬀ working at our operating assets and to our people and establishes trust in our business. development sites. In FY19, we recorded zero fatalities We have introduced and implemented a workplace and strong improvements in our health and safety safety management system across all critical business performance, especially in our Singapore and Australia operations and monitor closely compliance with development projects. In our Singapore development procedures and policies involving risk, incident reporting, project, lost-time injury rate and severity rate of 1.3 and contractor management, health and safety auditing. The 0.4 were achieved, respectively. The lost-time injury rate system helps us to identify potential hazards, monitor and severity rate remains below Singapore's national risks and performance, conduct audits and continually average of 1.5 and 115 respectively for the construction improve our safety standards. sector. In our Australia development projects, we achieved 0.9 and 8.8, respectively. Overall, we saw a Close to 90% of our commercial and retail properties in reduction of 45% and 87% year-on-year, respectively, in Singapore are certified with OHSAS 18001 and bizSAFE lost-time injury rate and severity rate. In Singapore, we Star by the Workplace Safety and Health Council (WSHC). recorded one near-miss incident and no incidences of More than 80% of our Singapore commercial properties occupational diseases. Our performance is a testament to are also certified bizSAFE Partners by the WSHC. In the extensive health and safety initiatives implemented Australia, our residential, retail, commercial and industrial across our business. units are certified with AS/NZS 4801 (Australia/New Zealand Standard for Occupational Health & Safety). For completed properties we own and/or manage, we improved further on our safety procedures and follow up with preventive measures. The table below shows the safety records in our key locations. Corporate Singapore Australia China UK Vietnam Hospitality Oﬃce Completed Properties FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 No. of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 0 0 No. of lost-time injuries 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 35 28 No. of lost days 0 4 16 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 939 1,162 Lost-time Injury rate 0 0.3 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 2.3 1.7 Severity rate 0 1.3 6.2 0 0 0 0 0 N/A 0 N/A 0 62.6 72.4 Safety briefing at Seaside Residences development site • Singapore 1 FY18 and FY19 data coverage for corporate oﬃce: Singapore, China, Australia 2 FY18 health and safety data for our hospitality business has been restated to include properties which the data were not made available during the reporting period 3 Lost-time injury rate = No. of Workplace Accidents Reported / No. of Manhours Worked x 1,000,000 4 Severity rate = No. of Man Days Lost to Workplace Accidents / No. of Manhours Worked x 1,000,000 Annual Report 2019 127 Safety Risk Management In Singapore, we engaged Aetos, a security consultant In Australia, we launched ‘Our Risk Standards’ in April this to conduct a safety audit on all our retail and oﬃce year in all oﬃces and at operational sites. We worked properties. The audit focused on maintenance and with employees, industry and consultants to develop improvement measures for each of the malls. One of the engaging and proactive products to support our teams recommendations we adopted was installing bollards in managing our most high-risk activities. These products at our drop-oﬀ points to prevent car-ramming to ensure include posters, animation videos and magnets to keep pedestrian safety at our malls. safety controls at the front of mind. Each construction site had its own launch event and was provided with materials ‘Walk-the-Mall’ was launched at Waterway Point, for display and use, prompting one of our contractors to Singapore in February 2019 as an initiative to identify take a copy and look to influence their own organisation to safety risks and encourage open conversations on safety make improvements. The standards apply to all employees, issues in the work environment. During the walks, senior contractors and visitors. The controls are monitored closely management of Frasers Property Singapore (FPS) and and applied when conducting high-risk activities. the centre management team would tour the mall together, explore and discuss improvements to the safety In the UK, we introduced a Health and Safety Policy, a standards for our employees. The second walk was held at significant step to reinforce our commitment to health Northpoint City in May 2019. and safety. Our management team, asset management team, and residential concierge team are certified by the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health to support the implementation of the policy across the business. Senior management from FPS 'Walk-the-Mall' SGSecure Roadshow at Northpoint City • Singapore at Northpoint City • Singapore Safety Culture and Outreach store in the mall, involving oﬃcers from the Singapore The Workplace Safety & Health Award was launched Police Force and the Singapore Civil Defence Force as well in February this year to recognise staﬀ in Singapore for as our mall tenants and employees. At the roadshows, their outstanding eﬀorts and contributions in fostering visitors with life-saving skills such as cardio-pulmonary a culture of safety and health in our workplace. The first resuscitation, defibrillation, basic fire-fighting, firstaward went to a Senior Building Manager at Northpoint aid and psychological first aid could sign up to become City to recognise a safety improvement solution for SGSecure Responders. service staﬀ who need to access areas at height. In Singapore, FPS is part of the SGSecure movement, a national movement focused on raising corporate and public awareness on terrorism threats. Northpoint City hosted the launch of the SGSecure Roadshow themed ‘Our Response Matters. We Make SGSecure’. The roadshow aimed to show the public ways to prevent, deal with and recover from a terrorist attack. The roadshow featured a live simulation of a terror attack at a clothing 128 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Focusing on People Safety Accolades Work-Life Balance In the UK, FPL and its main project contractor, FPL cares and strives to create balance in our people’s Galliford Try plc, received a Silver Award for Nine lives and work. We invest in employee well-being as part Eastfields at this year’s Considerate Constructors of our engagement with our employees. Scheme National Site Awards. The Considerate Constructors Scheme’s National Site Awards Scheme In Australia and Singapore, employees are given the looks at the measures a site has put in place to be choice of flexible work arrangements such as working more considerate towards local neighbourhoods, the from home. This allows employees, especially caregivers public, the workforce, and the environment. with children or elderly parents, to balance their work and responsibilities at home. In Singapore, we have designated In Australia, we have been recognised by the Oﬃce every last Friday of the school semester as Eat With Your of the Federal Safety Commissioner (OFSC) for having Family Day, where employees are encouraged to leave ‘Demonstrated a track record of good performance’. work early to spend quality time over dinner with their The Federal Safety Commissioner works with industry families. and government stakeholders to achieve the highest possible workplace health and safety standards on Australian building and construction projects. The OFSC commissioner also recognised FLT’s consistent and robust safety performance, deeming it a lowrisk contractor and waiving future requirements to undertake the OFSC reaccreditation process. Staﬀ Wellness For three years running, we dedicated the month of August as ‘Health and Safety Month’ at FPL. This year’s theme, ‘LIVE.WORK.PLAY.SAFE’ sought to enable and empower our employees to stay safe day-to-day at all times. Throughout the month, we organised various activities for our employees in Singapore. These included health screenings, a global wellness challenge, a walk-jog outing, workstation exercises, a film on emotional well-being, a talk on healthy eating, and Workplace sharing on health and safety tips. More than 1,000 staﬀ and external parties, including tenants and guests from over 110 properties, participated in the month's activities. Since July 2019, the first week of every oddnumbered month has been designated as ‘Weeks of Wellness’ to empower our employees to take better care of themselves, both physically and mentally. These are themed weeks focusing on diﬀerent aspects of healthy lifestyles. Six themes have been determined through to 2020. Relevant tips, articles and videos are shared on Workplace to raise awareness among staﬀ on healthy living. FPL's Annual Family Day at Alexandra Technopark • Singapore On 15 June 2019, the Group organised the annual Family Day in Alexandra Technopark for more than 200 employees. The Family Day was centred around the Group’s ‘Kampung’ spirit to create an atmosphere of togetherness, for our employees to interact and bond with their families and colleagues. The event provided a wide variety of food and snacks, entertainment and retro kampung style games, with S$10,000 worth of Frasers Property Digital Gift card prizes given out. Annual Report 2019 129 Community Connectedness We recognise the importance of utilising our expertise and resources to influence how the community is designed, formed and managed. It is our priority to increase the social value of our communities through strategic stakeholder partnerships, volunteerism and corporate philanthropy. In Australia, we implemented a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy last year to reflect the business’s commitment and responsibility to customers, stakeholders, employees and the communities. Inclusive and Enhanced Retail Spaces In another creative eﬀort, we gathered 48 employees from In Singapore, we launched 'Inclusive Spaces' as an eight malls in Singapore for a placemaking challenge aimed innovation challenge to bring together young people, at enhancing customers’ retail experiences. Participating our employees and members of community groups to teams needed to pitch their ideas, including budgeting co-design strategies to create more inclusive spaces at and implementation costs, on how to make the mall a our malls. This year’s focus was on mall inclusivity for place where people would want to visit and linger. The persons with physical disabilities. Working in teams, the shortlisted ideas were implemented at Bedok Point and participants created innovative solutions over two weeks Waterway Point. before presenting their proposals to a judging panel. ‘Blurring Social Barriers’ was the winning proposal, which used creative and barrier-free furniture set in an open space concept. Mall patrons with disabilities would be able to pre-book a table digitally, while mall tenants could extend their holding capacity during peak hours in a comfortable and inclusive manner. 'Inclusive Spaces' innovation challenge • Singapore 130 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Focusing on People Stakeholder Satisfaction In FY19, we managed to capture over 90% of our As we own and manage various properties, we seek our homebuyers’ experience in Singapore using a digital customers’ feedback to develop and design better places. platform. Our home collection experience and live-in We conduct annual surveys to gauge the satisfaction of experience averaged 85% and 72%, respectively. The our customers and tenants to identify and manage their surveys showed that our homebuyers appreciated the expectations to remain competitive in the industry. experience with us throughout the process of owning a house. Our FY19 Office Tenants Survey in Singapore found that our tenants’ satisfaction level increased to 98%, To gauge satisfaction levels among industrial tenants, as compared to 97% in FY18. The annual customer FPT rolled out its first customer experience and satisfaction survey is part of our ongoing effort to foster relationship assessment this year. This survey aimed to closer partnerships with our commercial properties’ ensure our tenants would continue to renew their leases stakeholders. or expand their rented space. We achieved average ratings of 76% and 83% for overall leasing experience Frasers Hospitality Guests’ Experience Survey collected and service standards. Moving forward, this satisfaction 95,950 guest reviews and ratings. This year saw survey will be conducted annually to ensure customers improvements in positive reviews, popularity score and are continuously satisfied with the quality of space and performance score. services provided. Office Tenants’ Experience (%) Hospitality Guests’ Experience (%) 100 100 80 80 60 60 70 70 67 78 72 90 91 90 90 88 88 40 40 82 83 80 20 20 24 24 29 19 26 0 0 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Positive reviews Popularity score Performance score Satisfied to Very Satisfied | Neutral to Satisfied FY17 | FY18 | FY19 Homebuyers’ Experience (%) Industrial Tenants' Experience (%) 100 100 80 80 60 60 78 82 83 87 85 76 78 78 76 72 76 83 40 40 20 20 0 0 How was your home How is everything? Overall Leasing Experience Overall Performance by Team collection experience? FY15 | FY16 | FY17 | FY18 | FY19 FY19 Annual Report 2019 131 Local Community Partnerships eﬀort, Farnborough Business Park hosted a Workplace In Australia, we partnered with Resilient Melbourne Experience Day where underprivileged children from and Wyndham City Council to identify opportunities for underperforming secondary schools, who were unlikely to participatory development models that would enhance be exposed to the working world, visited five businesses social connectedness in Mambourin. In the partnership in the park to learn about their industries, the type which lasts through 2022, FPA is engaging with local of roles they oﬀered and the benefits of working for aboriginal elders, Co-Design Studio, Neighbourlytics these companies. The feedback from the children was and the Foundation for Young Australians to support exceptionally positive. community-led placemaking, use analytical tools that will strengthen Mambourin’s new community, and In Thailand, One Bangkok held a two-month ‘Future build multi-cultural and intergenerational leadership of Bangkok’ art programme for 477 students from and connections. Future residents of Mambourin will Plukchit School, Klongtoey Wittaya School and Sunee be involved early in the development of the site with a Pittaya School located in the Rama IV area. Selected view to building the community from the ground up and guest teachers were brought in to educate participating strengthening social cohesion. students on specific art skills and techniques to help them develop art pieces of what they envisioned Bangkok to Our Reconciliation Action Plan in Australia celebrated its look like in the future. One Bangkok also hosted an awards first anniversary in July 2019. The plan aims to collaborate ceremony to present scholarships to winning students. with Australia’s Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander People to design communities and projects that take into The PARQ was one of the main sponsors of the Half consideration the interest of the aboriginal population. It Marathon Bangkok 2019. The event was held to honour charts our commitments until July 2020, with 59 targets in Her Majesty Queen Sirikit during her 87th birthday. The the pipeline. Within the first year, we achieved 37 of these event also raised funds for the Queen Sirikit Centre for targets and also tripled our spend on indigenous vendors Breast Cancer, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital and from A$50,000 to A$150,000 in the last financial year. Thai Red Cross Society. Each oﬃce in Australia held an event to celebrate National Reconciliation Week in May 2019. In Singapore, Alexandra Technopark commemorated the nation’s 54th year of independence with a pop-up booth to In the UK, Farnborough Business Park is a founding reimagine Alexandra’s history and heritage through four member of The Community Matters Partnership Project experiential activities in August 2019. Through interactive (CMPP). CMPP is a Farnborough-based charity that exhibitions, staﬀ, customers, tenants and nearby addresses social needs in the local area by harnessing communities explored Alexandra’s industrial heritage. Past the resources, skills and manpower of local businesses residents from Alexandra community and volunteer guides to support local charities, schools and community from the My Community heritage group conducted free groups who are in need. CMPP runs bespoke projects, monthly tours around the Labrador and Alexandra vicinity organises volunteering and raises funds. Under this to share the area’s heritage with visitors. 'The Future of Bangkok' art programme, Bangkok • Thailand 132 Frasers Property Limited Sustainability Report • Focusing on People Community Support 122 kg worth of edible products were collected from In addition to creating sustainable spaces and Alexandra Point's tenants. With the kind donations of communities, we contribute to society, both financially our shoppers, Bedok Point and YewTee Point jointly and in-kind. We are committed to building resilience contributed 800 kg of rice to Shan You Wellness in communities where we operate. In FY19, the Group Centre with rice repacked into rations for the old and contributed over S$1 million of in-kind and monetary underprivileged in the neighbourhood. In August 2019, donations, and 7,600 volunteer hours to various charities our One Bangkok project continued to build goodwill with and community groups. We have also carried out more its local communities by contributing nine air-conditioning than 480 community investment activities throughout units to Plookchit School. the Group globally. Our staﬀ joined in the spirit of giving by volunteering their This year, we presented 89 Frasers Property Bursary time to serve the community. One team of volunteers Awards to our colleagues' children, the highest number of from FCOT packed almost 200 bags of food rations for awards given out to date. Since 2014, when the bursary beneficiaries of the Shan You Wellness Community. was first established, we have given out 349 awards. Similarly, other volunteers in Singapore packed and distributed 200 food bundles collected across 10 malls In Australia, we continued supporting Smiling Mind, a to vulnerable seniors living in oneor two-room flats in non-profit organisation that aims to enhance mental September 2019. Another team, from Group Internal Audit, health and well-being through mindfulness. As at brought lunar new year festive cheer to the intellectually September 2019, more than 36,540 school children disabled at MINDS Eunos, by assisting them in baking across 44 schools country-wide had benefitted from peanut cookies under the MINDS’ ‘Bake and Sing with Me this charitable partnership. In addition, the partnership Too!’ programme. trained 1,827 teachers and is now focusing on organising workshops to help parents practise mindfulness. In Australia, 25 colleagues from FPA in Sydney volunteered to clean up Coogee Beach with Take 3 for We also supported the community through in-kind the Sea. This event was part of Plastic Free July, a global donations. Since April 2018, Alexandra Point has adopted movement that helps millions of people be part of the donation boxes from The Food Bank Singapore. Over solution to plastic pollution. FPA staﬀ cleaned up Coogee Beach in Sydney, New South Wales • Australia Frasers Property Bursary Awards • Singapore Annual Report 2019 133 Industry Sharing Across the year, FPL was invited to several speaking engagements – including media interviews, and tertiary and industry conferences – to share our perspectives and experiences on the real estate industry and sustainability. Some of the topics our representatives spoke about included business trends, clean technology, the evolution of retail, resilient buildings and our sustainability journey. As a forerunner in green financing, we also shared our viewpoint on sustainability-linked loans and how it is a natural extension of our sustainability focus. Among the interviews we gave and events we participated in were: • APLMA Green & Sustainable Finance Conference Singapore • Bloomberg ASEAN Business Summit Thailand • Forbes Global CEO Conference Thailand • Future Cities Summit Australia • Germany Logistics Conference Germany • Green Building Council Australia’s Green Building Day Australia • MONEY FM 89.3 Interview Singapore • National Clean Technologies Conference Australia • Property Council of Australia Retail Outlook Australia • PWC Asia Pacific Real Estate Conference 2018 Singapore • REITAS Conference 2019 Singapore • Savills Australia & New Zealand 'Shops & Sheds' Australia Bloomberg Asean Business Summit, Bangkok • Thailand National Clean Technologies Conference, Brisbane • Australia Interview with MONEY FM89.3 on Green Financing • Singapore 134 Frasers Property Limited GRI Content Index GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and 2016 Number Title Page Reference/Notes Universal Standards Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Frasers Property Limited 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Corporate Narrative, pg. 2 Our Businesses, pg. 4-5 Our Multi-national Presence, pg. 6-7 102-3 Location of headquarters Corporate Information, Inside back cover 102-4 Location of operations Our Multi-national Presence, pg. 6-7 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate Narrative, pg. 2 Our Businesses, pg. 4-5 Our Milestones, pg. 8-9 Group Structure, pg. 10 102-6 Markets served Corporate Narrative, pg. 2 Our Businesses, pg. 4-5 Business Review pg. 38-91 102-7 Scale of the organisation Corporate Narrative, pg. 2 Our Businesses, pg. 4-5 Financial Highlights, pg. 11 Focusing on People – Diversity & Inclusion, pg. 122-123 102-8 Information on employees and other Focusing on People – Diversity & Inclusion, pg. 122-123, workers Health & Well-being, pg. 126 102-9 Supply chain Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 102-103 Consuming Responsibly – Materials & Supply Chain, pg. 120 Focusing on People – Health & Well-being, pg. 126 102-10 Significant changes to organisation and About This Report – Report Scope, pg. 97 its supply chain GRI 102: General 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach FPL does not specifically refer to the precautionary Disclosures approach when managing risk; however, our management approach is risk-based, and underpinned by our internal audit framework. 102-12 External initiatives Acting Progressively – Responsible Investment, pg. 111 102-13 Membership of associations Acting Progressively – Responsible Investment, pg. 111 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Board Statement, pg. 98 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms Acting Progressively – Risk-based Management, of behaviour pg. 106 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Information, Inside back cover Board of Directors, pg. 12-18 Group Management, pg. 19-23 Managing Sustainability – Sustainability Governance, pg. 101 Corporate Governance, pg. 143-173 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 102 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements There are no collective bargaining agreements in place. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 102-103 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 102-103 Annual Report 2019 135 GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and 2016 Number Title Page Reference/Notes Universal Standards Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Group Structure, pg. 10 financial statements Notes to the Financial Statements, pg. 197-349 102-46 Defining report content and topic About This Report – Report Scope, pg. 97 Boundaries Our Sustainability Framework, pg. 99 Managing Sustainability – Materiality Assessment, pg. 104-105 102-47 List of material topics Managing Sustainability – Materiality Assessment, pg. 104-105 102-48 Restatements of information Restatement of Green Star certification data in page 108 to be consistent on computational basis. Restatements of energy, GHG emissions and water data in pages 117-118 due to change in portfolio coverage and updates on carbon emission factors for some countries. GRI 102: General Restatement of health and safety data in page 126 Disclosures due to updates in portfolio coverage in FY18. 102-49 Changes in reporting Managing Sustainability – Materiality Assessment, pg. 104-105 This year, additional disclosures are reported. 102-50 Reporting period About This Report, pg. 97 102-51 Date of most recent report December 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding About This Report – Feedback, pg. 97 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with About This Report, pg. 97 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, pg. 134-137 102-56 External assurance We have not sought external assurance on this data; however we intend to review this stance in the future. Material Topics Management Approach GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Managing Sustainability Materiality Assessment, Management boundary pg. 104-105 Approach Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management FPL Group Strategy, pg. 2 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Financial Highlights, pg. 11 Economic distributed Financial Statements, pg. 174-349 Performance Anti-corruption 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Acting Progressively – Risk-based Management, approach pg. 106-107 GRI 205: Anti205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and corruption actions taken Environmental Compliance 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Acting Progressively – Risk-based Management, 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental pg. 106-107 GRI 307: laws and regulations Environmental Compliance 136 Frasers Property Limited GRI Content Index GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and 2016 Number Title Page Reference/Notes Topic-specific Standards Marketing and Labelling 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Acting Progressively – Risk-based Management, 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning pg. 106-107 GRI 417: marketing communications Marketing and Labelling Energy and Emissions 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 302-1 Energy consumption within the Consuming Responsibly – Energy & Carbon, organisation pg. 116-117 GRI 302: Energy 302-3 Energy intensity GRI 305: 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Water 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Consuming Responsibly – Water, pg. 118 Management Water consumed is from purchased utilities, with Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management rainwater harvested for non-potable uses in certain approach properties. GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Employment, Training and Education 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Focusing on People – Diversity & Inclusion, pg. 122, Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management Skills & Leadership, pg. 125 Approach approach GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee Focusing on People – Diversity & Inclusion, pg. 122 Employment turnover 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee Focusing on People – Skills & Leadership, pg. 125 GRI 404: Training skills and transition assistance and Education programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Managing Sustainability – Stakeholder Engagement, regular performance and career pg. 102-103, development reviews Focusing on People – Diversity and Inclusion, pg 122 Labour/Management Relations 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Focusing on People – Diversity & Inclusion, pg. 122 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 402: Labour/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding This is currently not covered in Group-wide Management operational changes collective agreements. The notice period varies. Relations Occupational Health and Safety 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Focusing on People – Health & Well-being, pg. 126 Management Acting Progressively – Risk-based Management, 103-3 Evaluation of the management Approach pg. 106-107 approach 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint FPL has a Health and Safety senior management management–worker health and safety committee. GRI 403: committees Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Health and Safety occupational diseases, lost days, and Focusing on People – Health & Well-being, pg. 126 absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities Local Communities 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Focusing on People – Community Connectedness, approach pg. 129-133 GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community Local engagement, impact assessments, Communities and development programmes Annual Report 2019 137 GRI Standards Disclosure Disclosure Section and 2016 Number Title Page Reference/Notes Additional Disclosures Emerging Topic – Anti-Competitive Behaviour GRI 103: 103-2 The management approach and its Management components Approach Acting Progressively – Risk-based Management, GRI 206: Anti103-3 Evaluation of the management pg. 106-107 competitive approach behaviour Emerging Topic – Materials 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Consuming Responsibly – Materials & Supply Chain, Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management pg. 120 approach GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Emerging Topic – Biodiversity 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Consuming Responsibly – Biodiversity, pg. 121 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, GRI 304: managed in, or adjacent to, protected Biodiversity areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emerging Topic – Effluents and Waste 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Consuming Responsibly – Waste, pg. 119 approach GRI 306: Effluents 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method and Waste Emerging Topic – Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its GRI 103: components Management Board of Directors, pg. 12-18 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management Group Management, pg. 19-23 approach Focusing on People – Diversity & Inclusion, GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and pg. 122-124 and Equal employees Opportunity Notes Energy and Water Reporting Scope • Electricity consumption and GHG emissions reported is inclusive of all completed properties that we own and/or manage with significant operational control in FY19, which are the landlord areas for commercial properties in Singapore, Australia, China, Vietnam and the UK, and total area for serviced residences and hotels • Energy and GHG intensities exclude both newly completed properties and properties divested within FY19 • The GHG emission factors are from Energy Market Authority – Singapore Energy Statistics 2019, Australia National Greenhouse Accounts Factors 2018, Climate Transparency – G20 Brown to Green Report 2017 for Spain, Hungary, Turkey, India, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, France, Switzerland and Saudi Arabia, UK Government GHG Reporting 2017, 2018 and 2019, Institute for Global Environmental Strategies – List of Grid Emission Factors 2019 for United Arab Emirates, International Energy Agency – Key World Energy Statistics 2010 for Bahrain and Qatar, Baseline Emission Factors for Regional Power Grids in China 2017, Study on Grid Connected Baselines in Malaysia 2014, National Grid Emission Factor for National Emission Grid for Luzon-Visayas Grid 20152017 for Philippines, Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organisation 2017, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Vietnam 2017, Association of Issuing Bodies for Germany, Clean Development Mechanism – Grid Emission Factor for West African Power Pool 2017 for Nigeria, International Energy and Environment Foundation – International Journal of Energy And Environment Issue 4, 2013 for Oman • Water consumption reported is inclusive of all completed properties that we own and/or manage with significant operational control in FY19, which are the landlord areas for commercial properties in Singapore, Australia, China, Vietnam and the UK, and total area for serviced residences and hotels • Water intensities exclude both newly completed properties and properties divested within FY19 Embodied Carbon Reporting Scope • The GHG emissions factors are from Energy Market Authority – Singapore Energy Statistics 2019 for electricity, UK Government GHG Reporting, 2019 for gas and fuel, and Inventory of Carbon & Energy (ICE) Version 2.0 and 3.0 for building materials
