32 De La Rue Annual Report 2020 Responsible business Responsible business Enabling everyone to participate De La Rue is a signatory to the UN securely in the global economy Global Compact, and I am pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment remains the focus of our to the initiative and its principles. business as we continue to support economies and financial Further information about the ways in which De La Rue as a business systems across the world. supports a fairer, more prosperous Clear policies on the environment, human and secure future is available on rights, labour rights and ethical issues our website www.delarue.com including anti-corruption within our business and its supply chain are integral Clive Vacher to this purpose and ensure that we Chief Executive Officer continue to run our business sustainably. We are committed to We are committed to minimising, as far as is appropriate, the impact running our business of our operations on the environment. sustainably.” We set clear environmental goals Environment and report against them each year. We share our commitment and standards with our suppliers and partners. For more information see pages 33 and 34 We fully support the principles set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the guidelines of the International Labour Organisation, Human rights and including equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination. social matters For more information see pages 35 to 38 We are committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in our operations and in our supply chain. We insist on the highest health and Labour rights safety standards and provide training across the organisation to ensure all employees understand and are aware of their responsibilities. For more information see pages 38 and 39 We are committed to preventing our employees, third party partners, other representatives, contractors, consultants or other third parties from Anti-corruption engaging in bribery or other corrupt practices and implement a robust framework of anti-bribery policies and processes. For more information see page 40 De La Rue Annual Report 2020 33 Strategic report Environment Corporate Governance We are committed to minimising, Delivering against objectives as far as is appropriate, the impact Senior management regularly review our environmental management results. of our operations on the environment Progress against 2019/20 environmental objectives is detailed below: while ensuring the sustainability of the Objective Progress products we offer and the future of An absolute energy reduction Over the year we reduced our energy consumption by 12%. our manufacturing sites. We set clear target of -2.1% per year until 2021 environmental goals and report (set on a science based trajectory). against them each year. We share Across the sites we achieved our targets on our Sustainability To track our sustainability KPI at our commitment and standards operational sites of energy used KPI with good improvements at Kenya, Sri Lanka, Malta and with our suppliers and partners. (kWh) per tonne of good output Westhoughton sites. Gateshead was affected by the closure of one production line during the year coupled with a site base load against a target of -5% per annum. Financial statements We continue to participate in the Carbon and Debden with its relatively new machinery was level for most Disclosure Project, a global disclosure of the year. system for investors, companies, cities, To improve our waste segregation Our polymer printing waste from the Debden site is securely states and regions to manage their and recycling/reuse options for granulated on site and sent for mono-material recycling and environmental impacts, and have this our polymer waste streams. reprocessing into new BOPP pellets used for new processes. year achieved a score of B-, a year on Our polymer substrate manufacturing waste from the year improvement. We work with our Westhoughton site is securely granulated on site and sent for customers to reduce environmental blended material recycling and reprocessing into new plastic materials used for new processes. impacts and, in addition to the case study on Samoa on page 35, examples We are reviewing our mixed waste processes at Gateshead to see if we can segregate polymer-based waste for recycling. of our environmental stewardship To roll out further education New Environmental Awareness training materials have been include: aiming towards zero to landfill in on environmental awareness to uploaded to our online employee training platform for use Shareholder information the UK; a move towards science based >80% of operational employees during 2020 across the manufacturing sites. goals where possible; commitment to across the Group. a Group HSE Sustainability policy and maintaining ISO 14001 certification. Our environmental goals/objectives for 2020/21 are: Our research and development function •• To continue driving energy reduction to achieve -2.1% per year until 2021 reviews and assesses environmental (set on a science-based trajectory) when we will review across the business impacts of new products being •• To roll out the new environmental awareness training to >80% of operational developed according to our technical employees across the Group manual and we aim to provide our •• To widen our application of sustainability principles across key areas of our supply customers with the opportunity to recycle chain and developments our Safeguard polymer notes as an alternative to landfill or incineration. •• To ensure that all capital expenditures and product/process developments have We work with our customers to reduce a level of environmental impact analysis to consider the best decisions and options environmental impacts together. to be made To reduce the impact of our activities Energy efficiency measures on the environment, during the year we In the period covered by the report, De La Rue has implemented and tracked various offset travel and accommodation costs energy saving activities across the business. An overview of the key energy efficiency for our delegates and exhibitors at measures undertaken by De La Rue are noted below: several events in which we participated. •• At our Gateshead site in late 2018 significant energy efficiency works occurred with the Carbon offsetting projects we have replacement of chillers, compressed air system and upgrading the Building Management supported this year, working with Carbon System (BMS) control systems. This is the first full year of the site utilising the new systems, Footprint Ltd, included a tree planting which has resulted in a 2,800,000 kWh (23%) reduction in electricity consumption project in the Great Rift Valley, Kenya. •• A significant number of energy measures are being undertaken across the site in Malta. These measures include installing a new chilled water network, installing a centralised compressed air system and replacing the old chiller system. Combined, these measures are anticipated to save in the region of 2.5 million kWh per annum •• Sub-metering has been rolled out across our Debden site, which will monitor energy usage on large process equipment. This will enable the site team to better understand how the site can operate more efficiently and support the identification of future energy efficiency measures 34 De La Rue Annual Report 2020 Responsible business continued Greenhouse gas emissions year on year comparison for FY 2019/20 2019/20 2018/19 UK Global* UK Global* UK Global* % of % of % of % of % Difference Type of emissions Activity tCO2 e total tCO2 e total tCO2e total tCO2e total in emissions Direct (Scope 1) Natural gas 2,618 20.1% 75 0.5% 2,491 13.0% 67 0.4% 5% 11% Other fuels 6 0.0% 452 3.1% 5 0.0% 385 2.3% 23% 17% Process emissions 1,496 11.5% – 0.0% 1,496 7.8% – 0.0% 0% n/a Fugitive emissions 95 0.7% 228 1.5% 0 0.0% – 0.0% n/a n/a Owned vehicles 46 0.4% 88 0.6% 21 0.1% 82 0.5% 118% 7% Subtotal 4,262 32.7% 842 5.7% 4,013 21.0% 534 3.2% 6% 58% Indirect (Scope 2) Electricity 5,304 40.7% 10,244 69.4% 8,006 41.9% 12,048 72.0% (34%) (15%) Subtotal 5,304 40.7% 10,244 69.4% 8,006 41.9% 12,048 72.0% (34%) (15%) Total Scope 1 and 2 Subtotal 9,566 73.4% 11,087 75.1% 12,019 62.9% 12,582 75.2% (20%) (12%) Indirect other (Scope 3) Rail travel 5.4 0.0% – 0.0% 4.5 0.0% 0.3 0.0% 21% (100%) Air travel 1,606 12.3% 329 2.2% 4,463 23.4% 589.3 3.5% (64%) (44%) Non-owned vehicles 28 0.2% – 0.0% 93 0.5% – 0.0% (69%) n/a Business travel 1,640 12.6% 329 2.2% 4,560 23.4% 590 3.5% (64%) (44%) Water 37 0.3% 52 0.4% 53 0.3% 41 0.2% (30%) 29% WTT all scopes 1,790 13.7% 3,303 22.4% 2,466 12.9% 3,519 21.0% (27%) (6%) Subtotal 3,467 26.6% 3,685 24.9% 7,079 37.1% 4,150 24.8% (51%) (11%) Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 13,033 14,772 19,098 16,731 (32%) (12%) Total gross emissions (tCO2e) UK and Global 27,804 35,830 (22%) Energy consumption used to calculate Scope 1 and 2 emissions/kWh 35,208,116 25,613,721 Note: * Global represents all sites outside of the UK. Intensity metric 2019/20 2018/19 % Difference UK Global* UK Global* UK Global* Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 13,033 14,772 19,098 16,731 (32%) (12%) Revenue (£m) 109.8 316.9 101.1 415.5 9% (24%) Intensity ratio: Tonnes of gross CO2e per million GB £ turnover 118.70 46.61 188.90 40.27 (37%) 16% Intensity ratio UK and Global: Tonnes of gross CO2e per million GB £ turnover 65.2 69.4 (6%) Note: * Global represents all sites outside of the UK. Methodology As a large, quoted company, De La Rue is required to report its energy use and carbon emissions in accordance with the Companies (Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018. The data detailed in this table represent emissions and energy use for which De La Rue is responsible, including electricity, gas use, process and fugitive emissions in our offices. We have used the main requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard to calculate our emissions, along with the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2019. De La Rue Annual Report 2020 35 Strategic report First carbon neutral banknotes Human rights and social matters Corporate Governance We fully support the principles set Our commitment to achieving an inclusive out in the UN Declaration of Human workforce can be demonstrated by the Rights, in particular with regard to following initiatives and activities: equal opportunity and freedom from •• We celebrate diversity and our Women’s discrimination. We have effective Networks are well established in many management systems in place to protect sites with events such as lunchtime human rights. Our Code of Business discussion groups led by employees. Principles covers human rights issues including employment principles, health •• In March 2020 events were held In June 2019, the Central at some of our sites to celebrate Bank of Samoa unveiled the and safety, anti-bribery and corruption and the protection of personal information. International Women’s Day. The theme Financial statements first known carbon neutral this year was ‘Each for Equal’ and polymer banknote to celebrate The Code also highlights that we seek to provide an environment where employees provided an opportunity to raise the the XVI Pacific Games, leading profile of gender and wider diversity the industry and helping to can raise any concerns via a variety of mechanisms, including a whistleblowing issues across the Group. combat global climate change. •• At our head office we have hosted our The 10 Tala note was designed hotline known as ‘CodeLine’ which is managed by an external third party, and local MP who holds regular Inspiring by De La Rue and printed on our Women events in the local community. Safeguard® polymer substrate. a network of Ethics Champions across the Group where issues can be raised •• Some sites showed support for women in confidence. in their local communities by collecting The Central Bank of Samoa essential items such as toiletries and and De La Rue are both The business has remedial processes food for women’s refuges. extremely proud to have been in place should there be any human •• Every manager and employee has Shareholder information able to work with Carbon rights infringements. These include Footprint Ltd to make this responsibility for the implementation claims procedures and trade union banknote Carbon Neutral by of our inclusivity and associated engagement procedures. offsetting the emissions from policies and procedures such production used through Equality and diversity as stress management, grievance funding an equivalent carbon We treat our employees fairly and equally and fairness and respect. dioxide saving elsewhere. irrespective of their gender, transgender •• Flexible working policies are in place and For this banknote, the carbon status, sexual orientation, religion or every application is carefully considered. impact of both the materials belief, marital status, civil partnership Our long term commitment to eliminate and manufacturing process status, age, colour, nationality, national any gender pay gap remains. As at have been calculated and origin, disability or trade union affiliation. 5 April 2019 our gender pay gap was offset by supporting a power 14.10% (mean) or 15.78% (median) and We recognise the positive impact that generation project in Indonesia. the bonus gap was 52.62% (mean) a diverse and inclusive workforce has on the success of the business and therefore or 12.44% (median). actively seek to recruit people with diverse Analysis has shown us that changes backgrounds, experience and ways since the pay gaps were first reported of thinking and working. in 2017 are due primarily to a number We can see that the initiatives and of significant organisational changes policies we have put in place are effective during this period that have impacted through an increase in the score in our the figures making it premature to engagement survey in response to the draw any conclusions on trends. statement ‘De La Rue recognises and We are confident that we do not respects the value of human differences’ have issues of equal pay and remain (71% in 2017 to 81% in 2019). committed to increasing the number of women in senior roles which we believe to be the underlying reason behind the gap. 36 De La Rue Annual Report 2020 Responsible business continued Gender diversity as at The male to female ratio for Senior Leaders 28 March 2020 at the end of the financial year was 65:35 and we are pleased that we have achieved Employees alignment with the overall UK workforce ratio of 69:31 and our aim of increasing the proportion of women within our senior leadership to 30% by 2020. Our focus is maintained on improving the diversity of our shortlists through our talent and succession planning processes and work with our recruitment partners. Our Sri Lanka site held their Family Engagement Day 2019 for 640 colleagues and We engage with our employees on their family members at Jetwing Lagoon in Negombo. a regular basis in a variety of ways on matters of concern to them, including matters relating to the performance of the In 2019 we held our third annual global Male 1,684 Company to ensure that communications art exhibition celebrating the talent of Female 748 are accessible by everyone wherever our people through a variety of mediums they are based. Methods include regular from photography, painting and crafts. calls hosted by the Chief Executive The art is displayed in head office then Senior Management shared virtually in our sites. Officer, Newsflashes circulated via email and printed and displayed at To enable people to collaborate more sites, a companywide intranet and easily wherever they are based we have engagement with employee forums. rolled out Office 365 and Microsoft Teams Feedback is always welcome and and this is becoming well embedded we have a network of communications as a way of communicating and champions across our sites who regularly working together. talk to colleagues to share information Wherever possible we recognise and gather ideas and feedback related significant days across our sites – in to how we communicate. 2019 this included World Environment Our 2019 engagement survey gave Day, World Mental Health Day and us valuable insight into our employees’ International Women’s Day. Male 17 perspective on where they work. In line with the 2018 Corporate Female 9 Generating feedback is a real opportunity Governance Code, the Board has for us to build a deeper understanding appointed a Non-executive Director of what matters to our employees, Executive Management responsible for engagement with and how we can improve our business. the workforce, Maria da Cunha. With an 84% response rate, we used the Maria is required to support the feedback to kick off further discussions Board’s objective of gathering the which enabled us to build tailored action views of the workforce at all levels plans at team level. throughout the organisation Since the establishment of our Currency to inform its decision making. and Authentication divisions employees We recognise that different sections receive regular updates about the area of the workforce will have different in which they work through regular interests and priorities and a combination calls where questions are welcome of engagement methods are necessary and answered openly. to gain a thorough insight into the culture Employee recognition remains a key and concerns at different levels within Male 4 component of our engagement strategy the organisation. Female 3 and we use a global recognition platform During the year, Maria has worked with to enable employees and managers to our national employee forums, meeting send thanks and recognise celebrations with both the UK Forum and European such as work anniversaries and birthdays. Employee Forum (EEF) to agree how 2019 saw our fourth annual Above and best to ensure meaningful engagement. Beyond event take place, celebrating outstanding achievements by our employees. This is in addition to local site recognition events. De La Rue Annual Report 2020 37 Strategic report We conducted a visit to our Debden Training and development site which included a walkaround with There has been significant shift, changes trade union site representatives and and challenges in the business this a visit to another UK site is planned financial year which have had an impact for the coming financial year. on delivering learning and development Corporate Governance In February 2020 Maria met with initiatives. With a reorganisation and the UK Forum representatives to brief challenging financial position and now them specifically on the remuneration combating COVID-19, face to face policy changes proposed. training initiatives have been withdrawn. It is expected that we will continue This has given us the opportunity to to utilise established communications look at further utilising our Learning channels on an ongoing basis to Management System and we have engage with our employees and continued to build content in a number seek their views including: of areas to encourage employees’ learning and curiosity. We have added •• Ongoing attendance at the UK new content on a wide variety of Employee Forum and EEF which subjects every month, including building Financial statements are bodies made up of elected resilience, managing change, Code representative from each site of Business Principles, diversity and and which meet with senior inclusion, high performing teams and management twice each year innovation and effective communication. •• In 2020/21 we propose to extend our Our plans for the 2020/21 financial current forums to a wider workforce year include a complete course on engagement team, representing management fundamentals, leadership all sites, in which key information and team effectiveness. We will continue will be shared and discussed. to build both bite-sized learning and Maria will be an invited participant curriculum to support the Company •• Board site visits, which will be and individual objectives. used to engage directly with We lost many apprentices through Shareholder information the global workforce the reorganisation and leavers. •• Additional methods of engagement The decision was taken to put on hold will be used in line with planned all new apprenticeship schemes until improvements to employee we are in a position to ensure that communications including: further business changes will not During Easter week our Malta site ran a number of activities to support local –– Listening groups for frontline impact the ability to complete charities, including the donation of workers and supervisors and/ apprenticeships at De La Rue. Easter eggs and toys to orphanages and a local hospital. or focus/consultative groups on Community specific topics or subject matter We continue to support charities in –– Meeting future/emerging leaders the communities where we operate. We recognise that engagement methods are likely to evolve over time Our sites organise their own activities to as we establish what is most effective support local charities. Activities during and we will continue to monitor to the year have included seed and tree ensure productive and effective planting, collections of clothing, food and dialogue is maintained. essential items for those most in need, bake sales and quizzes to name but a Corporate culture and strategy few. These activities are encouraged by The Board receives annual updates the business and provide an opportunity on corporate culture. For the first time for employees to engage with each other our employee survey in 2019 included in a less formal way and spend time with questions related to culture in order colleagues from different teams and to inform and shape the culture of departments. De La Rue also supports the organisation. employees who wish to give up their time to support worthy causes during work time. 38 De La Rue Annual Report 2020 Responsible business continued Tree planting in Kenya Labour rights We directly employ around 2,500 people and provide livelihoods to thousands more indirectly. We are committed to preventing slavery and human trafficking in our operations and in our supply chain and our modern slavery statement details the steps we take to eradicate the Pupils and De La Rue staff joined forces to plant 350 trees practice and how we comply with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. Suppliers are To mark World Environment Day in World Environment Day has been obliged to abide by the United Nations June 2019 our Kenya site supported celebrated every June since 1973 Convention on the Rights of the Child a tree planting activity at Drive Inn to raise global awareness about the and International Labor Conventions Primary school. Staff from different importance of the healthy and green 138 and 182. Improving health and safety departments participated and 350 environment, solve environmental and protecting people in our business is trees were planted. issues by implementing positive actions a priority. We insist on the highest health and increase awareness worldwide and safety standards and provide training that everyone is responsible for across the organisation to ensure all saving the environment. employees understand and are aware of their responsibilities. We also work De La Rue has a Charitable Giving Since its foundation, the programme with our main suppliers and contractors and Sponsorship Policy which is has expanded across the region to ensure that their health and safety regularly reviewed and includes and The Association of De La Rue processes are robust. During the a robust governance policy to be Scholars was launched in 2015 to year we have delivered over 1,600 followed before funding is approved. promote the personal and academic person days training. Our safety policies Giving is discretionary and the fulfilment of each scholar and to help ensure accountability and engagement company targets the majority of build future leaders—young men and throughout our business and with its support towards charities and women with a commitment to serving our suppliers. charitable activities within countries their community, their country and Wellbeing where it does business, and which their region. There are currently We recognise that the health of our fall demonstrably into specific 59 scholars and alumni members employees includes both mental and categories including well-researched of the Association. physical wellbeing. We have a network causes in under-developed countries, The De La Rue Charitable Trust is of Mental Health First Aiders across educational charities which promote an independent body established our UK and Malta sites whose role is to relevant skills and international by De La Rue. It provides financial provide additional support to employees understanding, disaster funds support in the form of small donations and to understand and assist with and community or environmental to help address issues such as relief any potential mental health issues. organisations having activities of suffering, educational support and Appropriate support is also provided directly related to the Company’s development and self-sufficiency in other international sites. We have run geographical or commercial promotion. The Trust is accountable a number of wellbeing events across areas of operation. to the Governance Standards and our sites during the year, including free An example of De La Rue’s Principles of The Charity Commission health checks, healthy eating workshops, engagement with communities (UK’s governing body for charities) cancer awareness talks, and smoking in areas where we do business is and audited by an external auditor. cessation sessions offering information the scholarship programme in the The Charitable Trust Board of Trustees and guidance to our employees. Caribbean which was started in meets approximately three times Health and wellbeing is recognised Jamaica in 2002 in collaboration a year to consider applications for as being an integral part of our overall with the Central Bank and the donations and to agree how funds global SAFE initiative. University of the West Indies. will be distributed. De La Rue Annual Report 2020 39 Strategic report Corporate Governance Health and safety Progress against our 2019/20 objectives is detailed below: International Women’s Day 2020 Objective Progress To maintain our LTIFR per 200,000 At the end of the year we achieved 0.37 LTIFR which worked hours of less than 0.25. fell short of our objective but is still 35% below the UK HSE All Industry average, a good achievement in changing and challenging circumstances. To maintain our strong HSE training We exceeded the reduced and reset target of 1,680 delivery performance of over 1,900 HSE training days which reflected the reduction in person days per year. our workforce during the year. Financial statements To achieve more than 94% We achieved over 95% and during the period conformance to our Zone ‘SAFE’ relaunched this initiative as SAFE & SECURE HSE inspection programmes. covering some security aspects. To ensure all operational line This objective was removed from the training plan managers and process leaders are part way into the year due to cost reductions and trained to IOSH Managing Safely, travel restrictions, but we have maintained our In recognition of ‘International an equivalent, or higher qualification. NEBOSH General Certificate coverage across Women’s Day 2020’ Westhoughton all manufacturing sites at 100%. held a ‘Time to Shine’ workshop To ensure our OHS management system All of the sites have been successfully transitioned to explore Life Coaching Skills and meets all the requirements of the new across to the new ISO45001:2018 International Personal Development Plans to international standard ISO45001:2018 Standard during the year. (replacing OHSAH18001). shine a spotlight on women in the workplace and encourage them to share their ideas, aspirations All our main manufacturing sites have maintained OHSAS18001 certification for Shareholder information and goals. their health and safety management systems, following external audits by accredited providers. More details on our Company policies and procedures around health and safety and wider labour rights can be found on our website. We have set the following new objectives for health and safety for 2020/21: •• To ensure all operational line managers and process leaders are trained to IOSH Managing Safely, an equivalent, or higher qualification (a carry forward objective) •• To achieve a reported Near Miss/My Safety Concern closure rate or >90% at all facilities •• To achieve ≥94% of conformance to our Zone ‘SAFE & SECURE’ HSSE inspection programmes •• To develop an online health and safety training platform for use by all employees and target these training modules as identified by the sites’ Training Needs Analysis frameworks •• To maintain our strong HSE training delivery performance of over 1,500 person days per year with the lower employee headcount created by the ongoing business transformation programme 40 De La Rue Annual Report 2020 Responsible business continued Anti-corruption De La Rue are experts in delivering De La Rue was one of the first companies In addition to the Banknote Ethics complex features and solutions to receive BnEI accreditation in 2014 Initiative (BnEI), De La Rue is a that help protect against crime and after passing an audit carried out by member of various industry bodies corruption. We are committed to GoodCorporation, which is recognised and associations, including Intergraf preventing our employees, third worldwide as one of the leading and the International Tax Stamp party partners, other representatives, organisations working in the field of Association, which provide us with contractors, consultants or other third corporate responsibility and business platforms to drive positive changes in parties from engaging in bribery or ethics. De La Rue has passed all audits our industries. We will continue to use other corrupt practices and implement to date at Level 1, the highest level. our influence to promote the highest a robust framework of anti-bribery Full audits are conducted every three product and ethical standards and policies and processes. All employees years with annual affirmations of push for further transparency and are made aware of our zero tolerance compliance and progress required accountability in our sectors. stance through their acknowledgement between audits. of our Code of Business Principles, and online anti-bribery and corruption training is mandatory for those in relevant roles. The Ethics Committee of the Board has oversight of our anticorruption policies and procedures (see pages 62 and 63). Banknote Ethics Initiative The Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) is an initiative established to provide ethical business practice, with a focus on the prevention of corruption and on compliance with anti-trust law within the banknote industry. Members must adhere to a strict Code of Ethical Business Practice and all organisations that have signed the Code must become accredited after passing an audit carried out by a third party auditor. The BnEI Audit Framework is a complete evaluation of policies and procedures a company has in place covering Leadership, Responsibility, Policies and Procedures (sales and marketing, including third party partner management and remuneration, human resources, finance, government and regulatory affairs), Due Diligence, Training, Compliance Declaration and Internal Monitoring. UK HMRC: Tax Stamps
