Corporate, social & environmental report UNGC Communication on Progress 2020 UN Global Compact Report Content 01 Letter from CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Cees van Gent 3 02 Who we are Our approach 4 5 03 Planet Promoting a circular economy Partnering with organizations 6-8 to protect the planet 9 Informing customers about sustainable practices 10 Raise awareness among customers about sustainable activities 11 Encouraging employees to adopt sustainable attitudes 12 Key local initiatives 13 Best practices and recognitions 14 04 People Inclusive workspace Employee engagement 15 16 Gender equality 17 Compliance and conduct 18 Safer workplace 19 Key local initiatives 20 21 05 Appendix 22 2 UN Global Compact Report Letter from CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board, Cees van Gent As a global company serving 90 countries, Royal Logistics (USA) and most recently Braid, a key Hillebrand fully understands how interconnected player in bulk liquids logistics. Our main challenge the world is. We’re committed to making logistics for the coming months is to smoothly integrate easy for everyone and providing customers with these companies and align values and culture by services, solutions and tools that make their connecting the best aspects of each organization. logistics more sustainable. We share a commitment to a safe and sustainable transportation of goods. Our goals, strategies Based on global geo-political, environmental, and R&D investments will be aligned to continue ethical and health issues, our strategies are defined creating innovative and environmentally-friendly at global basis and activated by our local teams solutions for our customers. who apply them in a way that tackles the difficulties and challenges of each market. In a year which We are proud to be part of the UN Global Compact has been impacted at all levels by COVID-19, and are committed to inciting positive change the health and safety of our employees have within our global community. therefore immediately been our priority; we set up new procedures to ensure their well-being, while Cees van Gent, maintaining business continuity. CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Since 1844, freight forwarding has been the foundation of Hillebrand’s business, with a focus on the wine trade. This is an industry that relies on attention to international regulation, local legislation and a unique requirement for product care. Wine is probably one of the most delicate liquids to transport, and the knowledge Hillebrand has acquired through many years of handling this commodity has enabled us to expand our logistics solutions to other alcoholic beverages such as beer and spirits. Today we are leading the alcoholic beverage freight forwarding industry and we are expanding our expertise to other products requiring special care, such as edible oils, juices, dairy, raw materials for beverages and other non-hazardous liquids. The last months have seen Hillebrand strengthen its capabilities, customer service and tailor-made logistics solutions with the acquisition of three different companies: 3W-Logistik (Germany), 3 UN Global Compact Report Who we are Who we are? Hillebrand was founded in 1844 €1,4bn in Mainz, Germany. The company Turnover is a world-leading forwarding, transport and logistics provider to the alcoholic beverage industry and for products that require special care. Through its global carrier 2,700 network, Hillebrand manages Employees logistics and transport for any quantity, from a single bottle to bulk, from all origins to all destinations, for all modalities. The group is known for its tailor-made solutions for 90 improving efficiency in customers’ Countries supply chains. 625,000 TEUs shipped 25,000 Companies connected Individualized solutions Honest & transparent Always tailored to the Straightforward and reliable specific needs of each in our approach. of our customers. Innovative tools & services Care and sustainability Effective solutions that stay We make every effort to a step ahead of the market. care for our customers’ products, supply chain and the environment. Collaboration & co-creation We care for our employees Aligned with our customers’ by encouraging a diverse ambitions to build successful and inclusive workspace. futures. 4 UN Global Compact Report Who we are Our approach “We, the Board and Executive Committee, have a responsibility to guide our organization in best practices and ethical conduct, taking charge of our workspace and the environments in which we operate, both socially and corporately.” Cees van Gent CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board · We make the health and well-being of our employees our top priority. · We ensure business continuity by providing our customers with efficient and environmentally-friendly solutions. · We never strive for a business result that comes at the expense of compliance with the law. · We support and advocate for the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We comply with all local employment acts and regulations and local Health and Safety regulations and strive for a diverse and inclusive workplace. · We comply with environmental laws and regulations and expect our partners to do the same. · We work hard to minimize the environmental impact of our operations, undertaking initiatives that ensure both we, and our partners, minimize our carbon footprints. · We compete vigorously, based on service, innovation, price and our people, and we do not act with business partners to exclude rivals or competition. · We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. 5 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet We’re focused on: Promoting a circular economy Hillebrand places a high priority on moving towards low-carbon business models which Partnering with organizations reduce or mitigate the adverse effects of climate change. Environmental protection is a core part of to protect the planet our current and future development as a company. Raise awareness among customers Our overarching goal is to minimize our carbon footprint while taking our strategic concerns about sustainable activities of energy consumption, emission control, and climate change into account. Achieving this is Encouraging employees to adopt highly dependent on both regulatory compliance sustainable attitudes and how we plan for the future together with our customers and partners. Sustainability is among the core components of PRINCIPLE 7 Hillebrand’s business plan. It’s a key differentiator Support a precautionary approach that we can offer our customers around the to environmental changes. world. And we don’t just say, we do. Our teams are 100% committed to proactively finding and PRINCIPLE 8 sourcing customized sustainable solutions, in Undertake initiatives to promote greater particular for the flexitanks we use around the environmental responsibility. globe, facilitated by our own extensive worldwide network of offices and depots. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Promoting a circular economy Flexitanks & circular economy In a linear economy, raw natural resources are taken, transformed into products and then disposed of. Contrary to this, a circular economy aims to close the gap between production and Recover the natural ecosystem cycles upon which humans Global recovery of bulkheads ultimately depend. This means eliminating waste by composting biodegradable waste and, in the case of non-biodegradable waste, ensuring materials are reused, remanufactured or recycled. Reduce Minimal residue upon discharge through proprietary elbow design and reduced At Hillebrand, the circularity process starts with packaging with multi-layer flexitank the in-house design and manufacture of our flexitanks, we constantly review our processes to reduce the amount of packaging, ensure the use of 100% recyclable materials and increase the percentage of recycled content within the Refurbish materials we use to manufacture the flexitanks. Inspection and repair of bulkheads The global end-to-end logistics services we offer enable us to provide customized and certificated recovery and recycling services at destination. Finally, full traceability of the flexitank material, from film manufacture to recovery and recycling, Reuse reassures our recyclers that they’re receiving Reuse of bulkheads consistently high quality material which is ready for remanufacture into new products. Recycle Recycling of flexitanks 7 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Promoting a circular economy Our achievements Manufacture 18,6% less plastic used in our new developed The circular economy ML flexitanks Recycling Distribution This means Customers -1,5% less carbon emissions over its lifespan Our goals · Incorporating recycled plastics into the outer layers of our multi-layer flexitanks. · Reducing the thickness of film without compromising integrity, to reduce packaging 72% Bulk wine flexitanks weight. recycled globally · Collaboration to facilitate Advanced/ 52% Chemical recycling of our flexitanks. · Using recyclable materials in the manufacture of our oxygen barrier layer. · Exploring the feasibility of recovery and reuse of valves. Bulk flexitanks · Using valves that are 100% recyclable. recycled globally · Zero flexitank to landfill by the end of 2021. 65% · Recovery and recycling facilities for flexitanks in each geographic region by end of 2021. · 75% of bulkheads to be recovered and reused by end of 2021. · 75% of flexitanks to be recycled or sustainably Bulkheads recovered recovered by 2022. and reused globally 8 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Partnering with organizations to protect the planet Arctic Shipping Corporate Pledge IMO 2020 objective to reduce sulphur emissions Hillebrand has signed the Arctic Shipping Since 1st January 2020, the International Corporate Pledge to not offer services that ship Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from via the Arctic. This pledge, launched by the NGO Ships (MARPOL), as adopted by the International Ocean Conservancy, is a volunteer commitment Maritime Organization (IMO), has required vessel by consumer goods and shipping logistics operators to use marine fuels with a maximum companies to not send vessels through the Sulphur content of 0.5%, rather than the 3.5% Arctic’s globally significant, and rapidly melting, limit that applies outside Emission Control Areas sea ice. In recognition of the negative impacts, (ECAs). we voluntarily agree to neither offer services nor partner with companies that use Arctic transThis requirement’s objective is to decrease air shipment routes. Although a permanently ice-free pollution from Sulphur emissions by around 70% Arctic would shorten transit times, increased globally by 2025, in order to significantly improve shipping traffic poses additional threats to the public health. Hillebrand is on track with achieving Arctic environment. Our responsibility as a freight this, and reducing sea shipping sulphur emissions forwarder is to acknowledge the risks climate even by up to 77%. change poses for our planet and contribute to minimizing the impact by acting now. Hillebrand’s Carbon Pact with Maersk Line signing of the Arctic Shipping Corporate Pledge is a step towards protecting and preserving the The Carbon Pact, agreed between Hillebrand and Arctic’s unique ecosystem. Maersk Line in 2017, is a commitment to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 20% per container between 2016 and 2025. The 2020 results are on course to meet this. 9 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Informing customers about sustainable practices Carbon emissions information made easier GHG and air pollutants report Via myHillebrand, it is now much easier for customers Hillebrand has introduced a new customer report to understand, and therefore lower, their shipments’ that quantifies emissions of both Greenhouse carbon footprints. myHillebrand quantifies the Gases (GHG) and air pollutants Sulphur oxide greenhouse gas emissions associated with each (SOx), Nitrogen oxide (NOx), PM10 (Particulate shipment, to aid customers’ analysis of their Matter) and NMHC (Non-methane hydrocarbon), operation’s global footprint and take the necessary which are equally damaging to public health and steps for reducing emissions. to the environment. This multi-faceted report, which includes mode of transport, origin/destination country, (un)loading city, port of loading, port of discharge and other filter options, helps customers make informed decisions for future shipments. Flexitanks and ISO tanks assessed by Carbon Footprint Ltd Hillebrand has partnered with Carbon Footprint Ltd to create carbon-related lifecycle assessments comparing its 24,000-liter flexitanks vs ISO tanks. These assessments focus on the emissions produced throughout the flexitank and ISO tank complete lifecycles, from the embodied raw materials themselves to flexitank / ISO tank disposal and recovery. The end result is a calculation of average emissions taking eight different route scenarios into account. This research will help our R&D teams focus circular design to reduce CO2 emissions. The study concluded that, over a lifecycle, Hillebrand’s flexitanks produce around 6,061kg of CO2 emissions compared to 6,702kg from an ISO tank, on comparative routings. This shows that, when properly recycled, Hillebrand’s flexitanks have a lower environmental impact than ISO tanks in terms of CO2 emissions. The assessment is published on our website. 10 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Raise awareness among customers about sustainable activities We believe that education and information are key · We encourage brewers to use steel kegs instead to helping customers understand the implications of plastic kegs, because steel kegs are fully of shipping in sustainability. Hillebrand uses its recyclable and have a life expectancy of 30 years. own communication channels to inform customers To assist this, we developed Kegspediter as a faster about sustainable practices such as different way of returning empty kegs. This could also result recycling methods for flexitanks, as well as sharing in steel kegs being cheaper to use than single use documents such as the Carbon Footprint report for plastic kegs. flexitanks vs ISO tanks, and more. Mitigating the · ECO-multistop is Hillebrand’s groupage pick-up impact of our operations will only be achieved via service in Argentina which reduces CO2 transport a transparent and collaborative approach. emissions by stopping at several wineries and regions en-route to the port. Promoting solutions that minimize the impact of our operations · We are minimizing road miles, and the emissions generated from them, by implementing “short-sea” shipping to closest delivery ports and using inland · Moving liquids in bulk enables transport costs waterways and barge services where possible. to be reduced while decreasing per-liter carbon We are also using rail where possible, which is a emissions by up to 50%. good transport solution for routes such as from · We developed an insulation liner as an South Europe to The Netherlands, Germany, UK environmentally friendly alternative to shipping and Sweden. in refrigerated containers. · Whenever possible, our Freight Procurement · Our EcoBev service, available in the USA, team prioritizes ocean carriers with the best is a green solution for disposal of beverages environmental performance according to Clean by converting unwanted product into biofuels. Cargo scorecards. In 2020, we added 8 facilities to our EcoBev network. 11 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Encouraging employees to adopt Our achievements sustainable attitudes All Hillebrand, offices implement the best practices for tackling climate change as published in the Porto Protocol. 32% Reduction in CO₂ We also encourage employees to follow the emissions per container guidelines published in our own “Saving energy” and “Becoming green in the office” manuals, which since 2008 are distributed to all of them and include guidelines for saving energy, switching to renewable energy sources, recycling and commuting via green A decrease of 0,4% transportation. in 2020 vs. previous year Our goal by 2025 45% Reduction in CO₂ emissions per container 12 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet Key local initiatives Hillebrand Argentina collects the cardboard packaging from its flexitanks, sells it to a recycling facility and donates the profits to the “Fundación CONIN” charity. Over 3,000kg of cardboard was recycled in the last year. Hillebrand employees also collect plastic screw caps from bottles and give them to NGOs who sell them on to companies that recycle plastic. Hillebrand USA is a certified SmartWay Carrier Partner (approved 7th consecutive year). Approximately 85% of our total land miles run last year were with SmartWay partners, most notably 100% compliant on domestic rail/intermodal. Hillebrand South Africa put a Local Sustainability Hillebrand USA expanded our EcoBev beverage Committee in place to track sustainable destruction network with sustainable solutions by achievements on a monthly basis. 800% this year. In South Korea, 100% of Hillebrand employees commute to the office by public transport. In Latvia, 90% use public transport, bikes or electric vehicles. In China, 80% of our employees commute by energy-neutral vehicles or public transport. 13 UN Global Compact Report Planet Planet We participate in non-profit forums Recognitions to promote environmental best · Hillebrand was awarded silver status by practices ECOVADIS for its sustainability and CSR initiatives, being in the top 30% of operators · Clean Cargo (a B2B initiative managed by BSR/ evaluated. Business for Social Responsibility) · Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux · Hillebrand Supplier Engagement was awarded B (FIVS) rating by CDP, formerly called Carbon Disclosure Project. CDP is a not-for-profit organization, which · The Porto Protocol supports companies and cities in disclosing major · European Petrochemical Association corporations’ environmental impacts. · Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association · Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations (FOSFA) · Association for Supply Chain Management (ASCM) in US See memberships in the Appendix 14 UN Global Compact Report People People We’re Inclusive and diverse workspace focused on: Connecting the world through international trade is at the heart of our business, and we believe that Inclusive workspace differences in culture, gender, ability and perspective make us stronger as a company and as a global Employee engagement community. We strive to attract and retain talented people whilst broadening the diversity of our Gender equality company at all levels. Compliance and conduct Diversity within Hillebrand is visible in our gender Safer workplace equality and multiculturalism. This diversity helps us better understand each other, our customers and their expectations. Our deeper awareness PRINCIPLE 1 of customers’ needs and pain points enables us Support and respect the protection of to provide excellent customer service. internationally proclaimed human rights . PRINCIPLE 2 Non-complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 52% of our PRINCIPLE 6 workforce Uphold the elimination of discrimination is female in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including 28% extortion and bribery. of our Over 55 management nationalities team represented is female 15 UN Global Compact Report People People Employee engagement The engagement survey anonymously completed by our employees in October 2019, independently administered by GLINT, provided insight and feedback on employee beliefs and opinions about how the company is perceived and operates. The results show our people to feel very safe at work and have strong manager-team relationships. They find the work they do meaningful, feel empowered to make decisions and understand that what they do links to the company’s success. The findings are being used to drive further improvements in culture, working conditions and the work environment. We will repeat this exercise in 2021, in order to track our progress and make continuous improvements within our goal of being a highly desirable company to work for. Throughout the company, a number of programs will be introduced to enhance learning and leadership, recruitment, international mobility, onboarding and mentoring. 16 UN Global Compact Report People People Gender equality In business, gender equality refers to the equal Gender equality in the workplace is important treatment of male and female employees and their because a fair working environment results in the access to opportunities and company resources. This highest possible overall business productivity. In includes employers providing equal opportunities turn, the avoidance of unfair barriers that restrict and consideration for promotions and jobs that progress ensures natural growth in the national are desirable and preferred for advancement, pay economy. Hillebrand is committed to closing the raises and inclusion in decision-making processes. gender gap and with 52% female employees as of the end of 2020, we are on the right track. 17 UN Global Compact Report People People “It is our priority that our employees don’t just do the right things, but also do them in the right way.” Cees van Gent CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board Compliance and conduct Hillebrand is an organization with strong values in times of COVID-19 while many of our staff are around responsibility and integrity. Our Code of working from home. Conduct, introduced in 2019, contains general guidelines for conducting business with the highest At Hillebrand, we are committed to having an standards of ethics. environment where open, honest communication is a principle, not an exception. We want our To raise the knowledge and awareness of the people to feel comfortable about approaching principles outlined in our Code of Conduct, we are their supervisor or management team in instances continuing our series of interactive online training where they believe violations of our policies or modules. The course covered topics that are ethical standards have occurred. In situations relevant to our staff, such as IT security, workplace where our employees may not feel comfortable safety and how to recognize a conflict of interest. about speaking to these persons, they can turn to The completion of the course by every employee our whistleblowing platform which is managed by is tracked and in 2020, we have empowered a an independent third-party expert. The platform growing number of our factory workers to complete facilitates confidential and anonymous reporting the online training as well, with a special effort in our of concerns via an online form or telephone hotline, South African factory. We are continually assessing both of which are available in multiple local the need for additional ethics & compliance training languages. 18 UN Global Compact Report People People A safer workplace The COVID-19 pandemic made 2020 an unprecedented year for Hillebrand, with many of the countries we serve and the offices we work from affected. Hillebrand responded quickly to the situation, via our strong network of offices and appointed local team members who prepared and acted upon contingency plans to ensure both business continuity and our employees’ health and safety. Shortly after COVID-19 was recognized as a problem, but before the World Health Organization (WHO) declared it a pandemic, Hillebrand set up a Committee who met regularly to centrally monitor the global situation and ensure prompt decision-making. With the health and safety of our employees as our key priority, Hillebrand launched several initiatives including the suspension of international business travel, flexible working arrangements and safety measures in our offices. We continue to monitor the situation and adjust our initiatives locally. Stricter measures were applied in our warehouses and in our China and South Africa factories, where we implemented educational programs, took extra special precautions and arranged alternative transportation. 19 UN Global Compact Report People People Key local initiatives Hillebrand China donated 12 PCs to Dan Ma Primary School in Dun Hua County, Qing Hai Province. The school is located in an underprivileged area with little funding to support the education of the community’s children. These PCs enable the school to provide the children with the basic skills they need to operate computers in an increasinglydigital world. Hillebrand UK also donated IT equipment to In Vietnam, our Ho Chi Minh City office made a Computer Aid. The equipment is being used by St donation for local people in Central Vietnam whose Giles Trust to enrich student’s education by enabling lives have been impacted by floods and landslides. access to technology. Hillebrand Argentina took part in an event called Hillebrand France organized two events in “Nochebuena en Mendoza” (Christmas Eve in collaboration with the French League Against Mendoza), in which they worked with a local Cancer to inform and educate the women in our church to provide boxes of food, drinks and even two offices there about female cancers. presents for families who were unable to provide for themselves during the festive period. In the USA, our Houston office collaborated with the American Logistics Aid Network (ALAN) to provide transportation for hurricane relief efforts in impacted areas. 20 UN Global Compact Report People People Key local initiatives Hillebrand South Africa employees took part in Mandela day, an annual event, which is a global call to action celebrating the idea that everyone has the ability to make an impact. This day is especially important for those in our South African office, where we work with groups that hold significance for us. After more than a decade, we are proud to still be contributing towards The Pebbles Project, a phenomenal organization which creates education packs for Early Childhood Development centers and is very close to our hearts. Imagine not seeing rain in 4 years and having to rely on shipments of bottled water as your source of drinking water. This was the situation at Lavina Wines, from where Sam Daw appealed for help. Hillebrand Australia was happy to oblige, transporting 24,000 liters of spring water from Crystal Spring, Picadilly in the Adelaide Hills to the Dalmuir Farming Station, 3 hours North of Broken Hill, New South Wales. Hillebrand is proud to have continued supporting This year Hillebrand was once again honored to the ONE DROP foundation as its logistics partner be partnering with The Drinks Trust community, for their charitable auction of Fine Wines and which assists workers in our industry in both their Spirits. In collaboration with Artcurial, the funds personal and professional lives, through provision raised go towards ensuring sustainable access to of financial and emotional support. drinking water, sanitation and hygiene throughout the world. During the peak of the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, Hillebrand organized a number of express international shipments to move urgently needed protective supplies around the world. These included shipping facemasks, initially from Spain and Australia to China, and later from China to France and Los Angeles. We also donated masks to a Spanish hospital. Meanwhile, Germany managed an operation in which tankers laden with ethanol for the production of disinfectant crossed Central Europe by road, France shipped hand sanitizer to the USA, we also shipped grain neutral spirit to the remote Orkney Islands, alcohol from Scotland to Wales and ethanol from Bulgaria to Germany. 21 UN Global Compact Report Appendix Certifications / Accreditations · American Fats and Oils Association (AFOA) · American Feed Ingredients Association (AFIA) AEO · Independent Lubricants Manufactures ISO 9001 Association (ILMA) OHSAS 18001 · The Marine Ingredients Organisation (IFFO) ISO 14001 * · National Institute of Oilseed Products (NIOP FSSC 22000 ** · Argentina Bulk Wine Chamber Kosher Certification · Bundesverband der Deutschen Spirituosen IDCP Halal Certified Industrie und –Importeure (BSI) GMP Good Manufacturing Practices · Deutsches Weininstitut GmbH, Bodenheim (DWI) SQAS · Grofor – Deutscher Verband des Großhandels mit Ölen, Fetten und Ölrohstoffen e.V., * subsidiary offices in UK, Scotland and Rheinhessenwein e.V., Alzey Sweden received ISO 14001 accreditation for · VDP – Verband Deutscher Prädikatsweingüter environmental initiatives. e.V., (VDP) · VDW – Verband Deutscher Weinexporteure e.V., ** flexitank manufacturing facilities in China and (VDW) South Africa received ISO 14001 and FSSC 22000 · SLV – Speditionsund Logistikverband Hessen accreditations for their systematic approach to SLV) reducing physical, chemical, and biological /risks in · DSLV – Deutscher Speditionsund production processes Logistikverband e.V (DSLV) · IHK – Industrieund Handelskammer für Rheinhessen, (IHK) · Vietnam Logistics Business Association Members of: · National Beer & Wholesalers Association · Brewers Association · European Petrochemical Association · Master Brewers Association of Americas · Juice Products Association · American Cider Makers Association · FENEX · Canadian Craft Brewers Association · IIFA · 16 (USA) State / Regional Brewers Guilds · Helsinki Chamber of Commerce · Warehousing Education and Research Council · WSTA · The Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG, a B2B initiative managed by Business for Social Responsibility) · Fédération internationale des Vins et Spiritueux (FIVS) · The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Associations (FOSFA) · Gulf Petrochemical Association (GPCA) 22 www.hillebrand.com 23
