RENEWI PLC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 2/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY IN A TIME OF CLIMATE CRISIS, THE PLANET URGENTLY NEEDS OUR HELP, SO WE HAVE MADE IT OUR MISSION TO TRANSFORM WASTE INTO ESSENTIAL NEW PRODUCTS. WE ARE SUSTAINING TOMORROW BY ACTING TODAY TO RE-USE MATERIALS AND PROTECT OUR ENVIRONMENT. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 3/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Contents 1/ ABOUT US 2/ OUR APPROACH 3/ O UR NEW 4/ OUR PERFORMANCE 5 Our vision and purpose 10 Business model SUSTAINABILITY 37 Planet STRATEGY 6 Sustaining the future 11 CEO’s statement 40 People 19 Our new sustainability strategy 7 Key sustainability figures 13 Our sustainable business 42 Partnerships 21 Supporting the UN 8 Renewi at a glance 14 Engaging with stakeholders on sustainability 16 Expert interview 22 CEO Q&A 5/ APPENDIX 24 Enable the circular economy 45 Data tables and charts 28 Reduce carbon emissions 53 UN Global Compact and waste Ten Principles 32 Care for people 54 Principal offices RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 4/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 1/ ABOUT US RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 5/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY OUR VISION… TO BE THE LEADING WASTE-TO-PRODUCT COMPANY OUR PURPOSE… TO PROTECT THE WORLD BY GIVING NEW LIFE TO USED MATERIALS As a pure-play waste-to-product We’re committed to giving We provide manufacturers We enable the circular economy. company we have a unique new life to used materials. with new materials to create We recycle products to bring valuable raw position in the value chain, linking Recycling plastics into high-quality materials for products and help customers materials back into the product value cycle. new products; turning construction waste into be more sustainable. We keep resources in use for as long as possible waste producers to secondary aggregates; transforming household waste into by recycling, and give them a useful purpose. We reduce waste. We avoid pollution. We prevent raw material consumers. fuel – we cover the full waste-to-product range. unnecessary use of finite natural resources, and so preserve them for future generations. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 6/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY OUR NEW SUSTAINABILITY Sustaining the future STRATEGY Our new sustainability strategy ensures we operate our business sustainably. Find out about the strategy’s three key themes: TO PROTECT TOMORROW Enable the Reduce carbon Care for SUPPORTS circular economy Page 24 emissions and waste Page 28 people Page 32 THE UNITED NATIONS’ GOALS Our UN Sustainable Development Goals Our business operations and new sustainability strategy align with six of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) TO SAFEGUARD that are most relevant to what we do. In this Report you will see icons for these SDGs, as we demonstrate how we work to fulfil them. THE PLANET… GOOD HEALTH CLEAN WATER AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE ACTION AND WELLBEING AND SANITATION CLEAN ENERGY CITIES AND CONSUMPTION COMMUNITIES We take action to AND PRODUCTION Keeping employees One of our We lower our protect the climate safe and well is a key treatment carbon footprint We reduce our We enable the by carbon avoidance key objective, and activities is by using renewable carbon and other circular economy, so and recycling waste we have the same cleaning waste energy and also emissions in waste support responsible instead of sending responsibility to water to make it sell green energy collection in cities consumption and it for incineration local communities. available again. produced on site. and urban areas. production. or to landfill. Learn about Renewi’s sustainability and environmental, social and governance efforts with our Sustainability in Action case studies throughout this Report RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 7/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Key sustainability figures Here is a snapshot of Renewi’s sustainability performance for the year – from carbon emissions and recycling rates to gender diversity and employee safety. For more information, see the Planet, People and Partnerships pages of the Our Performance section on pages 36 to 43 0.233 Renewi’s carbon avoidance 64.7% Recycling rate* 95 accidents led to absences 48.5% of trucks in our fleet comply intensity ratio for FY20 of more than three days with the Euro 6 standard 23% of the senior managers 67% The number of near-misses 90.8% Recycling and recovery rate* 2.7 Average number of now working at Renewi reported by our employees complaints per Renewi site are women improved by 67% from local communities *Percentage of total waste handled RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 8/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Renewi at a glance BELGIUM A corporate snapshot: our Divisions, our OUR STRUCTURE people, where they operate and what they 41 2,051 741 From 1 April 2020, we reorganised do – from waste collection and recycling our business from four to three to creating secondary raw materials Divisions, giving us a leaner and more effective structure. Our Divisions Commercial Waste NETHERLANDS 110 5,145 2,126 85 3,793 1,385 UK Mineralz & Water 9 330 0 30 598 6 Specialities PORTUGAL 43 910 6 FRANCE 1 22 0 Group Central Services 4 84 0 HUNGARY 165 KEY RENEWI TOTALS 1 2 0 Number of Number of Number of operating sites1 employees collection and (headcount) transport trucks2 162 6,550* 2,146 1. Active operating sites; does not include offices and other non-operational sites. 2. Does not include vans, passenger cars, mobile plant used on site and similar. *Excludes temporary workers. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 9/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 2/ OUR APPROACH RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 10/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Business model At Renewi, we generate revenue through collecting waste and turning it into secondary raw materials, creating value for our stakeholders while contributing to a circular economy DRIVEN BY IMPACTED BY HOW WE CREATE VALUE AT THE HEART OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS • Waste-producing customers We improve Our vision The world we live in What we do their sustainability by specialist collections and To be the leading We meet the challenges of an We generate revenue from collecting and processing waste and selling recyclates enhanced separation. waste-to-product evolving regulatory landscape and energy we produce. We are, however, shifting focus from collection to processing, company. where governments are and plan to deliver more, higher-quality secondary raw materials and biofuels. • Product customers We collaborate with them expanding legislative agendas to innovate and create new products from waste streams. Our purpose on climate change and the circular economy. • Capex and opex suppliers We enter long-term To protect the world by giving supply contracts and work to ensure fair treatment new life to used The resources we need Driven by our new business strategy in the supply chain. materials. To be a leader in recycling and a leader in secondary material production, • Communities We use low-emission collection vehicles •A ssets and • Investment technology and selectively gain market share. to limit the impact of operations on communities. • Innovation • People • Financial • Employees We invest in safety and wellbeing, career • Service Driven by our new sustainability strategy development and leadership programmes. • Regulators We engage with them and give expert The views of advice on processing difficult waste streams. our stakeholders Enable the Reduce carbon Care for • Governments We engage with them on the effects of We listen to the needs circular economy emissions and waste people changes in regulatory regime on sustainable operations. and respond to the priorities • Investors We address market trends and have of stakeholders. For more about our new sustainability strategy, see page 19 processes to reduce the impact of adverse events. For more about • Lenders We have regular, ongoing discussions with our stakeholder engagement, see Underpinned by our values the relationship banking group. pages 14 to 15 • Safe • Innovative • Sustainable For more about our stakeholder • Customer-focused • Accountable • Together engagement, see pages 14 to 15 RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 11/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY CEO’s statement Our new sustainability strategy will help us continue to tackle today’s global environmental challenges, protect the earth’s resources, enable the circular economy and reduce emissions W hen I took on the position of CEO in 2019, by turning the waste of our customers and our own I did so with pride. Taking a leadership waste into new raw materials and products. Second, role in a company whose core purpose we will reduce carbon emissions and waste, both is so closely aligned to my own – to play a part in within our business and beyond. And third, we care protecting our planet – was very meaningful to me. for people; we care for our 6,550 employees who I am pleased to report that Renewi contributed to have been recognised as delivering vital services to this purpose through the continuous improvement society. We care for our local communities and for of our key sustainability objectives. Last year our customers. An example where our commitment 64.7% of the waste we processed was recycled to care for people came to life was during the Covid-19 Otto de Bont or prepared for recycling, and 25.9% was used as pandemic when we collaborated with a medical Chief Executive Officer fuel for energy recovery. Through recycling and equipment supplier to collect used face-masks from recovery, we play a key role in helping Europe hospitals, have them recycled through sterilisation, reduce its carbon emissions, as production using and return them for re-use by health workers – see secondary materials generates lower emissions. page 34. From these three sustainability pillars, we Over the past 12 months, we have continued have developed six key objectives: to invest in environmentally friendly trucks and `` Turn our customers’ waste into new products today 48.5% of our fleet comprises Euro 6 vehicles. This reduces carbon emissions in supply chains However, we continue to move towards a fleet and counteracts the depletion of the world’s that is even greener, with a goal to reach zero finite natural resources. The key metrics for this emissions through the use of electric trucks; are the recycling rate and carbon avoidance level. in August 2020 our very first electric trucks will `` Be a leader in clean and green waste start collections in Amsterdam (see page 29). collection The collection of waste is essential and we aim to reduce the emissions of carbon, NEW BEGINNINGS nitrogen and particulate matter that go with it, This year we are launching our sustainability through the deployment of lowand ultimately five-year cycle. Our purpose, to protect the world by zero-emission trucks, white-label collection 67.4% 25.9% giving new life to used materials, remains the same, and route optimisation. as does our vision to be the leading waste-to-product `` Reduce the carbon impact of our operations company. Our three sustainability pillars have also By their nature, our operations reduce total been further advanced in our new sustainability carbon emissions elsewhere by returning Renewi’s FY20 waste In addition, 25.9% of waste processed strategy. First, we will enable the circular economy materials for re-use. Nevertheless, we aim to recycling rate was used for energy recovery RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 12/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY CEO’s statement continued reduce our own energy consumption where we on all six of the targets outlined above, and by In addition, we continue our commitment in the US, almost 20 million. With limited mattresscan and increase our use of renewable energy. the very nature of what we do on a day-to-day with the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest recycling facilities, mattresses are too often `` Positively impact our communities In providing basis, means that Renewi aligns with six of the corporate sustainability initiative, and have sent to incineration, losing the precious materials an essential service to our communities, as a 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals integrated its Ten Principles into our sustainability they are made from and causing additional regional champion of recycling and circularity, (see more on page 21): approach (see Appendix, page 53). carbon emissions. For example, only about 20% we seek to have a positive impact in the locations `` Good health and wellbeing Keeping employees of mattresses discarded in the UK are recycled. where we work by engaging closely with safe and well is a key objective, and we have the A POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY So we’ve invested in RetourMatras, helping this communities, supporting them and minimising same responsibility to local communities. For some time, Renewi has turned Europe’s climate Dutch mattress-recycling company to increase its any negative aspects of the work that we do. `` Clean water and sanitation One of our key and environmental challenges into an opportunity processing capacity, as well using our trucks and `` Deliver people home safe and well, treatment activities is cleaning waste water to improve its sustainability. We have taken active drivers to transport mattresses to its recycling every day Safety is our first value and we to make it available again. steps towards cleaner and greener operations facilities (page 26). And as this is clearly a problem continue to strive to improve our accident `` Affordable and clean energy We lower our and continue to make secondary raw materials beyond the borders of the Netherlands, there is rates and avoid all serious incidents. In carbon footprint by using renewable energy available for use by companies across a number the potential for Renewi to establish additional addition, we wish to support the health and also sell green energy produced on site. of sectors, while our business purpose supports partnerships for mattress recycling internationally. and mental wellbeing of all our employees. `` Sustainable cities and communities the European Green Deal. `` Make Renewi a more rewarding, diverse We reduce our carbon and other emissions Moving forward, we plan to extend our reach by ACTING RESPONSIBLY and inclusive working environment in waste collection in cities and urban areas. producing and supplying higher-quality secondary I am grateful that we are in a position to act as a We continue to build an engaged workforce `` Responsible consumption and production materials, which will enable our customers to connecting link in the circular economy. Over the that draws on a wide range of backgrounds, We enable the circular economy, so support reduce their consumption of primary materials. next 12 months and beyond, we will remain focused and give all employees the opportunity to thrive responsible consumption and production. We will partner with customers to help them take on making our own operations cleaner and greener and achieve their potential within our organisation. `` Climate action We take action to protect the their circularity to a new level, and by doing so play by collecting waste using low-emission or zeroEach of these objectives has challenging climate by carbon avoidance and recycling a part in bringing the circular economy to life. emission trucks, using white-label trucks without targets set against them, which are detailed on waste instead of sending it for incineration Of course, we are already investing significantly duplicating routes, making our buildings and pages 24 to 35. Our commitment to deliver or to landfill. in the circular economy. For example, we’re safely operations more energy-efficient, and continuing transporting asbestos-contaminated steel to to invest in advanced technology to produce the Purified Metal Company, which will then convert highest-quality secondary materials to support the scrap into raw material for re-use in the our customers in the production of sustainable steel industry (see page 31); we have a similar products. I look forward to sharing our progress arrangement to transport plastic waste to chemical against our 2021 objectives in next year’s “WE WILL HELP CUSTOMERS TAKE THEIR recycling specialists, who turn it into oil for the Sustainability Report. CIRCULARITY TO A NEW LEVEL, AND production of new plastic products. We’re also working to tackle the worldwide SO WE WILL PLAY A PART IN BRINGING problem of mattress waste: in the Netherlands around 1.5 million mattresses are thrown away THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY TO LIFE” every year; Belgium discards around a million; in the UK this figure rises to about seven million; and, Otto de Bont Chief Executive Officer RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 13/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our sustainable business Sustainability is at the heart of on all ESG aspects. Given the reputation for everything we do – and this includes independence of S&P Global’s ratings, this is a distinguished recognition. our financials as well as protecting the environment and its people FULLY GREEN-FUNDED During FY20 we completed our transition to S ustainability is our purpose and a core value. become entirely green-financed, encompassing We seek to protect the planet by giving new all our core borrowing of bonds and loans. This life to used materials, and everything we do followed the issuance of our latest green bond in is focused on our vision to be the leading waste-toline with our best practice perpetual Green Finance product company. We are proud of our contribution Framework, which applies the Green Bond and to sustainability and our ambitious new objectives Green Loan Principles. (see page 19) across the scope of environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. This is rightly Sustainability objectives an area of increased focus and attention from The Framework links Renewi’s activity to the UN investors, communities and governments and Sustainable Development Goals and we report across the broad range of our stakeholders. against our key green performance indicators each year. Our main banking facility was one of the first EURONEXT LISTING RCFs to be green principles-based and to apply a ESG was an important consideration in our recent pricing that varies directly with our sustainability listing on Euronext Amsterdam. Many investors performance, thereby aligning our sustainability have adopted the UN Principles for Responsible interests with our relationship lending banks. Investment and look to positive impact, green, ESG and sustainability focused investments such Expert recognition for sustainability AWARD-WINNING PERFORMANCE as Renewi. We are increasingly seeing our investor Our dedication to sustainability and the green base coming from thematic funds dedicated to economy has been recognised with many industry these principles, which themselves are expected awards, index inclusions, and several sustainability to generate superior long-term investor returns. and sustainability finance awards. Strong S&P rating Carbon commitment In January 2020 we were awarded an ESG rating of GREEN ECONOMY MARK FTSE4GOOD INCLUSION S&P ESG REPORT We were awarded the prestigious Green Economy 75 from S&P Global and its highest rating to date on Given to companies with 50% or more The FTSE4Good Index Series was S&P assessed our ESG strategy Mark from the London Stock Exchange. In addition, the assessment of the environmental component. of their total annual revenues from created to measure the performance and our preparedness for ESG our FTSE4Good inclusion and Level 4 certification Its report (available at renewi.com) was published products and services that contribute of companies that are able to risks and opportunities, and with the Dutch CO2 Performance Ladder after detailed consultation with the company to to the global green economy. demonstrate strong ESG practices. awarded us a score of 75/100. demonstrate our commitment to reduce carbon understand our policies and the management focus emissions directly and more broadly in our sector. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 14/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Engaging with stakeholders From customers to communities, lenders to lawmakers, and of course our employees, we create value for stakeholders by understanding and addressing their priorities and concerns Waste-producing Product customers Capex and Communities Employees customers opex suppliers Their priorities Their priorities Their priorities Their priorities Their priorities They’re both sustainabilityand Product specification and certainty of Understanding our strategy, how their They want essential services Their daily work; reward, recognition cost-conscious. Operationally they supply are key. At the innovation stage, products fit our needs and how to delivered consistently with minimal and personal development; and a demand good service that is on they need input to judge technical create value with product innovations; environmental impact. Environmentally sound working environment with the time, every time, and want us to be feasibility and commercialisation. creating long-term partnerships; conscious, they support climate best possible safety standards. responsive and flexible to their needs. At full production scale, quality and knowing Renewi acts ethically to transition and a circular economy, and consistency are key. protect the environment. want clean cities free of pollution. How we respond How we respond We invest in on-site and truck safety. We offer consulting services to How we respond How we respond How we respond Our Fit to the Finish scheme supports improve their sustainability outcomes Our project teams bring expertise We ensure fair treatment in our supply Our white-label collection collaboration employee wellbeing (see page 33) through collection points and to product development. We ensure chains and innovate to deliver better improves the environmental impact and our LEAD programme teaches separation. We provide a high-quality, new product ideas are actualised. waste collection, separation and of our activities, we invest in zeroand leadership skills. We’re also investing responsive, cost-effective service, and Production lines operate with modern treatment, and improve output and low-emission collection vehicles and in a talent organisation to open new invest in new sustainable solutions. manufacturing quality systems. environmental impact. we organise community events. growth routes to colleagues. SDG link SDG link SDG link SDG link SDG link RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 15/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Engaging with stakeholders continued Regulators Governments Investors Lenders Their priorities Their priorities Their priorities Their priorities Meeting the permitted environmental Stimulating the circular economy Evaluating our current performance The protection of and return on standards; evolving standards; through recycling and secondary and future prospects, and comparative their capital invested in Renewi; addressing topical concerns; products; meeting climate change performance; understanding industry intermediation of available financial responding to breaches appropriately. targets; a clean environment with trends; lower risk; fewer exceptional products; reduce risks and manage minimal pollution; using regulation events; lower debt levels. market trends and leverage. How we respond to encourage the desired outcomes. At ATM, our testing programme How we respond How we respond helped Dutch regulators reopen the How we respond Clear reporting; clear processes to Ongoing regular discussions with thermally cleaned soil market. We We engage and advise on the impact reduce the impact of adverse events; the relationship banking group; support regulators with expert advice of regulatory change on sustainable a sharpened focus, with fewer optimising debt facilities, including on handling and processing significant operations, so help shape legislation businesses and Divisions following new issuance; implementing waste streams, such as nappies, and to ensure proposals are deliverable disposals; reducing debt through improved treasury management dealing with chemicals, such as PFAS. and benefit the circular economy. portfolio management. and cash pooling solutions. SDG link SDG link SDG link SDG link RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 16/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY EXPERT INTERVIEW “Let’s hurry up and beat this crisis” Renewi talks to sustainability campaigner Maria van der Heijden about saving the planet with circularity and the need for speed to tackle the climate change emergency What influenced you to campaign changes to safeguard our future. However, it to protect the environment? is interesting that during the Covid-19 crisis, The influence of humans on the earth. governments have moved quickly, they have All the kinds of things that more than seven shown courage to make rapid decisions. In billion people can do: extracting an enormous fact, the outbreak has shown that we can quite amount of raw material from the earth, polluting quickly change our behaviour. I would ask that water, polluting the air – the behaviour that has governments apply that same sense of urgency had such an impact on the environment that we to climate change, and take the same level of now have climate disruption, a climate crisis. control as they did with Covid-19. We can then make real progress. Maria van der Heijden Do you think governments are Director of MVO Nederland addressing citizens’ concerns What laws would you introduce Maria van der Heijden about climate change? to better protect the planet? heads up MVO Nederland, I think there are two issues here. First, politics The first priority is to change tax legislation. an organisation that is often for the short term – elections fairly We have a tax system that is very much based supports businesses and entrepreneurs frequently change who is in office, and then on taxation of labour and not at all on taxation of across Europe to drive governments are not in charge for ever. But climate raw materials and pollution. You would have to the circular economy change and climate disruption need a long-term introduce much more of the taxation on extraction and lobbies government focus and long-term solution. The other issue is of, and use of, raw materials and pollution, so you to progress circularity and sustainability that often change can be slow for governments to make consideration of our impact on the climate enact. And we need to act quickly, as the climate visible in the tax system. This would result in people crisis is on us now. There is a clear question of and business making different and better choices. urgency, and we don’t have much time to make Legislation must not be for the short term, as a RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 17/55 ABOUT US OUR OUR APPROACH APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Expert interview continued result of purely political decisions, the decisions the earth’s resources, all for the better. So primary the circular economy. But these companies that go with elections and relatively short terms raw materials become more expensive than can also use the expertise they’ve gathered of power. We need laws that go beyond the life secondary raw materials, and the moment you to influence thinking. They should always be of particular governments, we need laws that are re-use something, it’s cheaper. Quite literally, the asking themselves where the opportunities there for the generations to come. That’s why circular economy makes economic sense. are to change behaviour. we as an organisation often frame what we do and think, when considering an issue, in terms of: Do you think it’s important for investors What are the challenges “Don’t saddle your children, your grandchildren, to fund companies that are sustainable? for companies? with this mess.” Very important – because when you invest Transparency is one. For example, in money, you hope to do so with a long-term the supply chain, companies have to ask How critical is the circular economy perspective, and a circular, climate-neutral themselves: “What does our supply chain look in combating climate change? economy is about a long-term perspective and like? Who are we getting our raw materials from? It is crucial. Environmental agreements is itself a long-term prospect. Yes, there is also What exactly is happening in that chain – is it can sometimes be too much about ‘tonnea short-term focus with some people; they ask: good for the environment?” hunting’, about limiting how many tonnes of CO2 “What’s the return this year?” But the circular emissions are permitted, for example. Yes, that’s economy is growing, it’s a growing prospect How can governments and businesses extremely important and relevant, but circularity undoubtedly, so you’re investing in the future. But banks, pension funds and investors, because improve sustainability levels and and circular processes are absolutely vital, because it’s also important because money steers: as an they have an enormous impact on that economy. advance the circular economy? with them we create a different economy. We can organisation, we very much have our lobbying There is a lot of money in our pension funds, so let’s I think it’s very important governments more permanently change the way we conduct agenda on legislation, regulations and government, at least use that money well. Let’s all use money declare that they’re 100% buying into industry and the economy, the way we interact with but we also direct our lobbying agenda towards for the right reasons. Let’s invest in our future as circularity, and that circularity is their aim. well as for the future. Businesses will respond when they know this. Governments can stimulate circular thinking What role can waste management in business, and support companies working and recycling companies play in on circular innovation with subsidies and enabling the circular economy? project co-investments. A vital one. To start with, we get the most circularity from that sector – waste and What’s your personal vision of recycling. And also because companies like Renewi a greener future for the planet? “CIRCULARITY AND CIRCULAR PROCESSES look at circularity in everything they do. They ask the right questions: “How can we re-use this I have a motto about shaping the future, because with the climate crisis we don’t ARE VITAL, BECAUSE WITH THEM WE CREATE discarded product, this waste? How can something have much time to change for the better, to achieve A DIFFERENT ECONOMY AND WE CHANGE be designed or made differently so it is circular?” sustainability. So I say: “Let’s hurry up, hurry is They have also developed an incredible amount good.” The problem of climate change belongs to all THE WAY WE CONDUCT INDUSTRY” of knowledge and expertise that can be shared of us, so my vision for the future is: “We are all in this with other sectors, so partnerships can develop together, so we have to change things together.” RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 18/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 3/ OUR NEW SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 19/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our new sustainability strategy Renewi’s future-facing strategy addresses the climate crisis and makes everything we do sustainable – from helping to drive the circular economy to minimising carbon emissions W elcome to Renewi’s clean, green future – THEMES OBJECTIVES enabled by a new sustainability strategy that drives everything we do: our business The new strategy’s themes power our plan to tackle the climate crisis – We set six objectives that are a practical translation of the direction set operations, relations with customers, how we circular solutions, energy transition and reduced emissions – and to by our key themes. The progress of these objectives will be measured interact with communities and governments, look after communities in wider society as well as our own people. by a set of key performance indicators and metrics. and how we look after the people we work with. This strategy is so much more than a statement of intent to be sustainable. It is a practical action plan, Enable the circular economy Turn our customers’ waste into new products We want to enable the circular economy and drive waste away from supported by rigorous metrics, with a purpose that We want to be a driving force in the transition towards incineration and landfill, turning it into new products and materials, a circular economy, in which waste is no more and instead is wide-ranging. Indeed, the three main pillars, or and providing secondary raw materials that replace natural resources. is turned into new products and materials. themes, of our strategy articulate the scope of its aspirations: to enable the circular economy, to reduce carbon emissions and waste, and to care for people. Reduce carbon emissions and waste Be a leader in clean and green waste collection These aspirations will be fulfilled by six objectives We want to take the lead in reducing the carbon impact and pollution caused We understand the need not only to reduce our own – for example, to help enable the circular economy by by waste collection, with a focus on urban areas and cities. carbon footprint, but also to decrease the negative creating secondary materials instead of using natural impact of carbon emissions and waste on wider society. Reduce the carbon impact of our operations resources, and take the lead in reducing the carbon We want to reduce carbon emissions from our waste processing and recycling impact of waste collection. But we are nothing without activities on site and shift towards the use of renewable energy. our people and communities; that’s why caring for them is fundamental to this strategy. The strategy is founded in Renewi’s corporate Care for people Positively impact our communities purpose – sustainability – so it seamlessly supports We want to be a positive force in communities by engaging in local projects, We have a responsibility to deliver our employees home the objectives of our new, enhanced business spreading our ‘waste no more’ message and reducing our negative safe and well, to create a rewarding, equal and inclusive strategy: to be a leader in recycling and a leader in environmental impact. working environment, and to have a positive effect on secondary material production, and selectively our communities. Deliver people home safe and well, every day increase market share. It also recognises the urgency We want to make sure people stay healthy and safe during their career at of the climate crisis and the importance of energy Renewi, both physically and mentally. transition and circular solutions. We believe it Make Renewi a rewarding, diverse and inclusive working environment is time to act. That is why our sustainability strategy We are committed to Renewi being a rewarding place to work – a place where is a future-facing plan of action. It demonstrates people can develop themselves in an equal and inclusive environment. that we are acting today to sustain tomorrow. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 20/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our new sustainability strategy continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION ‘Christmas’ trees: a gift to the planet Generous Renewi colleagues in the Benelux gave up their company Christmas box and spent the value of the gifts on a tree-planting project to support reforestation and tackle climate change – a cause close to our hearts. The total donation, to the Trees for All Foundation, paid for 1,230 trees to be planted – half of them at Maarheeze in the Netherlands, and half in Uganda’s Kibale National Park, helping to restore the rainforest there. Ten billion trees are lost annually, damaging the environment and communities, so Trees for All has to date planted more than five million trees to help tackle the problem. Planting these trees in Maarheeze and Kibale will generate a CO2 compensation of approximately 300 tonnes over 50 years, which equals the annual electricity usage of more than 150 households. This donation also supported the Kibale community where 125 villagers are involved in a reforestation project, planting trees and working in the nurseries that grow them. The tree-planting initiative articulates our mission to protect the planet and the pledges of our new sustainability strategy, to reduce carbon emissions and to care for people. 300 The Trees for All planting will give a CO2 compensation of 300 tonnes – the annual electricity usage of over 150 households RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 21/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Supporting the UN on sustainability Renewi’s new sustainability GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES strategy is aligned with the UN OBJECTIVES By 2020, halve the number of deaths and UN OBJECTIVES By 2030, reduce the adverse per-capita injuries from road traffic accidents. By 2030, reduce the environmental impact of cities, including through paying United Nations’ Sustainable number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous chemicals, special attention to air quality and municipal and other Development Goals for a pollution and contamination. forms of waste management. HOW WE CONTRIBUTE We have a responsibility to our 6,550 HOW WE CONTRIBUTE Renewi wants to be the leader in green greener, safer, better future employees and their families to keep them safe. We are also and clean collection, and therefore have a positive impact on responsible for the safety and wellbeing of others – for example, both the air quality and carbon emissions accompanied with T those on the roads where we drive our trucks. In addition, waste collection. We also want to reduce stress on infrastructure he United Nations has a plan for by handling waste responsibly we avoid the threat it can that waste collection in cities and rural areas can cause. a better world and we share its cause to people’s health. vision to secure a greener, fairer future for all. In 2015, the 193 member states of the UN established the 2030 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Agenda for Sustainable Development. In CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION AND PRODUCTION the Agenda are Sustainable Development UN OBJECTIVES By 2030, improve water quality by reducing UN OBJECTIVES By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound Goals (SDGs) that underpin the UN’s pollution; eliminate the dumping of and minimise the release management of waste and reduce its release into the environment. mission to bring the world together of hazardous chemicals and materials; halve the amount By 2030, achieve sustainable use of natural resources; reduce and eradicate poverty, fight inequalities of untreated waste water; substantially increase recycling waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and and tackle climate change. and safe re-use. re-use; encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and Businesses play a crucial role in HOW WE CONTRIBUTE One of our key activities is cleaning integrate this data from these activities into their reporting cycles. achieving this, so our new sustainability waste water and making it available again as water that is HOW WE CONTRIBUTE Renewi wants to enable the circular strategy addresses society’s most urgent safe to drink. Each year, we do this by cleaning enough water economy and we see it as our purpose to do this by giving new challenges, as summarised in six of the to fill more than 250 Olympic-sized swimming pools. life to used materials. This goal is central to what we do. SDGs which most closely reflect Renewi’s sustainability ambitions. Here we outline how our activities contribute towards AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY the UN’s targets for each SDG. CLIMATE ACTION UN OBJECTIVES By 2030, substantially increase the global UN OBJECTIVES Integrate climate change measures into share of renewable energy; double the global rate of national policies, strategies and planning. improvement in energy efficiency. HOW WE CONTRIBUTE Renewi can and will have an impact 250 HOW WE CONTRIBUTE Renewi’s carbon footprint is in part on climate change by significantly reducing the use of fossil caused by the use of non-renewable energy. And although we fuels in our operations, as well as by playing a key role in produce renewable energy from waste – which helps to offset eliminating carbon emissions from the supply chain through our own carbon emissions – we are still aiming to lower recycling waste, instead of the waste ending up in an Every year Renewi decontaminates the carbon impact of our energy use through an increased incinerator or landfill. enough waste water to fill over 250 reliance on renewable energy, as well as become more Olympic-sized swimming pools energy-efficient in our operations. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 22/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY CEO Q&A “WE’RE PROUD TO BE PART OF THE GLOBAL EFFORT TO TACKLE CLIMATE CHANGE AND CREATE A CLEANER, GREENER FUTURE FOR US ALL” What, in your view, are the waste industry’s most pressing environmental responsibilities today? Today, our responsibility is to recycle and waste streams by 50% by 2022 – although in other markets the timelines vary. The waste industry has a very real responsibility to prevent waste where possible, and to come up with innovative Why do you think there is now such a sense of urgency in environmental issues? The climate crisis is facing us now, and now is the time to act. In 2015 the European 50m tonnes of electric and collect waste in the greenest way possible, solutions to efficiently collect waste and Commission launched the Circular Economy Action electronic waste are which means recycling 64.7% of waste and transform it into secondary raw materials. This Plan, part of the European Green Deal, with a target generated every year minimising the release of CO2 emissions in is a crucial step in building a circular economy, to see the first real change delivered by 2022. This collection and recycling processes. and here at Renewi we’re proud to be playing includes making sustainable products the norm in Tomorrow, we need to go beyond this. We our part in enabling it. the European Union, and applicable to the widest Otto de Bont need to work with municipalities and commercial By recycling, the industry plays an active role possible range of products. It will look to introduce Chief Executive Officer customers to ensure that all waste is sorted in reducing global carbon emissions, as emissions regulations to reduce carbon and environmental and segregated at source, which will enable released in the production of primary raw materials footprints, including: increasing the recycled content We ask Otto de Bont about the urgency higher levels of recycling. can be minimised by using secondary raw materials. in products; enabling high-quality recycling; and of acting on climate We also need to partner with more companies In addition, when organic waste material is restricting single-use products. The primary focus change and how, by to help them reduce their waste streams and transitioned into gas by digestion, a biofuel with is on sectors that use most resources and where enabling the circular meet regulatory requirements, such as the no additional CO2 footprint is produced, which there’s plenty of potential for circularity, such as economy, Renewi can help to tackle the crisis Netherlands’ Government-wide Programme can be used as a replacement for fossil fuels. This electronics, batteries and vehicles, packaging, for a Circular Economy, which includes operational also avoids landfill, and the release of so-called textiles, construction, food and plastics. And goals for Dutch companies to reduce residual diffuse carbon emissions from landfill sites. all of this by 2022 – that’s not far away! RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 23/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY CEO Q&A continued Why is the circular economy 2020), a foreign waste import tax was introduced so important? to cut the volume of imported foreign waste The principle behind circularity is to keep coming in for incineration. During the next financial resources in use for as long as possible and year, we expect the introduction of a CO2 tax, extract the maximum value from them while in targeted at industry and waste incineration, use, then recover and regenerate products and which should halve CO2 emissions. materials at the end of life. Why? Because the demand for raw materials is growing by the day. If there was one thing in the world Today we need 34 times more raw materials to you could do to support climate house, feed, clothe and entertain the world’s change, what would it be? population than we did in the 20th century. That Sir David Attenborough (pictured) was is obviously not sustainable. It’s for this reason that interviewed on British television in April the circular economy, by keeping resources in use, 2020 and was asked a similar question. My answer is central to tackling the climate crisis and is behind is the same as his: “Stop waste. Stop waste of any everything we do. It’s why one of the three pillars kind. Stop wasting power, stop wasting food, stop of our new sustainability strategy is ‘enable the wasting plastic.” We have created a wasteful society circular economy’ (see page 24). and we urgently need to reverse that. Steps are There are a handful of European countries being taken, but not fast enough. Since Renewi leading the charge, and the Netherlands and began, our slogan has been ‘waste no more’, Belgium, where our core business operations and that is an aim we have followed ever since. are, is among those. By 2022, for example, the Netherlands will require companies and What kind of innovation is Renewi organisations to cut their residual waste in half. using for the recycling of waste? This includes paper, cardboard, PMD waste (plastic We’re constantly working with tech bottles, metal packaging and drink cartons), glass providers, start-ups and universities to push giving new life to these materials. Typical products secondary raw materials for re-use. That’s why and leftover food. By 2030, companies will be technological innovation in recycling. Take nappy include adhesives, waste bins, clothes pegs and our Coolrec business collects fridges from across required to have cut their use of primary raw recycling, for example. It’s estimated that across the bottle caps for cleaning products. Renewi plans to Europe, dismantles them and separates the materials (mineral, fossil fuels and metals) by European Union, more than 30 billion nappies are construct recycling plants in the Netherlands for this materials into different polymers, which are then 50%. And by 2050, the Netherlands is committed used each year. That amounts to around seven operation, and the first one is set to open in 2022. We converted into high-quality regranulate for use to achieving 100% circularity by using fewer raw million tonnes of nappy waste going to landfill and expect 35,000 tonnes of nappies and pads a year to in the creation of new products (see page 39). materials through smart design, longer-lasting incineration. In the Netherlands alone, 400,000 be recycled from this first plant. So through our partnerships and recycling products that are consciously used for longer tonnes of them are sent to incineration every year. According to the World Economic Forum, waste processes, we bring life to materials that would periods and 100% recycling of waste. We’ve therefore entered into a partnership to explore from electrical devices is the world’s fastest-growing otherwise have been discarded, either ending up To help realise these circular ambitions, the ways to recycle disposable nappies and incontinence source of waste, with around 50 million tonnes in landfill or being incinerated. We’re proud to be Dutch Government is making sweeping regulatory pads by separating out their plastic, cellulose and produced each year. To help enable a circular part of the global effort to tackle climate change changes. During the last financial year (early in super-absorbent polymers for use in new products, economy, we’re transforming this waste into and create a cleaner, greener future for us all. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 24/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Enable the circular economy Helping to drive circular activities and turn waste into secondary raw materials and products is central to our mission to be the world-beating waste-to-product company O ur purpose is to protect the world by giving and need to upscale and accelerate changes OBJECTIVES new life to used materials. We recognise in their production, sourcing and output. Turn our the value of waste: we collect it and make We also need a wider system change towards customers’ something new out of it. We take a precautionary an economy driven by purpose and profit. For that, waste into approach to environmental challenges. Turning we need active co-operation between business new products residual materials into secondary raw materials and industry, politics, science and the public. We’re helps protect the world’s natural resources and helping customers design their products, to make preserve the planet for future generations. This it easy to extract materials for re-use or recycling puts us at the heart of the circular economy and at the end of a product’s life. We also help them creates value for our stakeholders. develop circular business models, so scarce materials That’s why one of the three central themes of our new sustainability strategy, working together with our enhanced business strategy, is to ‘enable the circular economy’. The business strategy also stay within the chain for as long as possible. In this way, we want to enable the circular economy. TRANSFORMING WASTE 75% Our recycling rate We plan to divert more residual waste from energy recovery to recycling solutions in the future. We do this first by communicating with our upstream clients, encouraging them to sort and separate affirms our support for the circular economy: two INTO NEW PRODUCTS objective for 2025 their waste streams so that we can provide the of its main objectives are for Renewi to be a leader The single focus of our sustainability strategy’s highest recycling output. One example is our in recycling and in secondary material production. Our purpose is entirely in step with developments in the countries where Renewi operates and beyond: the circular economy ‘enable the circular economy’ theme is to turn our customers’ waste into new products, and by doing so avoid carbon emissions, because today’s waste materials are tomorrow’s resources. After 275 kg CO2 per tonne of commercial PMD (plastic bottles, metal packaging and drink cartons) collection. Our Commercial Waste Division in Belgium and the Netherlands deploys part of its own sorting and recycling is growing, and more businesses are exploring products have been used for as long as possible, waste: our 2025 carbon operations for paper, cardboard, wood, plastics, sustainability, driven by the wider economy, valuable raw materials must be brought back into avoidance target metals, and construction and demolition waste. We SDG LINK legislation and social pressure. There is growing the product value cycle. More businesses look to have partnerships with other recyclers to make sure market demand for more sustainable products and us for advice on circular practices – on how, for that we can offer our customers the solutions that services, and increasing government incentives in example, their own used materials can be used are best suited to their waste streams. Specific the form of legislation and regulations. This means again for new products, or how they can make their recycling activities for glass, electric and electronic more businesses are taking sustainability seriously own procurement practices more circular. By giving waste, and hazardous waste are clustered within and realise that they should be contributing to guidance, we promote environmental responsibility our Specialities and Mineralz & Water Divisions. society. Much more needs to happen, however, within our supply chain and in society as a whole. More and more low-quality residual waste gets to tackle the big challenges the world is facing. We prioritise waste recycling over energy a new life instead of being incinerated – and we Large businesses play an important role here recovery or landfill disposal for all waste we receive. invest in innovative technologies and business RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 25/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Enable the circular economy continued models for circular products, placing them into markets where their sustainability benefits can be maximised. For example, with IKEA we have CARBON AVOIDANCE FROM RECYCLING AND RECOVERY Our recycling and recovery activities also have a 35,000 tonnes of nappies SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION invested in Dutch company RetourMatras, which carbon avoidance benefit. By recycling materials A nappy ending for waste and incontinence pads transforms old mattresses into secondary products, and making them available as secondary raw are set to be recycled Renewi is planning to start changing nappies into so it can expand its recycling operations (see page materials, the use of primary raw materials is annually in our new valuable raw secondary materials. Initially we plan 26); we have an exclusive delivery partnership with avoided. By doing so, less carbon is emitted in recycling plant (right) to recycle 35,000 tonnes of nappies and incontinence Purified Metal Company, which decontaminates the life cycle of these materials – hence carbon pads every year. For the operation, Renewi plans to 1m waste steel for re-use in construction (see page 31); avoidance in the supply chain of products made build recycling plants in the Netherlands, the first we have a similar arrangement to pre-treat and from these materials. When waste is used as fuel, of which is set to open in 2022. deliver waste plastic to chemical recycling carbon emissions that would occur by using fossil The resulting materials – cellulose, plastics and specialists, who transform it into oil that can fuels are partly avoided. We turn landfill gas into super-absorbent polymers – will be sold to industry. ATM aims to process They can be used to make a wide variety of products. be used to make new plastic products. Waste electricity at our biggest landfill sites, reducing the one million tonnes Cellulose can be used in adhesives, bioplastics and streams that can’t be recycled are given a useful release of carbon emissions (CO2 and methane). of soil each year into cat litter. The plastics are useful materials for items purpose as high-quality fuel products, such as These emissions should decrease as less landfilling gravel, filler and sand such as waste bins, clothes pegs and bottle caps for refuse-derived fuel (RDF) or solid recovered fuel takes place. Our sustainability objective here is cleaning products. Super-absorbent polymers can (SRF), biomass fuels and Renewi’s ICOPOWER® measured by three metrics: recycling rate, carbon be used to manufacture flood barriers. pellets. We also expect the amount of waste in avoidance and innovative secondary materials During the recycling, the nappies and pads undergo landfill to reduce further as more landfill sites we produce – each with a target for 2023 and sterilisation in a steam autoclave, in a process that kills are decommissioned. 2025. See below for full details. off any harmful pathogens. They are then shredded, and the resulting secondary materials separated. The new business will help tackle the environmental challenge of discarded nappies and incontinence Enable the circular economy – our metrics and targets pads – 400,000 tonnes of them are sent to incineration every year in the Netherlands. Creating these secondary materials by recycling, instead of OBJECTIVE METRIC FY20 BASELINE FY23 TARGET FY25 TARGET incinerating them, saves carbon emissions at the rate of 500kg per tonne of waste. Turn our customers’ Recycling rate 65% 70% 75% waste into new products (% of total waste handled) Carbon avoidance 257 266 275 (kg CO2 per tonne waste handled) (+8%) (+15%) Innovative secondary materials produced 200,000 750,000 1 million (tonnes) RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 26/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Enable the circular economy continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Mattresses make circular dreams a reality We are helping to recycle millions of old and furniture filling. Around 90% of the mattresses into furniture filling, gym floors mattress materials can be recycled, and the and more as part of our vision to be the remaining 10% are used to create energy. All leading waste-to-product company. Our of which means a contribution to the circular investment in RetourMatras, which creates economy that we can be proud of. secondary products by recycling mattresses, Renewi’s investment was accompanied by has allowed the firm to significantly expand a similar one made by Ingka Investments its capacity to process them. (part of the Ingka Group, which includes RetourMatras already has two plants in the 12 IKEA stores in the Netherlands). the Netherlands, which recycle 600,000 Our involvement is, however, more mattresses each year. This joint investment than financial. Our Renewi trucks will by Renewi and Ingka Group enables be transporting containers of up to 100 RetourMatras to build a third recycling plant, discarded mattresses at a time, from hotels, in Zeeland, and increase annual processing care homes, cruise ships and governmentcapacity by more than 50%: now one million owned accommodation, to RetourMatras. mattresses a year can be recycled across the Repurposing one 40m3 container of three locations, which goes a long way to mattresses, rather than incinerating them as tackling the Netherlands’ waste mattress waste, saves 533kg of CO2. For RetourMatras’s problem – around 1.5 million mattresses recycling output of one million mattresses a are thrown away there every year. year, this means a CO2 saving of 48kg of CO2 RetourMatras removes metal parts, textiles equivalent per mattress annually. As Renewi and foam from the mattresses, which are CEO Otto de Bont puts it: “This collaboration used as secondary products in sports mats, fits perfectly with our role as a connecting gymnasium floors, soft playground surfaces link in the circular economy.” “THIS COLLABORATION FITS PERFECTLY WITH OUR ROLE AS A CONNECTING LINK IN THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY” Renewi CEO Otto de Bont RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 27/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Enable the circular economy continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Turning soil into cement, concrete and asphalt Significant investment in the ATM waste can be used in the production of concrete, treatment plant has positioned Renewi well cement and asphalt. By delivering a solution to transition thermally treated soil (TGG) that will transition contaminated soil into gravel, sand and filler. for use by the construction industry and ATM, located in the Port of Moerdijk, the road building, Renewi is contributing to Netherlands, receives contaminated the circular economy. soil from a number of projects including “This innovation has brought the construction industrial building, site reclamation and sector an opportunity to replace primary road reconstruction. Through our AP4Terra raw materials with high-quality secondary project, we are now in a good position materials. This is a real waste-to-product to process one million tonnes of soil a year success story for Renewi and ATM,” says into gravel, filler and sand. Gravel and filler Teus Brand, Project Manager at AP4Terra. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 28/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reduce carbon emissions and waste The sustainability strategy also focuses on improving our customers’ carbon footprint and our own wherever we operate – on site and on our trucks T 25% ime is running out for us to change the way simultaneously we want to reduce our own conversion of the fleet to Euro 6 emission standards OBJECTIVES we live. Our climate is on the verge of changing environmental impact and carbon footprint as – the highest in Europe – is itself an important goal, Be a leader in irreparably, with enormous consequences much as possible – and make sure our emissions one for which we already have publicly declared clean and green for our wellbeing – indeed, our very existence. In to soil, water and air stay well within the legally The 2025 target targets. But we want to take this a step further and waste collection addition, the ongoing destruction and pollution of permitted boundaries. We have identified three for the share of focus on zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) for waste natural habitats turns our world into a hostile place areas of improvement: renewable energy collection in inner cities, although this presents a Reduce the to live for a lot of species, including our own. As greater challenge both operationally and financially. used on site carbon impact of a company, our purpose is wholly aligned to being WASTE COLLECTION Our current research and development on 9.42 our operations a part of the solution: reducing carbon emissions Collection remains an important part of our this issue is limited, so we are stepping up our through the re-use of secondary materials and activities, and we need to reduce its carbon, engagement with the major vehicle manufacturers reducing contamination in our ecosystems. nitrogen and particulate matter emissions. Thus to ensure that we are at the front of the queue for Our business model is oriented around our objective here is to be a leader in clean and kg CO2 per tonne prototypes to test. In fact, our first zero-emission sustainability by improving the carbon and waste green waste collection. Looking forward, we expect of waste handled is electric collection trucks take to the roads in footprint of our customers, and naturally we our collection fleet to become smaller and cleaner. the 2025 target for Amsterdam in August 2020 (see page 29). We will carefully consider our own environmental impact Given the public focus on nitrogen deposition the carbon intensity also develop a lobbying and marketing strategy to and behaviour. But we face challenges: our waste because of environmental and health concerns, the of Renewi sites ensure that the roll-out of ZEVs is either mandated collection is performed by a fleet of diesel trucks or subsidised by customers and government. which, while complying with European emissions Next to growing the number of clean, Euro 6 standards, also send nitrogen and particulate standard trucks or ZEVs in our fleet, we are matter into the air, as well as using carbon. The continually optimising our collection routes, collected waste is then stored or treated at our reducing the number of kilometres driven. sites – activities that use energy, mostly electricity. Additionally, white-label collection trials are under SDG LINK Moreover, some of the waste treatment activities way for many inner-city customers. These use also cause direct-process carbon emissions. In non-branded trucks operated by multiple waste addition, events such as fires and environmental management companies, reducing urban traffic spills can cause unwanted emissions of substances and kilometres driven as well. Our objective to be to soil, water and air. This is why we have identified a leader in clean and green collection is measured ‘reduce carbon emissions and waste’ as one of the by three metrics, all with 2023 and 2025 targets: three pillars of our new sustainability strategy. carbon intensity of collection, share of cleanSo while we strive to maximise the emission trucks, and number of zero-emission carbon avoidance benefit in our value chain, trucks. See page 30 for full details. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 29/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reduce carbon emissions and waste continued Besides these strategies, other projects are also expected to have the potential to positively impact the carbon reduction of waste collection. Among these are the revitalisation of our eco-drive programme, and researching the use of alternative fuels such as bio-LNG and hydrogen. SITE OPERATIONS Secondly, our aim is to reduce the carbon impact of our operations. Carbon and energy use are SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION inextricably linked. For most organisations, carbon sustainability means energy use reduction and Electric trucks – a breath of fresh air efficiency. For us the situation is more complex. Our main goal is to move our activities up the New emission-free electric trucks take to collecting waste with electric vehicles. Each the roads in summer 2020 in our mission to 27-tonne truck has four 50kW lithium-ion waste hierarchy ladder, creating more secondary lead the way in cleaner, greener collection batteries. These are powered up overnight products from waste. But the higher up we operations. Renewi’s Commercial Waste or with DC fast charging, and during braking, move, the more energy we will need for operating Netherlands Division has invested €700,000 making the vehicles very suitable for urban plants and machinery, and for on-site transport. in two Volvo FE Electric 6x2 electric trucks – collection. Commercial Waste Netherlands’ This is the same whether energy use is considered our first – for industrial waste collection fleet of 1,385 vehicles is impressively green; overall, or as an intensity ratio such as per tonne in Amsterdam. This puts Renewi ahead of 48.5% of the Group’s trucks meet the highest of waste managed. the curve regarding future environmental emissions standard – Euro 6. All trucks While recycling and recovery activities have regulations: Amsterdam’s Clean Air we buy are second-generation Euro 6s. a carbon avoidance benefit (see page 25), we Action Plan will only allow emission-free Renewi is looking at using DAF hydrogenacknowledge the need to reduce the carbon vehicles in built-up areas of the city electric trucks, which efficiently store from 2025, with even wider energy, enabling greater impact of our own operations as much as possible restrictions by 2030. range. “We believe in – hence its importance in our sustainability strategy. We want to achieve this mainly by And with the sustainable trucks,” likelihood of a says Commercial investing in renewable energy production at our growing number Waste Netherlands sites, displacing fossil energy use. We are investing of zero-emission Asset Manager Adrie in solar panel roofs, and are investigating the areas in the van Duyvenboden, placement of wind turbines at our sites. Where Netherlands, who manages this is not sufficient, we will purchase green energy. we are gaining the Volvo truck For this we aim to collaborate with frontrunner important early project. “We see green energy providers. experience of them as the future.” Another area of development is the electrification of our company car fleet. Renewi managers need RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 30/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reduce carbon emissions and waste continued to travel between our sites, many of which are RESIDUAL WASTE ON SITES AND Reduce carbon emissions and waste – our metrics and targets remotely located, far from public transport hubs SITE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT – hence the need for company cars. Renewi has Finally, our purpose, vision and strategy also a fleet of about 800 cars, so the carbon impact is oblige us to practise what we preach. And that OBJECTIVE METRIC FY20 BASELINE FY23 TARGET FY25 TARGET considerable. That’s why we encourage the use includes eliminating or reducing residual waste of electric and hybrid cars (fuelled by green at our sites, and limiting the environmental impact Be a leader Carbon intensity 10.04 9.50 <9 energy). We have therefore made arrangements the sites have. We have set in motion some ‘just in clean and of collection (-5%) (-10%) with lease car suppliers and are also going to do it’ actions to demonstrate that we intend to green waste (kg CO2 per tonne increase the number of charging stations at our shift gear on our own waste footprint: collection of waste collected) sites. This second objective, to reduce the carbon `` End the use of single-use plastics on our sites: impact of our operations, is also measured by not selling or providing drinks in disposable PET Share of clean48.5% 75% 100% three metrics with 2023 and 2025 targets: carbon bottles and replacement of plastic coffee cartons emission trucks intensity of our sites, share of renewable energy with recyclable paper ones. (% Euro 6 trucks used on site, and share of hybrid or full-electric `` Improve and make our own recycling policy of total fleet) company cars. See right for details. consistent across all sites, reducing the amount 0 20 65 Zero-emission trucks Although we have identified energy efficiency of residual waste and sorting organics, PMD (number) as a challenging area for improvement, we will (plastic bottles, metal packaging and drink continue to invest in this. We have already cartons), paper and cardboard, among other Reduce Carbon intensity 10.47 < 10 < 9.42 conducted independent, external energy items. We also continually focus on avoiding the carbon of our sites (-5%) (-10%) efficiency audits at our largest plants, and environmental impacts from fires and spills. impact of our (kg CO2 per tonne continue to pursue the outcomes and This area is also highlighted in more detail in operations of waste handled) recommendations. Examples include replacing our Care for people section on page 35. traditional lighting with LED lights, improving the Share of renewable About 15% 20% 25% energy efficiency of our static and mobile plant, See pages 37 to 39 for our energy used on site and replacing diesel motors and aggregates waste handling and emissions (% renewable electricity with efficient electrical ones. We will also reduction performance, and the of total electricity use) promote efficient energy use behaviour. outlook for future activities Share of hybrid 12.5% 30% 40% or full-electric company cars (% (PH)EV vehicles “WE WANT TO REDUCE THE CARBON of total fleet) IMPACT OF OUR OPERATIONS BY INVESTING IN RENEWABLE ENERGY” RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 31/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Reduce carbon emissions and waste continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Recycled steel to build the circular economy SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION We are helping to keep the environment clean and safe with an exciting new programme to recycle asbestos-contaminated steel. Renewi has an exclusive agreement to transport the scrap to Renewi’s renewable energy programme Purified Metal Company (PMC), which will convert it into a premium Thousands of families, and the planet, benefit from Renewi’s clean energy raw material for the steel industry. production. Our Organics business transforms biogas into green electricity, At its plant in Delfzijl, the Netherlands, opening in August 2020, which provides energy to over 15,000 households in the Amsterdam area. PMC will separate the pollutants by heating the steel to at least Our Amsterdam and Lelystad combined heat and power production plants 1,500°C, destroying asbestos and other hazardous contaminants generate the energy. Every year Amsterdam’s wet digester converts over such as chromium 6 and mercury. The clean steel is poured into 100,000 tonnes of pre-processed food waste into 45,000 megawatt hours of ‘purified metal blocks’ for re-use in the steel industry. electricity. Lelystad’s dry digester uses 30,000 tonnes of household organic PMC will recycle around 150,000 tonnes of contaminated steel waste to produce 4,000 megawatt hours. We sell our green electricity annually, which Renewi will collect from demolished industrial certificates from both locations into the grid. sites, decommissioned ships and office buildings. For every “Organics’ contribution to the green energy effort is very important,” says block produced, the equivalent weight in CO2 is saved – far Business Line Organics Director Klaas van den Berg. “Our customers are greener than iron ore-based steel production. The non-hazardous delighted by this optimal conversion of their waste. This a perfect example slag resulting from the process can be used in the construction of our ambition to ‘waste no more’.” of roads and buildings. This recycling method stops contaminated steel going to landfill and creating an environmental hazard for future generations. The PMC partnership supports our sustainability strategy: to enable the circular economy and reduce carbon emissions and waste. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 32/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Care for people Our sustainability strategy commits to keeping people safe, making Renewi a rewarding place to work, and having positive relationships with our communities E nsuring colleagues are healthy, happy and safe about how to be role models. They will live our OBJECTIVES at work is a key aim of the ‘care for people’ pillar Renewi values and promote them to their teams. Deliver people of our sustainability strategy. It also aims to They will also provide direction by translating home safe and make Renewi a rewarding workplace, where a our strategy, creating a vision for their teams, well, every day diverse workforce feels included and valued. This and developing them by drawing on their diverse overview of the past year shows that as we developed strengths. Another 90 leaders in Belgium and Make Renewi our strategy, we were helping our people to thrive. the UK will undertake this training in FY21. a rewarding, In FY20 we changed how we listen to our diverse and people. We used to conduct one lengthy people inclusive RENEWI PEOPLE survey a year. Last year, we introduced multiple working shorter surveys that give leaders more frequent, Our values environment Our people are core to our success. Every day our real-time insight into what is important to Our values are the foundation for everything we do. They show front-line teams keep communities and businesses employees, and to make it easier for managers to that how we act is just as important as what we do. We use our Positively waste-free by collecting waste and bringing it create a plan to increase engagement in their team. values to guide the way we behave and make decisions at Renewi. impact our to our operating sites. Colleagues on site ensure By listening and acting, we aim for improved communities WHAT WE ARE HOW WE ACT collected waste is separated and stored for employee satisfaction, greater productivity and recycling. Innovative teams create new ways to better retention rates, and to put ourselves in a get value from waste. This may occur at Renewi, stronger position to recruit. where we convert thermally treated soil into gravel, Safe Accountable sand and filler at our ATM plant (see page 27). We Balancing our workforce Safety above all else Do what we say we’ll do may also partner with other innovative companies. Attracting and retaining talent is a priority. For example, we have invested in a Dutch company Balancing our ageing workforce with young that recycles old mattresses into secondary talent remains key to our future success. As our materials (see page 26). business evolves, we are moving from a history Innovative Customer-focused of waste management towards a future focused Do it better every day Add value for our customers SDG LINK HELPING OUR PEOPLE THRIVE on recycling and the production of secondary As our business develops, so too should our people. raw materials. We will find it easier to attract We work with our leaders to give them the tools to recruits from all walks of life into our business, take Renewi into the future. Over the past year, we as people increasingly choose to work in Sustainable Together rolled out a new leadership programme. Through companies that make a difference to society Make a daily difference Always open and respectful this training, 139 leaders in the Netherlands learned and the world: each year we have more success to our planet RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 33/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Care for people continued in attracting bright young graduates – from engineers to computer scientists, financiers to marketers. Ethics, compliance and people One of our sustainability strategy ‘people’ objectives is to make Renewi a rewarding, diverse and inclusive working environment, and we can now state with pride that we employ a diverse workforce. Each is attracted by our code of conduct, which prioritises a safe and healthy work environment, diversity, equality, non-discrimination and accountability. Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are self-evident, fundamental rights. As such, Renewi is committed, in accordance with local laws, to respect the rights of all employees to form SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION and join trade unions, to bargain collectively and to engage in peaceful assembly. Employees and their Care for colleagues’ health and happiness representatives are able to openly communicate and share ideas and concerns with management In 2019 Renewi engaged in programmes to In Belgium, colleagues competed in the Global about working conditions and management support and help improve employees’ physical Challenge programme, which encourages practices, without fear of discrimination, reprisal, and mental health in the UK and Benelux. people to boost their physical and psychological Colleagues at Renewi’s UK offices took part in wellbeing with an active lifestyle. intimidation or harassment. In addition to the Mental Health Awareness Week in May, which Commercial Waste Netherlands launched the existing channels of communication via our included a psychologist-led session on Fit to the Finish health programme, with six key Works Council arrangements in the Netherlands mindfulness, outdoor games and activities. themes: exercise more, no smoking, no alcohol, and Belgium, the Board has designated NonWe also promoted our 24-hour mental health eat healthy food, relax and better sleep. The Executive Director Jolande Sap to assist it support helpline and the Renewi YOU portal, programme has a range of healthy activities. with workforce reporting. an online platform with an area on mental health. We now have plans to expand Fit to the Finish Our UK trading entity, Renewi UK Services Ltd, Renewi YOU features videos on anxiety, sleep into the UK and Belgium. “We want to keep our is obliged to disclose annual male and female techniques and advice on money management. employees healthy because we value them, pay details under UK gender pay gap reporting “We gave colleagues an environment in which to and want them to have a healthy, happy life,” legislation. While we employ more men than women, talk and highlighted the fact that mental health says Marjet van Vroenhoven, Manager Health our female employees are concentrated in nonissues are experienced by many people,” says Management. “And colleagues who are fitter manual support, and managerial roles are typically Renewi UK Training Co-ordinator Angela Banks. and happier contribute to Renewi’s success.” paid more than the broader-based manual roles (23% of our senior managers are female). Our overall RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 34/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Care for people continued pay gap is not significant, but we must continue to address the gender balance across the business. While we do not operate in higher-risk countries, we uphold the principles in the United Nations ENABLING POSITIVE CHANGE Renewi is on a journey to become the leading European waste-to-product company. To achieve this goal, our business continues to evolve, and 180 We plan to run 180 SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Protecting healthcare heroes Universal Declaration of Human Rights and subscribe change remains a constant. It is therefore important community projects every year Courageous Renewi colleagues them at 121°C to deactivate any virus to the UN Global Compact (see page 53). We respect to bring our people on the change journey with us. supported health workers battling present. This method follows tests our employees’ human rights. We support the rights For example, in the past financial year we 2 to save lives in the Covid-19 crisis by by the Delft University of Technology of the child and don’t employ anyone under 16. We created Renewi 2.0, a three-year programme delivering protective face-masks to on the benefits of mask sterilisation. consider the rights of other young people relative to simplify Renewi’s overhead, to improve our hospitals. Despite the dangers, our Renewi’s support demonstrates our to their work and don’t employ anyone under the customer experience, to increase employee people stayed calm and professional pledge to care for people as part of age of 18 in operational roles. We have a policy to satisfaction and to deliver cost benefits. To help The maximum number as they collected used masks from our sustainability strategy. Recycling combat the possibility of human trafficking and leaders deliver change effectively, we will continue of substantiated hospitals and nursing homes in the masks, instead of sending them for slavery in our business and supply chain – see to provide change-management training and complaints per site we Netherlands, and took them to a medical incineration, is also an our Modern Slavery Statement at renewi.com. support change through internal communications. aim to receive annually sterilisation centre to be made safe excellent example of collaboration again. Renewi truck teams delivered between partners who share the same This objective is tracked by three metrics: We have also pledged to harmonise our reward thousands of sterilised masks back ambition – to increase circularity and employee engagement, employee development, structure to remunerate our people fairly and to medical centres every day. reduce carbon emissions: Van Straten/ and women in higher management. These metrics transparently. In the past year, we worked closely The operation was a collaboration GreenCycl refurbishes medical (and all others in this section) have 2023 and 2025 with a Central Union delegation in Belgium and between Renewi and medical instruments, and they are also leased targets. See page 35 for more information. the Central Works Council in the Netherlands to equipment supplier Van Straten out. This reduces the need to make harmonise blue collar pay. In FY21 we will complete Medical/GreenCycl, which more instruments, and so decreases NURTURING WELLBEING the harmonisation of white collar pay across the manufactures, repairs and sterilises the carbon footprint associated with Safety is a top priority for Renewi. It is essential we Group and in the Divisions. surgical instruments. Our industrial production. Data collected get our people home safely each day, and this is a Commercial Waste Division set up from the face-mask operation is also key objective of our sustainability strategy. In FY20 the transportation operation in being used for sustainability research. we rolled out a new safety culture initiative: as a COMMUNITY April 2020, to tackle the shortage of result, the number of incident reports made by face-masks following the Covid-19 outbreak. Renewi logistics colleagues colleagues increased by 67%, showing raised risk Being a positive force in communities is also followed strict safety procedures awareness and employee engagement. We also a fundamental part of our sustainability strategy’s when collecting and handling prioritise wellbeing. Our Fit to the Finish programme ‘care for people’ pillar. As well as ensuring the masks, to ensure no risk of and our online platform Renewi YOU (page 33) we minimise the environmental impact of infection with Covid-19. support colleagues to improve their fitness, our operations, we take part in community The teams collected containers of wellbeing and health to reduce levels of sickness. engagement projects and spread the message used masks and took them to the Van We will use these objectives to help monitor what of ‘waste no more’. This objective is tracked by Straten Medical/GreenCycl facility in is important to our people: greater-than-three-day these metrics: community engagement projects, De Meern-Utrecht for sterilisation. accident rate, safety training, employee mood, and community feedback, and community impact There the company has a capacity to healthy at work rate (see page 35). events. See page 35 for more details. handle 48,000 masks a day, sterilising RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 35/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Care for people continued ENGAGING WITH LOCAL PEOPLE Care for people – our metrics and targets Working in partnership with communities is a foundation for success at Renewi. That’s why we actively engage with communities, providing OBJECTIVE METRIC FY20 BASELINE FY23 TARGET FY25 TARGET them with insight into our activities, educating them on our purpose and our mission, and Positively impact Community engagement projects About 150 165 180 showing how these fit into the evolving circular our communities (number of projects annually) (+10%) (+20%) economy. We open up our facilities to local people and have an extensive education Community feedback 2.7 2.3 2 programme, engaging with schools and youth (number of substantiated complaints (-15%) (-25%) groups to teach children about the vital per site annually) importance of sustainability in today’s climate 43 30 21 Community impact events change crisis. For more details of our community (-30%) (-50%) (number of events per site annually) efforts, see page 42. Deliver people home safe >3-day accident rate 1,504 760 600 KEEPING COMMUNITIES SAFE and well, every day (-50%) (-60%) We also work tirelessly to minimise the impact of our operations on local communities and remain Safety training N/A 100% 100% committed to managing and reducing emissions (% employees trained annually) to air, land and water, and pollution of any kind. Employee mood 7.2 7.5 7.5 There are times when we must proactively protect (mood score in Pulse) (+5%) (+5%) communities from the impact of the work on our sites. This may be due to odours, fires or leaks Healthy at work rate 94.8% 95.4% 96% and spills of contaminants, and we make efforts (% healthy employees) to respond decisively. Fires in particular can be Make Renewi a Employee engagement +14 +22 +30 a hazard in our industry and are often caused by rewarding, diverse (eNPS score in Pulse survey) (+50%) (doubled) old batteries thrown into waste, which can easily and inclusive working combust. We therefore have sophisticated on-site Employee development About 10 13 16 environment firefighting equipment and educate the public on (average annual number of training hours) the dangers of throwing away hazardous waste such as batteries (see page 43). Women in higher management 23% 26% 30% (% of all employees) See pages 40 to 43 for our performance and outlook regarding our people and the communities in which we work RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 36/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 4/ OUR PERFORMANCE RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 37/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet During FY20 we succeeded in improving our recycling rates and made our collection operation greener with more low-emission trucks and smart route optimisation D uring the year we boosted our recycling and in million tonnes reduced from 9.27 to 8.52, mainly HIGHLIGHTS recovery rate, and succeeded in increasing due to a decrease in soil-cleaning activities at our the levels we set for recycling and producing ATM plant in the Netherlands and less waste sent Recycling and waste-derived fuels. We also improved the to recycling from our Commercial Waste Belgium recovery rate environmental performance of our collection truck Division and the Municipal UK Division. This target achieved fleet. The route optimisation programmes and counteracted the increase of recyclate volumes Improved carbon investment in Euro 6 collection trucks helped us in our Commercial Waste Netherlands Division avoidance levels achieve our transport energy-efficiency goals. and Monostreams Division. Another driver was the rise in volumes of waste sent to energy recovery, More low-emission CARBON AVOIDANCE, mainly caused by an increase in fuel production in collection vehicles RECYCLING AND RECOVERY the UK and more residual waste sent to incineration Performance (over three years) in the Netherlands. Next to carbon avoidance, recycling and recovery By increasing the volumes of waste sent to rates have always been key indicators of our recycling and the production of waste-derived sustainability performance. In the past we set fuels, we can create a positive carbon benefit in the ourselves objectives for our combined recycling supply chain. Our carbon avoidance intensity ratio and recovery rate, as well as our recycling rate. rose by 7% compared to FY19, clearly achieving our For both measures, the higher the percentage, 2020 objective target. The strong growth of this the better our performance (see table, page 38). intensity ratio was mainly due to an increase in Carbon avoidance benefit has been reported in waste-derived fuels produced and sold in the UK. total and as an intensity ratio per tonne of waste The decrease in waste used as a fuel at our ATM handled. This ratio primarily accounts for the type site in the Netherlands and increase in volumes of of material. The higher the number, the better residual waste sent to incineration – which has a down of more landfill sites. That’s why we are our performance (see table, page 38). negative carbon avoidance effect – counteracted dropping the recycling and recovery rate metric, In FY20, our overall recycling and recovery part of the positive development in the UK. and are focusing on increasing our recycling rate, in 48.5% rate continued to increase, ending the reporting line with our strategy. We aim to do this by reducing cycle with an achievement of the target. The Conclusion and outlook volumes of residual waste incinerated. We will still improvement was mainly caused by a decrease We hit the recycling and recovery rate and carbon supply waste-derived fuel. We expect an increase of our collection truck of landfill in the UK. The recycling rate dropped 2.2 avoidance intensity ratio targets, but not the in the carbon avoidance benefit from our activities. fleet are Euro 6 lowpercentage points to 64.7% and so our 70% target recycling rate target. We expect a further decrease We will continue to measure this parameter, emission vehicles wasn’t achieved. The amount of materials recycled in waste sent to disposal, due mainly to the closing aiming to increase it in the years to come. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 38/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet continued WASTE COLLECTION, SITE Green electricity production reduced over the OPERATIONS AND SITE past year, largely as a result of the continuing Our recycling and recovery objectives and performance ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT decrease in energy production in the UK and a Performance (over three years) steady level of energy production in the other FY18 FY19 FY20 2020 Objective performance performance performance target Although electricity and fuel use decreased, the Divisions. We had expected a positive contribution increase in gas use – together with a decrease in from our new Derby plant this year, which will no Recycling rate: % total waste handled 66.3% 66.9% 64.7% 70.0% the total amount of waste handled – caused the longer occur. Our target of 213,170 megawatt hours Recycling and recovery rate: % total waste handled 1 89.1% 90.0% 90.8% 89.9% site energy used-rate per tonne of waste handled to for 2020 included this likely contribution. We expect 1. Target for this objective aligned between our sustainability and green scorecard objectives by removing rounding. increase compared to last year, bringing us no closer positive developments again as we are increasingly to achieving the target we set for this objective. Site investing in additional methods of renewable efficiency will continue to be an area of importance. energy production on site, via wind turbines and At the same time, however, we know that improving the installation of solar panels. Our energy efficiency and green electricity production objectives and performance site energy will be hard, given the fact that with increasing recycling activities, the amount of energy Conclusion and outlook FY18 FY19 FY20 2020 needed per tonne of waste handled will also rise. Renewi fulfilled its fuel efficiency and percentage of Objective performance performance performance target That’s why we decided to drop this measurement Euro 6 truck targets, but didn’t achieve the energy Energy use on sites in kWh per tonne of waste handled 28.3 29.1 31.2 26.6 as a key sustainability metric. efficiency on site and electricity production As for our truck fleet efficiency, route optimisation targets. While we continue our efforts to increase Litres of fuel used per tonne of waste collected / 3.15 3.12 3.11 3.12 transported initiatives and continuous investment in Euro 6 the energy efficiency of our waste collection and waste collection vehicles have helped us to meet site activities, we also acknowledge that future % of waste collection / transport truck fleet compliant 24.2% 34.9% 48.5% 34.4% with Euro 6 standard our transport energy efficiency objectives from improvements are likely to be marginal. And Green electricity produced 000 MWh 143,462 124,582 111,746 213,170 last year. This year, truck fuel use improved further above all, the main concern for the future is carbon by 0.3%. With Euro 6 vehicles now accounting for emissions. That’s why we are shifting our focus to 48.5% of our total fleet, compared with 34.9% efforts to decrease our total carbon impact from last year, we have continued to increase the our activities, while ensuring our carbon footprint proportion of cleaner vehicles and retire older from operations does not increase. We want to Our carbon avoidance intensity ratio objective and performance collection trucks. This has also meant that accomplish this by investing more in renewable we have now beaten our 2020 target of 34.4% energy production and further increase the share of FY18 FY19 FY20 2020 Euro 6 fleet compliance. fuel-efficient and zero-emission trucks in our fleet. Objective performance performance performance target Carbon avoidance intensity ratio: million tonnes of 0.214 0.218 0.233 0.217 CO2 equivalent per million tonnes of waste handled 90.8% 64.7% 0.233 Renewi’s recycling Renewi’s Renewi’s carbon and recovery rate recycling rate avoidance intensity ratio RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 39/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION PMD separation – a circular solution We have launched an exciting venture to turn tonnes of waste into new products. This circular economy solution is the first time we have been able to recycle the plastic bottle, metal SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION packaging and drink carton (PMD) waste we handle in the Netherlands. Now all the PMD waste Renewi collects is transported to German recycling company Hubert Eing where New life for old fridges – very Coolstar it is transformed into secondary materials for manufacturing. From old fridges, Renewi salvages waste plastic and transforms it This ensures that the Dutch companies and other organisations into a secondary material suitable for a variety of applications. we serve can hugely limit their residual waste and, like The high-impact polystyrene (HIPS) regranulate, called Coolstar, Renewi, play a part in enabling the circular economy. is made by our subsidiary Coolrec. With a purity of more than We supply businesses with containers and bags for the 98%, HIPS is providing a sustainable economic solution to collection of PMD, and support them with a digital toolkit, reduce the use of virgin plastics, and is used in the manufacturing which explains how to sort and separate the different kinds of a wide range of products. of waste. We then collect the PMD and take it to Hubert Eing, After collecting discarded fridges from across Europe, Coolrec as part of the deal we signed with Eing in October 2019. dismantles them, separating metal and plastic. It uses sink / float Renewi has been transporting an average of 65 tonnes of techniques to sort different polymers according to their density, PMD a month, but this is rising as more customers participate which are then converted into three types of high-quality in the scheme. No less than 80% to 90% of the PMD is regranulate: Coolstar Circular, which can be used for most injection recycled, and the rest is recovered to generate energy. moulding applications; Coolstar Plus, further purified and so ideal In Germany, the PMD is separated using techniques such as for thin wall applications as sheet extrusion and 3D printing water baths, blowers, infrared devices and vibrating sieves. filament; and Coolstar Master, which features enhanced impact The metal – including tins and cans – is used again as a strength and can be tailor-made to customer specifications. raw material, and the recycled drink cartons are bought by The many applications of HIPS include: toys and tokens, fridge paper manufacturers to turn into new products. The plastic linings, vending cups, bathroom cabinets, instrument panels is washed and, depending on the grade, converted into and control knobs, buttons and computer housings. This 100% agglomerate or regranulate. Agglomerate is used for items recycled compound brings new life to materials that would such as children’s playground equipment and garden otherwise have been discarded, helping to create a cleaner, benches, while regranulate can be used to make items such as greener future. As Director at Coolrec, Dieter Avonds explains: hosepipes, cable sheathing and injected moulded products. “Coolrec has reached an important circular milestone with the introduction of Coolstar, which demonstrates our sustainability vision at the heart of the circular economy.” RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 40/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY People We kept the safety of Renewi employees at the top of the agenda – and we continue to raise colleagues’ risk perception in order to help prevent accidents T he health and safety of all Renewi employees reported more than 29,898 near-misses – a HIGHLIGHTS has always been our most important priority. 67% rise; at the same time we have increased That’s why we have always set, and continue the close-out rate by 11% to a total of 80%. Increase in nearto set, ambitious safety targets. This has been a miss reporting challenging year for us, because serious accidents CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK Rise in near-miss occurred at Renewi sites. However, we made Renewi is all about new beginnings. Our close-out rate progress with our near-miss reporting and closeHomeSafe campaign, which started this year, out rates, and our new HomeSafe initiative aims is a new beginning for our SHEQ (safety, health, New global accident to raise our people’s risk awareness. We are also environment and quality) efforts. It’s a move reporting system confident that we will achieve success with the away from traditional methods of solely company’s headline safety metric: the greatertracking accident rates and incident numbers; than-three-day accident rate. it emphasises potential reporting hazards and closing them out as a team. By doing this, we PERFORMANCE are raising risk perception and closing out minor (OVER THREE YEARS) events before they turn into a major situation. Although the total number of accidents with We also have a new global system that gives more than three days’ absence has dropped 3% every employee the ability to report any from 98 to 95, the greater-than-three-day accident incident instantaneously. rate, which is the 12-month rolling rate per number We are disappointed that we weren’t able of FTEs, increased. However, the general lost-time to achieve all of our ambitious 2020 objective injury frequency rate did decrease significantly, targets. We do, however, see improvements in Our health and safety objectives and performance which shows that our efforts to reduce the average our fundamental approach to safety, which number of accidents per employee are paying off. convinces us that we are also going to see FY18 FY19 FY20 2020 A continuing matter of concern is the severity improvement in our greater-than-three-day Objective performance performance performance target rate, which again changed negatively. This means accident rate over the coming years. For this >3-day accident rate 1,505 1,404 1,504 1,355 80% that the absence as an effect of the injuries our reason, our long-term ambition – to reduce our Lost-time injury 12.5 10.8 9.6 8.7 people suffer has risen, urging us to continue accident level across the business to ‘zero frequency rate our journey to raise safety awareness and to accidents’, not merely to an ‘acceptable level’ – Severity rate 17.4 18.8 20.8 13.1 Renewi’s near-miss increasingly shield our people from the dangers still stands. Taking our people with us on our Near-miss close-out rate 83% 69% 80% 85% close-out rate went around them. A positive development has safety journey ensures that we are very much up by 11% to 80% been near-miss reporting. This year we have heading in the right direction. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 41/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY People continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Reaching out to people and society Renewi is connecting with society and the labour market, whether due to building long-lasting relationships through continued unemployment, because an employee ambassador programme and they study part-time or face physical a campaign to recruit people distanced or mental challenges. In February 2019, from the job market. Via the Proudnewi we received Level 1 Performance Ladder online ambassador platform, colleagues for Social Enterprise (PSO) certification. receive an email twice a month, updating This is a national accreditation in the them on recent posts about the company, Netherlands, granted following an audit explaining why current ones should be that demonstrates social contribution shared and offering tips on how to do so through providing these individuals in an interesting way. with opportunities in the workplace. Some 200 employees in Belgium can now So far, 130 Renewi colleagues have been share information and news about Renewi recruited under this standard and are on their personal social media channels, deployed all over the company, from and so become proud ‘narrators’ of our loading our vehicles to working in our sustainable story. Proudnewi encourages offices in the HR and Finance teams. colleagues to urge others in society to “We have always believed that, as a big rethink waste management by giving employer, we should be a reflection of them a glimpse of life at Renewi – from society,” says Wendy Wernert, Renewi’s activity at our many locations and our Global Talent Manager. “So many of these fleet of vehicles, to how we’re helping people are creative because they’ve to give life to new materials and enabling needed to be. They’ve had to learn to the circular economy. look at things differently, to overcome In fact, many of the relationships we the challenges they face. They think in proactively build are with people who solutions, and that really supports the have found themselves distanced from can-do mentality in our organisation.” 130 colleagues have been recruited under the PSO standard RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 42/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Partnerships By building relationships with communities, we were able to develop our sustainability education schemes – and continued to minimise the impact of our operations W e have made solid progress in building recycling and tackling waste for primary and PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS valuable and long-lasting relationships secondary schools in the Netherlands, one of (OVER THREE YEARS) with communities in which we operate which was adapted for Belgium, and we also Although we managed to lower the average Sustainability during the past year. Our work has included created waste management plans for school number of complaints per site down to 2.7, we education education programmes to teach children and leaders in the Netherlands, so education did not achieve our 1.4 target. The main focus programmes adults about the benefits of sustainability and the institutions could ‘practise what they preach’. area was the number of odour complaints delivered hazards presented by waste, and efforts to limit The plans centred on improving recycling and received at some of our UK operational sites. Safety advice to the effect of our operations on local communities. sorting waste more efficiently so it can be more We did see positive developments in this area, public given about easily collected and recycled. however – an improvement partly due to the hazardous waste OUR COMMUNITY RELATIONS relatively stable number of complaints received During the year we opened our facilities to the public. REDUCING OUR IMPACT by the other Renewi Divisions. We welcomed 1,750 people onto our Vlaardingen site ON COMMUNITIES Start them young: in the Netherlands and sought to inspire the young Fires are a major issue in our industry, and often a Renewi teaching CONCLUSION AND OUTLOOK and the old on recycling opportunities. these occur as a result of inadequate sorting of package on recycling While we reduced the average number of In the UK, where we collect household waste, waste before arrival on site. Common offenders are complaints received per site last year compared we partner with local authorities to inform and batteries thrown into general waste. So, we have to the previous year, we weren’t able to achieve educate children on the importance of pre-sorting invested in high-tech fire equipment across all our 2020 target. This is all the more reason to waste at home, reducing waste and recycling. sites, to minimise the risk of fire in the community. continue our efforts. By doing this, we want We also partner with environmental charity However, from time to time, fires can have an to increase our active engagement, which will Keep Britain Tidy to deliver workshops to schools impact, as was the case at the site in the Belgian improve our positive relations with our neighbours and youth groups in East London on recycling town of Forest in 2019, when a blaze caused and positively impact our communities. awareness, waste prevention, food waste and disruption to the nearby railway service. In another composting. In FY20, the programme reached case, fire extinguishing water flowed into the public 8,145 students through work with 87 schools sewer. While we respond swiftly and responsibly and five youth groups. when such safety issues occur, we work hard to Our community objective and performance 8,145 In the Netherlands and Belgium we have also prevent hazards happening in the first place. For developed lessons for pupils. We entered into example, we actively engage with the public to alert FY18 FY19 FY20 2020 Objective performance performance performance target a co-operative scheme with five primary schools them to potential dangers caused by waste. In 2019 pupils benefited in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, the Netherlands, to help Renewi attended a safety day in the Netherlands Average number of 1.5 2.9 2.7 1.4 complaints per site from our UK waste reduce the volume of residual waste and pollution to highlight the fire hazards presented by batteries education scheme in their area. Renewi created teaching packages on thrown into waste (see page 43). RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 43/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Partnerships continued SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Keeping communities safe and sound Part of our community outreach efforts involve educating the public on waste management and safety. To this end, in October 2019 Renewi was one of the hosts at a safety day in Naaldwijk, the Netherlands, along with the emergency services and the media, which was attended by 15,000 people. Our goal was to educate families about two of the biggest safety problems with waste: items that can cause fires and staying safe around our waste transportation trucks. Accidents caused by being in trucks’ blind spots is a major road safety problem in the Netherlands, where lots of people use bicycles. At the safety day, we placed a large mat around one of our trucks to show the locations of these blind spots. Placing fire-hazardous items in waste can cause blazes in our waste collection trucks and at our plants. Lithium-ion batteries are one of the biggest causes of this, as they can be found in hundreds of items from children’s toys to telephones. When damaged, they can combust and ignite waste around them. We showed a film of a battery on fire and held a contest for children to identify fire-hazardous items in a container – the winner received an online voucher. “The public responded brilliantly,” says Victor Vijfvinkel, Marketing and Communications Specialist at Renewi, who attended the event for Renewi. “People who visited us learnt a lot about fire-hazardous items and hopefully from now on they will separate them from their waste. We were constantly busy and telling our story, and in this way, together we can prevent fires in the future.” “PEOPLE RESPONDED BRILLIANTLY AND LEARNT A LOT ABOUT HAZARDOUS ITEMS” RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 44/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 5/ APPENDIX RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 45/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet – recycling and resource The left-hand table shows how much waste we received at our sites, and how much of this was recycled and recovered rather than disposed of. The right-hand table shows data on our energy consumption and production (some of our operations produce green electricity directly) and significant spills Our recycling and recovery performance Our resource use and spills performance RENEWI TOTALS RENEWI TOTALS Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 Total waste handled at sites (million tonnes) 14.02 13.85 13.18 Electricity consumption (megawatt hours) 195,735 192,091 176,935 Materials recycled (million tonnes)1 9.30 9.27 8.52 Gas used at sites and offices (megawatt hours) 81,820 90,082 118,525 Materials recovered for energy production from waste (million tonnes)1 3.19 3.20 3.45 Fuel, such as diesel, used at sites and offices (megawatt hours) 1 118,962 120,238 116,102 Total materials recycled and recovered for energy production (million tonnes) 12.49 12.47 11.97 Total energy used at sites (megawatt hours) 396,517 402,411 411,563 Recycling as % of total waste handled 66.3% 66.9% 64.7% Fuel used in waste collection vehicles (000 litres) 34,296 34,042 33,141 Recycling and recovery as % of total waste handled 89.1% 90.0% 90.8% % of waste collection / transport truck fleet compliant with Euro 6 standard 24.2% 34.9% 48.5% 1. Recycling refers to materials given a second life for reprocessing into new goods / materials. Recovery refers to waste used for energy production such as production of waste-derived fuels, bio-mass and similar. Includes water recovery and moisture loss during Green electricity generated (megawatt hours) 143,462 124,582 111,746 treatment for some technologies employed. Significant spills at sites – number of reported spills required by permits 2 50 34 43 `` Reduced throughput at Renewi’s ATM plant has affected both overall tonnage handled 1. Includes diesel used in heavy mobile plant, static plant and machinery, plus oil and so on used for heating. and recycling rate 2. Spills are those as required to be reported by environmental permits. `` Good progress has been made in the production of waste-derived fuels `` Electricity and fuel use on sites fell, whereas gas use rose – mainly as the result of start-up `` Overall recycling and recovery rate has increased processes at Renewi’s ATM plant `` Route optimisation projects for waste collection operations assisted in reducing truck fuel consumption `` % of Euro 6 trucks in the fleet is the result of our procurement project `` Green electricity production affected by the sale of anaerobic digestion capacity and delays relating to Renewi’s Derby plant `` Regarding spills, environmental permit reporting requirements vary from country to country; within this variation, performance is level RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 46/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet – carbon footprint and avoidance data These tables show our carbon emissions and carbon avoidance. We also detail our carbon emission and avoidance benefit as ratios per tonne of waste, which is a more accurate measure of our carbon performance Emissions from our activities (CO2 equivalent per 000 tonnes)1 Carbon avoidance as a result of our activities RENEWI TOTALS RENEWI TOTALS Source FY18 FY19 FY20 Source FY18 FY19 FY20 Process-based emissions Renewable energy generated 56 47 42 Emissions from green composting 76 90 42 Waste-derived fuels produced and sold 946 970 1,081 Emissions from hazardous waste treatment 256 204 199 Materials separated for re-use / recycling 1,699 1,764 1,749 Emissions from landfill 101 91 85 Energy from waste used as a fuel on site 305 241 201 Other emissions, including mechanical biological treatment (MBT) and 67 50 45 Total potential avoided emissions 3,006 3,022 3,073 anaerobic digestion (AD) Transport-based emissions Fuel used by waste collection and transport vehicles 120 120 108 Fuel used by business travel (cars, trains, flights and similar) 5 5 6 Energy use emissions Our greenhouse gas emissions and avoidance intensity ratios Electricity used on sites and in offices 121 117 110 Gas used on sites and in offices 16 17 23 Ratio FY18 FY19 FY20 Fuel used on sites for plant and machinery, and equipment and heating 36 36 35 Million tonnes of greenhouse gases emitted (CO2 equivalent) per million 0.057 0.053 0.050 tonnes of waste handled Total emissions from significant sources 799 732 653 Million tonnes of greenhouse gases avoided by our activities (CO2 equivalent) 0.214 0.218 0.233 1. Figures rounded to nearest 1,000 tonnes – totals may reflect rounding. Some data is based on carbon ‘factors’, which vary from country to per million tonnes of waste handled country and are periodically updated – by government agencies, for example. `` Carbon emissions per tonne of waste handled improved as the result of a combination of factors, including reduced energy use in some areas and the sale of Renewi’s Canadian composting operations RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 47/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet – carbon footprint and avoidance trends The two graphs below show the trends in our long-term recycling and recovery rate and long-term carbon avoidance performance. In both cases, while there may be annual variations, the overall trend shows consistent improvement Renewi long-term recycling and recovery rate trend Renewi long-term carbon avoidance performance trend Million tonnes of waste recycled and recovered as % of million tonnes of waste handled Carbon avoidance in million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per million tonnes of waste handled 100% 0.250 95% 0.219 0.233 0.208 0.214 0.218 90% 0.200 0.188 87.0% 86.9% 87.5% 90.0% 90.8% 89.1% 85.0% 85.5% 87.7% 85% 0.156 80.6% 80.1% 0.150 0.150 0.162 80% 77.1% 0.149 75% 0.123 0.100 0.108 70% FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Recycling and recovery rate Linear trend line (recycling and recovery rate) Carbon avoidance Linear trend line (carbon avoidance) `` Renewi continued its consistent trend of improvement in recycling and recovery `` Mirroring recycling and recovery performance, Renewi’s carbon avoidance performance also increased RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 48/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Planet – energy use and production trends The graph below, left, shows our on-site energy efficiency since 2014. This is a key measure and we aim to focus on this in the future. The graph below, right, shows our long-term green electricity production. Over the years this has been significantly affected by our anaerobic digestion and landfill gas power generation capacity Renewi long-term on-site energy use efficiency trend Renewi long-term green electricity production Energy use on sites in kWh per tonne of waste handled MWh of green electricity produced 32 180,000 31.2 172,8343 170,000 160,000 143,462 30 150,000 29.3 137,166 140,000 28 132,612 28.3 130,000 26.6 26.6 120,000 120,723 116,928 124,582 26 110,000 24.9 102,559 111,746 25.7 113,152 100,000 102,220 90,000 95,884 96,523 24 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Energy efficiency on sites Linear trend line (energy efficiency on sites) Green electricity production Linear trend line (green electricity production) `` Recycling and recovering waste requires energy, and this is reflected in Renewi’s energy use trend `` The disposal of anaerobic digestion capacity has affected performance RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 49/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY People – health and safety and employee data Our safety performance is defined by the number, rate and severity of the accidents we record. Near-miss reporting is a proactive way of avoiding accidents before they occur Our accident and near-miss performance Our people performance RENEWI TOTALS Indicator FY18 % of total FY19 % of total FY20 % of total Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 Total number of permanent employees 1 7,100 NA 7,035 NA 6,550 NA Number of fatal accidents 1 0 1 Number of female permanent employees 1,153 16.2% 1,229 17.5% 1,173 17.9% Number of >3-day accidents 108 98 95 Number of male permanent employees 5,947 83.8% 5,806 82.5% 5,377 82.1% >3-day accident rate 1,505 1,404 1,504 Number of operational permanent employees 4,831 68.0% 4,632 65.9% 4,363 66.6% Number of lost-time injuries (LTI) 172 168 147 Number of administration, managerial and support 2,269 32.0% 2,399 34.1% 2,187 33.4% LTI frequency rate 12.5 10.8 9.6 permanent employees Severity rate 17.4 18.8 20.8 Number of female statutory plc Board Directors 2 25% 2 22.2% 2 25% Number of near-misses raised 10,934 17,927 29,898 Number of male statutory plc Board Directors 6 75% 7 77.8% 6 75% Number of near-misses closed out 9,097 12,293 23,911 Number of female senior managers 76 20.8% 67 21.9% 69 22.8% Near-miss close-out rate 83% 69% 80% Number of male senior managers 289 79.2% 239 78.1% 233 77.2% Key Permanent employee turnover (%) 4.9 NA 10.9 NA 12.6 NA >3-day accident Accident that results in a person being off work for more than three days >3-day accident rate Number of >3-day accidents / full-time equivalent (FTE) x 100,000 = rate Number of non-permanent employees2 1,143 13.9% 1,145 14.0% 1,648 20.7% LTI (lost-time injury) Accident that results in a person being off work for a day or more LTI frequency rate Number of LTIs / total number of hours worked x 1,000,000 = rate Total employee absenteeism from work 4.6 NA 5.2 NA 5.3 NA Severity rate Total number of days lost as a result of accidents / total number LTIs (% of available days) Near-miss An accident that nearly, but did not, happen; also called risk reports, close calls etc Near-miss close-out rate Number of near-misses closed out / number of near-misses raised as a % 1. Headcount rather than full-time equivalent (FTE) figure reported elsewhere in this Report, to allow for calculation of split data such as male / female splits. 2. Expressed as FTE. . `` The organisation did not achieve its 20% >3-day reduction target, and while the actual `` Total employee headcount reduced as a result of the sale of Renewi’s Canadian and Reym operations number of accidents reduced from 98 to 95, our rate increased by 7% `` Slow improvement seen in male / female split, both in terms of overall split and senior manager split `` Overall LTI frequency rate improved from 10.8 to 9.6 – an 11% improvement; our severity rate did not improve and remains an area of concern and a need for improvement `` Employee absenteeism rate remains low for a company operating in this sector `` Near-miss reporting was up from 17,927 to 29,898; three out of five Divisions were on target; near-miss close-out figures rose to an average of 80% (missing the 85% target) – an increase from 69% in FY19 RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 50/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY People – greater-than-three-day accident data The graph below shows our long-term greater-than-three-day accident rate trend. This is a key measure and we aim to continue the positive trend Renewi long-term >3-day accident rate trend Number of >3-day accidents / full-time equivalent (FTE) x 100,000 3,500 3,300 3,100 3,000 3,000 2,600 2,400 2,500 2,000 1,748 1,950 1,890 1,505 1,404 1,504 1,500 1,650 1,000 500 0 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 >3-day accident rate Linear trend line (>3-day accident rate) RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 51/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY People – key community data These tables show our performance in mitigating potential adverse effects on our local communities Our community complaints performance Types of complaint RENEWI TOTALS RENEWI TOTALS Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 Number of environmental complaints received by our sites / operations1 306 576 443 Odour 221 423 293 Average number of complaints per site 1.5 2.9 2.7 Litter 11 12 20 1. Includes all complaints, both those substantiated and those unsubstantiated. Vermin / flies 6 56 87 Traffic 2 2 0 Mud / dust 11 33 11 Noise 7 27 24 Other 48 23 8 Total 306 576 443 `` Performance improved over the past year, but is still being affected by complaints received by Renewi’s Derby plant – this plant is not under Renewi’s operational control but is operating under Renewi’s environmental permit RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 52/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Partnerships – governance, compliance and management performance We exercise good governance across our planet, people and partnership activities. We seek external verification of our approach and performance where appropriate. This may be through accreditation to formal standards or assessment to known standards, such as FTSE4Good Our formal management accreditations Our governance performance RENEWI TOTALS RENEWI TOTALS Accreditation 1 FY18 FY19 FY20 Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 ISO 14001 / EMAS 150 149 162 Number of employees receiving training / courses / workshops on integrity 292 243 603 ISO 9001 150 149 162 Number of investigations on integrity issues 16 16 15 OHSAS 18001 / ISO 45001 117 125 162 Number of times advice was given to employees / management following an 142 135 156 integrity notification 1. Some accreditations cover more than one site or operation, such as an accreditation covering a group of sites or a complete Division. Comparison using basic site numbers quoted in this report may not be valid. Number of reports on ethical misconduct by employees 54 22 22 Key ISO 14001 / EMAS International environmental management standards ISO 9001 International quality standard Number of reports on aggression and violence against employees 22 24 18 OHSAS 18001 International health and safety standard % of employees covered by formal safety committees 100% 100% 100% % of operations that have undergone risk assessment for bribery 100% 100% 100% `` All Renewi operational sites now have the three main international accreditations for the and other similar risks environment, safety and quality `` 2020 saw a significant increase in the number of employees who received integrity training courses and workshops; we also launched an e-learning module on integrity, but participation figures aren’t included here, so the number of our employees who have been introduced to our corporate code of Our compliance performance conduct in an active and engaging way is even higher than indicated RENEWI TOTALS `` The number of ethical misconducts and aggression and violence cases, and the number of investigations, stayed roughly the same; the number of times advice was given to employees / Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20 management increased slightly; all of this shows the effectiveness of our integrity approach and Number of environmental convictions and fines 5 4 0 forms a solid base for the years to come Number of health and safety convictions and fines 3 2 3 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices 0 0 0 `` Recording zero environmental convictions and fines is a significant achievement for a major international waste management company RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 53/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY UN Global Compact Ten Principles Renewi plc stands in full support of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, committing to continuously pursue improvements in human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption T his report describes our actions PRINCIPLES PAGES to continually improve the four areas established by the UN Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 34 Global Compact and demonstrates of internationally proclaimed human rights; and how the Ten Principles are fully integrated into our business strategy, Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 34 culture and day-to-day operations. The table directs readers to the Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 33 sections of the Report that apply to effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; each of the Ten Principles. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 34 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 34 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 33 and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 24 environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 24 responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 24-27 friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 52 including extortion and bribery. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS 54/55 ABOUT US OUR APPROACH OUR NEW OUR PERFORMANCE APPENDIX APPENDIX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Principal offices Further information about our operations, Sustainability Report and other publications may be obtained from our website: renewiplc.com. Contact details for our main offices can be found below COMMERCIAL WASTE MINERALZ & WATER REGISTERED OFFICE COMPANY SECRETARY NETHERLANDS Vlasweg 12 Renewi plc Philip Griffin-Smith, FCIS Renewi Nederland B.V. 4782 PW 16 Charlotte Square Flight Forum 240 Moerdijk Edinburgh EMAIL 5657 DH Eindhoven The Netherlands EH2 4DF info@renewi.com The Netherlands UK SPECIALITIES Registered in Scotland WEBSITES COMMERCIAL WASTE Renewi Municipal No.SC077438 For investors BELGIUM Dunedin House renewiplc.com Renewi Belgium S.A./N.V. Auckland Park, Mount Farm CORPORATE For customers Gerard Mercatorstraat 8 Milton Keynes HEAD OFFICE renewi.com B-3920 Buckinghamshire Renewi plc Lommel MK1 1BU Dunedin House Belgium UK Auckland Park, Mount Farm Milton Keynes Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU UK Tel: 00 44 (0)1908 650580 For more information about Renewi’s sustainability strategy and activities, go to our What We Stand For section. RENEWI plc Sustainability Report 2020 OUR RESPONSIBILITIES INVESTORS CUSTOMERS
