CSR REPORT 2019 OILES CORPORATION Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Editorial Policy CONTENTS The Oiles Corporation has been publishing the CSR Report since 2017 to inform stakeholders about its efforts to create a sustainable society and to reach a wider range of stakeholders in order to Contents / Editorial Policy 1 promote its initiatives. On the occasion of the signing of the UN Global Pact in 2019, we released a special feature Message from the President 2 related to SDGs and business development. Corporate Information 4 In this report we are promoting the CSR activities of Oiles Group, which has been appreciated and evaluated by our stakeholders. Management and CSR 8 Special Feature 16 Scope of Report Products and technology of Oiles This report covers Oiles Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries in Japan and overseas, adopting the following Group linked to the SDGs (Sustainable notations. Development Goals) • “Oiles Corporation,” “the company,” and “non-consolidated” refer to Oiles Corporation • “Domestic Group companies” collectively refers to Oiles Corporation with its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan • “Overseas Group” collectively refers to 10 Group companies outside Japan Governance 19 • “Oiles Corporation Group” and “the Group” collectively refer to Oiles Corporation with all companies in the Oiles Corporation Group Response to Consumer Issues 24 Environmental Protection 26 Reporting Period Publication Date Fiscal 2018 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Some October 2019 (next issue: Autumn 2020) Respect for Human Rights and Appropriate information outside this period has also been included with Labor Practices 32 indication of the date. Fair and Equitable Trade 40 Guidelines Used as Reference GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard 2016 Coexistence with Local Communities 41 The Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition), Ministry of the Environment, Japan GRI Content Index 43 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 1 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Top Message We will contribute to society through the technologies of “environment”, “safety”, “security”, and “comfort”, and aim for corporate growth and a sustainable society. fire. Consequently, our core technology supports urban Three businesses with high social functions and the development and maintenance of contribution social infrastructure. Oiles Group is defined by its three main pillars; Oiles Corporation has been providing creative products Bearings, Structural Devices and Architectural Devices. through elaborating and applying tribology; the science Each of which contribute to energy saving by reducing of friction, wear and lubrication, as well as damping energy consumption. From the perspective of providing technology for vibration control. safety, security and comfort, our business highly The cornerstone of our engineering has been oil-less contributes to society, which I believe is our role. bearings, which minimize or eliminate the use of oil and Our management policy is to become a world leader are eco-friendly. Because of this, our bearings are easy as a general manufacturer of oil-less bearings and serve to maintain and are widely used not only in automobiles, society through technology. With these words in mind, construction and production machinery or information we will contribute with the sustainable development devices, but also in structures such as dams and water of society through the promotion and growth of our gates. In addition, by adding damping technology business and technology. of vibration control to the tribology our business has expanded to seismic isolators and vibration dampers which mitigate damage to buildings due to largescale earthquakes. Our smoke elimination and air ventilation devices help secure lives in the event of a Masami Iida President OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 2 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities facilities and logistic warehouses from large-scale earthquakes. In addition, in the Architectural Devices Balancing company growth and Promotion of new growth strategies business, we have been working on a B to C strategy sustainable social development of active advertising development, in order to achieve Our long-term goal of becoming an excellent global wider recognition of our products, which contribute to If we have a look at the world’s present economy company, the Oiles Corporation Group follows its the comfort life of the population. and industry situation, we can see that in various fields medium-term plan (fiscal 20172019) and as a marketa major paradigm shift is taking place. For example, the creating company, has been working on a growth automobile industry, a key sector of our business, is strategy for establishing Oiles as a genuinely global faced with the “CASE” revolution, which refers to electric Step by step toward realizing CSR brand by further strengthening research and technology vehicles and autonomous driving, which is going to mediumto long-term goals development. change the future of cars. Resin bearings used in automobile suspensions are However, we are confident that our longenduring enhancing the expanding demands for fuel efficiency Our CSR Report published every year since 2017 not oil-less bearings will maintain their position in the new and ride comfort by reducing weight and size. In order to only allows us to disseminate information about our CSR environment. In addition, with the upcoming Tokyo 2020 respond to the increasing demands for resin bearings in activities among the wide range of our stakeholders but Olympic and Paralympic Games, Tokyo’s urban functions Japan and overseas, we have expanded the Oita Plant by also provide us opportunities to declare our commitment have been attracting attention from all over the world. In approximately 2.5 times. The expansion was completed, to apply our technologies for sustainable social response to this in the areas of structural and architectural and the Plant started its operation in March of this year. development. devices, we will continue providing products and services Moreover, even though more than 50 years has As stated in last year’s CSR Report, we set important that appeal to prevailing market needs and provide secure, passed since the establishment of the Fujisawa Plant, issues to be addressed in the area of CSR activities and safe and comfortable life for society. in order to strengthen the research and development set medium-to long-term goals and KPIs to deal with those The Oiles Corporation Group will remain committed system that will support the next half century, we have issues. Environmental measures and diversity goals cannot to deepening relationships with diverse stakeholders, decided to greatly expand the function of the Plants’ be easily achieved. However, in believing that promoting keep on developing technologies that meet the Research and Development Department. CSR will contribute to sustainable society; step by step, we needs of the new era and along with the company’s In our Structural Devices business, we will use will continue to accomplish these goals. growth continue to contribute to sustainable social our technology to control the vibration of highrise We have also joined the United Nations Global development. buildings during long period earthquakes, which Compact; an international framework for Sustainable has been attracting attention since the Great East Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Japan Earthquake. We have been also focusing on Nations. I hope to use the universal values proposed strengthening our efforts in the new field of the soby the UN Global Compact in the field and utilize the called Facility Seismic Isolation, which will protect factory environment and labor as the flags for promoting CSR. President OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 3 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Corporate Information (as of March 31, 2019) Business Performance (Consolidated) Name of Company Oiles Corporation Sales Operating Income Head Office Kirihara-cho 8, Fujisawa-shi, Kanagawa-ken, 252-0811, Japan Established March 11, 1952 (millions of yen) (millions of yen) Representative Masami Iida, President 80,000 8,000 Capital 8,585 million yen 61,897 60,083 59,050 61,360 6,084 60,000 56,893 6,000 Stock Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section 4,952 4,834 5,028 4,419 Major Business Segments Bearings, structural devices, and architectural devices 40,000 4,000 Number of Employees 1,106 people (stand-alone); 2,633 people (consolidated) 20,000 2,000 Sales and Manufacturing Headquarters (Fujisawa Plant/Tokyo Head Office) Sites 17 sales offices 0 0 4 manufacturing plants 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 Consolidated Subsidiaries 8 companies in Japan: (Main business fields) • OILES ECO CORPORATION (architectural devices) Ordinary Income Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent • OILES NISHI NIHON HANBAI CO., LTD. (bearings, etc.) • OILES HIGASHI NIHON HANBAI CO., LTD. (bearings, etc.) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) • UNIPLA CORPORATION (bearings and structural devices) 8,000 7,500 • RIKO KIHARA CORPORATION (bearings and structural devices) 6,637 4,927 6,000 4,500 4,300 • LUBY INDUSTRIAL CO.,LTD. (bearings and structural devices) 5,054 5,283 5,247 3,738 4,601 3,583 • OK INDUSTRIAL CO.,LTD. (bearings) 4,000 3,000 • MENSHIN ENGINEERING CO., LTD. (structural devices) 1,466 10 companies outside Japan: 2,000 1,500 • Oiles America Corporation (bearings) • OILES Deutschland GmbH (bearings) 0 0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 • OILES FRANCE SAS (bearings) • Oiles Czech Manufacturing s.r.o. (bearings) • SHANGHAI OILES BEARING INC. (bearings) Earnings per Share Return on Equity • OILES SUZHOU CORPORATION (bearings) (yen) (%) • OILES (THAILAND) COMPANY LIMITED (bearings) 200 10.0 • OILES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED (bearings) 8.6 150.54 7.5 • OILES BRASIL EIRELI (bearings) 150 7.5 128.01 6.4 6.4 • OILES ECO (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd. (architectural devices) 114.37 119.49 100 5.0 46.37 50 2.5 2.6 0 0.0 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 2018/3 2019/3 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 4 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Global Network Oiles Corporation has affiliates and distributors across the world provide products and services that respond to the needs of customers. OILES CORPORATION Seoul Sales Branch Sales by Region Oiles Czech Manufacturing Oiles America Corporation OILES Deutschland GmbH s.r.o. Michigan Office (Sales) Asia Other 12,738million yen 1,466million yen 20.8% 2.4% Sales in FY2018 Europe 61,360 Japan Headquarters 2,973million yen million yen 39,591million yen 4.8% 64.5% NorthAmerica OILES BRASIL EIRELI 4,590million yen 7.5% Employees by Region OILES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED Neemrana Plant SHANGHAI OILES BEARING INC. Japan NorthAmerica Europe Asia OILES INDIA PRIVATE 65.1 8.0% % 4.3 22.6 % % LIMITED 1,714 211 112 596 Head Office Total: Sales and manufacturing sites Sales sites 2,633 employees Manufacturing site As of March 31, 2019 Liaison offices OILES(THAILAND)CO., LTD. Oiles(Suzhou) SHANGHAI OILES Oiles America Corporation CORPORATION BEARING INC. Business Office OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 5 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Business Segments The Oiles Group has three main segments: bearings, structural devices, and architectural devices. Bearings Structural Devices Architectural Devices Eco-friendly plain bearings that minimize or eliminate the Seismic isolators based on our long-honed tribology Technologies and services for residential architecture use of oil are used in many vehicles and various industrial (science of friction, wear, and lubrication) and vibration to make the best use of natural wind and light to bring machinery. dampers that protect people’s lives and structures, new levels of comfort, safety, and energy saving to including civic assets, buildings, and bridges, from people and the environment. earthquakes. Ratio of Sales Ratio of Sales Ratio of Sales 73.4 % 14.8 % 9.4 % Sales in FY2018 Sales in FY2018 Sales in FY2018 45,060 million yen 9,054 million yen 5,778 million yen *1. Sales from transactions among segments are offset. *2. Consumption tax is not included. *3. Sales from segments other than the main three segments amounted to 1,467 million yen in addition to the figure displayed above. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 6 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Seismic Isolators and Vibration Dampers History of Oiles Technologies Seismic isolators for We applied tribology techniques to the seismic motion isolation technology and manufacturing equipment Japan’s First Oil-less Bearing combined it with the damping technology to gain the skills for producing seismic Seismic isolators and In the early Showa period, Sozo Kawasaki, the founder of Oiles isolators and vibration dampers. vibration dampers for Building-use lead Elastic plain Wall type Friction residences Corporation, was in charge of the maintenance of American-made rubber bearing, bearing, SSR dampers, pendulum ◦Structural LRB VWD & WFD bearing, FPS cigarette roller machines at the Monopoly Bureau of the Ministry of Finance. One day he was stunned by the fact that the wooden Devices bearings in those machines required no lubrication. After a process of trial and error, he developed a method to manufacture an oil-less wooden bearing and obtained a patent in 1932. Bridge-use lead Cable vibration Viscous cylinder type Compact plain bearing rubber bearing, LRB damper damper, BM-S HPB Bridge-use bearing (bearing plate) Air bearings Oiles air bearings #550 Metal bearings #300 #500 Slide shifter #2000 Cam unit ◦Bearings Resin bearings #250 #80 Lutech Glitoron Bio-based plastic Wooden bearing Multi-layered bearings Drymet Techmet Hiplast #100 Series of Epoch-making Products Window opening/closing device for air ventilation and smoke elimination Since the world-leading development of a cast iron oil-impregnated Window Operator bearing (#300) in 1942, the company has developed bearings from various materials, such as resin and metal bearings, as well as multi◦Architectural layered bearings that deliver the advantages of both resin and metal Devices bearings. External blind for Natural air ventilator External blind for Window opening/ More recently we shed light on the space for retaining oil in a residences Ecolator buildings closing device for BRIIL ECOSHADE roof skylight windows sintered bearing from a special alloy. By using that space to insert air Control Cables TOP LIGHT into a bearing chamber, we successfully developed an air bearing, in By coating a wire with oil, we developed a device for remotely opening and which two shafts support each other through an air film in a nearly closing windows. We are applying this method, based on the functions of contactless manner (i.e., with nearly zero friction). communication and transmission, to control and shield lights. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 7 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Oiles in Our Daily Life Products of the Oiles Group, which are based on the two core technology fields of tribology and damping, are vital components of various mechanisms that support the safety and Offices Our bearings are used in office security of daily life, including many buildings and other structures. We continue to strive automation equipment such as to hone our techniques so that we remain instrumental to improving the quality of life and multifunction printers. Dams, Waterwheels, society’s well-being. Buildings and Water Gates Our natural ventilation Buildings and Condominiums Our bearings Towers equipment is used are used in the Our seismic isolators and vibration Our seismic isolation in offices to provide dampers are used to ensure the safety mechanical systems rubbers are used to comfort. Lighthouses of these structures. and security of residents and office Our seismic isolators are used provide additional workers. Factories in 26 lighthouses across Japan seismic resistance. Our bearings are used in many kinds to protect their lenses from of factory equipment and machinery. earthquakes. Moreover, our seismic isolators, vibration dampers, and window operator products are used in related buildings and production lines. Bridges Our seismic isolators Shrines and Temples and vibration dampers Ships Our seismic isolators and protect bridges from Ferris Wheels vibration dampers are used Our bearings are earthquakes. Railways to provide additional seismic used in wheels, Our seismic isolation resistance. Our bearings are anchoring gears, rubbers are used outboard motors, used in coupling in large-scale Ferris and hatch covers. gears, pantographs, wheels. crossing bars, and turnouts, and our Bicycles and Motorcycles window opening/ Trash Collectors Many Oiles products are used closing devices Our bearings are used in in brakes, clutches, gearboxes, are used at many trash slot linkage and suspensions, etc. stations. other parts. Art Museums Our seismic isolation rubbers and sliding seismic isolation devices are used in civic Residences buildings and monuments Supermarkets Our external blinds, Automobiles as well as our seismic Our seismic isolation isolators and vibration materials are used to Many Oiles products are dampers are used in prevent products from used in automobile bodies residences. falling off shelves during an and smaller components. earthquake. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 8 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Management Concept Oiles Group Corporate Conduct Charter To continue being the company with social confidence As a world leader in the field of self-lubricating bearings we, at Oiles Corporation, are determined to become a world leader Oiles Group shall conform with laws and regulations and shall conduct ourselves according to the following ten principles in line with social ethics and decency. as a general manufacturer of oil-less bearings and serve society through technology. 1. We shall provide safe products and services that meet the customer needs and contribute to comfortable and safe living. 2. We shall engage in proper trade based on fair, transparent and free competition and shall not pursue profit through unfair or illegitimate means. We shall not engage in bribery in any countries. Company Vision 3. We shall manage corporate information properly and shall make timely and active disclosure. We properly and fully protect and manage personal information and customer information. O nward forward day by day 4. We shall respect the human rights, diversity, personality and individuality of all stakeholders, as well We have come together as ensure a safe and non-discriminatory work environment. I dea originality and ingenuity under the Oiles name. 5. We shall actively engage in protection of the global environment. Let us grow together with L iberty and Law freedom and discipline 6. We shall actively apply ourselves to contribute to society and shall work broadly for the mutual benefit of society. Oiles that communicates E xpert all of us specialists 7. We shall not form any relationship whatsoever with and shall determinedly oppose antisocial forces with the world. and groups that threaten social order and safety. S ervice serving society 8. We shall build trust relationship with stakeholders and seek mutual growth through corporate management, not only complying with all applicable laws of the countries/regions and various international standard including human rights but also respecting cultures, customs and Long-term Vision stakeholders’ interest. We shall promote procurement considering the effects on both the societies and the environment. ■ Take the challenge to be a excellent global company 9. We shall maintain corporate assets in appropriate fashion and shall not use company assets for purposes other than for business or for the pursuant of business. 1. Establish a global Oiles brand 10. We shall apply ourselves to the protection of and respect for intellectual property. 2. Master tribology (friction, wear, and lubrication) and damping (vibration control) technologies 01 June 2017 OILES Corporation 3. Build a company that can grow in a sustainable way OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 9 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Interview with the Director of diversity such as the appointment of women and Importance of CSR information foreigners, which is a part of the key issues of CSR, sharing will have a great significance. We want to promote Promoting CSR Activities In our corporate philosophy we state that our business is workstyle reforms by creating a work environment greatly contributing to the sustainable growth of society where employees can fully demonstrate their motivation, Daily Corporate Activities by reducing the environmental impact and providing abilities and improve productivity. Naturally Linked security and comfort. In the past, we rarely shared to CSR Promotion information externally, but since last year’s publishing of Satoshi Miyazaki, Senior Operating Officer the CSR Report, we started to proactively organize and CSR promotion is the “WIN-WIN” of In his current position since June 2018, Mr.Miyazaki is present our activities. As a result, the company’s social companies and society in charge of Administrative Division, CSR, Compliance, Risk Management, Environment, Safety and Health. He contribution has started to be recognized not only by is the Chairman of the CSR Committee. investors and analysts but also by job hunting students We have also joined the “UN Global Compact (UNGC)”. and local communities, which made me realize the UNGC is a voluntary initiative in which companies importance of the information sharing. Moreover, in order and organizations act as good members of society to directly connect the company’s social contribution to and participate in the creation of a global framework the CSR activities, we have added the CSR promotion for achieving sustainable growth. The ten principles as one of the basic policies in the Group’s mediumestablished by UNGC are universally agreed global to long-term plan (fiscal 2017-2019) and strive to values, so I hope that in the process of promoting CSR strengthen the promotion system. We have established activities such as environmental response and diversity a CSR promotion meeting with the participation of all promotion, each person will share this philosophy and directors and set up a promotion system, in which take part in UNGC. I also hope that UNGC will become management is directly involved. We also identified one of drivers for promoting CSR. important CSR issues and set a medium-to long-term Although CSR activities are demanded by society, goals for solving these issues. With the system and goals they essentially create a WIN-WIN relationship, in which being set, the entire Oiles Group is currently working on companies and society grow sustainably by doing the CSR issues such as environmental measures or business while fulfilling their social responsibilities. In diversity promotion. that sense, the state in which daily activities are naturally In response to the decline in the working-age linked to CSR promotion is the goal of the Oiles Group. population and diversification of working needs, “Act Since our business highly contributes to society, I believe on Workstyle Reform” was enforced in Japan in April. In we have the potential to achieve this goal. order to respond to the workstyle reform, the promotion OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 10 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities CSR Philosophy CSR Structure The Oiles Corporation Group will contribute to the creation of a sustainable society by The CSR Council, chaired by the president, convenes twice a year to deliberate on activities seeking to advance our unique technologies as we pursue the Group’s management of material CSR topics such as the basic policy and the current status of the company’s concept of becoming a world leader as a general manufacturer of oil-less bearings and initiatives. serve society through technology. In carrying out our mission, we will adhere to our longThe CSR Committee, headed by the manager of the Corporate Planning and term vision as well as faithful and fair business activities undergirded by the Oiles Corporation Administrative Division, was established as a subordinate organization that reports directly to Group Corporate Conduct Charter. Moreover, we will practice the six CSR material topics: the CSR Council. The purpose of the committee is to hold discussions that will contribute to Enhanced Governance, Responding to Consumer Issues, Environmental Protection, CSR promotion and enhance medium and long-term corporate value, and details of these Respect for Human Rights and Appropriate Labor Practices, Fair and Equitable Trade, and discussions are reported to the CSR Council. Coexistence with Local Communities, to continue to earn recognition as a reliable company A Promotion Sub-Committee is set up under the CSR Committee for each identified in the global market. CSR topic. These sub-committees work toward addressing each CSR topic. Sustainable Society CSR Promotion Structure Respect for Coexistence Human with Local Rights and Chairperson: President Communities Appropriate Labor CSR Council Members: Same as the Management Council Practices Held twice a year, in principle Environmental Fair and Report Equitable Protection Trade Chairperson: Manager of the Corporate Planning and Seven Promotion SubCSR Committee Administrative Division Committees Members: Leaders of each Promotion Sub-Committee Responding Enhanced Set Up for Each CSR Topic Held twice a year, in principle to Consumer Governance Report Issues Corporate Conduct Charter Compliance Sub-Committee Risk Management Sub-Committee Environment Sub-Committee Quality Sub-Committee BCP/BCM Sub-Committee Human Rights and Labor Practice Social Contribution Sub-Committee 10 principles to guide our actions in compliance with laws and to follow social ethics and common sense Long-term Vision Accept the challenge to become an excellent company in the global market Sub-Committee Management Concept To become a world leader as a general manufacturer of oil-less bearings and serve society through technology OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 11 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Stakeholder Engagement The Oiles Corporation Group will proactively communicate with various stakeholders and respond to their expectations. We provide a range of products and services for bearings, structural Shareholders and The total number of shareholders is 13,203. The types of ownership and devices, and architectural devices to our customers worldwide. Customers Investors associated percentages of the approximately 34,300 outstanding shares are financial institutions at 24.4%, foreign corporations, etc., at 12.7%, Opportunities for Dialogue Main Initiatives and individual investors and others at 40.9%. (as of March 31, 2019) • Daily sales activities • Customer satisfaction • Business contact desk • Provision of safe and quality products Opportunities for Dialogue Main Initiatives • Technology information magazines and services • General meeting of shareholders and • Information disclosure and profit and merchandise catalogues • Continuous BCP enhancement financial report briefings distribution • Website • Various reports such as a securities report, fact book, and CSR report • Website The Oiles Corporation Group has 2,633 employees, including 919 • Plant tours who work outside of Japan (as of March 31, 2019). Opportunities for Dialogue Main Initiatives • Labor-management council and • Consideration for human rights Product parts and materials are purchased from partner companies. labor-management meetings • Promoting diversity • Training programs • Promoting work-life balance Opportunities for Dialogue Main Initiatives • Consulting desk and whistleblower • Developing human resources • CSR procurement questionnaires • Reinforce supply chain management reporting desk • Ensuring occupational safety Employees Suppliers • Policy briefing sessions • Fair and equitable trade • In-house newsletters • Enhancing the workplace environment • Website and intranet • CSR reports The Oiles Corporation Group considers global environmental The Oiles Corporation Group has 19 corporations in Japan Protection initiatives as a key management priority and intends to and overseas, and each location establishes ties with the local reduce environmental impact through our business activities. communities in which they operate. (as of March 31, 2019) Opportunities for Dialogue Main Initiatives Opportunities for Dialogue Main Initiatives • Environmental education • Products that contribute to saving energy • Explanatory meetings, debriefing • Social contribution activities Local Global • Environmental volunteer activities • Effective use of resources and energy sessions, and open houses • Plant tours Communities Environment • CSR report • Promoting CSR procurement • CSR reports Initiatives for the SDGs Adopted in September 2015 at a UN Summit, the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) encompass 17 goals and 169 targets for which the world must work together for sustainable development. The Oiles Corporation Group is striving to achieve these goals. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 12 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Identifying Materiality The Oiles Corporation Group has established medium to long-term targets and an annual • Materiality Matrix target pertaining to its ISO26000-based CSR activities and is working to achieve these goals. Based on the materiality matrix analysis shown below, eight items were identified as material In 2018, to address social issues and the needs of society considered especially important issues of high importance by both stakeholders and the Oiles Corporation Group. The vertical in relation to our business, and to contribute to the development of a sustainable society, axis of the matrix represents stakeholder assessment and impact on the Group’s decisionthe Group identified material issues that required new initiatives and established a medium to making, while the horizontal axis represents the significance of the Group’s impact on the long-term CSR target and key performance indicators (KPIs) based on these issues. economy, the environment, and society, as prioritized at the workshop. * Risk management and business • Compliance • Securing and developing human continuity management were • Supply chain management resources excluded as CSR materiality Understanding and Organizing Social Issues that Must Be Addressed • Preventing global warming • Ensuring occupational safety and health issues since they are already • Ensuring product quality and safety • Coexisting with local communities and being dealt with as core Based on sources that include international standards, major guidelines, and ESG ratings*, 54 • Respecting human rights social contribution activities STEP1 items were extracted as challenges that society expects auto parts manufacturers to address. corporate activities. Analyzing Stakeholder Assessment and Their Impact on the Group’s High Supply chain management Preventing global warming Decision Making Ensuring occupational safety and health Stakeholder assessment of the extracted social issues and their impact on the Group’s decisionRespecting human rights Compliance making were assessed using a matrix. The following sources are representative of the information Ensuring product quality and safety STEP2 taken into account to broadly discern stakeholder demands prior to assessing their priorities: a CSR guidebook published by an industrial organization, the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association; evaluation criteria used by a supply chain assessment organization, EcoVadis; a Stakeholder assessment and impact CSR survey from suppliers; and the results of materiality analysis carried out by other companies Community Engagement in the same industry. Securing and developing human resources Analyzing the Significance of the Group’s Impact on the Economy, the Risk management Environment, and Society Business continuity management The heads of each CSR Promotion Sub-Committee gathered at a workshop to determine the STEP3 priorities of the social issues to be addressed and to assess their level of importance using a on the Group's decision-making matrix while taking into account policies such as our management concept and medium-term plan as well as business strategies. Examining and Determining Materiality and Establishing KPIs Material issues were plotted on a matrix with the vertical axis representing stakeholder assessment and impact on Group decision-making and the horizontal axis representing the STEP4 significance of the Group’s impact on the economy, the environment, and society. Identified issues were then examined and discussed at the CSR Council, composed of management members and a member of the CSR Committee, which comprises the heads of each Promotion Sub-Committee. Medium to long-term KPIs were established to ensure that each material issue was addressed. Low *ISO26000, SDGs, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, EcoVadis, Charter of Corporate Behavior issued by Keidanren (Japan Business Significance of the Group’s impact on the Low High Federation), etc. economy, the environment, and society OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 13 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities • Material Issues of the Oiles Corporation Group Governance Governance Environment Society Supply Chain Preventing Global Ensuring Product Compliance Management Warming Quality and Safety Scandals and unethical corporate activities We believe that we are responsible for the The signing of the Paris Agreement in Delivering products with proven safety and can undermine the Group’s credibility as well impacts of our corporate activities and November 2016 has advanced the efforts of the quality raise the satisfaction of suppliers as the credibility of the Oiles brand. In a timely, decisions across the supply chain, upstream global community to reduce greenhouse gases while also supporting the safe, secure, and appropriate manner, we comply with domestic to downstream. Therefore, we are striving to by saving energy and shifting to renewable comfortable daily lives of people in our society. and international laws and regulations, social achieve sustainable procurement together with energy sources. We have established a system for providing norms, and corporate ethics, ever aware of how our suppliers while rigorously conducting fair The Oiles Corporation Group is working to quality products and have implemented a the Group’s products affect the daily lives of and equitable trade. reduce CO2 emissions throughout our entire rigorous quality management system. people. supply chain as well as within the Group’s business processes. Society Society Society Society Respecting Securing and Developing Ensuring Occupational Community Human Rights Human Resources Safety and Health Engagement The Group’s international market share is As a company that upholds its management Workplaces are expected to reflect adequate Gaining the understanding and trust of the expanding into regions with high human rights concept to serve society through technology, consideration and support since the safety and local communities in which we operate is risks. Under our human rights policy, we we acknowledge that we must address the health of employees are significantly affected by essential for the Group’s international business will promote understanding of international two issues of handing down our technologies the physical spaces in which they spend long development. Therefore, we will continue to human rights principles across the Group to and motivation to the coming generations and hours. communicate openly with these communities enhance respect for human rights by all our securing human resources. We are also striving We will effectively manage both the facility and contribute to their development. stakeholders. to enhance employee satisfaction by enriching and human factors for safety and health our internal education and training programs management encompassing equipment safety and implementing fair and transparent regulations as well as safety training and mental employee evaluations. health care. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 14 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities CSR Mediumto Long-term Targets and KPIs (from Fiscal 2018) Oiles Corporation will promote initiatives for the new CSR Mediumto Long-term Targets and KPIs from fiscal 2018 Categories Material Issues Mediumto Long-term Targets and KPIs FY2018 Targets FY2018 Results FY2019 Targets Relevant SDGs ・Thorough compliance based on international framework Governance Compliance ー ・No serious compliance violations ・No serious compliance violations ・Adhere to the Oiles Group Corporate Conduct Charter Supply chain ・Conduct a CSR procurement questionnaires ・Conduct CSR procurement questionnaires ・Promote sustainable procurement management with at least 95% of our suppliers (based on ・Identification of target suppliers with at least 95% of our suppliers (based on throughout the supply chain transaction value) transaction value) ・Contribute to alleviating climate change ・Reduce aggregate CO2 emissions by 26.0% by EnvirPreventing and its impact by reducing aggregate CO2 ・Reduced aggregate CO2 emissions by ・Reduce aggregate CO2 emissions by more than global warming 2030, compared to FY2013 (reduce annual CO2 emissions by 26.0% by 2030, compared to 8.2%, compared to FY2017 2%, compared to FY2018 onment emissions by 2.3% or more YoY) FY2013 Ensuring product ・No customer complaints ・59 cases of complaints quality and ・Promote initiatives to ensure product quality ・In-process defective products: 0.1% or less (for ・In-process defective products: ・No costumer complaints safety and safety auto parts: 0.01% or less) 0.803% ・Raise awareness among employees to ・Attendance rate for human rights training: ・Attendance rate for human rights training: 100% ・Attendance rate for human rights reinforce initiatives for respecting human 100% training: 100% ・Completion rate of elearning course for assistant rights ・Completion rate of e-learning course for ・Completion rate of elearning course for managers and presidents of domestic affiliated ・Double the number of foreign national managers: 100% managers: 100% companies: 100% employees by the end of FY2022, compared ・Attendance rate of training courses to raise ・Follow-up interviews for career-oriented women to FY2016, to 10 or more ・Attendance rate of training courses awareness of women’s advancement in the Respecting to raise awareness of women’s ・Entry rate of female students: 20% ・Ratio of female managers to be 2.2% by the workplace: 90% or more advancement in the workplace: 96,8% human rights end of FY2022 (3 out of 135 employees) ・Offer an internship for a female student ・Enhance childcare and nursing care leave ・Internship granted to 10 female system (expanded to a period longer than legal ・Double the ratio of female employees in ・Establish and implement a reemployment students requirements such as short working hours) the position of assistant manager or higher program for those who have left the workforce to 7.6% or more by the end of FY2022, ・Established and implemented a ・Expansion to periods beyond legal requirements due to marriage, childbirth, child rearing, compared to FY2016 reemployment program (2 applicants) such as reduced working hours nursing care, job transfer of a spouse, etc. ・Continue to exceed the statutory ・Employment rate of persons with ・Maintain the statutory employment rate of ・Maintain the statutory employment rate of employment rate of persons with disabilities disabilities: 1,96% (FY2018 average) persons with disabilities persons with disabilities ・Total annual training hours for each employee Society Securing and ・Total annual training hours for each employee developing ・Develop human resources to allow ・Training hours: 30.1 hours/person/one on human resource development: 30 hours or on human resource development: 30 hours or human employees to demonstrate their abilities year more more resources ・Develop global human resources ・Set the level of overseas assignment ・Implement a global human resource ・Establish international assignment qualifications development training Ensuring occupational ・Reinforce activities for safe and healthy ・No major accidents and no emergency ・No major accidents and no emergency ・No major accidents and no emergency safety and health workplaces shutdowns shutdowns shutdowns ・Established management policy of ・Promote social contribution activities in Japan Coexisting and overseas and support employee social social contribution activities ・Promote social contribution activities in Japan with local ・Implemented various social and overseas and support employee social ・Continue social contribution activities in a contribution activities communities contribution activities in cooperation contribution activities and social way that only Oiles can and by leveraging the ・Clarify the management policy for social Group’s management resources contribution activities with the government such as holding ・Promote new initiatives aligned with the contribution local events management policy for social contribution activities ・Consider new initiatives aligned with the ・Held volunteer start-up seminars for activities management policy employees Note: The scope of targets and results is for the Oiles Corporation Group, except for those in the category of “Respecting human rights,” “Securing and developing human resources,” and “Ensuring occupational safety and health,” which fall under the scope of the Oiles Corporation. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 15 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Special Feature Products and technology of Oiles Group linked to the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Oiles Group products and technologies contribute to the We believe that the Oiles Group products and technologies can realization of the SDGs contribute to the goals of the SDGs The SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) adopted at the United Nations Summit in ▶ Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable September 2015 have recently become a term we hear not only in media reports but and modern energy for all ▶ Protect, restore and promote everywhere around us. The SDGs consist of 17 goals and 169 targets (achievement criteria) sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably that are aimed to be achieved by 2030. If we have a look at the content of the 17 goals, we manage forests, combat ▶ Build resilient infrastructure, desertification, and halt and promote inclusive and can see that various products and technologies of the Oiles Group are strongly linked to the reverse land degradation and sustainable industrialization halt biodiversity loss and foster innovation realization of the SDGs. In our corporate philosophy we state we will “contribute to society through technology”; ▶ Conserve and sustainably Oil-less bearings lead to the reduction of environmental impact by being maintenance-free ▶ Make cities and human use the oceans, seas settlements inclusive, safe, and marine resources for and lightweight. Oiles ECO produces a seismic isolation system that provides safety and sustainable development resilient and sustainable security from earthquakes, products ensuring safety in case of fire and products providing comfortable indoor space. The Oiles Group uses these technological capabilities to solve ▶ Take urgent action to combat ▶ Ensure sustainable consumption and climate change and its impacts production patterns social issues and contributes to the realization of a sustainable society. The special feature also introduces recent topics about the Oiles Group's businesses and technologies connected to the 17 goals of the SDGs. ■ Signature to the UN Global Compact The UN has set SDGs and calls on countries around the world to participate in solving them. At the same time, the “United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)”, which recommends voluntary participation of companies and organizations from all over the world, was established. At present, nearly 10,000 companies and organizations around the world are participating in the agreement. We signed the proposal in support of UNGC and further promotion of CSR in July 2019. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 16 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Oiles' business and technology Oiles products and technologies aim to contribute to the provision of involvement in the sustainable energy services and the reduction of environmental impacts such as global warming response. Oiles products and technologies SDGs #500AB aim to realize safe and strong urban • Oiles bearing characteristics functions and contribute to a safe Oil-less bearings with features such as maintenance-free and lightweight are products linked to the and secure society. reduce of environmental impacts. • Contributing to the change of electric vehicles • Seismic isolators and vibration dampers We believe that our lightweight and compact bearings will help improve fuel efficiency and make a Our seismic isolation and vibration dampers that protect significant contribution to EVs. lives and urban functions (bridges, buildings, and • Contributing to renewable energy residences) from large-scale earthquakes contribute to Our bearings are used in wind power generations and coastal wave power generation facilities. Seismic Isolators and society through safety and security. Vibration Dampers (See next page) • Windows operators • Development of biomass plastic bearings Oiles ECO's window operators We have developed bearings made of plant-derived biomass plastics that have been attracting attention contribute to the safety of people as effective materials for preventing global warming. (See next page) inside buildings by expelling • Oiles ECO products that achieve energy saving harmful smoke and earning time for Window operator As the company name suggests, products of Oiles ECO contribute to evacuation in the event of a fire. the realization of an eco-friendly society, such as the “Natural Ventilator • Autonomous driving Ecolator” that provides comfortable space with the power of nature and Autonomous driving realizes advancement of urban functions, but our the “External Blind/ Briil” that has an energy-saving effect due its solar company contributes to further improvement of autonomous automobiles by shading. (See next page) developing new bearings and technologies, which improve handling stability, riding comfort and quietness. ECORATOR Natural Ventilation System As a market-creating company, the Oiles Group aims to contribute to global innovation through various research and technological developments. The Oiles Group aims to reduce environmental impact Oiles products and technologies also contribute to industrial and regional throughout the product life cycle and improve quality reliability infrastructure. based on the Environmental Policy and Quality Policy. • “Contributing to the world through technology” As our corporate philosophy states, we contribute to the realization of innovation through continuous • Environmental policy research and development. We aim to reduce the environmental burden throughout the product life cycle by complying with • Contributing to the realization of strong industrial and regional infrastructure environmental laws and regulations, taking initiatives in energy saving and recycling, and by CSR Our long-life bearings are used in facilities that serve as the foundation for industries, regions and procurement (green procurement). cities (dams of water gates, power generation facilities, water treatment plants, sewage treatment #500SP1 • Quality policy facilities, waste treatment facilities) We provide high-quality products that meet customer expectations and trust, and continuously improve quality. We will also establish a quality assurance system that complies with laws and rules. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 17 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Development of biomass plastic Our bearings are used in coastal wave External blinds Briil leading bearings power generators to energy saving at home We have developed a world-class high biomass and highThe“Wave power generation”, which generates power Since its launch in 1984, Oiles ECO's “Briil” external blinds performance biomass plastic bearing by adding fillers that using wave energy, is awaited as the new marine has been improved over 30 years, and over 100,000 units improve friction performance to biomass plastics refined renewable energy next to offshore wind power generation, have been delivered to customers. from sugarcane and sugar beet. and the technological development for its practical Briil is a product that combines the functions of a Biomass plastics are produced from renewable organic application is underway. As one of them, Mitsui E & S Steel shutter and blinds. However, it controls natural light and resources, they have a carbon neutral nature and thus Engineering Co., Ltd., a representative company of the cuts out about 80% of solar radiation heat outside the do not affect the increase or decrease in CO₂. For this Ministry of the Environment, conducted a wave power window (heat insulation). By suppressing the temperature reason, they have been attracting attention as an effective demonstration project in Oarai Town, Ibaraki Prefecture*. rise by about 10 °C, the air conditioning load is reduced, material for fighting global warming. In the future, demand This wave power generation is called coastal wave making it a strong energy-saving ally for homes and for biomass plastics is expected to increase and with this power generation and it is a power generation system that low-rise buildings. In order to get more people to know product we will reduce CO₂ emissions and contribute to converts the vertical movement of the float into electrical the advantages of “Briil”, we are striving for further the realization of the recycling society. energy using a pile installed in the coastal area as a guide. popularization using the B to C strategy through web (Photo 1) Our product (Photo 2) was adopted as a roller advertisings and commercial broadcastings. bearing that guides the vertical movement of the float, contributing to the realization of high corrosion resistance and high durability. Product Biomass Minimum name Appearance resource Biobased In the future, development of wave power generation Content and social implementation are planned, and we will continue to work as a member of the business to realize OILES this new renewable energy. 90% #81-B1 *Demonstration project of strengthening induction technology development for CO₂ emission reduction Indoor blinds External blind Sugar cane picture 1 picture 2 picture 2 Solar radiation heat 40.1℃ 29.8℃ OILES #83-B1 45% 80% #500AB FF-OH cut Temperature difference about 10℃ Study on solar shading effect of external Comparison of window glass surface Caster bean blinds quoted by Professor Kenichi Kimura, temperature of indoor and external blinds Faculty of Science and Engineering, Waseda (measurement and evaluation, Inoue University Laboratory, Tokyo University of Science) OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 18 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities The Oiles Corporation Group has established and operates a flexible system for constantly improving the transparency and fairness Governance of corporate governance and enhancing CSR activities, thereby continuing to contribute to society. Corporate Governance System Overview of the Corporate Governance System ■ Basic Policy Shareholders’ General Meeting Appointment/ Appointment/ Appointment/ The Oiles Corporation Group positions corporate governance as a top priority and strives Dismissal Dismissal Dismissal Consultation to continually strengthen the rationale, soundness, and transparency of its governance audit Audit & Management / Supervision Board of Directors findings Supervisory Audit Nominating Committee* system and organization through agile decision-making, including the transfer of authority in Board Internal director Outside director findings Appointmen full-time auditor Compensation Committee* response to a changing marketplace and taking the necessary actions to develop the Group t/Dismissal outside auditor Bill decision (Independent officer) (Independent officer) and enhance its corporate value. We also recognize the importance of actively disclosing supervision *Any committee Collaboration appropriate information to investors and other stakeholders in a timely manner in order to Accounting auditor Business execution ensure transparency. Management President CSR Promotion Meeting Meeting Compliance Sub■ Overview of Corporate Governance Director・Auditor Committee Collaboration Collaboration Operating CSR officer Committee Risk Management Sub-Committee The company uses an audit system consisting of seven directors, including two independent outside directors, and four auditors, including two independent outside auditors, as of the Corporate Planning＆Administrative Bearing Damping ＆ Division Department under the direct end of June 2019. The Board of Directors makes decisions on key matters and oversees the control of the president Division lsolation Division Internal Audit Office Internal audit execution of business by managers. The Audit & Supervisory Board supervises the Board affiliated company affiliated company affiliated company of Directors and execution functions, and auditors have developed a collaborative internal control system with accounting auditors and the Internal Audit Office. The company has an operating officer system to clearly distinguish business execution from supervisory and ■ Initiatives for Effective Corporate Governance monitoring functions while also strengthening the role of the Board of Directors through Assessment of Board of Directors Effectiveness faster, effective decision-making on management strategies. The current system consists of Since fiscal 2015, Oiles Corporation has been analyzing and evaluating the effectiveness 11 operating officers, including those concurrently serving as directors. of the Board of Directors every year using a variety of tools, including self-assessments by directors, to enhance board functions. Our analysis and evaluation is based on the aggregated results of questionnaires completed by all members of the Board of Directors, including the auditors. To further enhance board effectiveness, we will continually improve and strengthen our corporate governance system by diligently addressing the issues that arise, fully considering opinions, and thoroughly implementing the necessary actions. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 19 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Establishment of Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee explanation for the documents from directors or employees. Moreover, the president exchanges In October 2018, the Company established a voluntary Nominating Committee with majority opinions with auditors and accounting auditors at regular meetings. of independent outside directors to ensure the independence, objectivity, and transparency of nomination procedures of directors and operating officers. Directors and operating officers are determined by the Board of Directors after undergoing a consultation and I want to contribute to sound management reporting process with the Nominating Committee. (Candidates for directors are submitted and growth from a useful external in a proposal at the General Meeting of Stakeholders.) In addition, in order to ensure the perspective effectiveness of the compensation system for directors and operating officers, a voluntary Soichiro Murayama Outside Director Compensation Committee was established with the majority being of independent outside Joined Hitachi Metals, Ltd. in 1976 and then served as Executive Officer. directors. As a result, the composition of compensation, policies, etc., are determined by the In 2015 appointed as an outside director of Oiles Corporation. Board of Directors after consulting and reporting to the Compensation Committee. Oiles Corporation is a company which has been distributing its original products to the world ■ Internal Control and has been growing for a long time. I believe the key to further growth is taking the role of a global company in corporate governance, which has become necessary as global expansion The Oiles Corporation Group strives to contribute to society by leveraging our technology has been progressing. and raising corporate value through the establishment of solid relationship with our many In recent years, many companies accepted outside directors and outside corporate stakeholders. To this end, we maintain sound and highly transparent management system auditors to ensure the objectiveness and independence of governance. It is important for through flexible management decisionmaking in response to the changing market, the outside officers to understand the original purpose of introduction and to appoint appropriate personnel with practical experience and expertise, and the same principles are taken at Oiles. rational transfer of authority, and improving the operation of our financial operation to Having a long experience in sales, I hope to become a director who can bring the sales insight facilitate appropriate and effective financial supporting. into the company. In addition, we are taking steps to improve the system and strengthen its effectiveness. At the Board of Directors of Oiles, members with various insights can exchange opinions Internal audits are conducted by the Internal Audit Office to investigate and verify whether freely, regardless of whether they come from outside or inside the company. As an outside officer whose opinions are positively accepted and valued, I am striving to express honest operations are conducted in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of opinions from various perspectives based on my own experience. I believe that frank Incorporation, internal rules, etc., and are conducted appropriately and rationally. The results opinions might lead to sound management and growth for Oiles. Moreover, in order to make of the audits are reported to the president. We also provide corrective instructions and stakeholders feel closer to the company, the general meeting of shareholders is held at the improvement suggestions to each workplace and follow them. company's own business site, and management is conducted with a wide awareness of The Audit & Supervisory Board and auditors, who are independent of the Board of stakeholders. I appreciate the highly transparent corporate governance system. I felt particularly enthusiastic about visiting the overseas plants in my first year as an outside Directors and directors, collaborate by exchanging necessary information, including the details director. By visiting the sites and attending explanation meetings, my understanding and of accounting audits and reports from the Internal Audit Office. The auditors attend Board of affection for the company became even deeper. I believe that it is my affection and passion, Directors meetings as well as other appropriate meetings to understand the decision-making that enhances my responsibilities of an executing officer and I want to contribute to the future process and status of business operations. The auditors have access to major documents growth of Oiles and the rise of the corporate value. and other critical documents with approval from the Board. If necessary, they can request an OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 20 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Compliance Training Compliance To ensure that employees comply with the Oiles Corporation Group Corporate Conduct ■ Basic Policy Charter and Corporate Code of Conduct, we offer regular, employeelevelbased The Oiles Corporation Group recognizes that thorough compliance is vital for the existence Compliance Training programs. In addition, to ensure the effective implementation of of any company. We are therefore striving to establish a compliance management system compliance activities, each department creates a monthly promotion plan under an annual based on one component of our company vision: Liberty and Law (freedom and discipline). compliance theme and offers training programs under topics such as “insider trading regulations” and “adherence to antimonopoly act” under the leadership of the department’s ■ Compliance System promotion leader. These programs help deepen employees' understanding of compliance. Our organizational structure for overseeing overall compliance includes a director in charge of compliance as well as a Compliance Sub-Committee, which serves as a promotion Operation of the whistleblowing system committee under the CSR Committee and is headed by the general manager of the Legal The internal whistleblowing system is used for the compliance related consultations and for Department. In addition, each division and each Group company has a member on the reporting unfair practices. In addition to the internal reporting office set up at the Compliance Compliance Sub-Committee, a compliance promoter, and an implementation leader. Committee Secretariat, we have also specifically established an outside reporting office (law Compliance promotion, education, and training based on the Oiles Corporation Group office) for employees, which ensures thorough protection of whistleblowers. Corporate Conduct Charter and Corporate Code of Conduct ensures that all business operations are conducted in accordance with laws and regulations and that the behavior of ■ Fair Competition all employees is grounded in our corporate ethics. Adherence to Antimonopoly Act The Group’s Antimonopoly Act Compliance Manual stipulates strict adherence to ■ Initiatives to Promote Compliance antimonopoly act as a basic policy. In accordance with the manual, all operating officers and Distribution of the Compliance Implementation Guide employees of the Group are required to comply with the act in their daily operations. The The Compliance Implementation Guide, which has been distributed to all employees, manual is regularly used as a reference for compliance training and is freely available on the contains the background, key concepts, and explanations for understanding the Oiles company’s intranet to supplement other ongoing educational and enlightenment efforts. Corporation Group Corporate Conduct Charter. It is intended to serve as a guide for future work and the Group members periodically review Adherence to Subcontract Act its content. Also, the Oiles Corporation Group Corporate Conduct To ensure compliance with the “Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. Charter and Corporate Code of Conduct have been translated into to Subcontractors (the Subcontract Act),” we are raising awareness and training employees English to extend employees’ awareness about compliance and the to prevent violations of the act while also strengthening the managerial aspect. We provide global operations of the Group. training to departments that do business with suppliers as a means of encouraging them to acquire the necessary knowledge and strengthen their awareness of compliance with the Compliance Implementation act. In addition, we maintain fair and sound relationships with our suppliers under Basic Guide of the Oiles Corporation Group Transaction Agreements. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 21 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Response to Antisocial Forces Risk Management Structure Chart Our Group will not maintain relationships with antisocial forces or organizations that threaten Report President the order or safety of society and steadfastly confronts them. We closely verify that our Board of Directors Risk Managing Director Other officers designated by president business partners are not a part of antisocial forces and include a clause on the elimination of antisocial forces in our Basic Transaction Agreements to prevent any transactions with Report such groups. If we are contacted by any antisocial force or organization, we cooperate Chairperson of the CSR Committee with police, lawyers, and other external institutions, and the entire Group, including top Report Corrections, etc. Responsible Monitoring/Advice management, will work together to address the issue at the organizational level. Department Reports the current status of Risk Management risk management Sub-Committee Risk information Report Leader of Risk Management Risk Management Internal Audit Report risk Risk information of Office Sub-Committee the Oiles Group, including domestic Management Office: ■ Basic Policy Report risk Legal Report and overseas Legal Department Department subsidiaries In accordance with the Group Risk Management Rules, the Oiles Corporation Group Recognition of risk information through other methods identifies risks that may impact Oiles Corporation and its subsidiaries in order to understand and work together to prevent risk. If any risk occurs, we will swiftly and effectively address Risk information is reported to the Risk Management Sub-Committee, under the Legal it to minimize damage and prevent recurrence in order to maintain our Group’s corporate Department, via the Internal Audit Office and Legal Department. The status of subvalue. committee activities is reported to the CSR committee, then the chairperson of the CSR committee report the status to the Board of directors. Therefore, under this system, ■ Risk Management System management is always able to precisely determine risks when making decisions. Our Risk Management Sub-Committee operates as a promotion unit under the CSR Committee and is headed by the general manager of the Legal Department. It enhances ■ Identification of Business Risks the collection and management of information for reducing the frequency and impact of With a variety of information, we identify business risks through brainstorming and in-house risks. And it meets in principle every six months and discusses risks that have occurred, questionnaires. We then classify and organize identified risks under categories of potential along with their impact on company management, finance, and other operations during the impact: management strategy, business continuity, compliance, tax and financial reporting, corresponding period. This enables us to evaluate the details and probability of such risks disputes, and others. Given prevailing social trends, we take the appropriate measures and their impact on the finance, credit, and other managerial aspects of Oiles Corporation to prevent and deal with these risks. We particularly include information on business risks and the Group and demonstrates how we are making every effort to avoid risks and their that could significantly impact management in our securities reports in order to deepen potential effects. understanding with our investors and receive the appropriate market evaluation. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 22 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Business Continuity (BCP/BCM) Investor Relations The Oiles Corporation Group formulates a business continuity plan (BCP) to prepare for largescale earthquakes and other contingencies. The basic policy of our BCP is to prioritize We hold interim and year-end financial briefings during which the president explains the the safety of human life while striving for early recovery of business. We develop action plans results. Also, we actively conduct meetings with individual investors and analysts and for emergencies and prepare for disaster mitigation, and we also conduct regular training provide occasional plant tours for them. Going forward, we will further promote IR activities and exercises to familiarize employees with our BCP under the Fair Disclosure Rules. in order to improve our overall ability to respond to crises. Since we are engaged in the damping and Initiatives for Research and Development and Intellectual Property isolation business, we continue to improve our BCP and BCM (business continuity management) as a Oiles Corporation, as a technology development-driven company, holds a variety of disaster-resistant company. technical patents obtained in pursuit of proprietary intellectual property. We conduct research and development from a medium to long-term perspective. In addition, we BCP disaster response team training recognize that our intellectual property rights are key corporate assets and thus endeavor to maintain and effectively use them. At the same time, we respect and try to avoid any ■ Initiatives for Information Security infringement of the intellectual property rights held by other companies. The above is The Oiles Corporation Group properly manages and protects information assets related stipulated in the Oiles Corporation Group’s Corporate Conduct Charter and Intellectual to all resources, including people, things, and environments associated with our business Property Management Rules. The Oiles Corporation Group, which develops all products inoperations. It also formulates regulations on information security to counter cyber attacks house, currently holds 2,751 patents and is continuing to secure new ones. Of these current and other threats. The entire Group addresses security measures in accordance with patents, 1,145 are overseas, including 275 in the U.S., 190 in China, 140 in Germany, 129 regulations. in South Korea, and 124 in France. By building and maintaining our global patent Our Risk Management Sub-Committee operates as a promotional unit under the CSR network, we have earned worldwide recognition as an enterprise driven by technological Committee, is headed by the general manager of the Legal Department, and centrally development. manages information security risks. Under the initiative of the committee, we implement Going forward, we will continue striving to acquire and utilize more intellectual property security control measures from physical, technical, and human perspectives. We also rights through research and development. By meeting the needs of a wide range of fields, set goals and regularly evaluate results against those goals for the purpose of constantly from basic to applied research, we will embody our management concept of serving society enhancing information security management. Moreover, to improve employee awareness through technology. Note: Number of patents acquired are as of March 31, 2019. about information security as well as their technical skills, we offer ongoing training to all employees handling information assets in order to ensure compliance. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 23 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Response to The Oiles Corporation Group believes that its ultimate mission is to provide products and technologies that contribute to the safety and comfort of people’s lives by pursuing its two core technologies: tribology (friction, wear and lubrication) Consumer Issues and damping (vibration control). Toward Improving Product Quality Reliability Quality Assurance System The Oiles Corporation Group is establishing a new product system (NPS) based on the “just ■ Promotion System in time” principle, which means “make what is needed, when it is needed, and only as many The Oiles Corporation Group regularly convenes its Quality Management Sub-Committee as needed,” so that it can quickly and effectively meet diverse customer needs. Under the with the participation of the quality managers of its manufacturing, sales, and engineering following quality policies, all our employees are aware of their responsibilities for product departments. Working together, these members conduct activities with the aim of development and manufacturing and are striving to improve the reliability of their quality. addressing important quality issues. Moreover, we hold an annual management review meeting, headed by the highest level quality assurance manager, the “Quality Assurance Sharing Officer,” who the president appoints from the directors and who oversees and Quality Policies provides guidance to the overall quality assurance system. 1. We develop and deliver high-quality products that meet customer expectations. Meanwhile, the Bearing Division and Damping & Isolation Division have each established 2. We continue to improve the quality of our products to respond to customer trust. a quality management department with their own quality assurance system and are working 3. We establish a quality assurance system and pledge to comply with laws and regulations. to maintain the quality and safety of their products. In addition, the Quality Management Committee engages each of the heads of the four domestic plants and the presidents of affiliates as quality managers. The committee operates our quality assurance system in each To Deliver Safe and Reliable Products production department. Societies and industries are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex. To meet demands for convenience, comfort, and concern for the global environment, the Oiles Corporation Group intends to build a high-quality assurance system that adapts to all markets by being thoroughly prepared to ensure the safety and reliability of its products. In addition, we are promoting the acquisition of appropriate quality control certifications according to the products of each manufacturing site. For example, the Bearing Division and Damping & Isolation Division in Japan have obtained ISO9001 certification. Overseas, we have obtained IATF16949 certification and are working to strengthen our corporate structure by further improving our quality assurance system. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 24 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Quality Assurance Syste Overseas Initial Registration Shanghai Oiles Bearing Inc. (China) February 2002 Quality Control Manager of QMS Division Quality Control Manager OILES Deutschland GmbH (Germany) April 2003 (Bearing Division) Planning & Administrative Department Manager Oiles Czech Manufacturing s.r.o. (Czech Republic) July 2005 Bearing Division Business Division Fujisawa Plant Manager Quality Control Quality Control IATF16949 Manager Submanager Shiga Plant Manager The detailed scope of the certifications can be downloaded here. Quality Assurance Manager Representing the Company Oita Plant Manager Quality Assurance Affiliates President Sharing Officer Quality Control Managers *Includes overseas subsidiaries Quality Assurance Manager Damping & (Damping & Isolation Division) Planning Business Division & Administrative Department Manager Isolation Division Quality Control Quality Control Overseas Initial Registration Submanager Ashikaga Plant Manager Customers Manager Oiles America Corporation (U.S.A.) September 2018 OILES (THAILAND) CO., LTD (Thailand) September 2017 ■ Quality Management System Certifications (ISO9001 and IATF16949) OILES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED (India) May 2018 Oiles(Suzhou)CORPORATION (China) November 2018 Oiles Czech Manufacturing s.r.o (Czech Republic) July 2018 ISO9001 The detailed scope of the certifications can be downloaded here. ■ Complaint Prevention and Response System The Oiles Corporation Group has set “zero customer complaints” as the company-wide quality target, established an action plan for each factory and production site in Japan, and is implementing the PDCA cycle to achieve the quality target. In addition, the president and other executive officers are conducting the “Top Management’s Quality Control Diagnosis” Domestic Initial Registration toward establishing a system for preventing occurrence or recurrence of complaints under OILES Corporation, Bearing Division February 1998 the strong leadership of management. OILES Corporation, Damping & Isolation Division August 1998 If a serious problem is reported, such as an in-process defect, we immediately OILES ECO CORPORATION July 1998 investigate the cause of the complaint at the manufacturing site. At the same time, the RIKO KIHARA CORPORATION December 2011 Quality Assurance & Environmental Safety Department, under the president’s direct UNIPLA CORPORATION March 2010 supervision, establishes a framework for supporting concrete measures to regain customer LUBY INDUSTRIAL CO.,LTD. January 2011 trust and satisfaction. In fiscal 2018, we received minor complaints, but zero serious OK INDUSTRIAL CO.,LTD. July 2010 complaints. We will continue to work to prevent even minor complaints from happening. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 25 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Environmental The Oiles Corporation Group contributes to the preservation of the global environment by raising the performance of devices used in various fields while also reducing device size, saving energy, and cutting pollution through the Protection application of our two core technologies: tribology (friction, wear, and lubrication) and damping (vibration control). Actions to Protect the Environment Environmental Management System To reduce environmental load through our business operations and create a sustainable ■ Promotion Structure society, the Oiles Corporation Group has formulated the following policy to guide activities Environmental Management Committee is set up at each of the four business focused on the environment. establishments and plants in Fujisawa, Shiga, Ashikaga, and Oita. Business operations are conducted under the guidelines formulated in an environment manual provided by the committee. Environmental Policy (translation of excerpts) Furthermore, company-wide support is provided for environmental initiatives through The Oiles Corporation Group deeply recognizes the importance of preserving the global the establishment of an Environment Sub-Committee to share information such as activity environment and intends to reduce environmental load through our business operations status and challenges while also building a structure for reporting to the President and with a focus on bearings, seismic isolation and vibration control products, and construction Director Responsible for Environmental Matters. The Central Environmental Committee equipment, as well as throughout the lifecycle of every product, toward realizing a sustainable cooperates with the Sub-Committee to enhance environmental protection activities society and coexistence with the environment. throughout the society and promotes sharing of the environmental management systems 1. Environmental Protection 2. Resource efficiency and measures against global warming with domestic and overseas affiliates. 3. Compliance with environmental regulations 4. Development of environmentally sound products and promotion of recycling Environmental Management System Promotion Structure 5. CSR procurement (green procurement) Fujisawa Environmental 6. Full notification of all concerned parties Management Committee Fujisawa Plant 7. Information disclosure Shiga Environmental Shiga Plant WEB Oiles Corporation Group Environmental Policy (full text in Japanese) http://www.oiles.co.jp/corporate/csr/pdf/kankyou.pdf Central Environmental Management Committee Committee President Chairperson: Board Director Responsible for Environmental Matters Ashikaga Environmental Ashikaga Plant Management Committee Environment SubCommittee Oita Environmental Oita Plant Management Committee OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 26 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Acquisition of ISO14001 Certification ■ Material Balance The four production bases in Japan have acquired ISO14001:2015 certification, an Scope of data: Oiles Corporation Group international standard for environmental management INPUT Business activities OUTPUT systems, and are striving to reduce their environmental load. Six overseas companies have also acquired Energy Resources CO₂ ISO14001:2015 certification. Electricity 53,614 MWh 33,966 t-CO₂ City gas Total waste emissions Download more information on the scope of 2,030 thousand m 3 each certification. LPG 4,357 t Japan 244 t Research and development Business establishments and plants Initial registration Gasoline Fujisawa Plant, Oiles Corporation March 2001 95 kl Shiga Plant, Oiles Corporation and Omi Plant, Oiles ECO Corporation March 2000 Gas oil Material Ashikaga Plant, Oiles Corporation October 2000 25 kl procurement Oita Plant, Oiles Corporation February 2001 Kerosene 218 kl Heavy oil Production Overseas 30 kl Group company Initial registration Water Resources Drainage Oiles America Corporation (U.S.A.) January 2004 Water intake 212 thousand m3 191 thousand m 3 Oiles (Thailand) Company Limited (Thailand) April 2006 Shanghai Oiles Bearing Inc. (China) January 2010 Chemical Substances* Chemical Substances* Oiles Suzhou Corporation (China) January 2009 PRTR substance PRTR substance Oiles Czech Manufacturing s.r.o. (Czech Republic) October 2009 61 t 44 t Oiles India Private Limited (India) November 2017 *Figures for chemical substances reflect only Oiles Corporation data. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 27 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Environmental Protection Results (non-consolidated) Environmental Accounting Item FY2017 FY2018 YoY Under its environmental management system, the Oiles Corporation Group obtains Total production by domestic plants (billion yen) 18.6 18.8 101% information on the costs associated with its environmental Protection activities and identifies Electricity (thousand kWh) 24,718 24,398 99% ※1 the actual outcomes to help promote more efficient and effective initiatives going forward. City gas (thousand m3 ) 1,971 1,878 95% ※2 *Environmental accounting reports are based on the results of an environmental cost survey that cover the four establishments and plants in Japan: Fujisawa, Shiga, Ashikaga, and Oita. LPG (t) 4.7 53 100% Kerosene (kl) 102 123 121% ※3 Environmental Protection Costs Input Heavy oil (kl) 16 0 0% ※4 (million yen) Amount Cost Gas oil (kl) 10 11 110% Environmental protection cost invested incurred*1 Major initiatives Gasoline (kl) 19.1 18.4 107% category FY2018 FY2018 Water resource (thousand m3 ) 165 162 98% I. Business area cost Sum of (1) to (3) 83.2 622.2 CO (t-CO ) 2 2 16,608 15,672 98% Activities to prevent air and water pollution, Class I Designated Chemical (1) Pollution prevention 0.0 47.5 62 61 98% etc. Substance (t) Output Total waste (t) *5 1,669 1,652 99% (2) Global Environmental Activities to save energy, etc. 83.2 259.2 Protection Recycled (t)* 5 1,375 1,384 101% (3) Resource circulation Recycling and waste disposal, etc. 0.0 315.5 Disposed (t) 294 268 91% Difference between environmentally-sound *1 Decreased at all establishments and plants. II. Upstream/downstream 0.0 5.9 products and general products *2 Decreased at the Fujisawa and Shiga plants. *3 Decreased at the Ashikaga plant. Cost relating to maintaining ISO, *4 Decreased at the Fujisawa plant due to removal of in-house power generation equipment. III. Administration*2 environmental education, planting of 0.0 137.5 *5 Recyclable waste materials increased at the Fujisawa and Shiga plants. greenery, beautification, etc. IV. R&D ― 0.0 24.9 Economic Benefits of Environmental Protection Donations to environmental groups, cleaning V. Social activities 7.9 0.1 rivers, etc. Item FY2017 FY2018 YoY(million yen) IV. Environmental remediation ― 0.0 0.0 Gain on sale of valuables converted from waste 40 41 102.9% ※1 materials Total 91.1 790.7 Cost associated with recycling waste materials 29 34 119.0%※2 *1 Includes depreciation cost for equipment, personnel cost, and general expenses. Cost associated with disposal of waste materials 16 15 92.9% ※3 *2 Includes examination and registration fees. *1 Volume of metal scrap waste increased. *2 Recyclable waste materials increased at the Fujisawa, Ashikaga, and Shiga plants. *3 Amount of disposed wastes decreased at the Ashikaga and Shiga plants. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 28 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming ■ Calculating Scope 3 Emissions To constrain the environmental impact of our business operations, the Oiles Corporation ■ Actions to Decrease CO2 Emissions Group began calculating Scope 3 emissions, an international standard for reporting As a responsible manufacturing company, the Oiles Corporation Group is committed to GHG emissions, throughout the Group’s supply chain in fiscal 2016. We will contribute to reduce its CO² emissions and create a lowcarbon society in accordance with principles continuously reducing GHG emissions by promoting transparency in reporting the volume of defined in the Oiles Corporation Group Corporate Conduct Charter, “We shall actively CO² released throughout supply chain activities, upstream to downstream. engage in the protection of the global environment,” and the Oiles Corporation Group Environmental Policy; “We shall strive to reduce CO² emissions from our business activities Breakdown of Scope 3 Emissions for Fiscal 2018 (Oiles Corporation Group) and thereby reduce environmental load.” Category CO2 emissions (t-CO2) Ratio (%) Our company goal is to contribute to mitigation of climate change and its impact by 1 Purchased goods and services 150,340 81.2% setting environmental targets. We set CSR midand long-term targets and KPIs in Fiscal 2018, and until 2030 we aim to reduce CO² emissions by 26.0% compared to Fiscal 2013. 2 Capital goods 17,162 9.3% In order to achieve the medium-to long-term targets, in FY2018 we reduced total CO² Fueland energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 3 1,240 0.7% or Scope 2) emissions by more than 2.3% compared to the previous year. The Environmental Committee 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 14,167 7.7% has been considering measures such as reducing energy loss and defects in production 5 Waste generated in operations 919 0.5% activities at each production site, introducing energy-saving equipment, increasing the 6 Business travel 272 0.1% efficiency of production lines, switching to LED lighting, managing power demand and introducing solar power generation facilities. 7 Employee commuting 941 0.5% In fiscal 2018, the entire Group, including overseas, reduced CO² emissions by more Total 185,041 100% than 4.5% compared to the previous year. The CO² emissions intensity was 0.553t-CO²/ million yen, 8.1% decrease from Fiscal 2017, which is mainly due to the good performance of the seismic isolation division. Change in CO² Emissions and intensity （t-CO2） ■Japan ■Overseas CO2 intensity (t-CO2/million yen) 60,000 0.8 0.625 0.602 0.553 45,000 0.523 0.6 35,538 35,569 33,966 31,057 30,000 11,003 11,913 0.4 6,988 12,252 15,000 24,069 0.2 24,535 23,656 21,714 0 0.0 2013 2016 2017 2018 (FY) OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 29 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Actions to Save Resources Addressing Substances of Concern ■ Waste Disposal ■ Calculating Scope 3 Emissions The Oiles Corporation Group is working to ensure the reduction and proper disposal of The Oiles Corporation Group is striving to manage chemical substances properly as part of industrial waste at each of its establishments, including the plants. Our goal is to reduce the its proactive initiative to preserve the global environment. landfill rate of industrial waste generated from each site by 20.0% from fiscal 2015 levels by The volumes of chemical substances generated, handled, released, and transferred fiscal 2030. We will maintain control over industrial waste disposal service providers and from each establishment and plant in Japan are managed in accordance with the law keep current on wastes generated from our business operations in order to reduce waste concerning the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register/PRTR (Act on Confirmation, etc. of across the entire Group while promoting reduction at each site. Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of In FY2018, the reduction was 5% compared to the previous fiscal year. We are Improvements to the Management Thereof). promoting the reduction of waste at each site and factory. Moreover, we are tirelessly working to abolish the use of substances of concern in bearings, the Group’s core product. We are in full compliance with regulations that restrict the use of hazardous substances, such as “Restriction of the use of the certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment” (RoHS) and the “Directive on End-of Life Vehicles” (ELV Directive) enforced in the EU. All plastic and multi-layer bearings products are Aggregated Waste Emission and intensity lead-free, and standard metal bearings, excluding special purpose bearings, conform to the (Oiles Corporation Group) Landfill Rate (Domestic Group) RoHS and ELV directives. Concerning RoHSⅡ regulations (additional regulations for I RoHS) （t） ■Japan ■Overseas Waste intensity (t-CO2/million yen) (%) that will be enforced in July 2019, we have conducted a content survey and have completed 8,000 0.100 10.0 the response. 0.078 0.070 0.071 6,000 0.065 0.075 7.5 4,587 4,356 Change in Amount of PRTR Notified Substances Handled, 3,908 4,003 0.050 4,000 954 1,158 1,150 5.0 Released, and Transferred (non-consolidated) 902 3.16 0.025 2.27 1.95 2,000 2.5 1.69 （t） 3,006 3,049 3,429 3,206 100 ■Amount handled ■Amount released/transferred 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 75 60.98 61.67 61.07 50 44.99 44.55 44.35 25 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 30 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Water Resources and Biodiversity Conservation Independent Assurance Statement ■ Preventing Water Resource Pollution To ensure the effective use of water resources Water Usage (Oiles Corporation Group) in production activities and prevent pollution, (thousand m3) ■Japan ■Overseas the Oiles Corporation Group manages 250 218 211 212 water resources under an environmental 200 42 36 43 management system that incorporates water 150 management. Before draining water used 100 in the production process into the public 176 175 169 50 water system, we ensure that it has been 0 purified under full monitoring to prevent water 2016 2017 2018 (FY) contamination. ■ Biodiversity Conservation As part of our initiatives for biodiversity conservation, the Fujisawa Plant maintains a biotope for naturally propagating fujisawa-medaka, a species of fish indigenous to the Fujisawa area and once believed to have become extinct. The 30m² biotope was constructed in 2002 in response to the request of a civic group, the Society to Create School of Fujisawa-medaka. Since then, about 10,000 fujisawa-medakas have hatched in the biotope’s waters. Every year the plant donates 500 fujisawa-medakas to the society, which the company continues to support. As part of the efforts to preserve forest resources, we are actively using recycled paper in printed materials such as pamphlets. Going forward, we will continue preserving the biotope in which fujisawa-medakas can happily swim, and we will strive to protect the biodiversity of the community. Breeding guidance at “Fujisawa Medaka School Association” OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 31 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Respect for Human Rights and The Oiles Corporation Group believes that its employees are the foundation of its corporate activities and “the precious assets of the Group.” The Group supports every employee’s personal growth and promotes Appropriate Labor Practices the creation of a workplace where they can fully display their diverse abilities and characteristics. Group bears responsibility to respect human Respecting Human Rights rights. We also require our suppliers to accept The Oiles Group recognizes that promoting respect for human rights is a major responsibility this responsibility, and we will properly address for companies as members of society and thus are naturally expected to help to create an any infringement of human rights. In addition, we environment that respects individual human rights and individuality. will respond to any potential or actual impact on human rights through dialogue or discussion with the stakeholders as the key element of corporate Human Rights Policy Human rights training (Oita Plant) management’s specific responsibility to respect Under its management policy that calls for mastering core technologies such as friction, human rights. wear, and lubrication, applying these technologies worldwide, and serving society, the Oiles Corporation Group will provide safety and security as well as comfort to people’s lives and manufacture environmentally sound products that serve society. In doing so, we will fulfill our Protecting Fundamental Rights at Work corporate responsibility to respect human rights and encourage the realization of a society ■Respect for Human Rights of Employees and Prohibition of Discrimination that respects human rights as well. We respect the human rights of each employee and will not discriminate anyone on the grounds of skin color, gender, language, religion, political or other opinions, nationality or WEB The Oiles Corporation Group’s Human Rights Policy (full text in Japanese) http://www.oiles.co.jp/corporate/csr/pdf/jinken.pdf its absence, property, family or other status. With this in mind, we offer equal access to recruitment and other employment opportunities and treat applicants and employees the The Oiles Corporation Group’s Human Rights Policy was established in response to the same, based on fair evaluations in accordance with clear evaluation standards. rising expectations of international communities for corporate activities to demonstrate respect for human rights, as stated in the International Bill of Human Rights and international ■ Prohibition of Harassment standards including the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work by To protect employees’ human rights and their right to work, we prohibit all types of the ILO (International Labor Organization). In addition, the Oiles Corporation Group signed workplace harassment, including sexual and power harassment. We provide compliance the “UN Global Compact” in July 2019. training every month in every workplace and regularly set themes related to preventing Going forward, we will provide the necessary education through a variety of harassment to promote awareness. In addition, our Human Resources Department provides enlightenment and training programs on human rights to raise employee awareness and a harassment consultation hotline staffed by male and female counselors so that employees ensure this basic policy is deeply intergraded into and implemented throughout the business can consult them in a comfortable environment. activities of Group companies. Every executive and employee of the Oiles Corporation OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 32 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Relationship with Labor Unions Percentage of Female Employees (Permanent Employees) Oiles Corporation and some of the Group companies have their own labor unions. Each FY2016 FY2016 FY2018 company maintains a stable relationship with its labor union and they collectively conclude Consolidated percentage of female 23.0 23.0 24.2 employees (%) over 60 agreements, contracts, and memorandums and periodically negotiate and In Japan 12.0 12.8 13.7 deliberate over labor conditions and personnel systems. All permanent employees of Oiles Non-consolidated 9.9 10.5 11.6 Corporation are members of its labor union. Consolidated number of female managers 14 15 16 In Japan 2 2 2 Non-consolidated 0 0 0 Promoting Diversity Consolidated percentage of female managers 4.7 4.9 5.5 (%) The Oiles Corporation Group has positioned diversity as a key management strategy. To In Japan 0.9 0.8 0.9 enable human resources with diverse backgrounds to fully exploit their capabilities, we will Non-consolidated 0.0 0.0 0.0 foster a dynamic corporate culture and inclusive working environment as the cornerstone for Oiles Corporation (Permanent Employees) raising corporate value. FY2016 FY2016 FY2018 ■ Employee Demographics Number of employees 779 778 794 Number of Employees Male 702 696 702 Female 77 82 92 FY2016 FY2016 FY2018 Average age 41.9 42.4 42.2 Number of employees (consolidated) 2,566 2,573 2,633 Male 42.1 42.7 42.6 Permanent 2,089 2,051 2,092 Female 40.1 39.7 39.3 Temporary 477 522 541 Average length of service (years) 18.8 19.1 18.8 Number of employees in Japan 1,687 1,680 1,714 Male 18.9 19.3 19.2 Permanent 1,269 1,278 1,289 Female 18.3 17.7 16.3 Temporary 418 402 425 Number of new graduate employees 21 22 22 Number of employees (non-consolidated) 1,097 1,075 1,106 Male 20 15 19 Permanent 779 778 794 Female 1 7 3 Temporary 318 297 312 Number of mid-career employees 10 11 16 Male 7 9 10 Female 3 2 6 Number of rehired employees 8 12 9 Male 8 11 8 Female 0 1 1 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 33 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Promoting Women’s Participation and Advancement ■ Diversity promotion seminar Under the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, In order to promote the “respect for diversity,” we held a seminar for female employees, we developed an action plan to promote women’s participation and advancement and we and department heads to deepen the knowledge necessary for promoting the active are enhancing our work environments so that our female employees are empowered to participation of women, which represents one form realize their full potential. of diversity. It was a good opportunity to learn and To this end, we have established a new re-employment system. The plan targets female discuss ways to respect unconscious biases and employees who had left the company due to reasons such as childbirth, childcare, nursing diverse values. We will continue to hold similar care, and job relocation of a spouse. seminars in future. VOICE Diversity promotion seminar (Fujisawa Plant) Enjoying the changing work-life balance ■ Employment of Persons with Disabilities Oiles Corporation seeks to empower persons with disabilities in the work place through I joined the company because I felt it was a company our diversity initiatives. We will further strengthen our efforts to improve our operations with a high degree of social contribution and freedom. and the environment to create a workplace that encourages respect for each employees’ I worked in the Bearing Division Planning Department individuality and utilizes their strengths. In addition, we will step up our recruitment so that for about 3 years and in the Management Planning more persons with disabilities can participate in a dynamic workplace. Department for about 5 years before moving to the Accounting Department. At each department I gain new Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities (non-consolidated) Saori Matsuo knowledge and the work is very fulfilling. I’ve married a (%) Accounting Department ■Actual ■Target Statutory employment rate Corporate Planning & person from the same company and two years ago gave 3.0 Administrative Division birth to my first child. Upon returning to work after taking 2.5 maternity and childcare leave, I was given the opportunity to discuss not only my further 2.0 work content but also my career plans and concerns. One and a half year have passed 1.5 since I came back and thanks to the understanding and cooperation my colleagues, I 2.0 2.3 2.4 have been able to balance childcare and work. I think that the work-life balance that I 1.0 2.0 2.0 1.9 am aiming for will change from time to time as my child grows, but first I would like to 0.5 continue my current job and build my career. 0.0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (FY) *FY average OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 34 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Work-Life Balance ■ Work-Life Balance Support Systems We intend to enhance our support systems to enable more efficient and flexible work styles Item Detail so that all employees can maintain a healthy balance between their work and personal lives Minimum time off between work • 10 hours between work shifts shifts and continue to work with vitality and peace of mind. Promotion of leaving work on • Two days per week (Wednesdays and Fridays) time ■ Support Programs for Balancing Work and Child Rearing Support for paid leave plan • One day off a month upon plan application • Consecutive leave of more than 2 days a year One of our efforts to support a sound work and life balance is enhancing our childcare and • Accumulate up to 3 days a year from expired days, maximum 60 days nursing care leave programs by introducing the following options. All eligible spouses have (Scope of this system) taken maternity leave. Paid leave accumulation system • Continued treatment of employee’s injury and disease • Treatment for mild infection (influenza etc.) • Continued treatment of employee’s chronic illness or condition Child-rearing leave • Before child turns 3 years old • Caregiving and nursing care for family, affected employees’ recovery from disaster Spouse’s maternity leave • 3 days* Birthday month holiday • 1-day special holiday during the birthday month Child • Short working hours, less than 2 hours rearing •10 years of service: 3 consecutive days, 20 years of service: 5 consecutive Shortened working hours • Application for overtime exemption Refreshment leave days, 30 years of service: 7 consecutive days • Exempt from late-night shift • When rehired after retirement: 10 consecutive days • Before child enters elementary school Child care leave • Special leave: 7 days per year • 5 days per year per person, maximum 10 days Support for volunteer activity • Subsidy for expenses: travel expenses for activity (up to 100,000 yen per Caregiver leave • Total of 93 days year) • Short working hours, less than 3 hours a day, up to 10 hours a Nursing Nursing care support month is paid* care measures • Application for exemption of overtime and holiday work Work-Life Balance Promotion Status (non-consolidated) • Exempt from late-night shift • 12 days per year (can be taken every six months), one day a month Nursing care leave FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 is paid* • Provided employees who have terminated on their own due to Annual average of total working time (hours) 1805.9 1788.2 1803.8 Post-retirement and Common marriage, childbirth, childcare, nursing care, or transfer of a spouse reemployment system Average number of paid holidays used (days) 13.1 13.3 13.3 a chance to work again *Exceeds statutory mandates Average rate of paid holidays taken (%) 67.0 68.1 69.4 Average monthly overtime (hours) 11.2 11.1 11.3 Child-rearing Leave and Short Working Hours Status (non-consolidated) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 umber of employees who Male 1 0 0 took child-rearing leave Female 10 6 3 Number of employees Male 0 0 0 who shortened working hours for childcare Female 7 8 10 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 35 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Human Resource Development VOICE To develop our employees into exemplary personnel, we strive to actively develop their abilities by calling upon their unique qualities and characteristics and maximizing their The stage of female success is expanding overseas abilities through systematic development, utilization, evaluation, and compensation. After joining the company, I had experienced the sales business in Japan, but when Oiles Thailand started WEB Oiles Corporation Group’s Basic Policy on Human Resources (full text in Japanese)http://www.oiles.co.jp/corporate/csr/pdf/jinji.pdf to aim for expansions of orders from non-Japanese companies, my overseas assignment was decided. ■ Developing Global Human Resources The main content of the work is related to business “We, at Oiles Corporation, are determined to become a world leader as a general requests and reports between Japan and Thailand, manufacturer of oil-less bearings and to serve society through technology.” Under this and the development of sales staff, but I am also Akiko Taketani management concept, the Oiles Corporation Group, which operates 10 companies and OILES THAILAND involved in the management planning as the manager. 6 plants overseas, continues to develop its human resources to make them capable of Life in Thailand is deeply related to the royal family and conducting business around the globe. We offer a variety of globalization training programs, Buddhism in both public and private matters. For that reason, before the transfer, I including English language training in Japan, overseas dispatch training to improve language received training focused on the history of the Kingdom of Thailand, knowledge of skills and broaden business experience by sending employees to overseas offices. Before the royal family, and essential manners and now I find this knowledge very useful heading overseas, employees receive specific training, so they are fully prepared for their in various situations. I felt anxious at first because never before has a woman been designated location. Global personnel development assigned overseas, but in a foreign country my work experiences and private life greatly training is also provided for department and section expanded, and I am grateful for the assignment. managers to gain basic knowledge about overseas business. In addition, our overseas offices are endeavoring to locally develop globally capable human resources through measures such as actively promoting local employees to managerial positions. Language training OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 36 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Training System Health and Safety Initiatives To improve employees’ skills and to support their personal career development plans, we offer a wide range of training programs to suit their needs, including management, We strive to establish a safe, secure, and comfortable working environment under the basic occupational abilities, internationalization, personal development, and life planning. In principle of protecting employee health and safety. All employees work together to create a addition, we are conducting a selective training program for future executive candidates safety climate based on our occupational health and safety management system, which was through measures such as the Oiles School for management where candidates to gain set up in accordance with the relevant Japanese laws and regulations. a comprehensive range of skills. In fiscal 2017, we created a new training program for developing executives and for departmentand section-level managers. ■ Policy and System for Occupational Health and Safety To prevent industrial accidents and diseases, the Oiles Corporation Group formulated its Annual Training Time per Person Health and Safety Management Standards, which designate responsibilities for improving employee health and safety and establishing a clean and wholesome work environment. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 We are also executing our health and safety action policy to fulfill our social obligation for Annual Training Time per Person (hours) 29.2 29.8 30.1 ensuring safe operations and a sound work environment for protecting the health and wellbeing of employees and to achieve sustainable growth by engaging every employee Educational Training Structure in health and safety initiatives. Our central committee on health and safety is in place to examine and deliberate on various health and safety issues and share feedback with the Management Education Selective Occupational Internationalization Life Planning company, while the Fujisawa, Shiga, Ashikaga, and Hierarchy, Capabilities, Training Ability Training Education for Personal Assessment, etc. Development Oita Plants each maintain their own committees. In Executive training addition, domestic offices across the country are Global personnel Subsidies for personal development (language training, Qualification incentive system Refresher training, retired employee guidance < Manager > Training prior to overseas assignment (one on Upskill training Engineer training (special, first, and second Basic skills training (machine processing, Skills training, general occupational ability General training Overseas dispatch training, language divided into east and west zones, each of which has < Manager > development training Newly appointed its own committee. Under this system, the entire manager training Chief company is actively involved in health and safety Career Development Assessment training activities. training (English conversation) one as appropriate) maintenance, etc.) training, qualified personnel training Oiles School (safety, environment, compliance, etc.) grades) correspondence education, external courses, etc.) Deputy Chief Director of Ashikaga Plant Safety Tour Supervisor training Assistant Chief Newly appointed supervisor training Mid-career training New Employee Training New employee training Training at OJT New employee 2nd-year career upon joining the company plants follow-up training development OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 37 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities ■ Eliminating Industrial Accidents ■ Health and Safety Education We fully comply with laws and regulations on health and safety. The Fujisawa, Shiga, The skills training center at the Fujisawa Plant provides safety training, including simulated Ashikaga, and Oita Plants each formulate health and safety action plans and voluntary rules hazard lessons for new employees, and each workplace offers safety training to new and as necessary for raising the level of safety management. Moreover, each office conducts newly assigned employees. We regularly conduct training on health and safety as needed risk assessment to identify potential hazards at work and takes action on a daily basis to to continue raising employee awareness. We also provide safety training by position level reduce such risks based on the results of assessment. In the event of an industrial accident and encourage members of health and safety committees and managers to acquire at a specific site, information is shared with other sites, thereby increasing company-wide qualifications through national examinations, expertise for eliminating industrial accidents. including those related to the Industrial Safety and Health Act. We also offer follow up training to Number of Industrial Accidents (nonconsolidated) qualified personnel. ■Serious (absent from work for 4 days or longer) 15 ■Minor (absent from work for 3 days or less) ■Not absent from work Danger experience classroom 10 5 10 8 10 1 1 1 1 2 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Frequency Rate of Lost-worktime Injuries*1 (non-consolidated) Frequency Rate of Lost-worktime Injuries*3 OILES Manufacturing industry average*2 OILES Manufacturing industry average*2 2.0 0.5 0.4 1.5 1.15 1.20 1.02 0.3 0.24 1.0 1.01 1.01 1.01 0.2 0.5 0.10 0.07 0.08 0.1 0.01 0.00 0.0 0.0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *1 Frequency rate: represents the frequency of industrial *3 Frequency rate: represents the frequency of industrial accidents based on casualties per actual working time of 1 accidents based on labor days loss per actual working time million hours. of 1 million hours. *2 Based on the results of the Survey on Industrial Accidents by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 38 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Health Promotion Examples Enhancing Employee Wellness • Half of the individual payment is subsidized for those aged 40 and older. Subsidy for the comprehensive • Total fee is subsidized for those who take the examination at ages 40 and We view safeguarding the mental and physical health of our employees as a key medical examination fee 50. management concern, and we are endeavoring to promote their physical and emotional Subsidy for the use of sports • Up to 2,000 yen per month is subsidized for membership or usage fees. facilities health through various health and safety objectives. Subsidy for the influenza • Total fee is subsidized for all employees and members of the Health vaccination Insurance Association. ■ Mental Health Measures An increasing number of employees have recently been taking leaves of absence from work due to mental health issues. Given this trend, we have been actively addressing the mental health of our employees. In accordance with the Industrial Safety and Health Act, we have employees undergo a stress check once a year and maintain a consultation system so that they can talk with industrial doctors and nurses or external institutions as needed. We also provide support programs for those who will be returning from leaves of absence to help them re-enter the workforce smoothly. Mental health training ■ Employee Wellness Support We place priority on preventing employee lifestyle-related diseases and other illnesses through early discovery and treatment. For example, we have been improving our system for having health nurses follow up with employees for whom abnormal findings had been reported from recent medical examinations and periodically offering lifestyle-related disease classes and wellness workshops. These programs raise employee awareness about their own health. We also provide subsidies to employees for comprehensive medical examination fees and other services. Seminar before breast cancer screening OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 39 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities The Oiles Corporation Group maintains fair and equitable relationships with its suppliers to ensure Fair and Equitable Trade consistently transparent trade, as is stipulated in the OILES Corporation Group Corporate Conduct Charter. ■ Requests to Suppliers Procurement Policy In accordance with the Group’s CSR Procurement Guidelines, we request that our suppliers The Oiles Corporation Group will work with its suppliers in accordance with laws and attend to the following items (excerpt). regulations, social mores, and corporate ethics to pursue procurement activities that fulfill its corporate social responsibilities, such as protection of human rights, due consideration for 1. Compliance 3. Environment 5. Information security occupational safety and health, and environmental protection. 2. Human rights and labor 4. Quality and safety 6. Business continuity management WEB Oiles Corporation Group’s Procurement Policy (full text in Japanese) http://www.oiles.co.jp/corporate/csr/pdf/choutatu.pdf WEB OILES Group’s CSR Procurement Guidelines (full text in Japanese) http://www.oiles.co.jp/corporate/csr/pdf/choutatu_guide_line.pdf Supply Chain Management ■ Response to Conflict Minerals The Oiles Corporation Group believes that contributing to the development of a sustainable International concern has focused on the possible use of mineral resources, such as society requires conducting business with a consideration for labor practices, human rights, tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and nine and the environment across the supply chain that is as deep as its consideration for its own adjoining countries in Central Africa, as funding sources for armed groups responsible for products and services. The Group’s CSR Procurement Guidelines were established in July human rights abuses and violence. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and 2017 to promote CSR activities throughout material procurement. We have been sharing the Development requires companies to respect human rights in the supply chain of minerals Group’s basic policy on CSR procurement in cooperation with our suppliers in managing our from conflict regions and manage risk to avoid involvement in such conflicts. Listed entire supply chain by explaining our guidelines at special sessions and conducting CSR companies in the U.S. are required to disclose information about conflict minerals under the procurement questionnaires with major suppliers since August 2017. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in 2010. The Oiles Corporation Group recognizes that the use of conflict minerals is a key supply chain issue in a global society and regularly investigates the materials and component parts of our products in order to confirm that they do not contain any minerals originating from the abovementioned countries. In case any potential or actual usage of such minerals are detected, we will swiftly take corrective measures to prevent such use. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 40 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities The Oiles Corporation Group conducts business through its 18 subsidiaries and 57 production and sales Coexistence with Local bases within Japan and overseas with a sense of respect for the nature, history, culture, and customs of Communities each country and local community. The Group also engages in social contribution activities to serve the development of the wider society. Participants were divided into three teams for boys, fathers, and mothers, and a boys’ team, Philosophy and Policy for Social Contribution Activities fathers’ team, and mothers’ team played the game and competed with their total scores. Our Management Concept states the philosophy for our social contribution activities The event, held at night under illumination with parents and children playing an exciting game as, “We, at Oiles Corporation, are determined to become a world leader as a general together, has now deeply taken root in the region and become a summer tradition for the manufacturer of oil-less bearings and serve society through technology.” Similarly, the city. We are also cosponsoring the Rubber Baseball Federation Chairperson’s Cup (for junior OILES Corporation Group Corporate Conduct Charter declares, “We shall actively apply high schools) and ourselves to contribute to society and shall work broadly for the mutual benefit of society.” Oiles Corporation Cup. Going Under this philosophy, and as a good corporate citizen, we will deploy the Group’s resources forward, we will continue our of people, technology, knowledge, and facilities to serve society proactively and contribute cosponsorship of these events to its sustainable growth. to exchange with the local community. Nakatsu City Parent-Child Soccer Nakatsu Softball Baseball President's Community Engagement Night Tournament Cup and Oiles Industrial Cup ■ Cosponsoring the Ashikaga Fireworks Exhibition ■ Sponsoring The Shonan Manufacturing Workshop x Town As part of its efforts to serve the local community, the plant participates Factory Experience Fair in the Yaba River cleanup every year as well as the cleanup campaign for In March 2019, the Fujisawa Plant provided its spaces to the “Shonan Manufacturing the Watarase River, a well-known local clear stream. The plant also built a Workshop x Town Factory Experience” event hosted by the Shonan Metropolitan City guesthouse that incorporates a seismic isolation system on its premises Administration Council (Fujisawa City, Chigasaki City, Samukawa City). The main activity of and hosts plant tours throughout the year. In addition, every August the this event was a workshop in which the factories located in the Shonan area were teaching plant cosponsors the Ashikaga Fireworks Exhibition as a tradition along children the joy of manufacturing. In addition to providing the spaces, our company also the banks of the Watarase River to enliven the summer nights. provided information about Ashikaga Fireworks Festival the Plant at its exhibition ■ Cosponsoring Nakatsu City Family Night Soccer Game and corner. Children enjoyed many Rubber Baseball Federation Chairperson’s Cup manufacturing experiences Since 1992, the Oita Plant, in Nakatsu City, Oita Prefecture, has been cosponsoring the and we were blessed with Nakatsu City Parent and Child Night Soccer Game organized by the Nakatsu City Soccer pleasant weather and a visit of All staff on the day A flyer of the town factory Association. About 530 people participated in the 32nd event, held in August 2019. about 1,600 visitors. OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 41 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities Overseas Community Engagement Support for Students and External Organizations ■ Cleanup activities at Bangsaen Beach of Oiles Thailand ■ Sponsoring Student Formula Japan Oiles Thailand is actively engaging in various social contribution activities of the region. The company has been co-sponsoring Student Formula Japan since 2015. The 13th year Activities range from local cleanup activities, coral reef conservation and restoration of the event organized by the Society of Automotive Engineers of Japan, Inc. The event activities, mangrove conservation and afforestation activities, and visits to support facilities was launched to provide opportunities for students to make things against the backdrop for people with intellectual disabilities or donations to local temples. In November 2018, of the recent decrease in the number of students resulting from the declining birthrate 43 employees dressed up in matching T-shirts and participated in a cleanup activity at and lack of interest in science among young people. The organizer and cosponsors hope Bangsaen Beach in Chonburi Province. These activities deepen the bond between Oiles that participating students will deepen their understanding of technologies through their and the region and are connected to the driving force of a corporate that cohabits with the experience in creating and handling products, and that they region. will one day become professional engineers with abundant creativity. In addition to the co-sponsoring the tournament in 2017, we have also stared sponsoring university formula teams and have been providing them products and technical support. We will continue supporting students who are enthusiastic Participants in OILES Thailand cleaning Oiles Thailand cleaning activities about cars and manufacturing and keep on contributing to activities the succession of the Japanese manufacturing culture. ■ Donations from Oiles India to the slum area Formula car sponsored by us Oiles India has started social contribution activities in India based on the concept of coexistence with the local community. In addition to making donations through NGOs, ■ Supporting External Organizations we have also visited two slum areas in Delhi and donated wheelchairs, adult diapers and The Oiles Corporation Group endorses the goals and implementation of activities of groceries.connected to the driving force of a corporate that organizations deeply linked to its core technologies, tribology (friction, wear, and lubrication), cohabits with the region. and damping (vibration control) and supports them by becoming a corporate member. The organizations include the Japanese Society of Tribologists, Japan Plain Bearing Standard Association, Japan Society of Powder and Powder Metallurgy, The Japan Society for Precision Engineering, The Japan Society of Seismic Isolation, Japan Association for Vibration Technologies, and Japan Bridge Bearing Association. Donation staff in the Delhi slum area OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 42 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities GRI Content Index This report is prepared with reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. The relevant information of each disclosure indicator is shown pages below. Disclosure Indicator Page Disclosure Indicator Page GRI 102: General Disclosures 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 23 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 25,26 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6,7,8,19 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 23 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 102-4 Location of operations 4,5 102-35 Remuneration policies 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 102-6 Markets served 5,6 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 102-7 Scale of the organization 4,6 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 34 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 102-9 Supply chain 40 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2,3 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 34 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 23 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12 102-12 External initiatives 33,42 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12 102-13 Membership of associations 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2,3 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Editorial Policy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 23,24 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Editorial Policy 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 9 102-47 List of material topics 14-18 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 22 102-48 Restatements of information 102-18 Governance structure 20,21 102-49 Changes in reporting 102-19 Delegating authority 11 102-50 Reporting period Editorial Policy 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 10,20,27 102-51 Date of most recent report Editorial Policy 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 12 102-52 Reporting cycle Editorial Policy 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 20 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back cover 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 20 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 20 102-55 GRI content index 43 102-25 Conflicts of interest 21 102-56 External assurance 32 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 10,11,13,20,21 GRI 103: Management Approach 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 10,11 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 11,13-18 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 20,21 103-2 The management approach and its components 11 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 20,21 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 11,20,21 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 23 43 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 43 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities GRI Content Index Disclosure Indicator Page Disclosure Indicator Page GRI201: Economic Performance GRI304: Biodiversity 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 4-6 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas 304-1 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 32 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 32 201-4 Financial assistance received from government IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 304-4 GRI202: Market Presence affected by operations GRI305: Emissions 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 28,30 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 302-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 28,30 GRI203: Indirect Economic Impacts 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 30 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 30 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 41,42 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 30 GRI204: Procurement Practices 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions GRI205: Anti-corruption GRI306: Effluents and Waste 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 32 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 22,23 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 31 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Not applicable 306-3 Significant spills GRI206: Anti-competitive Behavior 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Not applicable 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff GRI301: Materials GRI307: Environmental Compliance 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Not applicable 301-2 Recycled input materials used 31 GRI308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI302: Energy 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 28 GRI401: Employment 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization 30 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 34 302-3 Energy intensity Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 30 401-2 to temporary or part-time employees 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 401-3 Parental leave 34,36 GRI303: Water GRI402: Labor/Management Relations 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 28 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 44 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 44 Contents/ Message from Corporate Management Special Response to Environmental Respect for Human Fair and Coexistence Governance Rights and Appropriwith Local Editorial Policy the President Information and CSR Feature Consumer Issues Protection ate Labor Practices Equitable Trade Communities GRI Content Index Disclosure Indicator Page Disclosure Indicator Page GRI403: Occupational Health and Safety 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety GRI414: Supplier Social Assessment 403-1 committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 403-2 and number of work-related fatalities 39 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 17,40 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation GRI415: Public Policy 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 34 415-1 Political contributions GRI404: Training and Education GRI416: Customer Health and Safety 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 38 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 26 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 38 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and 416-2 Not applicable 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews services GRI417: Marketing and Labeling GRI405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 34 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling Not applicable 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications Not applicable GRI406: Non-discrimination GRI418: Customer Privacy 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of GRI407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 418-1 Not applicable customer data Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective GRI419: Socioeconomic Compliance 407-1 bargaining may be at risk 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Not applicable GRI408: Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor GRI409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI410: Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures GRI411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples GRI412:Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 33 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or 412-3 that underwent human rights screening GRI413: Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 413-1 programs 45 OILES CORPORATION CSR REPORT 2019 45 Contact ◦Oiles Corporation ◦This report is also available on our website at 8 Kirihara-cho, Fujisawa-shi, Kanagawa 252-0811, Japan http://www.oiles.co.jp/corporate/csr/ TEL: 0466-44-4901 FAX: 0466-44-4953 For inquiries regarding our CSR report, please contact the ◦We welcome your feedback, which you can send to us via our inquiry form at CSR Promotion Section of our General Affairs Department. https://www.oiles.co.jp/contact/
