Communication on Progress (reporting year 2019) 20.03.2020 Odfjell SE Contents OUR RESPONSIBILITY ............................................................................................................ 2 SUSTAINABILITY IN ODFJELL ............................................................................................... 3 ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE (ESG) REPORTING .............................. 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES – GOALS AND OUTCOME ................................................. 13 LABOR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES – GOALS AND OUTCOME ................................................. 14 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES GOALS AND OUTCOME .............................................. 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE – GOALS AND OUTCOME ............................................. 16 1 of 16 Our responsibility Throughout our more than 100-year history, Odfjell has a long-term perspective on how we do business – sustainability is deeply rooted in our DNA. Sustainable operations answer to current demands without compromising the health and safety of future generations. No matter where we are on our journey, at sea or onshore, we can make sustainable decisions that drive global change. Every day, for the long term. Our business Day-to-day, we are surrounded by a multitude of products, an endless array of everyday items electronics, paint and building materials, medicines, fertilizers, toys, the clothes we wear which as diverse as they seem, have one thing in common: all are developed from chemicals. Chemicals are crucial to our daily lives and the economy, but they can also pose a serious risk to our health and the environment if not handled properly. Chemicals are often produced far from where they eventually end up for processing, which makes the storage and transportation of chemicals vital to the global supply chain. Our business is to connect producers and developers by storing and transporting these chemicals, safely and efficiently. Shipping and Terminals Shipping is by far the world’s most efficient form of transportation; about 90% of the world’s traded goods travel by sea. At present, shipping is still the most environmentally friendly way of transporting cargo over large distances. Terminals are an integral part of the logistic chain, and critical for efficient storage and distribution of products from sea to land. Our arena The oceans cover 71% of our planet’s surface, but we have explored only 5%. Oceans are the new economic frontier and a key to solving some of our biggest challenges, today and in the future. The oceans produce more than half of the world’s oxygen and store 50 times more CO2 than our atmosphere. The majority of the world’s population live off, and close to the oceans, and coastal communities are critical hubs for shipping. Odfjell handles some of the world’s most hazardous liquids, and we transport them through some of the world’s most vital and fragile environments: the oceans. Our terminals store products close to people’s homes and local communities. Emissions, soil contamination, or water pollution can all have the potential to adversely impact people and ecosystems. It is imperative, for the sake of people and businesses, that we take care of the environment in which we operate. Odfjell is a committed member of the UN Global Compact. We embrace to the ten defined principles, and we support and actively participate in other industry initiatives. In 2019 we have also signed the UN Global Compact Sustainable Ocean Principles. We commit to operating a sustainable business, to continuously seek improvements and to actively support the achievement of relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals. Yours sincerely, Kristian V. Mørch CEO, Odfjell Bergen, Norway, March 19, 2020 2 of 16 Sustainability in Odfjell A sustainable history What started out as a Norwegian family business, with just one vessel more than a hundred years ago, is now a publicly listed company and a world-leading logistics service provider for chemicals and other specialty bulk liquids. Since 1914, we have done business in every corner of the world. We have been through crises and wars, booming markets and recessions. Through all this, we have remained viable and sustainable. We are very proud of this legacy, and our ambition is to continue evolving and developing the business so that it remains viable well into the future. This goal, however, is only possible in a society that works, and we must do our part to secure sustainable global development. Our strategy and integration of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters Throughout Odfjell’s history, we have taken steps to operate safely and efficiently, be profitable, ensure that we comply with regulations, and minimize our impact on the environment. A good example would be the extensive measures we have taken to improve the efficiency of our vessels, thereby saving fuel, costs, and cutting emissions. Another good example is the tank design we use at our terminals, which significantly reduces vapor emissions. In 2018, we presented our approach and sustainability strategy in the document “Global Operations – Our Responsibility”. We have an impact on society and the environment, and are committed to doing our part to minimize this impact, and to reaching the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainability is an integral part of our business going forward, and intrinsic to our strategy. Sustainability and climate risk Climate change poses a severe threat to healthy market dynamics. Failing to live up to expectations, failing to comply with regulations, and failing to operate in a sustainable way present significant risks to trade, locally and globally. Any business is dependent on a well-functioning society and sound economic growth. That is why Odfjell makes climate risk assessment intrinsic to the work of management and the Board of Directors. When conducting climate risk assessment, we follow the guidelines of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We assess both transition risk and physical risk, and the direct, indirect and financial impact for the company. The work on climate risk assessment started in late 2019, and will be further enhanced in 2020. Our approach and focus areas We believe that even small changes can make a big difference – for people and for the planet. But we also realize that we cannot do everything. Our efforts and actions directly affect our business, so we focus on areas where we can have a real impact. 3 of 16 Our focus areas 1. The safety of our people 2. A profitable and sustainable business 3. Good governance and compliance 4. Local communities 5. The environment The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were launched in 2015. To achieve the goals by 2030, we now move into a decade of action. Our Sustainability Strategy builds on the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles. In 2019, Odfjell also endorsed the UN Global Compact Sustainable Ocean Principles. We will do what we can to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs, and report our actions and initiatives within the international framework and standards. Sustainability reporting Sustainability is rooted in our strategy and risk assessment, and so too in our reporting. In this year’s annual report, we include a more extensive breakdown of sustainability metrics, with reference to a set of global standards (Communication on Progress report pages 5-12). Sustainability is important to Odfjell and to our stakeholders. That is why we have expanded the analysis, and integrated it in the annual report. We believe that managing Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) issues at the company level is key to the sustainability of our industry, and of Odfjell. Our reporting also follows the Norwegian Shipowner Association’s (NSA) Guidelines for ESG reporting and Euronext Guidance on ESG reporting of January 2020. Materiality assessment In our document “Global Operations – Our responsibility,” we presented our strategy and focus areas, and we are in frequent dialogue with our stakeholders on ESG matters. For 2020, we plan to conduct a materiality assessment as a part of our ESGstrategy. We will enhance the climate risk strategy process and prioritize actions based on the materiality assessment. For further information on Odfjell please see our webpage and annual reports: www.odfjell.com and https://www.odfjell.com/investors/reports-and-presentations/ 4 of 16 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) reporting Environment TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC UNIT REF Climate Scope 1 GHG emissions 1,299,479 SASB TR-MTrisk and 110a.1 Gross global Scope 1 GHG emissions to the metric tonnes climate CO2. GRI 305-1 footprint atmosphere are reported in line with the GHG Poseidon Protocol. Principles In 2019, Odfjell reduced the amount of CO2 by SDG 13 9.1% compared to 2018. CDP C6-C8 Odfjell reports CO2 emissions to the Carbon IMO strategy on reduction of Disclosure Project (CDP), the source for metrics GHG emissions used for banks, in accordance with the Poseidon 2030-2050 Principles. Scope 2 GHG emissions 24,198 metric GRI 305-2 Odfjell converts purchased electricity to metric tonnes (2018). SDG 13 CDP C6-C8 tonnes of CO2 equivalents location-based. These numbers are reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). The numbers are from 2018, as 2019 numbers are not yet available due to the CDP’s reporting cycle. Scope 2 emissions represent less than 2% of Scope 1. GHG emission intensity EEOI 16.07 in GRI 305-4 Odfjell uses the Energy Efficiency Operational gram CO2 per SDG 13 Indicator (EEOI) to monitor fleet efficiency tonne-mile. performance over time. The EEOI enables us to 7.7% reduction measure the fuel efficiency of the fleet and to gauge compared to the effect of any improvement initiatives. 2018. In 2019, Odfjell reduced its EEOI by 7.7% to 16.07, compared to 2018 (17.4). EEOI in 2017 was 17.8. GHG emission management 1.5% CO2 SASB TR-MT110a.2 Odfjell supports the Paris Agreement of a 40% emission reduction target GRI-DMA 305reduction in GHG by 2030 and the IMO strategy to 1 reduce emissions by more than 50% in 2050. for managed GRI 305-5 ships per year. Odfjell has a goal of reducing CO2 emissions by Target reached SDG 13 more than 1.5% a year, and to reduce emissions in in 2019. line with the IMO strategy. Odfjell will also contribute to the achievement of SDG 13, to combat climate change and its impacts, by reducing GHG emissions. Today, there are no real alternatives to combustion engines to transport large volumes over large distances. Odfjell has, since 2008, improved the energy efficiency of its managed fleet by more than 30%. To achieve the IMO goals of a 50% reduction, we, and the industry, will need to find a new energy source and propulsion system. To date, we have joined several industry initiatives (e.g. the Getting 5 of 16 to Zero Coalition) and R&D projects (e.g. fuel cell technology) to find a solution for zero-emission tankers in the future, and to accelerate the reduction of emissions. Climate risk reporting Climate risk TCFD As of 2020, Odfjell has included climate risk as a assessment is GRI 201-2 initiated. We will SDG 13 part of our enterprise risk management process and CDP C1-C4 system. We intend to develop this risk assessment communicate further, and report on climate-related risks and this in 2020. opportunities in line with the recommendations of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the Euronext guidance. Climate risk poses a threat but it also creates new opportunities, as our industry will need to transform to a zero-carbon business. That is why climate risk is integrated into our strategy and fleet transition planning. Energy mix Total energy SASB TR-MT110a.3 consumption 2019 was a year of transition, as Odfjell made GRI 302-1 19,242,058 GJ preparations to comply with the new IMO regulation (2018). SDG 13 on sulphur emissions. CDP C8 Fuel consumption in 2019 was as follows: • 80% HFO • 17% MGO • 3% VLSFO 0 % of the energy consumed is renewable/ lowcarbon energy. From 2020, HFO will be replaced by VLSFO/Compliant fuel, as a part of the sulphur cap regulation. Total energy consumption for 2019 is not yet available due to the CDP reporting cycle. Air Other air emissions Odfjell vessels SASB TR-MTpollution 120a.1 Odfjell has established an advanced bunkers emitted on average 0.10 GRI 305-7 monitoring system through which we track deliveries, providers, volumes, and chemical grams of SO2 SDG 3 content of all fuel. per million IMO Global t/nm. For 2018, Sulphur Cap We are not able to monitor SO2 emissions directly, this number 2020 but we can calculate a weighted average based on was 0.12. Total all bunker delivery notes for purchase in 2019; SO2 emissions sulphur in % is multiplied with delivery quantity (mt) was 16,757 to get the sulphur in MT. tonnes, down We expect a significant drop in SO2 emissions in from 18,922 in 2020 as we will use VLSFO instead of HFO as a 2018. Sulphur part of the IMO Global Sulphur Cap 2020. None of emission based Odfjell’s vessels are fitted with open or closed loop on total fuel scrubbers. consumption At Odfjell Terminals, our storage tanks are sealed was 8,319 and pressurized. This reduces emissions more tonnes, down than regular atmospheric storage tanks for 11% from chemicals. 9,464 tonnes in 2018. 6 of 16 Sea and The Odfjell fleet is, or will be, fitted with ballast In 2019, 37% of International land Convention for water treatment systems to prevent the spread of our fleet was pollution the Control and harmful aquatic organisms from one region to fitted with BWT. Management of another, thus complying with the Ballast Water All vessels will Ships' Ballast Management (BWM) regulation. be fitted by Water and Sediments Odfjell has 35 vessels which falls within the scope March 2023. (BWM) of the requirements. The fleet is fitted with compliant and class approved systems to handle effluent water, wastewater, and oily water. This is registered and subject to inspections by authorities. Throughout our organization, we continue to strive to reduce our waste. By modifying the processes for correctly segregating waste, we can further recycle the waste generated or dispose of it properly. For our terminals, we have wastewater treatment systems for effluent management. The remaining waste for our Houston Terminal is treated off-site by the Houston terminal Gulf Coast Waste Disposal Authority (GCWDA), to which we are connected by pipeline for wastewater. Our storage tanks are designed to reduce hazardous waste. The sloped design of the tank bottoms limits residual product in tanks, making cleaning easier and better. We use infrared inspection techniques to detect heat leaks through damaged insulation which is then repaired, reducing heat losses and thereby reducing energy consumption We are also employing acoustic inspection techniques for the nitrogen and compressed air systems to eliminate small leaks and reduce energy consumption. Ship Responsible ship recycling Zero vessels EU Ship recycling Recycling Odfjell supports and follows the recommendations recycled, Regulation (EU given by the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association No recycling 1257/2013) and IMO. planned for the FOR-2018-12Responsible and compliant ship recycling is a next 1-3 years. 06-1813 Hong Kong notable part of the circular economy, keeping Convention resources in use for as long as possible, and Responsible minimizing waste. Ship recycling is an important Ship Recycling industry for sustainable production and it supports Standard the developing economies of several countries. SDG 8, 12, 14 We are an active participant in the Recycling Forum of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association, and have dedicated personnel to follow up on recycling issues. We encourage ratification of the IMO Hong Kong convention, to have a mandatory international regulation for ship recycling. Odfjell has not sent a vessel for recycling since 2016. Should an Odfjell owned vessel be earmarked for recycling, we would be required to use certified yards, compliant with the Hong Kong 7 of 16 Convention and the EU Ship Recycling Regulation. This regulation closely follows the Hong Kong Convention. The Regulation sets out a number of requirements for European ships, ship owners, recycling facilities. EcologiShipping duration in marine protected areas Of total days, the SASB TR-MTcal Odfjell fleet 160a.1 and areas of protected conservation status Impacts operated 5,489 SDG 14 We do not currently track time and operations in days in ECA Annex VI[1] of areas of protected conservation status in areas (including the 1997 accordance with UNEP WCMC. days in port), MARPOL Protocol Emission Control Areas (ECAs), or Sulphur representing Emission Control Areas (SECAs), are sea areas in 20.2% of total GRI 304-2 which stricter controls are established to minimize days (including UNEP World days in port). Conservation airborne emissions from ships, as defined by the Monitoring MARPOL Protocol. Centre (UNEP WCMC) Number and aggregate volume of spills and Managed SASB TR-MTvessels 25 160a.3 releases to the environment For our fleet, all spills of any substance – harmful spills contained SDG 14 on board and GRI 306-3 or not – are registered and handled as a spill. We two pollutions also register whether the spill has been contained of the on board or affected the environment beyond. environment in At our Terminals, we strive to further reduce the 2019: number of spills through better inspections and 2 L of cleaning additional operational training. All spills in 2019 chemicals were contained within the secondary containment. spilled to a One of the spills had to be reported to the jetty authorities. Terminals are complying with the 20 L VLSFO to regulations mentioned in their permits. sea Terminals number of spills > 5 liters is 33, LOPC (number of spills outside primary containment) is 40. Social UNIT TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC REF AcciLost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) For 2019, LTIF for SASB TR-MTdents, managed vessels 320a.1 Safety, At Odfjell, we have a goal of zero accidents and incidents. We monitor and track all Lost Time is 0.89. GRI 403-9 and IMO ISM Labor Injuries (LTIs), Restricted Work Cases (RWC), LTIF Terminals Code Rights Medical Treatment case (MTC) and First Aid Case consolidated is (FAC). Management and organization have 0.51. SDG 8 incentive KPIs related to LTIF. LTIF for the fleet is calculated as lost time incidents * 1,000,000 / number of Exposure Hours. For 8 of 16 terminals, LTIF is calculated using 200,000 as multiplier. Safety Total Recordable ISM Code Safety is more than a priority to Odfjell. It is a core Case Frequency value and part of our license to operate. We are (TRCF) was 1.68 relentless about ensuring the safety of our in 2019, up from employees and surrounding communities by 1.49 in 2018. improving the way we operate as a company. We All incidents in continually review which personal protective 2019 happened in equipment is best for our employees, so that they 1H. can safely perform the tasks expected of them. We A new action plan strive to ensure our employees do things the right was initiated, and way, and only the right way. We do not compromise in 2H there were on safety. no incidents. For all operations, we conduct safety hazard identification and safety risk assessment to ensure that all risks are mitigated, and to ensure the safety of our people and the environment. Odfjell has dedicated emergency preparedness policy procedures and systems, dedicated contingency/ operations room, and we conduct regular training and exercises with the Emergency Response Management Team (ERMT). The safety management system is certified according to the ISM Code. Odfjell has implemented safety standards in accordance with requirements of the the flag state of vessels. Diversity At our headOdfjell promotes diversity, inclusion, and equal quarters in opportunities for our employees. We believe it is of Bergen, Norway, value to the business to have diversity in our the employees are organization, and it is also important for us to attract 71% men and 29% talent from a wide population. women. In 2019, we implemented a policy to actively Corresponding improve gender diversity in Odfjell which is now global figures are showing effect. 67% and 33%. We have also taken steps to collaborate with At our headGRI 405-1 industry networks to put diversity on the agenda, as quarters, 50% of we believe that diversity is a missed opportunity in our new hires in SDG 5, the industry today. We support offshore career 2019 were women. SDG 10 initiatives and recruiting initiatives attract female 50% of Directors candidates. of the Board of We have a goal to increase the ratio of women in Odfjell SE are leadership positions. women. All four members of the Executive Management are men. 9 of 16 Labor rights Maritime Labor GRI 102-41 Odfjell is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and Convention (MLC) SDG 8 supports all the ten principles, where numbers 3 to certification on all 6 concern labor rights. managed vessels. Odfjell supports freedom of association and, in line with local norms and regulations, adheres to various collective bargaining agreements for elements of our workforce. Odfjell has established work councils with employee representatives and local management. Port State Control In 2019, Odfjell SASB TR-MThad 0.77 findings 540a.3 Port State Control (PSC) is the inspection of foreign ships in national ports to verify that the condition of pr PSC inspection SDG 8, 14 the ship and its equipment comply with the and zero requirements of international regulations, and that detentions. the ship is manned and operated in compliance with these rules. A deficiency is defined as a condition found not to comply with such regulations (see reference). Serious findings would lead to detention. Management and organization in Odfjell have incentives with KPIs related to Port State Control (PSC) findings. Marine casualties In 2019, we had SASB TR-MTzero marine 540a.1 Odfjell defines a marine casualty in accordance with UN IMO’s Code of International Standards and casualties. SDG 8 Recommended Practices for a Safety Investigation into a Marine Casualty or Marine Incident Resolution MSC 255(84). Human Human Rights and child labor In our reviews and GRI 412 Rights and child labor Human rights are reflected in several of Odfjell’s risk assessment we GRI 408 policies and reporting i.e. on Communication of score the risk of SDG 8 Progress (COP). We also expect the same from our direct nonSDG 4 suppliers that must sign our Suppliers principles. compliance with SDG 16 Odfjell expects suppliers to support and respect the regulation on protection of internationally proclaimed human human rights and rights and to ensure that they are not complicit in child labor as low. human rights abuses or child labor. In 2019, we Human rights and child labor are a part of the introduced new integrity risk assessments, and we implement integrity terms in mitigating actions where we see that we are our contracts with exposed, in line with the UN Guiding Principles of agents, and that all Human rights and the ILO conventions on child yards and suppliers labor. will sign the supplier principles. 10 of 16 Governance UNIT TOPIC ACCOUNTING METRIC REF Business Anti-corruption and integrity framework Member in UK Bribery act Ethics Maritime AntiOdfjell has a clearly stated zero-tolerance policy on corruption. Corruption Network We have an anti-corruption and integrity framework (MACN). based on the UK Bribery Act Guidance and Integrity Norwegian anti-corruption regulation. We conduct an Council in annual risk assessment as a basis for a company place. action plan on anti-corruption work. We do annual mandatory training and signing of Code of Conduct and anti-corruption policies for all of our employees, and have included relevant integrity clauses in all our contracts. Odfjell is a member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network, and we have implemented and supported the MACN “Say No” campaign on all our vessels. We also track requests for facilitation globally. We have established a reporting hotline, available internally and externally, for the reporting of any compliance-related matters. Odfjell has an Integrity Council that coordinates all actions under the framework from all areas of our business. Corruption risk Two port calls SASB TR-MT510a.1 Number of calls at ports or net revenue in countries to Nicaragua in 2019. SDG 16 that have the 20 lowest rankings in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index Facilitation payments 17 incidents SDG 16 The number of incidents where bribes have been where requested. facilitation/gifts have been requested according to “Say No” statistics. Fines Zero. GRI 419-1 The total monetary value of significant fines and the SASB TR-MTtotal number of non-monetary sanctions for non510a.2 compliance with laws and/or regulations. SDG 16 ESG Policies and targets GRI Disclosure governof Management Main policies are Code of Conduct, HSE Policy, Approach ance Sustainability Policy, Corporate Governance Policy, Anti-corruption Policy, Environmental Policy of Ship Management, Supplier Code of Conduct Principles, Supplier Audits incl. ESG, Audits of Yards, Sanctions 11 of 16 Policy, Antitrust / Competition Compliance Policy, among many others. Our document “Global Operations – Our Responsibility” describes our ESG strategy and actions. StandInternational standardization continues to be a focus ISO 9001 ards across the terminal organization. All terminals are ISO 14001 compliant with the international standards ISO 9001, CDT-I ISO 14001, and Chemical Distribution InstituteTerminals (CDI-T), and are audited by a third party to ensure compliance with these standards. The focus on standardization allows the terminals to have consistent management processes and common systems. WhistleReporting hotline Total 20 reports blowing in 2019. None Odfjell has a whistle-blowing policy and procedure including an anonymous reporting hotline, available regarded as both internally and externally. material. 12 of 16 Human Rights principles – goals and outcome Defined goals for 2019 • Implement a Performance Management system, incl. cascade strategy & goals and develop value driven KPI’s across functions • Implement a new HR Management system, incl. time, absence, travel, payroll, salary adjustment and organization structure • Prepare an action plan for diversity, where we want to increase the percentage of women • Continue the leadership program • Improve succession planning Measurement of outcome for 2019 • Implemented Performance Management system • Implemented new HR Management system, incl. time, absence, travel, payroll, salary adjustment and organization structure • Prepared action plan for diversity, where we want to increase the percentage of women • Continued the leadership program • Improve succession planning ongoing Goals for 2020 • Further implement action plan for diversity • Continue the leadership program • Improve succession planning • Implement policies regarding UN Guiding principles on Human Rights paragraph 15 • Include human rights and child labor risk in the risk assessment 13 of 16 Labor Rights principles – goals and outcome Defined goals for 2019 • Cascade strategy & goals and develop value driven KPI’s across functions • Improve succession planning • Absence rate ≤ 2.4% • LTIF Managed ships ≤ 0.3, TRCF Managed ships ≤ 1.5 • LTIF Terminals ≤ 0.15 • Global Safety Day in end of April execute successfully in all entities Measurement of outcome for 2019 • Cascade strategy & goals and develop value driven KPI’s across functions ongoing • Improve succession planning ongoing • Absence rate goal reached HQ Bergen was 1.99, Seafarers was 1.23, Singapore office 1.43 and Houston office was 0.19 • LTIF Managed vessels was 0.89 – target not reached, TRCF Managed vessels was 1.68 – target not reached • LTIF Terminals was 0.51 – target not reached • Executed Odfjell’s Global Safety Day in end of April successfully in all entities Goals for 2020 • Cascade strategy & goals and develop value driven KPI’s across functions • Improve succession planning • Absence rate ≤ 2.4% • LTIF Managed ships ≤ 0.3, TRCF Managed ships ≤ 1.5 • LTIF Terminals ≤ 0.3 • Odfjell’s Global Safety Day is executed successfully • Odfjell intends to follow up the requirements of the new Equality and AntiDiscrimination Act §26 with analysis, actions and reporting in 2020 14 of 16 Environmental principles goals and outcome Defined goals for 2019 • Reduce discharge of CO2 to air from managed vessels by 1.5 % o Sophisticated antifouling system with ultra-low resistance • Reduce discharge to sea o Retrofitting with biodegradable lube oil in compliance with US VGP according procedure 1318 VGP US Biodegradable Lube Oil Measurement of outcome for 2019 • Reduce discharge of CO2 to air from managed vessels to by 3.9 % goal reached o Sophisticated antifouling system with ultra-low resistance – progressing as planned • Reduce discharge to sea o Retrofitting with biodegradable lube oil in compliance with US VGP according procedure 1318 VGP US Biodegradable Lube Oil – progressing as planned Goals for 2020 • Reduce discharge of CO2 to air from managed vessels more than 1.5 % o Sophisticated antifouling system with ultra-low resistance o NorSingProp Propulsion Efficiency project o Propeller Boss-Cap Fin project o Reverse Osmosis Plant project • Contribute to reduce carbon intensity of the fleet through implementation of further phases of the energy efficiency design index (EEDI) for new ships • Review with the aim to strengthen the energy efficiency design requirements for ships with the percentage improvement for each phase to be determined for each ship type, as appropriate • Reduce CO2 emissions per transport work, as an average across international shipping, by at least 40% by 2030, pursuing efforts towards 70% by 2050, compared to 2008 (will be depending on IMO guidance for chemical tankers) • GHG emissions to peak as soon as possible and to reduce the total annual GHG emissions by at least 50% by 2050 compared to 2008 whilst pursuing efforts towards phasing them out • Substantially reduce SO2 emissions due to implementation of IMO 2020 sulphur cap regulation • Reduced discharge of Ozone-depleting substances o reduce risk of emission of R22 Refrigerant (all R22 has been phased out of service) • Reduced risk of discharge of oil to sea o Retrofitting with biodegradable lube oil in compliance with US VGP according procedure 1318 VGP US Biodegradable Lube Oil • Contribute in Getting to Zero coalition • Conduct and report climate risk assessment for the group in line with the recommendations of the Task force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) • Follow the Norwegian Shipowner Association’s (NSA) Guidelines for ESG reporting and Euronext Guidance on ESG for sustainability reporting 15 of 16 Anti-corruption principle – goals and outcome Defined goals for 2019 • Integrity risk assessment across departments • Anti-corruption training with board • Quarterly Integrity Council meetings • Implementation of new integrity module in GAN for all employees • Roll out joint integrity policy for business unit Terminals • Annual Anti-Corruption Policy training and signing Measurement of outcome for 2019 • Completed Integrity risk assessment across departments • Completed Anti-corruption training with board • 2 Integrity Council meetings in 2019 • Implementation of new integrity module in GAN for all employees planned for 1H 2020 • Roll out joint integrity policy for business unit Terminals planned for 1H 2020 • Completed Annual Anti-Corruption Policy training and signing • Published Corporate Sanctions Policy Goals for 2020 • Integrity risk assessment across departments • Anti-corruption training with board • Quarterly Integrity Council meetings • Implementation of new integrity module in GAN for all employees planned for 1H 2020 • Roll out joint integrity policy for business unit Terminals planned for 2H 2020 • Annual Compliance Sign-off campaign Ongoing • Integration of Say No (facilitation payment) reports in Port log • Implementation of Supplier Conduct Code Principles at all yards and for docking agents • Update procedure for pre-approval of yards • Continue to be a active member in Maritime Anti-corruption Network (MACN) 16 of 16
