Sustainovate Progress report 2019 Contents Key data 9.3 INTRODUCTION We are a leading global 2 Husqvarna Group 4 A changing world producer of outdoor power Operating margin excluding items STRATEGY affecting comparability, % (7.9) products for forest, park and Introduction –– Husqvarna Group 8 Ambitions and progress 12,700 10 CEO & CIO in conversation ­garden care, watering 12 Strategic milestones 14 Impacts along the value chain products, and cutting and OUR CHALLENGES Average number of employees (13,200) surface preparation 18 Carbon 3,915 26 Team equipment for construction. 28 Supplier 30 Safety 34 Community Operating income excluding items INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY affecting comparability, SEKm (3,241) We have three divisions that 38 A foundation of integrity -45 40 Creating sustainable value focus on premium products 42 Turning Sustainovate into reality and solutions under leading SUSTAINOVATE 2025 46 It’s a material world CO2 emission intensity reduction, % (–21) brands. 48 Solutions fit for the future 42,277 ABOUT THIS REPORT 52 GRI Index 54 GRI Disclosures 56 Auditor’s report Net sales, SEKm (41,085) Our core Our Our key purpose / vision / behaviors / Passion for innovation is Shaping great experiences It starts with me— take what defines us. is what drives us forward. ownership and ask myself: It’s in our DNA and part of our It is our inspiration. What can I do? Husqvarna Gardena Construction 65% 20% 15% long history and heritage. It is We are proud to be leaders in • Seek customers’ point of view what has shaped our company sustainable, user-centered soluin all meetings and decisions into what it is today. It has also tions. Through our products and become a vital part in our work services, we partner to shape the • Demonstrate collaboration by towards a sustainable future. We green spaces and urban environgiving and seeking Share of Group net sales Share of Group net sales Share of Group net sales support –21 leverage technology to turn ments of today and of tomorrow. opportunities into value for our • Maintain focus and simplicity A leader in forest and garden A leader in watering products, A leader in light construction customers. Through our purpose products. The undisputed garden hand tools and smart products for professionals. we deliver on our vision. CO2 emission intensity market leader in robotic lawn garden systems. reduction, % (–24) mowers. 2 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 3 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group A changing world Introduction –– Megatrends Introduction –– MegatrendsM THE ENERGY SPEED OF SHIFTING CONSUMER VALUES URBANIZATION AND NEW TRANSFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND PURCHASING BEHAVIOR CUSTOMER GROUPS Markets and society are evolving faster than In light of the urgency of addressing climate Digitalization is transforming how products By 2030, global middle-class spending is Cities, in particular, are driving the sustainachange, low-carbon solutions are a growing are developed, sold, used, serviced and projected to triple. Sustainability values, bility agenda at local levels. Two thirds of ever, becoming more globalized and priority for customers and regulators. Techshared. Digital offers, such as smart garden individualism, personal expression, ease of the population will live in cities. Europe and technology-driven. Impacts of climate change, nological improvements make energy storsolutions and fleet-management systems use and affordability all have an impact on North America will have more over-55s than demographic shifts and competition for scarce age viable and affordable. for commercial users, position us to deliver their purchasing decisions. people aged under 18. more efficient services, consume fewer resources are affecting not only society at large Sustainability opportunities and risks resources and extend product life. Sustainability opportunities and risks Sustainability opportunities and risks but also our business strategy. Understanding • Products that go beyond fuel-efficiency Sustainability opportunities and risks • Growing emphasis on sharing products • More green space is needed as cities how and why is critical to executing our strategy standards give a competitive advantage instead of owning them provides opporexpand. For us, this creates openings in and reducing our environmental footprint. • Battery technologies and regulation on • Analyzing data from devices and robotic tunities for circular business models public sector procurement and connecttechnology delivers greater customer ing people with nature Sustainovate—our approach to integrating energy use and recycling smooth the insight and helps us not only develop • Stakeholders expect us to meet high path to renewable energy human rights and environmental standChanging customer demographics cresustainability in our business—plays a vital role product features that enhance productiv• ards, especially in the supply chain ate scope for innovation in ergonomics in delivering this understanding. • In motorized products, about 28 (27) perity, efficiency and safety but also enables and building safety cent of our business is represented by the sharing economy • Growth in emerging markets, many of battery products, robotics and electric which are reliant on fossil-fuel energy, • Urban spread into green zones puts pres• Digitalized manufacturing and product products.* This creates opportunities to may negatively impact our carbon footsure on biodiversity. We can encourage development raise quality, shorten time leverage low-carbon energy sources print consumers to protect living things and by to market and make factories and worklowering product impacts, we can ensure • Lithium-ion battery use requires greater places more energy efficient • The shift to e-commerce changes sales our products do not adversely affect local transparency on human rights and envichannels and may increase our carbon • Cyber and other threats to security have biodiversity. ronmental risks along the value chain. footprint from online sales. a growing impact on business operations and customers’ privacy. * The remaining motorized products are petrol-driven. For an analysis of how these megatrends affect our markets and customers, see the Husqvarna Group Annual Report 2019 p. 8 Sales distribution Global presence in attractive markets with steady underlying growth. 36% 51% 13% North America Europe Rest of the world 4 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 5 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Chapter 2/ Strategy­ Anchored in a passion for innovation and Creating a strong company fit for the reduce both our customers’ and our own future relies on the ingenuity and consumption of energy, water and other connecting people with nature, Sustainovate courage of our people, forward-thinking resources. Realizing our vision means is our way of integrating sustainability into our leadership, and the insights of our exploring innovative product ideas and strategic partners. We are committed to business models that deliver positive business. raising the bar in safety and product impacts for people and the planet and efficiency and finding new ways to making these products widely available. 6 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 7 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Ambitions and progress Introduction –– Ambitions and progress Sustainovate is built on five key challenges to reduce impacts and enhance our Introduction –– Ambitions and progress ability to positively affect people’s lives and the environment. AMBITION TARGET PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS N EX T S T EPS Sustainovate includes Group-wide targets which are With four of five years of the targets now complete, the 70% 51% By evaluating strategic • Since 2015, 144 supplier • Complete current audit driving our sustainability performance between 2015 benefits of this approach are showing and we are well Supplier suppliers’ environmental, sustainability audits conprogram and define action and 2020. This goal-based approach has focused attention on long-term value creation and is critical for positioned to achieve most of our targets. Sustainovate targets compare performance to 2015, challenge human rights and safety performance and ethical standOf purchasing ON TRACK ducted in Asia, Europe and Americas plan for responsible sourcing to 2025 ards, the Group aims to spend from strategic • 131 strategic suppliers • Define action plan to market leadership. unless otherwise indicated by a (*). Inspire and build motivate suppliers to suppliers audited and audited and approved improve transparency on a sustainable improve and to prioritize minerals of concern approved based on • No zero-tolerance issues supplier base those with high sustainability their sustainability were uncovered in • Train commodity managperformance. performance supplier audits ers on Supplier Code of • Updated the Supplier Business Ethics. Code of Business Ethics. AMBITION TA R G E T PR OGR ES S H I GH LI GH T S NEX T S TEPS AMBITION TARGET PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS N EX T S T EPS 10% 45% 40% 31% Husqvarna Group seeks to • In motorized products, 28 • Increase sales of lowThe Group’s strong focus on Workplace safety Workplace safety Carbon deploy innovation, energypercent of the business is carbon products Safety safety and ergonomics in • Implemented an ISO • Implement Group-wide challenge efficiency and new products to grow the business while CO2 intensity reducrepresented by batterypowered, robotic and • Explore possibilities to source or install renewachallenge products and on occupational, health and safety Reduction in the ADDITIONAL 45001-based OHS management system OHS incident management system ON TRACK reducing emissions across electrical products— up (OHS) will improve safety EFFORT Decouple business tion across the value ble energy Lead the industry Total Recordable NEEDED • Launched new OHS policy • Increase preventative the value chain – from product chain. from 11 percent in 2015 • Engage suppliers to across the value chain. Incident Rate (TRIR) action reporting and risk growth from CO2 in safety across the • 135 OHS audits performed. design and development to • 58 percent of electricity measure and reduce in operations observations emissions suppliers, manufacturing, used in operations derives CO2 emissions value chain Product safety Our Science-based target • Involve more people in logistics and smarter prod• A decrease in volume of 35% 77% from renewable sources • Launch revamped internal audits to pro33% 24% uct use. • More than half of the R&D products historically Science-based target mote best practice. spend of SEK 1,720 m was involved in incidents to align with 1.5 °C. Product safety directed to battery and • Sales of protective equipReduction in the ON TRACK • Launch products with Absolute CO2 reducrobotic technologies ment worldwide reprenumber of product new safety features tion from product use • Exited low-margin petrol sented 1.3 percent of incidents compared • Accelerate innovation by 2035* -powered product segglobal sales compared to to 2016 initiatives for improved ments in North America. 0.2 percent in 2015. product safety. AMBITION TA R G E T PR OGR ES S H I GH LI GH T S NEX T S TEPS AMBITION HIGHLIGHTS NE X T S T EPS 9 8 Efforts to build an attractive, • 91 percent (approx. 12,000 • EVP roll-out Group-wide By connecting people with nature, • Matched Ulm community donations, • Action plan for Group-wide emergency Team behavior-led workplace + = + employees) responded to • Diversity and Inclusion Community the Group aims to protect biodiversity, providing 200,000 Euros for helping relief program. challenge should never stop. By providing a platform for Net Promoter Score ADDITIONAL the 2019 Team Survey • Since 2015 some 142 manstrategy and action plan challenge promote healthier lifestyles and create more resilient communities 100,000 people gain access to clean water EFFORT • Develop and execute employees to make a differ(NPS) is equal to or NEEDED agers have taken part in • In 2019, held the Living City global Be the best place Group Leadership BehavBuild a platform for ence and offering opportuexceeds the peer leadership training, 56 of conference in Gothenburg, Sweden to work ior and Capability model. teams to engage in nities for people of all backgroup. them in 2019 and nine local events around the world grounds to maximize their • Defined our Group local communities to raise awareness on the role of parks talents, the Group aims to Employee Value • Since 2015, convened 30 regional be the employer of choice. Proposition (EVP). Husqvarna Loves Parks meetings and four international conferences • Durban and Rio de Janiero listed as Husqvarna Group’s HUGSI 2019 Index of the world’s greenest cities. 8 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 9 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Setting our sights beyond 2020 With one year to go on Sustainovate 2020, we are well-positioned Strategy –– CEO Statement Husqvarna Gro Strategy –– CEO & CFO Statementment to achieve most of our targets and we have embedded sustainability deeper into our business. Husqvarna Group CEO Kai Wärn and SVP Pavel Hajman discuss progress in 2019 and why Sustainovate 2025 is positioning us for even greater competitiveness. On the achievements that make us proud PH: With Sustainovate 2025, a bottom-up approach is Kai Wärn (KW): Our efforts are genuine and our results how we will integrate sustainability deeper in the are consistent. More than half of our R&D investorganisation. ments—SEK 1,720m—support the Sustainovate agenda. Developing new business models and battery -based and robotics technologies are central to our On challenges to realizing our approach carbon target and are accomplishments that can’t be PH: The total cost of ownership is a factor in all major emphasized enough. We have achieved significant investments, but we need to have a better internal results on the target, thanks to dedicated people and process to ensure that energy efficiency is prioritized the decisions made in every division. in our investment decisions. Also, all facilities in Europe, including 15 production KW: We need to increase traceability in our supply Pavel Hajman, SVP CIO & Operations Development Kai Wärn, President and CEO sites, are powered by renewable electricity. Off-grid chain in regards to risks for conflict minerals, cobalt solar solutions help power three facilities in the U.S., and lithium. While we’re gaining better insight, we China and Sweden. need to further advance knowledge in this area in Pavel Hajman (PH): Another step forward is the 2020. launch of our Group battery competence center. It PH: Another area to build on relates to safety. Due to KW: We know that the decisions we make today will opportunities—carbon, circular and people—instead helps by supporting divisions with solutions that the nature of our business, about half of our factory influence our ability to limit global temperature rise to of five challenges, we are more specific and ambitious. demonstrate sustainability leadership and cost effistaff are seasonal workers. We need to be better at 1.5 °C by the end of this century. We are committed to We also know that employees want to work for a comciency, and which are enabling a quicker shift from continually informing new workers of our safety routines, a path of becoming carbon neutral. We began internal pany that demonstrates commitment through actions, petrol to battery products. because we will never compromise on safety. Although discussions among experts and business leaders this that creates a workplace that allows employees to I’m also proud of Construction division’s declaration we have had setbacks in the number of incidents this summer. They took part in a process to align our longgrow professionally, and engages them in ways that to lead in battery technologies in their sector. Their year, the incidents decreased in severity. term business aims with the science, in order to help us make a difference. That’s why we’re raising our ambition newly launched professional battery-powered power decide on our way forward. on engaging with customers and employees. cutter is the first in a line of products to come. Exciting »We are adopting a bolder approach, On decoupling CO2 emissions from KW: We are also sharpening our aspirations in line with ideas are also being market tested, like Husqvarna what the latest science says needs to be done to limit Division’s “Tools for you” sharing-economy concept addressing opportunities where we business growth. temperature increase to 1.5 C. With circular economy, which is available in four countries and where consumers can contribute most to transformation« PH: Our CO2 impacts matter—and they occur most we are exploring an area that promises to have a future have pay-per-use access to our tools. when our customers use our products. Since 2016, impact on delivering both on our customer experience KW: A challenge from last year was improving transwhen we launched Sustainovate, we have proven that and smart use of resources. parency of CO2 impacts in our supply chain. By partOn changing expectations we can reduce CO2 and build our business at the same At the same time, we will continue to work on meetnering with the CDP Supply Chain platform—a digital KW: Customer and investor expectations are a reality time. Battery-based products are the key. ing expectations for performance in our other sustainaplatform for CO2 data disclosures—we can monitor, check for us. Staying ahead of them helps us to stretch KW: Decoupling emissions from growth is indeed a bility impacts and ensure that our practices reflect our report and work together with suppliers on reducing our ambitions. We appreciate that investors are pressure big deal. There is a beyond-petrol frontier for most commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global their emissions. Over half of the contacted suppliers -testing our engagement and want to validate that applications. We know that petrol products will be Compact. responded to our request to disclose emissions. The Sustainovate is making a difference. needed for some time to come though. Battery techThe true impact of Sustainovate still lies ahead of us, majority of them had targets in place and several had, Customers—not least cities and municipalities—are nology isn’t there yet for all applications; products for but awareness levels are changing fast. When we started or commit to having, science-based targets. more aware. They want to use resources efficiently and forest management professionals being one example. in 2015, we stretched our ambition level. Today, we not our products can help. Initiatives like Living City and As we develop new generations of platforms, most will only see the urgency of transformation, we know that Hugsi, which we partnered in this year, help raise be replaced with battery solutions. We have already the business case is there to deliver on it. On roles that shape Sustainovate awareness about green spaces in urban settings. taken the decision not to further develop petrol-based KW: Group management’s role is to set aspirations PH: The Task Force on Climate-related Financial hedge trimmer platforms. and ensure that business objectives and sustainability Disclosures—TCFD—is one example of a growing aims are mutually supportive. Sustainability is on the priority among investors. By being transparent on On developing Sustainovate 2025 agenda at most management meetings. We regularly impacts through TCFD, investors can understand the PH: We are already thinking beyond 2020 targets. report on progress to the Board—it met the sustainaclimate risks of their investment decisions. We engaged Through Sustainovate 2025, we are adopting a bolder bility team twice this year in addition to one meeting early in TCFD to be ahead of the curve and became a approach, addressing opportunities in which we can with the Board’s People and Sustainability Committee. signatory in 2019. contribute most to transformation. With a focus on 10 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 11 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Strategic milestones CASE / Sustainovate 2025 We are embracing best practice and integrating sustainability more Strategy –– Strategic milestonesu Strategy –– Strategic milestones In 2019, Husqvarna Group took further steps to pick up where the 2020 goals left off, with a deeply into the business. In 2019, our support for the UN’s Sustainable define the next phase of Sustainovate to 2025. higher level of ambition and a more focused Our year-long strategy process involved key mission—Sustainovate 2025 defines how the Development Goals continued and we prepared for the launch of internal and external stakeholders and led to Group will lead a sector shift to step-change Sustainovate 2025. new board-approved sustainability targets. efficiency and smarter resource use. To learn Five challenges have guided us in integrating more, see p. 48. sustainability deeper into the business to 2020. Sustainovate 2025 and its three opportunities will CASE / Decoupling CO2 from Sales CO2 absolute Billion SEK reduction 45 10% Net sales business growth 2015–2019 Absolute CO2 reduction INTERVIEW / Chris Sengura We want to dramatically cut our CO2 emissions, 0% Thriving in a new culture 40 while our company continues to grow. Through Sustainovate, we are proving that it is possible to -10% People from all over the world What do you like most about your job and what decouple business growth from our emissions. 35 work at Husqvarna’s Laichingen challenges have you experienced? Measuring progress against our sales growth is -20% factory. Chris Sengura, one of “It isn’t easy being in a new country and workplace, one way to keep track. Year on year, our perforour best forklift operators, is with a new language, a new culture and new routines. mance shows that our CO2 target – which 30 30% among them. He tells us his Getting a practical ramp-up helped me see how every2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 includes emissions from suppliers, manufacturstory and offers the Group thing works, like learning safety procedures and clear ing, transport and product use—is deeply consome advice on how we can better support new instructions for how to load trucks. I appreciated the nected to our business goals. It also shows it is Over the last four years, we have reduced our absolute CO2 employees of all cultures into our workforce. fact that people around me were patient as I learned. emissions by 25 percent while increasing sales by 17 percent. “My colleagues are the best part of the job. They’re possible to aim for market leadership and be a sustainability leader, too. How can we improve at integrating new great to work with and I like my manager.” employees? “It’s all about the team and taking the time to support What are your future ambitions? one another. My manager saw I had the ability to work “I feel at home here. I want to learn the language betwith forklifts, which are complicated machines, but I ter and I’d like to advance to be a operational leader, if didn’t have an operator’s license. I have been in GerI get the chance. Hopefully, I’ll be at Laichingen for a many since 2015, and my level of German was a barrier long time.” CASE / Pioneering spirit to getting it. My manager helped me become qualiCommunicating about who we are and fied and I got a license only a year after coming to Gerwhat we stand for as an employer is an many.” important part of delivering an inspiring employee experience. In 2019 we launched our Employee Value Proposition—Built by Pioneers—a Group-wide framework that tells the story about us. The framework is targeted both at our current team and potential employees. ‘Built by Pioneers’ highlights that Where we can Supporting change to 2030 we are passionate about our work, reduce negative impacts proud of our history and curious about of our operations The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the future. It describes how our global, a 17-point plan for ending extreme poverty, fighting diverse and open environment makes us inequality and injustice and protecting the planet up to strong. Where we can positively 2030. Achieving the SDGs requires significant effort at We know that the people we seek to impact customers and all levels of society, not least in business, which has a attract and retain want to make a lasting our value chain critical role to play as a change agent. Our biggest difference through their work and want contributions to the goals lie in reducing the negative to work for a company that is serious impacts of operations, contributing to positive change about sustainability. Communicating Where we can positively along the value chain and engaging in society at large. and living our EVP will help build a thriving impact society at company, drive our sustainability aims large and create opportunities for employee engagement in our Sustainovate 2025 targets. 12 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 13 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Impacts along the value chain A value chain perspective helps us to better understand the impacts we Strategy –– Value chain Strategy –– Value chain have on people and the planet and to maximize the value we bring. It also helps us to pinpoint the relationships we need to strengthen in order to deliver that value. Here is how we see our greatest impacts. PRODUCT & SERVICES CUSTOMER DEVELOPMENT SOURCING MANUFACTURING TRANSPORTATION INTERACTION CUSTOMER USE END OF LIFE Energy efficiency, low-carbon The Group sources goods With 13,000 employees in 40 About 1 percent of our CO2 Our products sell via 25,000 Almost 85 percent of a petOur long-term vision is to turn Our impacts solutions, a focus on safety and components from 2,000 countries, our impacts span footprint arises from transdealers and retailers in 100 rol-powered product’s CO2 the end of our products’ life and smarter materials use are companies. Sustainovate across social, economic and port—primarily from road, countries and through online impact occurs during use. into the beginning of a new core R&D priorities. More calls on 172 of our most straenvironmental areas. Our sea and air freight. Product channels. We aim to increase Our ability to influence this cycle. This requires a framethan half of our R&D investtegic suppliers, representing decisions in this phase set packaging and manufacturour sales of products that go phase depends on product work that few companies can ments—SEK 1,720m—supsome 70 percent of our purthe tone for action in the ing location can positively further than local emissions development, battery techachieve alone. port the Sustainovate chasing spend, to generate entire value chain. Our direct influence our CO2 impact in and safety standards. nology and harnessing new change and reduce supply CO2 footprint of 2 percent is this area. digital opportunities for proagenda. chain risks. small and mostly from elecductivity gains. tricity use in manufacturing. Our approach • Devise more energyand • Promote supplier-enabled • Focus on efficient opera• Reduce air freight • Promote our most sustain• Develop low-carbon prod• Use more recyclable matewater-efficient products innovation tions able products and services ucts and services rial in products • Enhance logistics effi• Develop low-carbon busi• Conduct due diligence of • Attract and retain the best ciency • Ensure long-term financial • Deliver solutions for cus• Develop sustainable prodness models battery and electric comtalent performance tomer health and safety ucts and services • Optimize packaging. ponent suppliers • Develop features for cus• Ensure health, safety and • Promote personal protec• Collect data on use-phase • Follow regulatory change tomer health and safety • Use energy-efficient supwellbeing tive equipment. impacts. • Promote circular-economy pliers and sustainability • Improve material use and • Pursue ethical business thinking and engage with auditing recyclability. practices. other companies. • Pursue ethical business practices. The difference Pushing low-carbon alternaA partnership approach As a trusted brand and marShifting to more sustainable Battery technologies enable Energy-efficient products save We participate in electrical tives and innovating in safety helps us to achieve climate ket leader, we attract the right transport and reducing air customers money. Battery and equipment and battery recywe make and materials use makes us and supplier targets and competencies. Producing freight are important ways consumers to support low-carbon electricity. Disrobotics support the transition cling schemes in North America more competitive and deliver cost savings. We products efficiently and close we can support society’s closing our environmental to low-carbon economy. and Europe. Our products are reduces impacts such as encourage suppliers to share to market allows significant striving to reduce CO2 emisand social impacts helps Focusing on safe solutions largely made of steel and plaswaste and energy use. Meetour sustainability ambitions cost and CO2 savings. sions through our purchasing enhances personal security. tic, both of which are recycladealers and retailers to meet ing ambitious regulations in and help us reduce impacts Employees gain career choices. Optimizing logistics Our product guarantees, ble. We are exploring how to one market shines a light and deepen supply-chain opportunities and local comcan cut costs significantly. customer expectations. Sales spare parts and fleetuse more recycled plastic to on future needs in others. transparency. munities benefit from jobs targets for protective equipmanagement services extend bring us closer to a circular and economic stability. ment and water-efficient product life and improve value chain and reduce waste. products promote safety and efficiency. efficiency. Degree of our influence HIGH MEDIUM HIGH LOW MEDIUM LOW LOW 14 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 15 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Chapter 3/ Our challenges Innovation that brings people and nature closer together. This is the heart of Sustainovate. Founded on five challenges, Sustainovate covers the areas where we aim to make a difference to 2020. 16 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 17 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Carbon Carbon target Carbon target drives change 10% CO2 emissions intensity reduction across the value chain Our challenges –– Carbon Our challenges –– Carbon across the life cycle -10% -45% How we are getting there 2020 2019 Product use -10% -44% Optimize product efficiency We have proven that we can reduce carbon target status ON TRACK Sub-target 2019 status and increase share of ON TRACK battery and robotics CO2 and build our business at the same time. Battery-based products Strategic -10% – Engage suppliers to disclose are the key. Progress against our suppliers Sub-target 2019 status and reduce their CO2 emissions. Drive improvements and share Additional effort target depends on engaging 2019 Highlights required best practice consumers with the most attractive, • In motorized products, 28 percent of the business is represented by battery low-carbon alternatives. -powered, robotic and electrical prodManufacturing -30% -67% Purchase and install ucts— from 11 percent in 2015 renewable energy and ON TRACK Sub-target 2019 status • 58 percent of electricity used in operaimprove energy efficiency tions derives from renewable sources • More than half of the R&D spend of SEK 1,720m was directed to battery Transportation -10% -34% Reduce air freight, optimize distribution and and robotic technologies ON TRACK Sub-target 2019 status packaging • Exited low-margin petrol-powered product segments in North America. We seek to reduce CO2 by addressing touchpoints oping new business models, and promoting the most along our value chain—with suppliers, at operations, energy-efficient petrol-powered products. The greatand during transportation and product use. Our target est CO2 reductions will occur beyond 2020 as we is to achieve a CO2 intensity reduction of 10 percent in expand our portfolio of battery-powered products and 2020, compared to 2015 emissions levels. Overall, we invest further in robotics and connected technologies. have exceeded the target by a wide margin every year Taking the long view is an important for product develsince 2016. opment, and our Science-based target (SBT) to 2035 helps keep us on track (p.21). Value for customers delivers CO2 reductions We are progressing thanks largely to CO2 reductions in Progress across the value chain product use. Considerable opportunities exist to While CO2 performance for product use and manufacachieve further reductions in this phase. Most of our turing have exceeded expectations, reductions in the products are petrol-powered and the shift to battery supplier sub-target have lagged. The absense of a -powered and robotics products will continue for at common way of measuring CO2 among suppliers has Our approach to managing CO2 least another decade. In motorized products, about 28 been a barrier to realizing the target (p.21). This year, percent of our business is currently represented by we partnered with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Our carbon challenge covers aggregated on Group level, it sales. Progress is reported to battery-powered, robotics and corded products—up Supply Chain program to engage suppliers in measurour emissions footprint across is reported as per value Group Management on a from 11 percent in 2015. ing and disclosing their CO2 emissions. The effects of our value chain, from suppliers added.* quarterly basis. Cross-divisional Our approach to reducing impacts of petrol and these efforts will be seen in 2020. By reducing CO2 by and operations to transportaFor products, we measure networks for CO2, technology preparing for the transition are threefold: shifting 34 percent in transportation, we also achieved an tion and product use. Our CO2 emissions during the and suppliers regularly convene towards battery-powered and robotic products, develexpected outcome in the transport sub-target. four related sub-targets are product’s lifetime, normalized with responsible managers formulated as snapshots of to net sales. In manufacturing, from every division to share Exiting certain petrol-powered products the current year’s performance, energy consumed at factories, best practice and identify In 2019, we exited from certain lower price-point connot as accumulated targets. warehouses, R&D centers and barriers to realizing the sumer segments and products, including petrol Divisions drive targets offices is measured, also norchallenge. CO2 emissions in the value chain -powered walk-behind lawn mowers and garden tractors. through their own initiatives, malized to net sales and calThis decision reflected our commitment to position the relevant to their business conculated for each division. The Suppliers, 10% Group in a low-carbon economy and has positively text. Heads of sourcing, mantarget is supported by the Manufacturing, 2% impacted the target outcome in 2019. ufacturing, transportation and Husqvarna Operating Transportation, 1% product development own System, which underlines the Product use, 85% their respective share of the importance of energy efficiency Other 2% target and initiatives. We and reduced waste. Our product life-cycle report progress as CO2 emisIn transport, CO2 emissions assessments confirm sions intensity, tailored to are tracked per tons shipped, that our greatest CO2 impact occurs during the each aspect of the value to report how we reduce our use of our products. chain. When emissions are impact, relative to increased * Value added equates to EBITDA, salaries, social and pension costs. 18 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 19 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Carbon Win-win for customers and the business Science-based target Providing our customers with battery-powered options, robotics and 33 % absolute CO2 reduction from product use by 2035. Our challenges –– Carbon Our challenges –– Carbon connected solutions will position us for the transition to a low-carbon 2015 baseline The Group’s Science-based target (SBT) will guide us over the next 15 energy mix and dramatically reduce our CO2 emissions. years to cut the CO2 that is emitted from our products when they are -24% being used, no matter how much we grow our business. Working -33% closely with product management, we are submitting a new, more ambitious SBT, which will be in place in 2020 and which reflects our commitment to reducing our fair share of CO2, in line with society’s ambition to limit a temperature rise of 1.5 °C. 2035 Target 2019 Status ON TRACK We are transitioning to an offering designed for a Innovation leadership low-carbon energy mix. This is thanks to the market More than half of our R&D spend of 1,720m SEK supuptake of battery and automated options driven by ports our Sustainovate aims. Our decision to establish step-change advances in battery capabilities. We also a battery competence center in 2019 on Group level is see a leveling of demand for petrol-powered products. bringing together the technology know-how across Growth in battery-powered and robotics products our divisions and applications. The center promises to has continued as expected and we see double-digit deliver solutions to market faster, to be more cost effigrowth in annual sales (CAGR). Today, most products cient and to anchor our technology and sustainability with engines below 40cc have battery alternatives. We leadership position. offer seven interchangeable battery types that fit for Efficiency improvements for petrol products are 30 different products. In 2019, we met the milestone strongly connected to local regulation. In our products, of 2 million sold robotic lawn mowers. we have decreased fuel consumption by between Tools for you At the cutting edge We also have 300,000 connected products. Solu15-20 percent versus comparable products on the We are helping customers take the leap to the sharing Husqvarna Construction has a stated ambition to be tions like Carbon Footprint Calculator in Husqvarna market. For some ride-on mowers, for example, we are economy—making borrowed tools from neighbors a leader in battery technologies in its sector. Reflecting Fleet Services collect data from devices. This helps increasing the use of electronic fuel-injection (EFI) thing of the past. ‘Tools for you’ is a next-generation this ambition, Husqvarna Construction launched its customers—and us—to optimize product use and technology, which reduces consumption by approxitools-for-hire concept rolled out in 13 selected sites in K 535i Power cutter for professional use, designed for develop carbon-lean business models. mately 10 percent. France, Germany, the U.S. and Sweden. The unmanned, low vibration and low weight, it is raising the bar on We can push this changing market dynamic further Ride-on mowers are a priority area for innovation connected toolsheds enable garden enthusiasts pay-per high performance and disc speed. The cutter also by promoting the consumer and environmental benefits because they have only been petrol powered. As a first -use access to our battery-powered tools and provides brings the freedom of being off-grid. Being battery of low-carbon alternatives. step, 2020 will see product launches like our hybrid dealers with a convenient way to attract customers. -powered, users can cut away without worrying about rider, which combines diesel fuel and battery options. Our App facilitates the process, from booking, to payemissions. Since its launch in early 2019, the power ment and electronically unlocking the locker. The concutter has been a sales success, achieving 35 percent Entering a fossil-free frontier cept will expand globally over the next few years. over sales forecast. Petrol-powered products still represent more than 70 percent of our motorized products. But as technology allows for more sustainable alternatives, our attention CO2 emissions intensity Percentage of sales of battery is shifting away from petrol-powered solutions. from product use and electrical p ­ roducts In 2019 we exited from certain consumer segments The transition to lowThe climate impact of petrol vs. battery-powered chainsaws and products, such as petrol-powered walk-behind carbon energy systems GWP/hour End-of-Life lawn mowers and garden lawn tractors in North America. 2 tCO2e/SEKm VA Our efforts to achieve the carbon target supports Use 700 % Battery technology is the key to transi30 our business aims of high growth in robotic lawn mowtioning to low-carbon energy systems. It Production 600 ers, watering systems, and solutions for light construcenables users of tools to connect to elec500 tion. However, there may be areas that pose barriers to tricity deriving from renewable sources In 2019, we conducted product 20 life-cycle-assessments to better 400 our sustainability aims. We aim to expand in emerging instead of using petrol to power their understand global warming markets, and petrol-powered products are preferred in products. Renewable energy is the fastest 1 potential of comparable 300 Husqvarna products in perfor10 these markets. Our challenge is to develop products in growing energy source in the U.S. (IEA), mance and quality—five powe200 line with our sustainability aims, and we need to deliver but the share of renewables is larger in red by petrol, and five electrical. 100 This diagram illustrates the CO2 them at the right price-point. the European energy mix. The impact of impact of two chainsaws, the 0 0 battery driven T535iXP and the 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 our products is therefore less in Europe petrol-driven T525XP. than, for example, in the U.S. When the CO2 emissions intensity from Approximately 28% of total sales of 0 energy mix is solely based on renewables EU-28 US Wind All product use were reduced by motorized products are batpower markets like wind power, the potential CO2 44% between 2015 and 2019. tery-powered, electrical and robotics products compared to approxisavings of battery products is remarkable. Battery chainsaw Petrol chainsaw mately 11% in 2015. T535iXP T525XP 20 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 21 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Carbon Increased transparency of supplier CO2 impacts Our challenges –– Carbon Our challenges –– Carbon Husqvarna Group is enlisting the CDP Supply Chain program to improve our insight and capabilities in helping suppliers to reduce their CO2 emissions. We have outperformed the Group carbon target that suppliers understand that doing business every year, but have battled to achieve one key with us is also contingent on reducing CO2. challenge: to reach our sub-target of reducing As of 2019, we are engaging suppliers to proFifteen of our sites in Europe only the CO2 impact among suppliers by 10 percent. vide us with systematic data on our upstream procure renewable electricity. Today, many of our suppliers are located in CO2 emissions through the CDP Supply Chain regions dependent on carbon-intensive electricprogram. CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure ity, such as China and Eastern Europe. Current Project) is the world’s most respected CO2 emiselectricity pricing may not reflect suppliers’ true sions information hub for investors. Rethinking manufacturing environmental impacts. Energy efficiency is not This year, 39 of 60 suppliers responded to our always a priority for them, or renewable electricity request to disclose their emissions. Some 90 is not always a viable option. We are one of many percent of them had reductions targets and 10 customers for most suppliers. This can make it of them had science-based targets in place. complex to calculate our own CO2 impacts with Through the CDP, we are accessing more reliShare of renewable electricity Today, more than half of all of the electricity we procure for our them. able data, as well as working more proactively plants, warehouses and offices comes from renewable sources. To achieve the supplier target, we need to with suppliers on disclosure and partnering with better understand emissions in a comparable them on solutions. We are the first Swedish com% 60 way throughout our supply chain and to ensure pany to engage in the program. 50 Our aim to reduce CO2 in manufacturing has led Solar-power capabilities are up and running in to sizeable efficiencies and has driven the shift to Nashville, U.S., Huskvarna in Sweden, as well as 40 renewables. Although emissions from manufacChangzhou in China, substantially reducing CO2 turing represent about two percent of our total emissions and making us at least partly indeShifting gears in transport 30 CO2 footprint, action here has not only reduced pendent from local power grids. In Nashville 20 CO2 emissions, but has also lowered costs and solar power supplies 30 percent of its electricity 10 engaged the organization in Sustainovate. consumption, corresponding to the annual elecOur target to reduce CO2 emissions from transportation 0 Exceeded the target tricity needs of 90 U.S. households. Fully functional, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 the Changzhou panels will also cover 30 percent extends to inbound and outbound transport via road, rail, In 2019, Husqvarna Group operated 30 producof its needs (1.4 MW). In the Husqvarna Construction The Group’s use of renewable ocean and air as well as freight between our own facilities. electricity rose to 58% compared tion facilities, of which 20 were in Europe, four in factory in Ath, Belgium, we will be installing wind to 1% in 2015. the U.S., three in China, one each in Brazil, Japan power in 2022. and Australia. Some are located in fossil-fuel In 2019, we reduced CO2 intensity in transport SEK in funds that will be reinvested in other carbon intensive regions. We aim to limit CO2 impacts Manufacturing equipment by 34 percent. We include all transport over reduction initiatives. primarily by purchasing renewable electricity as Every year, we make investments in property and which we have the greatest CO2 impact and We also decided to integrate rail as a transport it becomes available, continuously reducing our production equipment in our factories valued CO2 emissions intensity where we have access to data. This spans all our option from Asia to Europe. Although the decision CO2 emissions intensity own electricity use, and investments in efficient at SEK 1,577m. This machinery is often energy from transportation air and ocean freight and a small share of road has minimal impact on CO2 emissions (less than from manufacturing production equipment. intensive and can be in use for as long as two and rail transport. 0.1 percent), it is an important pilot in the shift to Through these activities, we have achieved a decades. That’s why energy use is an important rail. It is several times cheaper and cut CO2 emis67 percent reduction in CO2 intensity since 2015, criteria in the choice of equipment. In 2019, tCO 2e/SEKm VA On the ground solutions sions 25-fold per ton shipped. tCO2e/SEKm VA well beyond our initial target of 30 percent. Total investment decisions in Germany, Bulgaria and 5 The most effective way for us to limit CO2 emis20 energy consumption has also been reduced the U.S. (Columbia, SC) underlined how we are sions from transport is to drastically lower use of Smart packaging delivers CO2 savings by 16 percent since 2015, while our sales have emphasizing energy efficiency in our investment 4 air freight. In 2018, we committed to limiting justWith our Group-wide initiative Husqvarna increased by 17 percent. decisions and shifting away from using CO2 as a 15 3 in-time air freight for some customers. Improved Print Packaging Opportunity (HiPPO), cooling agent (p. 24). In 2019, absolute CO2 emissions from airwe are rethinking our packaging solutions and Going renewable 2 freight were reduced with 27 percent in compariproduct design to improve transport volume 10 Today, 58 percent of the electricity we purchase Hunting for energy treasures son with baseline 2015. This was achieved efficiency. Through this initiative, we achieve derives from renewable energy sources. Fifteen Energy audits—we call them energy treasure 1 despite increased demand for our products and, size-able cost savings and a CO2 reduction of of our sites in Europe only procure renewable hunts—are an important way to identify and eliat times, last-minute delivery requirements. We 20–30 percent. HiPPO solutions are in place for 5 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 electricity. This share will continue to grow as minate energy-intensive practices in operations. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 remain intent on shifting away from air freight as blowers, trimmers and chainsaws in some renewable options increase in North America In this way, we are better able to influence behavior. much as possible. To that end, Husqvarna Divimarkets. and Asia. Some 14 sites globally have yet to CO2 emissions intensity from CO2 emissions intensity from transportation was reduced by sion has introduced an internal pricing mechamanufacturing was reduced by secure agreements to purchase renewable 34% between 2015 and 2019. nism for air freight. This has generated 220,000 67% between 2015 and 2019. energy. 22 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 23 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Carbon Chengyi Hu, plant manager at the Changzhou, Understanding the long-term China Husqvarna factory, overlooks the solar panels on our factory rooftop. HUSQVARNA DIVISION / Sunny outlook in Changzhou Supporting sustainable growth is a top priority for our factory in Changzhou, China. impacts of climate change Our challenges –– Carbon Our challenges –– Carbon In 2019 the plant installed 16,000 m2 of rooftop solar panels. These now provide 1.4 megawatts of green energy, meeting 37 percent of its total electricity need, and also generate renewable electricity for the national grid. Chengyi Hu, Plant Manager at Husqvarna Changzhou, explains the project. In 2019, we joined the list of What made Changzhou turn to electricity consumption of 587 national grid. Our vision is to supporters of the Taskforce on solar power? families over 25 years.” achieve a learning and happy Climate-related Financial “Switching from coal-based elecfactory that is green, lean, flexible tricity allows us to grow and at the How would you describe the and smart, and the solar park Disclosures (TCFD) and took our same time reduce our CO2 emisproject? helps us to achieve that. It’s about sions. By using solar power, we “Our partner Asia Clean Capital choosing energy from the sun to first steps to disclosing our impacts can reduce our CO2 emissions has both invested in and built the move into a new era.” according to the TCFD framework. and save around €17,500 annually solar park on our roof and it on energy costs.” strongly supports our company What are the next steps? vision. That’s a great combination. “We are working on retrieving Reporting according to the TCFD framework gives financial What are the main environmenWe see our support of the project energy from petrol-product testmarkets the tools to evaluate and respond to climate-change tal benefits? as a demonstration of our ing, reducing energy use by risks. Identifying risks associated with climate change and “In their 25-year lifetime the panels accountability, our willingness to installing insulation covers on managing them more methodically helps us to counter will help us to avoid more than act, and our respect for the enviinjection machines and we are the business risks. The risks arise across our value chain. 12,000 tons of coal consumption. ronment.” also looking for new places to This will reduce our CO2 emissions install solar panels in our work Business operations by close to 28,900 tons and our What insights have you gained? towards becoming a green plant.” We expect carbon emissions regulations to intensify, sulfur dioxide emissions by 18 “Everyone at Changzhou is leading in the long term to zero-emissions requirements. tons. It’s the equivalent of plantinspired by it—especially the fact We have begun the transition to zero-emission products, ing up to 736,000 trees or the that surplus energy is fed into the reducing our vulnerability to tighter legislation. In electronic components, we are exposed to the risk of supply disruption. The growing use of lithium-ion batteries also demands greater transparency on human rights and environmental risks along the value chain. Manufacturing GARDENA / CONSTRUCTION / Our production facilities, and those of our Heuchlingen plant expansion Laser-sharp focus on energy suppliers, face risks including work stoppages, water scarcity and natural disasters. We seek to delivers transport savings efficient investments mitigate these risks by avoiding operations in flood zones, through proactive maintenance and by establishing With a Euro 15 million investment, Gardena is strengthReducing carbon intensity was a core consideration business continuity plans. ening its production capacity in Heuchlingen, currently when designing the diamond tool production line for one of the most modern plastics processing facilities in our new assembly operation in Ruse, Bulgaria, in 2019. Transport Germany. Our objective is to reduce energy use even as In the past, Husqvarna Construction has used CO2 We rely on air, road, rail and ship transport, production increases. The 5,000 m2 expansion in produclaser welders in the manufacture of diamond tools. Howsome of which are carbon-intensive. We tion space will be equipped with seven energy-efficient ever, CO2 lasers are inefficient at converting electrical foresee higher costs and levies for fossilmachines to replace the existing two in production, energy into light energy for welding processes. Higher fuel based transport, especially air freight. Increased increasing capacity by 10 percent. electricity consumption resulting from this inefficiency local production in North America and Europe helps to The plant processes about 13,500 tons of plastic by contributes to higher carbon intensity in the welding proreduce transport dependency. injection molding every year and products are also partially cess. Customer use assembled there. It will run entirely on renewable elec“At Ruse, we opted for fibre optic lasers because they tricity sourced through the local power grid. are more energy-efficient. They reduce carbon intensity Dry weather can suppress demand for lawn The expansion will enable us to streamline our internal fivefold,” explains Warren Owens, Manufacturing Strategy mowers and tractors, but can also stimulate production logistics. We will cease use of external wareManager for Diamond Tools at Husqvarna Construction. purchases of watering products. Chainsaw houses, saving around 1,000 truck journeys of 40 kilometers “Fibre-optic lasers are more eco-friendly and provide an demand tends to spike after storms. Our demand each, which will significantly alleviate strain on local roads improved beam quality for the welding process. For us, it forecasting system helps us to get the right products to and save around 43 tons of CO2 emissions annually. is a win-win.” market, not only by season but also by weather conditions. Jobs will also be created at the site, in addition to the 300 employees currently working there. Gardena is already the largest employer in Heuchlingen. Aerial view of Gardena’s Heuchlingen plant in Germany. 24 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 25 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Team Stronger together with engaged teams The target Achieve a Net Promoter Score (NPS) Our challenges –– Team Our challenges –– Team We deliver value to our employees by creating an attractive workplace, equal to or better than the peer group. Net Promoter Score providing opportunities for them grow and enabling teams to focus on their priorities. Our Team Challenge tells us how we are measuring up to NPS 9 8 15 + + their expectations. = 10 2019 benchmark 2019 status 5 ADDITIONAL EFFORT NEEDED 0 Our teams are among the Group’s most important In 2019, we defined our Group Employer Value Propostakeholders and their skills, energy and commitment sition (EVP) to reinforce a common view of the value -5 are vital to our long-term objectives. We aim to be the that we aim to create for employees. Sustainability -10 best place to work by providing an environment where engagement is a driver for young employees especially 2019 highlights 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 people thrive. Every year we ask our employees to give and their involvement in Sustainovate 2025 will be a • 91 percent (approx. 12,000 employees) responded to the Benchmark us feedback on how we are delivering on these aims. tangible way to realize EVP messages. 2019 Team Survey • Since 2015, some 142 managers have taken part in leadership The score of +8 in 2019 was slightly Feedback guides our progress Strength through diversity training, 56 of them in 2019 below the industry benchmark of • Defined our Group Employee Value Proposition. +9. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) indicates how likely A global organization requires a diverse workforce employees are to recommend working at Husqvarna from both a cultural and a gender standpoint. The genGroup. The results in our annual survey allow us to der balance remained unchanged in 2019, with female determine whether we are achieving this. The Team representation of 34 percent. This figure was 25 (22) Challenge objective is to exceed the industry benchpercent at senior levels (tiers 1-3). Female representamark. The score of +8 in 2019 was slightly below the tion among top managers is on par with the industry industry benchmark of +9 and we need to redouble our benchmark, but we need to work harder to raise gender efforts to achieve the 2020 target. diversity in other tiers. More than 91 percent—almost 12,000 employees— In 2019, 13 young professionals took part in our responded to the 2019 survey. Input came from people trainee program. In 2020, the trainee program will have at all levels of the Group, from factories to offices. The dual criteria to attract the best talent while maintaining benchmark is based on an 82 percent response rate. parity between male and female participants. Diversity is a core aspect of the People Opportunity Focused survey in Sustainovate 2025. A diversity action plan will be In 2019, results indicated an above-average share of charted in 2020 to support these aspirations (p. 48). engaged employees. Feedback on team efficiency— how teams are able to focus on their priorities— Changes in our organization remained positive. Small down-shifts were noted in Our teams comprise some 13,000 people across 40 employee’ energy levels and goal clarity. These issues countries, three divisions and a range of functions. The Our approach to are being addressed through team activities, cascadcompany is continually changing as it grows and shifts managing teams ing divisional 2025 strategies and strengthened goal strategic focus. In light of this, we are ramping up setting. Teams continued to work to improve their work resources within technology leadership, adding 300 Divisional-level initiatives will deliver environment, with 90 percent of teams registering new competencies in the last five years. Software, electhe Team Challenge. Our approach is actions plans in response to the 2018 survey. So far, 89 tronics & IoT are some examples. We are also increasing also guided by Group-wide strategic percent of these actions have been completed. competencies in solutions sales, e-commerce and digiand financial priorities, the Code of Survey outcomes in recent years reflect our journey tization. Meanwhile, production automation is reducing Conduct and key behaviours (p. 3). At to close organizational gaps, to become efficient and the need for some positions in our factories. Group level, shared services provide a create more value. In turn, the NPS survey indicates Following a reorganisation of the Consumer Brands common approach to communication, some longstanding improvements in how the Group is Division in 2019, Gardena Division and Group functions ethics and how we evaluate perforviewed as an employer. gained some 40 new staff members. The closures of mance. The People & Organization When we began measuring in 2015, performance the McRae plant in Georgia, U.S., and the factory in management team has quarterly meetwas below the benchmark. The score of +8 in 2019 was Valmadrera, Italy, affected respectively approximately ings on Team Challenge initiatives at below our score of +11 in 2018. Factors such as organi1,000 and 81 employees. Group and local levels. zational changes in 2019, and a lower financial result Next steps Objectives in 2019 included estabare possible factors likely to account for this reduction. In 2020, Team Challenge priorities will be: lishing a performance culture in which Informed by the survey • Increasing leadership capabilities through training customer focus, collaboration, simplicity and a revised leadership model and personal accountability define Based on these survey insights, we are raising the bar who we are and how we operate. in areas like performance and development dialogue • Strengthening development dialogue Alignment across divisions, technoland team efficiency, as well as in leadership, especially Developing a Group diversity strategy and executing ogy enablement and engagement is at mid-management levels. • it as part of Sustainovate 2025. contributing to achieving this. 26 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 27 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Supplier Impacts along the supply chain The target Audit and approve 70 percent of Third-party audits strengthen our ability to understand and reduce Our challenges –– Supplier Our challenges –– Supplier purchasing spend from strategic suppliers, Total audited and sustainability risks in the supply chain. Close partnerships with certified suppliers based on sustainability performance. suppliers also spur progress towards more sustainable solutions. Number Both approaches strongly emphasize our 170 strategic suppliers. 140 70% 51% 120 2020 2019 target progress 100 ON TRACK Our Supplier Challenge addresses the 170 largest strabase in Asia for Gardena and Construction products 80 tegic suppliers from our total supplier base of around requires greater attention to sustainability risks such as 2,000. These suppliers account for 70 percent of our environmental protection, workplace safety and fire How we are getting there 60 purchasing spend. Working closely with them creates safety. Group purchasers working in these areas are • Secure contractual agreements competitive advantages and opportunities for lasting trained to identify potential areas of concern. • Conduct sustainability risk assessments and third-party audits 40 impact. Using our purchasing spend as leverage, we Moving forward, we need to raise our bar on inte• Know-how transfer and capacity building can insist on greater transparency and drive shared grating sustainability deeper in purchasing decisions as • Supplier development and business integration. 20 initiatives that reflect our sustainability goals. well as considerations such as quality, delivery, risk and As of mid-2019, all our supply-chain audits are con2019 highlights cost. 0 ducted by third-party auditors. The advantages of this • Since 2015, 144 supplier sustainability audits were conducted in 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 approach are twofold: These experts are well-placed Asia, Europe and North and South America • 131 strategic suppliers were audited and approved 131 suppliers have been audited to communicate insight to local purchasing teams and and certified as meeting our • No zero-tolerance issues were uncovered in supplier audits their audits findings are not influenced by other financial expectations since 2015. priorities. Transparency on minerals of concern • Updated the Supplier Code of Business Ethics. Electric and battery-powered products are Backing up words with actions crucial to our market leadership ambitions. Our supplier target stipulates that all strategic suppliThey also help to deliver the low-carbon soluers are to be audited at least once by 2020 against the tions promised in Sustainovate. Supplier Code of Business Ethics. These audits are Yet some raw materials and minerals used conducted either through in-person audits or through in electronics, batteries and diamond-cutting a third-party online assessment and they cover complitools present sustainability risks that we need ance to expectations regarding the environment, labor to understand and manage better. Cobalt, practices, human rights and business ethics. Of 172 which is used in lithium batteries, as well metstrategic suppliers, 144 have been audited since als tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold (or 3TG) 2015—30 certified through the online assessment and also pose environmental and human rights Our approach to managing suppliers 114 through onsite audits. In 2018 we were at 96 suprisks in places like China and the Democratic pliers audited. We are well-positioned to achieve the Republic of Congo (DRC). Our three divisional purchasparty auditors contribute sustolerance. Although no target in 2020. The DRC, in particular, is a key provider of ing organizations are largely tainability expertise and breaches in the Code were Based on our learnings since launching the target, 3TG and cobalt (used in electronic comporesponsible for our responsiaudits and an online auditing uncovered in 2019, one supwe see that suppliers are open to improving their pracnents and lithium batteries) and industrial diable-sourcing program. This platform. plier was discontinued due to tices and we have pinpointed areas where we can work monds. Mining of these minerals in the DRC is helps us integrate sustainability The Supplier Code of Businon-compliance on sub-supplier together to limit potential risks and improve working linked to armed conflict and human rights priorities better into purchasness Ethics, reviewed and transparency (see sidebar). conditions. The greatest challenges regarding transabuses. As for all companies, without the abiling decisions. This decentralupdated in 2019, covers legal Cases of serious non-comparency lie in understanding environmental and ity to track the source of commodities like ized model reduces risk, compliance, fairness in busipliance must be resolved human rights risks beyond the direct supplier, particucobolt and diamonds beyond our direct supensures transparency and, by ness relations, respect for the within three months, with larly at suppliers of raw materials used for electronic pliers, we cannot avoid conflict minerals. leveraging our purchasing individual, fair employment periodic monitoring of procomponents, diamond cutters and batteries (see box). Improved transparency on cobalt was a spend, it encourages positive conditions, child labor, the gress. Terminating the supAudited suppliers must be approved for us to realfocus for 2019. In lithium sourcing, we conchange among suppliers. environment, health and plier is the last resort and ize our target. Two suppliers did not pass initial audits ducted risk assessments on three suppliers, of Local sourcing staff at each safety and fire prevention. All none were terminated in in 2019 and were subject to remedial actions. One of which two were able to provide traceability. production facility are trained suppliers of direct materials 2019. the six that did not pass audits in 2018 was recertified We are terminating our agreement with the in the Supplier Code of Busiand services must confirm together with three suppliers from previous years, after third supplier. During 2020 a due diligence ness Ethics and in how to that they fully comply with the taking corrective action. study will be initiated on conflict minerals and monitor, align and communiCode. If non-compliance is Some 56 strategic suppliers operate in China, Taiwan, cobalt to gain better insight of our supply cate on how suppliers meet detected, suppliers are Vietnam, Brazil and India which are countries that pose chain and improve our documentation. expectations. New purchasrequired to submit corrective higher non-compliance risks. Our growing supplier ing team members receive actions within two weeks. training on the Code on-site Husqvarna Group treats child and through audits. Thirdand forced labor with zero 28 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 29 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Safety A safety-first mindset Workplace safety Product safety Reduce our injury rate in operations Reduce safety incidents in new products Stronger practices and processes lie at the center of our safety perforOur challenges –– Safety Our challenges –– Safety by 40 percent by 35 percent, compared to 2016 mance. Step-by-step we are embedding the culture that’s necessary to reduce accidents and incidents further in 2020. -40% -31% -38% -77% 2020 target 2019 status 2020 target 2019 status ADDITIONAL ON T RA CK The two targets in our Safety Challenge—workplace 2019, our work focused on several core areas: EFFORT NEEDED and product safety—reflect our strong commitment to • Creating an ISO 45001-based OHS management protecting employees, partners and customers. system, with roll-out to continue in 2020 How we are getting there How we are getting there Workplace target • Launch of a new Group OH&S Policy • Advance and mature our safety culture • Product innovation and design improvement Our workplace safety target is to reduce injuries in • Lead via management commitment, clear processes • Improve incident information and root cause • Implementing a Group-wide reporting system for operations by 40 percent in 2020 compared to 2015. In and action analysis. incidents 2019, the total recordable incident rate (TRIR) was 5.75 • Involve and engage all employees and partners 2019 highlights (5.2) per million hours worked. Despite encouraging • Conducting Group and local audits. 120 OHS inter• Proactively anticipate and prevent incidents. • General decrease in volumes of products historically performance across the organization since 2015, a nal audits were performed, 15 by third parties involved in incidents series of incidents at two facilities affected the incident 2019 highlights • Raised levels of communication to end-customers on • Improving networking within divisions and regions. rate (TRIR) this year (see box). Fortunately, incident • Implemented an ISO 45001-based OHS management prevention and risks severity has decreased. Further work is required in 2020 Towards a zero-accident mindset system • Sales of protective equipment worldwide represented to scale back the rate to 5.0 and achieve our target. • Launched a new Occupational, Health and Safety 1.3 percent of global sales compared to 0.2 percent in Husqvarna Group recorded no fatalities in 2019, but 2015. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) focuses pripolicy regrettably a number of accidents incurred lost time. marily on staff in factories, warehouses and service • 120 OHS internal audits performed, 15 by a third party. Some 154 (150 ) injuries required medical treatment, centers. There, employees are exposed to risks arising 116 (91) of which necessitated days away from work or in line production, handling materials, operating tools restricted duties. Our logistics operations, an area of and equipment, and when using forklifts. We try to particular concern, recorded 46 (30) incidents which minimize these risks by engaging employees to proacnecessitated days away from work or restricted duties. tively identify and report risks. In 2019, 636 risk observations and 930 near miss cases were reported. We are In 2020, priorities include: also building a safety mindset to embed heightened • Increase preventative action reporting and risk awareness of our way of working. observations At some facilities, we pilot tested an IA-system, an OH&S reporting and management system. The pilot • Involve more people in internal audits to exchange Our approach to managing workplace safety was successful and we will launch it to all Husqvarna best practice Safety is coordinated at diviregularly tour factories to talk tice. Group OHS Group facilities in 2020. The IA-system allows us to better • Roll out our OHS incident management system. sional level with support from with workers, inspect operainspections, external manage incident reporting, help us to identify workGroup functions and covers all tions and review measures. and internal audits and place hazards, root causes and preventive actions. This manufacturing, office, warePerformance is reported self-assessments help us to approach will help us to shape safety culture built on house and service sites. Each monthly to divisional manageremain proactive, prevent proactively detecting hazards to involving all employees. division contributes its share to ment and Group functions. accidents, raise awareness the Group’s incident reduction Serious incidents are escalated and engage management. target. to Group level within eight We conducted eight (ten) Lost Time Incident Rate Total Recordable Incident Rate Every site has safety profeshours and a recommended Group OHS Inspections during million hours worked (LTIR) per million hours worked (TRIR) sionals who handle preventive action plan is implemented 2019 and all sites will be Safety for seasonal employees measures and corrective across all sites. audited over three years. LTIR TRIR actions. Local managing direcThe OHS Network collecSafety management sys5 10 Some of our sites rely on seasonal workers tors and line management tively identifies risks and tems and ISO 45001 certificaduring peak production seasons. Indeed, own their safety policy, define shares ideas on how to reduce tion are acquired at site, coun4 8 almost half of our factory positions are filled priorities, set targets, ensure impacts. It meets monthly. try or regional level. At present, by temporary employees. Staff rotation makes implementation and evaluate The OHS management sys22 (25) production sites have 3 6 safety awareness, accountability and effective progress against Group tem currently being impleISO 14001 certification and 1 is routines essential. In 2019 a sharp increase in benchmarks. Most sites apply mented across the company is certified to ISO 45001. Health safety incidents at two warehouses in Europe 2 4 ten common standards that aligned with ISO 45001. It is and safety training and coachhighlighted these challenges. We are working address risk areas such as part of the Husqvarna Operating is ongoing throughout the hard to establish a more robust safety culture 1 2 equipment operation, wareing System (HOS), our standGroup, and 4,343 employees at these plants through measures including house safety, chemicals hanardized, hands-on approach underwent OHS training. language training, closer screening of job dling and protective equipfor all manufacturing opera0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 candidates’ qualifications and ensuring full ment use. Incidents and protions. engagement of all team members. The higher LTIR in 2019 is due to We have reduced the TRIR by 31% gress are reviewed weekly and OHS audits are key to sharan increase in incidents at two between 2015 and 2019. monthly. Management teams ing information and best pracwarehouses in Europe. 30 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 31 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Safety Safety Shared learning for product safety Safety from the sky Our challenges –– Safety Our challenges –– Safety Our product safety challenge aims to promote a Group-wide way of working for sharing information and actively reducing incidents Robotic mowers that navigate involving our products during use. with extreme precision using Our product safety target is to reduce new product accessible by lawn mower. If a user were to stumble, satellite technology are improving incidents by 35 percent compared to 2016. Our the blades may pose a hazard, a problem that exists no workplace safety at several product safety metric accounts for the number of matter the brand of brush cutter. To address the issue injuries or property damage cases involving new industry wide, we are taking the lead to update ISO Swedish airports. products since 2016. Due to lack of comparable data standards on brush cutters, which is expected to be in across markets, the target itself is measured on place by 2022. The Husqvarna Autonomous Operation solution incident reports from North America. marks a breakthrough in autonomous connected With an outcome of 77 percent less incidents, we An extra layer of protection products and for occupational safety. The system are on track to deliver on the target. In 2019, 11 (11) Equipping workers with the right clothing and enables robotic mowers to navigate using Husqvarna’s incidents were reported, involving five products accessories such as gloves, eye wear, and helmets has new EPOS technology, a high-precision positioning Soon at an airport near you— released in 2018 and six products released in 2019. a big role to play in raising the bar on safety-first system based on navigation satellites. The Husqvarna Autonomous This brings our annual result down from 94 cases to 22 thinking there. Husqvarna Division is actively The ability of EPOS-controlled mowers to operate Operation uses our hybrid rider cases. In 2019, none of these involved serious injury or promoting its line of protective equipment in these anytime and at an accuracy of 2-3 centimeters makes lawnmower, cameras and satelmarkets. It has a goal to increase the share of sales lite technology to keep airport major recalls. One reason for this year’s outcome is due them ideally suited for environments associated with grass trimmed without endanto a decrease in sales volume over the past two years. deriving from product-safety technology and high personnel risk, such as airports. gering airport workers’ safety. protective equipment to 2 percent of total global net “The automated and computerized control of Influencing industry standards sales to the end of 2020, from 0.2 in 2015. Sales of machines using Husqvarna Autonomous Operation Ensuring safety is central to our offering. When used protective equipment has grown in double-digits increases operational safety by minimizing the risk of improperly, some of our products can cause injury to every year since 2015 and now represents 1.3 percent human error,” says Adam Tengblad, Director of Autonoverride and maneuver the system at any time by both users and bystanders. The introduction of new of global sales. We have seen slightly rising sales in omous Systems at Husqvarna Division. remote control, providing an extra safety layer. technologies—such as fire hazards of overheated emerging markets—a region with a disproportionate In Sweden, Husqvarna Autonomous Operation is We have also invested in Norwegian Yeti Snow lithium ion batteries—can pose new risks, too. number of accidents in the workplace—largely due to being tested at Jönköping, Bromma and Örnsköldsvik Technology, a supplier of management systems for Product development, clear instruction manuals and offering a more local needs-based assortment and airports using Husqvarna’s new hybrid Rider lawnmowers. self-operated snow removal machines designed speinformation sharing are priorities we do in addition to through tailored marketing campaigns. When in autonomous operation, the system uses cifically for airports. This opens up the possibility for regulatory compliance in order to enhance our Among our priorities in 2019 were to focus on key cameras, radar and ultrasonic technology to be able to combined field operation offerings to airports worldcustomers’ experience and reduce these risks. product categories to improve processes to manage analyze objects and avoid collisions . An operator can wide. One case in point is brush cutters, equipment that safety, a shift away from tracking incidents as stated in uses various blades to trim weeds and small trees not our target. This work will continue in 2020. Our approach to product safety Breathe Our approach to product safety is threefold. This challenge is anchored in our Product Safety Policy that ters, depending on the matter’s significance and financial and easy 1. On an ongoing basis, we sets our internal rules and reputational impact. COPs covintroduce product features guides us to better understand ers actual or potential incidents This year, Husqvarna Construction and corrective actions that root causes of incidents. As outinvolving personal injury or launched a series of products that prevent accidents or lined in the policy, every product major property damage as well takes dust out of cutting. Exposure reduce their severity in all category manager must inform as market intervention proceto dust at a construction site can products the Group Committee on Proddure such as service bulletins, have lasting impact on the health uct Safety (COPS) upon concern rework or recalls. COPs conand well-being of workers. 2. We raise awareness of the for a product manufactured or vened four quarterly meetings Especially cutting through concrete importance of safety to supplied by us. COPS is a netand three ad hoc meetings in can cause a bellow of dust that users and bystanders work of divisional experts that order to manage 16 cases. over time can impact workers’ through product informacollates data and measures proEach product category manlungs, eyes and allergies. The K770 tion at point of sale and gress on safety performance on ager carries the responsibility Drycut and K770 VAC is a lightonline Group level. It also shares knowfor implementing improveweight power cutter for dry cutting. how on incidents, best practice ments in design, manufacturing Engineered by Husqvarna, the 3. We help improve industry and upcoming legislation across process and product informaequipment’s fan and strong airflow performance by actively divisions. It informs Group Mantion and ensuring that we meet delivers a cutting-edge way to taking part in the developagement and the Board of local regulatory requirements. effectively remove dust and ment of safety standards Directors on an as-needed basis transport it to the attached across our sector. of relevant product safety matreuseable bag. 32 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 33 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Community Thriving communities Our challenges –– Community Through our product offering and engaged employees, we can make a Our challenges –– Community difference in the communities where our consumers live and where we have a presence. The aim of the Community Challenge is to explore ties, and support efforts to preserve biodiversity in ways our products and people can support local fields, forests and urban environments. communities. The challenge target highlights The third theme reflects our ambition to build capaexamples that reflect these objectives on the ground. bilities within our organization that support communities and organizations in times of natural disaster. This Three themes that make a difference includes deploying our expertise, products and This challenge supports local operations to build resources. partnerships aligned under three common themes; improving biodiversity; promoting healthier lifestyles; We love living cities and supporting communities to be more resilient To raise levels of awareness on the role of parks for during and after natural disasters. improving the lives of urban populations, in 2015, we The first two themes are grounded on Sustainoestablished Living City, a dialogue forum to convene vate’s purpose—using our technology and know-how industry thought leaders, academics and landscaping Engagement on the ground to connect people with nature. We are a significant companies and journalists. This year, the international employer in communities where our operations are Living City conference was held in Gothenburg. Since located and we are inspired by our consumers, who 2015, we have held 30 related local events and four live for the outdoors. Our focus is therefore to work international conferences to raise awareness on the with conservation organizations and local communirole of parks. We want to protect biodiversity, promote healthier lifestyles and create more resilient communities. Here are some ways we have engaged since 2016. DARK BLUE / Financial support of Xiamen, China, 2016: Local Husqvarna Malaysia, 2019: 20 Husqvarna volunteers A plan to safeguard Non-government organizations’ initiatives representatives supplied manpower and equipment to clear up roads and infrastructure joined the Swedish embassy to go plogging—combining jogging and picking up green urban spaces following typhoon Meranti. garbage along the way. Ulm, Germany, 2017-2019: In its second year. Gardena is helping UNICEF provide Southwest Italy, 2016: Following an Gothenburg, Sweden, 2019: We hosted access to drinking water for more than earthquake, we donated chainsaws and the global Living City event to highlight 100,000 people in 100 countries. power cutters to local Fire Department and Are our cities getting greener? Husqvarna is helping Rescue Teams. how smart parks can contribute to more sustainable cities. Niger, Africa, 2019: Gardena matched decision-makers to answer these questions with a new Ulm community donations and provided South Carolina, 2016: In the wake of HurriStockholm, Sweden, 2019: Employees initiative that tracks green space development in 100 200,000 Euros UNICEF project for building cane Matthew, we formed a task force to supported local Scout teams to clean up a water supply for the community of support supply of Husqvarna chainsaws. parks on Ekerö island. of the world’s most important cities. Gomozo. Husqvarna staff helped clear roads. Hamburg, Germany, 2018: Convening 170 TURQUOISE / Our products roles in South Africa, 2016: In a rhino-dehorning city planners and NGOs from 23 countries, In 2019 we launched the Husqvarna Urban The HUGSI 2019 index—a ranking on the emergency relief, protecting biodiversity campaign, we support veterinarians with we explored solutions to reduce urban Green Space Index, or HUGSI for short, to cities’ overall greenness scores—provides battery-powered chainsaws and leaf blownoise and enhance the value of trees. rank cities’ overall greenness. HUGSI uses green insights on 98 cities in 51 countries. Camp Fires, California, 2018: Firefighters ers that cool de-stress rhinos. AI-powered data from satellites to monitor Durban in South Africa topped the rankings, accessed chainsaws and brush-cutters and Wyong, NSW, Australia, 2017: 60 with our dealer, we air dropped parts close ORANGE / Promoting the role of parks the proportion and health of green with the highest percentage of urban employees, and local NGOs restored vegeto the fires. in people’s healthier lifestyles. spaces in cities across the globe. Ranked green space. Second was Rio de Janeiro tation and improved water ways in a local cities are drawn from members of C40, in Brazil and third was Austin in the U.S. national park. Estonia, 2018: A forest fire struck the outCharlotte NC, 2019: Husqvarna volunthe network of the world’s megacities state of Texas.“Parks are the lungs of our skirts of Tallinn in June, threatening the teers cut back brush, cleaned up landBeijing, China, 2017: Three seminars concommitted to addressing climate change. cities, improving air quality, managing capital city. Seven Husqvarna colleagues scapes and improved infrastructure for vened local authorities and organizations HUGSI analyzes the data and turns it into rainwater and contributing to people’s aided local fire brigades in extinguishing Habitat for humanity, Shining hope farms, on improving air quality and quality of life. a range of urban green-space metrics that physical and mental health. With more the fire. and the Carolina waterfowl rescue. measure cities’ ability to connect people people sharing urban areas, it is vital to Stockholm, Sweden, 2016: 160 journalTexas, 2017: We assisted communities in Poland, 2019: Improved Warsaw orphanage with nature. The ambition is to raise safeguard these areas and to ensure that ists, industry thought-leaders, academics, clean-up efforts following Hurricane Harpark, and provided tools and water system. awareness among decision-makers on the green space per capita is not jeopardized,” and landscapers gathered at Silent City, to vey. Managers also coordinated post-storm highlight the role of urban parks to 2030. importance of safeguarding and improving says Anders Johanson, Husqvarna Group deliveries and guided users on safe saw Lauttasaari, Finland, 2019: Husqvarna maintenance of parks. CTO. usage. volunteers donated time and equipment to improve surroundings of Police and VeterFor more information visit www.hugsi.green ans summer homes. 34 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 35 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Chapter 4/ Integrating sustainability ­ By placing Sustainovate at the heart of what we do, we’re shaping a company that’s built to last. 36 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 37 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Managing sustainability risks A foundation of The Group applies the precautionary principle to prevent and reduce the risk from the purchase or sale of land or production facilities. The risks also include integrity of harm to people and the environment the impact on revenue of events such as Integrating sustainability –– Ethics and integrity Integrating sustainability –– Ethics and integrity arising from the impact of our operaunseasonal weather patterns. tions and products. Using an updated materiality analysis, Responsibility for addressing longthe Group has also mapped short-term term material risks follows the Group’s and long-term business impacts of susOur Code of Conduct and Group delegation procedure and flows from tainability risks along the value chain. Policies reflect our commitment to the the Board to the President and CEO The Husqvarna Group 2019 Annual and on to divisional presidents. Report includes an outline of how the highest standards of integrity. Every Husqvarna Group is exposed to Group manages these risks. The Internal employee and business partner in non-financial risks in product developAudit function continually evaluates and ment, production and the supply chain, improves the effectiveness of governevery country where we do business as well as regulatory and brand manageance processes, risk management and is expected to comply with the code. ment risks. These risks relate to chemiinternal control. Operations are also cals, climate change, health and safety, subject to external review and monitortransparency, human rights, security, and ing by the Swedish Financial Supervisory potential environmental liabilities Authority and Nasdaq Stockholm. upstream in the supply chain and arising In line with our aim to uphold the principles of The Compliance Forum also ensures that the AlertLine dismissal. Investigated compliance matters the UN Global Compact and the OECD GuideAudit Committee receives quarterly compliThe Group operates a worldwide toll-free hotare reported quarterly to the Audit Commitlines for Multinational Enterprises, we have ance reports and updates that identify and line to which employees can report complitee and annually to the Board. In severe cases, zero tolerance for non-compliance with our address concerns. ance concerns either by phone or online. or if senior managers are involved, the Audit Code of Conduct. Phone calls can be made in a variety of lanCommittee and the Board are informed We base our approach to managing antiReporting compliance concerns guages and are fielded in the first instance by immediately. corruption and integrity issues on three princiAny employee who witnesses or experiences our third-party service provider. Calls are autoIn 2019, 38 (58) misconduct reports were ples: prevention, detection and remediation. questionable behavior is required to speak up matically logged in the AlertLine system, recorded worldwide in AlertLine. Of those, The President and CEO, Group Manageand ask questions of his or her manager or which tracks and monitors compliance cases. nine cases were substantiated and five were ment and Divisional Presidents are responsible local People & Organization function. If an Concerns can be reported online at husqvarna partially substantiated, leading to disciplinary employee is not comfortable speaking locally, Number of AlertLine for ensuring that business activities are conreports -group.ethicspoint.com, where information action or modifications to existing HR policies ducted with integrity and aligned with the he or she can report concerns via several chanfields be completed at the discretion of the and procedures. (See chart.) Code of Conduct. The Compliance Forum— nels. In regions where the risk of corruption is reporter. comprising the Group General Counsel, VP perceived to be higher, internal control and When making an online or phone report, Risk-based approach Compliance and Integrity, Regional Compliaudit activities and third-party due diligence the individual receives a unique reporting In 2019 the Chief Compliance Officer conance Officers and the Heads of People & also help to identify non-compliance risks. log-in ID that enables him or her to use Alertducted a global risk assessment and identified Organization and Internal Audit—oversees the Line to discover when the report has been compliance-related risks in several areas: Group Compliance Program. closed and if the concerns were “substanti1. Anti-corruption and bribery – the Husqvarna ated or unsubstantiated”. Group Code of Conduct prohibits such Compliance e-mail system behavior but a potential risk exists that third-parties (agents, distributors and supEmployees and stakeholders can email conManaging anti-corruption pliers) may engage in misconduct without Discrimination or harassment, 50% cerns to compliance@husqvarnagroup.com. our knowledge Conflict of interest, 8% Emails are received by the General Counsel Husqvarna Group has zero tolerance of • Launch of an online Code of Conduct Embezzlement, 8% and VP Compliance & Integrity and are 2. Competition law and anti-trust corruption and bribery and expects all training course. More than 2,500 Misconduct or inappropriate behavior, 5.5% logged in AlertLine. Group companies to implement and moniemployees globally took the course in 3. International trade compliance and sanctions. Substance abuse, 5.5% tor preventive procedures. Related actions 2019 and some 900 employees also Ad-hoc complaints and discovered matters Theft, 5.5% taken under the direction of the VP Complireceived live Code of Conduct training. Accounting and auditing matters, 2.5% The risks were scored according to multiple In some cases, concerns are reported directly ance and Integrity in 2019 include: Environment, health and safety, 2.5% factors relating to impact, severity and likeli• Implementation of a compliance proto managers or via local People & OrganizaLabor issues, 2.5% hood of occurrence. Recommendations and • Adoption of a Group third-party due diligram benchmarking study, supported by Other, 2.5% tion. They may also be discovered by a manmitigation steps were offered to assist the gence policy and initial implementation compliance industry expert Ethisphere. Time abuse, 2.5% ager in the course of business activities or Group in either eliminating, reducing or moniand roll-out of a vendor-supported platThis identified program gaps and issued Violation of policy, 2.5% identified during audits. The individuals conViolence or threat, 2.5% toring the risk type and level. The risk assessform to conduct and track compliance recommendations for improvement. cerned are responsible for logging the details ment formed the basis for identifying and due diligence (including a sanctions in AlertLine according to Husqvarna Group’s • Adoption of additional Group policies to The total number of AlertLine reports measuring compliance program objectives for review) on third-parties including agents, broken down per category, primarily guidelines for compliance investigation and include anti-harassment, social media, the year. distributors, suppliers and acquisition based on U.S. calls. A total of 38 reports reporting. If a misconduct allegation is suband export controls and trade sanctions. were recorded, the majority of which targets. stantiated, appropriate actions are taken. related to Code of Conduct nonThese may include disciplinary measures or compliances. 38 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 39 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Creating sustainable value Integrating sustainability –– Business modelHu Integrating sustainability –– Business modelHu ASSETS OUTCOME VALUE CREATED • Leading brands ­Husqvarna • Forest, garden, watering and light Customers, retailers & dealers and ­Gardena ST A I N OVAT construction products and ser• Safe, efficient, durable and reliable SU E STRONG vices products and services BR ANDS & GO • Around 13,000 employees VISION, PURPOSE, • Knowledge building TO MARK E T D N A & C U LT U R E • >300,000 connected products • Channel of choice E XPERTISE • 25,000 dealers and retailers Husqvarna • Lasting partnerships Division • SEK 42.3bn in sales • R&D of SEK 1.7bn Investors • SEK 5.8bn in employee salaries • Long-term financial performance • Equity of SEK 17.3bn • Dividend payment Shaping • 44,000 tonnes of waste, great • Presence in 140 countries 53% less than 2015 Employees experiences • Fair wages • 30 production facilities • 5 million tonnes of CO2 emis• Good working conditions Gardena Construction sions, 25% less than 2015 • Employment security • 170 strategic suppliers Division Division • Attractive positions with development • 77% reduction in product safety opportunities • More than 2,200 patents incidents since 2016 SERVICES & Society T E C H N O LO G Y & NEW BUSINESS I N N O VAT I O N • Taxes paid MODELS N OVAT SU • Jobs S TA I E • Community involvement • Contributions to a low-carbon economy Accelerating growth by leveraging the combined strengths of the Group. Assets: The building blocks for a The Group’s strengths • Leading brands and go-to-market experOutcome: Sustainable Value created for key sustainable business Profitable growth , while reducing the Group’s tise —The divisions can benefit from the profitable growth stakeholder groups Strong brands, approximately 13,000 impacts on the environment is the Group’s Group’s extensive experience in creating Through innovation, energy-efficient operaThe focus on profitable growth delivers employees and expertise in user-focused approach to generating stakeholder value. It leading brands and successfully impletions and engaged and dedicated teams, opportunities for efficient and innovative product development and patents are the is founded on innovation, the Sustainovate menting market strategies. the Group is growing its business while products and services that generate ecoGroup’s most important assets. Long-term program, leveraging the Group’s strong reducing, in relative terms, CO2 emissions nomic, environmental and societal value. share-holders also provide the Group with brands, global distribution and efficiencies of • Technology and innovation—Innovation and waste across the value chain. Products in Key stakeholder groups such as customers, the flexibility to focus on sustainable scale to create differentiated products and and technology development are part of a wide range of categories are tailored to investors, employees and society stand to profitable growth and to invest in solutions tailored to end-customer segments. Husqvarna Group’s DNA. The Group’s customers’ demands for efficiency, quality, benefit from this approach. It also generates innovation and acquisitions. This is achieved by investing in strategic divisions can take advantage of Groupdurability and safety across markets, resultincome that is reinvested in the company As an integrated part of achieving opergrowth areas, such as robotic lawnmowers, wide resources, including strategic parting in great customer experiences. through research and development of new ational efficiency, the Group optimizes the battery-powered products and smart garden nerships, in key areas such as robotics and innovative products and services as well as use of raw materials and components in solutions, as well as continuing to develop a battery technology, software development other market leadership activities. production, which primarily comprise plaswinning core offering and piloting new busiand artificial intelligence (AI). tics, steel, aluminum and energy. This allows ness models. The Group also maintains comeffective management of fluctuations in the • Services and new business models—A key petitiveness through flexible, cost-efficient price of and access to raw materials and element in Husqvarna Group’s strategy is product manufacturing that can be easily components. an enhanced focus on services and soluadjusted to fluctuating seasonal demand Strong relationships play an important tions. The Group’s growing share of conwhile always meeting customer expectations role in the Group’s business model. Approxnected products and users is creating on quality and safety. Husqvarna Group utiimately 170 of some 2,000 suppliers are opportunities for new business models. lizes the multiple strengths in the Group to con-sidered strategic to the business. More The divisions can leverage the strength in ensure progress: a strong pool of knowledge and experithan 25,000 dealers and retailers represent ence within the Group. One such example The Group’s business model is built on a strategy that aims to achieve Husqvarna and Gardena brands across 140 • Vision, purpose, DNA and culture — countries, delivering added value to profesThese contribute to engage the teams. A is Husqvarna Fleet Services, a system and industry-leading growth and profitability by focusing on customer foundation of a shared vision and core service offering that is shared across the sionals and consumers alike. purpose, shared behaviors and important Husqvarna and Construction divisions. experience, services and solutions, battery and robotic technology and a policies such as the Code of Conduct • Sustainovate—Sustainability provides an winning core offering. Husqvarna Group believes focused sustainability underscore how every employee can contribute to building a results-oriented and outside-in perspective and the Sustainoinitiatives are crucial for long-term market leadership and value creation. vate program is the way the Group intelong-term successful company. grates sustainability across its business and engages the organization. It allows the Group to better address market dynamics and societal challenges and understand key stake­holders better. 40 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 41 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Turning Sustainovate into reality Managing risks and opportunities Sustainovate is our Group-wide approach for integrating sustainability We have a systemitized way of managing sustainability risks and Integrating sustainability –– Governance Integrating sustainability –– Governance throughout the business. It is an essential part of our business model. opportunities, rooted in clear policies, a Group-wide management system and activities to monitor the effectiveness of our approach. Our sustainability efforts start at the top, with our Assurance and his sustainability team are responsible Board of Directors. The People and Sustainability for keeping pace with the sustainability agenda, shapCommittee—formerly the Remuneration Commiting and promoting Sustainovate, developing procetee— oversees the Group’s efforts within sustainability dures and standards, coaching and challenging diviMONITORING THE OUTand talent management. It has responsibility for presional activities, and engaging with external stakeholdPOLICY & ADDRESSES THE MANAGEMENT EFFECTIVENESS OF COME paring recommendations on targets for Board ers such as investors and NGOs. The sustainability PROCEDURES FOLLOWING RISKS SYSTEM approval, tracking Sustainovate’s progress, remunerateam met the Board on three occasions in 2019 to THE POLICY IN 2019 tion for Board and senior management, reviewing inform on risks and seek approval for Sustainovate Code of Conduct • Human and labor rights • Husqvarna Operating • Third-party Alertline See p. 38 reporting and monitoring the sustainability agenda. 2025. Divisional representatives in the core team are • Discrimination System • Email system The company is a highly decentralized organization, accountable to their Division Vice Presidents, all of • Corruption, bribery • Diversity Action plan yet we set our sustainability priorities and targets at whom are members of Group Management. (to come in 2020) Group level. Different policies, procedures and a mateOur control systems identify critical processes and riality process support this approach. The Gardena, management responsibilities across the organization. Environmental policy • Climate change risks in • Husqvarna Operating • Audits managed at local See p. 54 Husqvarna and Construction divisions drive the work For example, at production facilities, plant managers operations System and regional levels. of meeting Group targets and also have specific goals have overall responsibility for operational environment • Emissions to air, land • ISO14001:2015 at 80% • Monthly performance and initiatives relevant to their operations. health and for collecting and reporting EHS data into and water of factories reports on energy use A Sustainability Core Team with representatives Group reporting systems on a quarterly basis. • Water use • ISO 50001at some • Quarterly performance from every division and core functions shares best People and Organization is similarly organized. This • Hazardous waste facilities reports on waste • Yearly performance practice, evaluates progress and reports quarterly to Group function defines the agenda, sets overarching reports on other enviGroup Management on Sustainovate’s progress. priority areas, shares best practice and aligns practices ronmental aspects. and processes. Human resource management, divisional Cross-functional accountability targets and actions are set at local and divisional levels. Occupational health • Workplace health and • Husqvarna Operating • Audits managed at local See p.31 Group Management is accountable for Sustainovate. In operations, the Group has developed its own & safety policy safety hazards system, OHSAS 18001 and regional levels See p. 54 The Vice President Business Assurance reports to the management system, the Husqvarna Operating (updated in 2019) and ISO45001 • Monthly performance Senior VP Group Operations Development, who is a System (HOS). reports on KPIs and member of Group Management. The VP Business incidents Group Supplier Code of • Human rights nonN/A • Alertline See p. 29 An integrated Sets level of ambition Business Ethics compliances • Third-party and internal approach • Reports and trains Board on (updated in 2019) • Environment nonaudits risks, risk management and compliances • Sustainability reporting • Labor rights nonShared processes and best practice Sustainovate compliances • S  ets priorities, aspirations • Corruption and bribery and aligns targets Product safety policy • Personal injury or • Risk assessments at • Committee On Product 4 quarterly •  ligns processes and A property damage due product development Safety (COPS) meet meetings shares best practice to product use, misuse (ISO 12100, ISO 31000, quarterly and on an ad and 3 Ad CHALLENGES • Tracks progress quarterly or malfunction of the FMEA) hoc basis as required Hoc meeproducts. • Lessons learned in tings held CARBON through the Core Team Product development handling projects 16 cases. TEAM • M  onitors the sustainability Divisions agenda and engages with • ISO 9001 in manuSUPPLIER investors and NGOs facturing S  et relevant targets • SAFETY • Reports progress annually and KPIs COMMUNITY • Engage with product development, sales Sustainovate 2020 is the Group’s approach to integrating sustainability throughout the organization, HR and business. A materiality process conducted operations in 2015 led to the adoption of overarching Define targets and KPIs priorities, targets and aspirations that were • I ntegrate initiatives into set at Group level. Each division responded business plans with initiatives that contribute to achieving Drive initiatives and actions these objectives. Networks of experts • Report progress on representing Group functions support the goals to Divisional divisions. The Sustainability Forum evaluaPresidents tes progress and reports quarterly to Group Management and externally every 12 42 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group months. 43 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Chapter 5/ Sustainovate 2025 The need for sustainable solutions has never been greater or more pressing. Building on the creativity of our teams, we are pioneering pathways for step-change efficiency and smarter resource use. 44 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 45 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group It’s a material world Materiality is the point at which a sustainability topic becomes relevant to our Integrating sustainability –– Materiality Integrating sustainability –– Materiality ability to create value. A comprehensive materiality analysis informed Sustainovate 2025 and our future approach to sustainability. » As an employee, it’s important that I know what I can bring and get out of my job, what development opportunities I will get, what technology advantages the Sustainability is all about building a More than 30 people, including Topic prioritization These topics include responsible company offers and if its way of working strong and profitable company for the members of Group management, All of the topics have a role to play in our supply chain, ethics and integrity, is up-to-date.« future and delivering lasting financial, internal experts with insights into key approach to sustainability, but in different employee well-being, efficient operaStakeholder: Employee social and environmental value for our stakeholder groups, representatives of ways. Our analysis of the topics informed tions, diversity and product safety. customers, employees, investors and Group and Divisional functions were the strategy and our approach to sustainThey are topics where we will continusociety. We used an inclusive approach directly involved. The outcome was ability, and guided us on our level of ously improve our performance and » You can create value for us by remaining to determine the sustainability topics presented to the Board and Group ambition for addressing the topics. report on our progress in meeting a successful company over time. That most relevant to our ability to create Management and it laid the foundation expectations. value to 2025 and beyond, engaging for the 2025 strategy process. The • Leadership topics—Three topics means being a good employer, having a every division and internal and external process comprised the following steps: relating to the product offering and • Topics on the rise—The sustainability product offering that customers want delivering value; innovation and techagenda is a moving target. We have stakeholders over a four-month period Outside-in perspective—Members of nology, a sustainable product offerfour topics that are evolving particuand that you play a constructive role in ending in 2019. Group Management were interviewed ing, and product efficiency. They have larly fast. Depending on their potensociety.« on the strategic relevance of a changing the greatest impacts on stakeholder tial role in value creation, we will monStakeholder: Investor We defined material topics as issues societal landscape as presented in the expectations and are most relevant to itor and address these topics in a that substantively: ‘Megatrends shaping our world’ (p.4). our ability to create value, especially timely manner. The topics include cir• Reflect our significant economic, enviThis was the same starting point that for customers. They are central to cular economy, talent attraction, »The next step for the Group must be to ronmental and social impacts was used to develop our five-year delivering market leadership due to product recyclability, diversity and focus on change that has impact. You business plan. It helped us identify their role in helping to transform the equal opportunity. The transforma• Influence our ability to create lasting have to understand the trade-off potential topics of relevance. Group. They represent the core of tional nature of the circular economy value, build trust and reduce risks Sustainovate 2025 and have been requires that we act decisively in Susbetween short-term financial impact and • Influence stakeholders’ perception of Ranking topics—Representatives from assigned ambitious, stretch targets. tainovate 2025 to ensure we are well the sustainability agenda.« each division weighted the importance our performance and our ability to positioned in this area. Stakeholder: Partner of 21 topics, all of which are relevant to • Strategic enablers—Long-term finandeliver value for them. equipping us for changes in society. The cial performance and talent attraction 360-degree conversation outcome of each division’s rankings was are important strategic priorities that fed into a Group-level assessment. have an integral and supportive role Our materiality process structured the conversation about what is most relevant to play in the success of Sustainovate Our most High importance MARKET LEADERSHIP material topics Validate the outcome—People from 2025. for the Group. Through a three-step both divisions and the Group interanalysis, we developed a common view viewed stakeholder representatives. We • Trust builders—For six topics, expecTechnology & innovation on how topics are interconnected, the carried out a quantitative survey among tations are high among stakeholders Husqvarna Group’s materiality Sustainable products importance of staying ahead of employees to validate our internal priorfor action and control. If not managed process engaged every division & services stakeholder priorities and how topics itization. This deepened our insights. responsibly, they may potentially as well as internal and external Product efﬁciency TRUST BUILDERS influence business resilience to 2025. erode our ability to create value. stakeholders in identifying how SUPPORT BUSINESS Stakeholder insights (1) potentially relevant topics impact STRATEGY Husqvarna’s ability to create lastTalent attraction Employee well-being ing value. Materiality is the point & development Product safety Business models for at which a sustainability topic circular economy Long-term ﬁnancial performance becomes relevant in these conEfﬁcient Diversity & equal texts. Prioritization was validated operation opportunity The content in the 2019 SustainoIn spring 2019, we conducted an email survey to gauge the priorities and through deep-dive interviews Ethics & integrity vate Progress Report reflects a expectations of our employees. The survey captured the priorities of 100 with representatives of key stakemateriality assessment conemployees, selected from every region and representing all functions. In holder groups and approved by ducted in 2015 that lay the fountotal, 73 percent of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that sustainaGroup Management. dation of Sustainovate 2020. This bility influenced how they see Husqvarna Group as an employer. Sixty-eight High analysis resulted in 14 topics pripercent stated that they feel they are able to contribute to our sustainability Importance importance Influence on our business (2) oritized against their impact on ambitions. The three top topics they would like to see prioritized within the the Group’s ability to create value. Group are People 1). Stakeholder insights: The degree topics influence Environment: Operations stakeholders' perceptions of Husqvarna Group and its For more information, see the 1. Developing innovative and sustainable solutions for customers ability to create value for them Environment: Products 2018 Sustainovate Progress 2) Influence on our business: Husqvarna Group’s impact 2. Developing employee competencies Governance on people and the planet combined with the topic's Report p. 38. 3. Products made from sustainable materials influence on our ability to create value. 46 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 47 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Carbon Integrating sustainability –– Sustainovate 2025 Integrating sustainability –– Sustainovate 2025 Reduce CO2 Drive the transition to low-carbon solutions. emissions by We are transitioning to low-carbon solutions in every aspect of 35% our products’ lifecycle––and in ways that benefit customers and deliver value to our bottom line. But the transition the world 2025 needs is to a zero-carbon economy. Battery technology and robotics have a significant role in delivering this. With stronger across our cooperation with suppliers, leaner manufacturing and smarter value chain product design, we are preventing hundreds of thousands of tons of CO2 from entering our atmosphere every year. At the same time, we are doing our part to tackle the greatest challenge of our time. Solutions fit for the future We are challenging ourselves and inspiring others to transform our industry. Circular Through the creativity of our teams, we are pioneering solutions for stepchange efficiency and smarter use of resources. By placing Sustainovate at the heart of what we do, we are shaping a company that is built to last. Launch Rethink and redesign for a resource-smart customer experience. In 2019, we set the course for our Sustainovate journey beyond 2020. We began with an inclusive materiality mapping and analysis of how we see society evolving highlight opportunities that leadership in sustainability brings and have strongly influenced the 2025 business strategy. This further underlines how the sustainability 50 We are rethinking our business models and the way we enhance our customers’ experience. We are reevaluating how our customers get their jobs done more effectively through solutions and to 2030. In-depth research was done in key areas agenda is business-critical for us. circular services such as sharing. We are making smarter use of the relating to climate change, resource scarcity and susAmbitious targets for 2025 innovations materials that comprise our products. That’s why we are finding tainability risks. The outcome was three ‘opportuniways to reduce the use of natural materials and plastic. We are ties’ to deliver value in an era of transformation. Our three aspirations explain the difference we also extending product lifecycles through reuse, resale, repair, Approved by the Board this year, Sustainovate 2025 intend to make within Carbon, Circular and People. and easy recycling for less waste. In short, a circular approach is will begin its rollout in 2020. The three targets show if and when these aspirations looping the customer’s end-to-end journey and bringing While targets to 2020 focused on integrating sushave been achieved. resource-lean innovation to the heart of how we deliver value. tainability deeper into the business across five areas, Our new target of a 35 percent CO2 reduction Sustainovate 2025 addresses three opportunities for across the value chain is an absolute reduction target change. These include transformation to a low-carbon rather than a carbon-intensity reduction, which was economy, pioneering ways to deliver great value to how we defined our 2020 target. Its baseline year customers through circular economy solutions, and continues to be 2015. It is in line with the latest science inspiring and engaging customers and employees in and reflects what needs to be done to limit a global our efforts. temperature increase to 1.5°C. People Sustainovate’s overall ambition is to trigger creaCircular and People targets will use 2020 as our tivity, energy and pride across the company. It’s aims baseline. Empower Inspire actions that make a lasting difference. 5m We want to be a company that others look to for leadership, and there is no better way to build trust than making a difference together. This rests on bringing out the passion, drive and creativity of our customers and teams. We are scaling up our impact customers and by inspiring our customers to opt for the most sustainable colleagues to make choice, and triggering their imagination on the difference that sustainable choices they can make. We will inspire our teams by partnering with others and giving them the tools to be our agents of change. 48 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 49 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Chapter 6/ About this report­ The 2019 Sustainovate Progress Report presents our approach to integrating sustainability into our business. The report is framed around five challenges that are most relevant to the Group’s ability to create economic, social and environmental value for our stakeholders. 50 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 51 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group About this report GRI Index About this report –– GRI Index About this report –– GRI Index We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI Index GRI 201: Economic performance GRI 404: Training and education sustainability reporting guidelines as a guide in the proAR = Husqvarna Group Annual Report 2019 103-1, Management approach AR 61 103-1, Management approach 26-27, 30, 38 duction of this report. The GRI Index leads readers to Reference 103-2, 103-2, information on relevant indicators, as defined by the GRI GRI 102: General disclosures (page) 103-3 s 103-3 standards. Organizational profile 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 54 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 54 and career development reviews In the report, we outline why sustainability is relevant 102-1 Name of the organization. 1 to our business, our priorities and response. It sets out 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 26, 28, 30 GRI 302: Energy the ways in which we are measuring progress and details GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 102-3 Location of headquarters 58 103-1, Management approach 18-25, 47 our approach to managing sustainability issues. Based on 103-2, 103-1, Management approach 26-27, 47 102-4 Location of operations 52 103-3 103-2, our materiality analysis, Sustainovate encompasses the 103-3 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 55 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 55 sustainability issues most relevant to the Group and our 102-6 Markets served AR 10-11, 20, 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 54, AR37 value chain. 26, 28 Where relevant, the report also highlights how the GRI 303: Water 102-7 Scale of the organization 40-41, 54, AR 3 GRI 408: Child labor Group’s priorities reflect our commitment to the UN 103-1, Management approach 47 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 26-27, AR 48, 78 103-2, 103-1, Management approach 28-29, 47 Global Compact’s ten principles. The report therefore 102-9 Supply chain 14-15, 28-29 103-3 103-2, also serves as our Communication on Progress. 103-3 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 41 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 55 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 28 Boundary of the report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 38-39 of child labor Unless otherwise indicated, standard disclosures in­clude all 102-12 External initiatives 11, 13 GRI 305: Emissions operations that can potentially affect Group performance. 102-13 Membership of associations Not collated on 103-1, Management approach 18-25, 47 GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor Data has been collected over the 2019 calendar year. This Group level 103-2, 103-3 103-1, Management approach 28-29, 47 report covers some 13,000 employees at year-end, includStrategy 103-2, 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 54 ing both office and factory workers and seasonal employees. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8–9 103-3 Data encompasses 29 production facilities of which 19 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 54 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 28 Ethics and integrity are in Europe, five in the U.S., three in China, and one 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 54 incidents of forced or compulsory labor 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 3, 38-39 each in Brazil and Japan in addition to two R&D centers. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 54 Stakeholder engagement ­Historical data have also been adjusted when it has been 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 41, AR 21 found to be incorrect, to improve quality of indicators. GRI 306: Effluents and waste GRI 414: Supplier social assessment 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Not collated on Wherever possible, the Group reports on its performance 103-1, Management approach 28-29, 47 Group level 103-1, Management approach Waste is not indicators covering the last five years. 2015 was defined 103-2, deemed a 103-2, 103-3 material topic, 103-3 as the baseline for Challenge targets with the exception 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 46-47 and therefore no 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 28-29 of product safety, which uses 2016 data as a baseline. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 46-47 DMA is included actions taken Health and safety statistics are based on local definitions in the report. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 46-47 in terms of what constitutes a workplace injury and a lost 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 55 day due to injury. The company’s previous sustainability GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessement Reporting practice report was published in March 2019. 103-1, Management approach 28-29, 47 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 70 In accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act 103-2, chapter 6,§11, Husqvarna Group has chosen to establish 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 46-47 103-3 the statutory sustainability report as a report separated 102-47 List of material topics 47 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 29 from the Annual Report. The required information in 102-48 Restatements of information 52 308-2 Supplier environmental assessment 54 accordance with the Annual Accounts Act constitutes 102-49 Changes in reporting 52 part of the Board of Director’s report and is incorporated GRI 401: Employment 102-50 Reporting period 52 in this document. 102-51 Date of most recent report 52 103-1, Management approach 26-27, 47 103-2, This report has been submitted to the auditor at the 102-52 Reporting cycle 52 103-3 same time as the Husqvarna Group’s Annual Report. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 52 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 54 Information about our business and financial performance 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 52 is provided in our annual report. 102-55 GRI content index 52 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety External assurance 102-56 External assurance 40 103-1, Management approach 30-31, 47 The sustainability report has been reviewed by an assur103-2, 103-3 ance provider to ensure that it meets information require403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 30-31, 54 ments of Sweden’s legislation on sustainability reporting. lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities For more information contact: Åsa Larsson Global Media and Sustainability Manager asa.larsson@husqvarnagroup.com 52 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 53 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group GRI Disclosures About this report –– GRI Disclosures About this report –– GRI Disclosures Economic indicators Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 302-1 – Energy consumption within the organization Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 201-1 Generated direct economic value Total energy used MWh 327 419 368 821 383 664 383 361 388 361 Group Net Sales SEKm 42 277 41 085 39 394 35 980 36 170 Direct energy MWh 97 573 116 289 119 792 119 423 126 096 Distributed direct economic value Indirect energy MWh 229 846 252 532 263 871 263 938 262 264 Operating costs (materials and services) SEKm 30 450 29 416 28 186 26 277 27 009 Employee salaries SEKm 5 833 5 712 5 121 4 680 4 508 Social security costs and pensions plans SEKm 1 314 1 336 1 187 1 059 1 021 303-1 – Water consumed Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Payments to states and municipalities (taxes) SEKm 811 970 431 280 252 Total water consumed m3 805 832 881 058 1 258 008 1 234 005 1 291 638 Credit institutions (interest) SEKm 568 509 500 422 344 Ground water m3 146 287 222 443 204 934 188 063 183 584 Shareholders (dividends) SEKm 1 287 1 286 1 114 946 945 Surface water** m3 156 364 194 863 553 275 554 690 623 906 Economic value retained SEKm 2014 1 856 2 855 2 318 2 091 Purchased water m3 503 181 463 752 499 798 491 252 484 148 Social indicators Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 306-2 – Waste Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 401-1 Employee turnover voluntary % 9.6 9.1 9.1 7.8 10.5 Total waste* Tonnes 44 018 54 366 55 592 56 264 67 478 403-2 Lost time incident rate per million hours worked LTIR 4.3 3.1 3.9 2.7 3.3 Non-hazardous recycled waste Tonnes 35 067 44 027 45 182 46 228 57 305 403-2 Total recordable incident rate per million hours worked TRIR 5.8 5.2 6.0 6.8 8.4 Non-hazardous non-recycled waste Tonnes 5 496 7 678 7 613 7 164 7 366 403-2 Fatal workplace accidents involving employees No 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous recycled waste Tonnes 280 345 467 437 540 404-3 Performance reviews of white collar % 89 84 87 86 86 Hazardous non-recycled waste Tonnes 3 174 2 316 2 329 2 435 2 267 405-1 Proportion of female employees in total workforce % 34 34 34 33 35 in senior management positions (tiers 1-3) % 25 22 24 22 24 in the Executive Board % 38 38 38 38 38 Net Promotor Score (NPS) NPS 8 11 10 1 –5 Environmental indicators Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 308-2; 414-2 Full supplier sustainability audits No 48 51 27 15 2 Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 302-1 Renewable electricity as a percentage of total electricity % 58 59 43 8 1 302-1 Renewable energy as a percentage of total energy % 36 36 26 5 0 305-1 Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) tCO2e 29 929 28 498 33 494 34 890 42 875 305-2 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) tCO2e 46 856 51 035 79 175 108 756 122 552 305-3 CO2 emissions from transportation tCO2e 41 459 48 634 51 806 46 575 46 296 305-3 CO2 emissions from business travel tCO2e 9 810 12 350 13 250 9 009 8 168 305-4 CO2 emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) tCO2e/ 5.7 7.3 9.9 14.2 17.4 SEKm VA Previously published data on these pages has been reviewed and some minor corrections (<10%) were made. * Improved data quality CO2 emissions have been calculated in accordance to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). ** Includes harvested rainwater 54 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 55 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Husqvarna AB (publ), corporate, identity number 556000-5331. Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2019 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm February 27, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Authorized Public Accountant PRODUCTION: Husqvarna AB (publ), Purple IVY and Kreasign. All rights reserved. Husqvarna, Jonsered, Klippo, Zenoah, Diamant Boart, Gardena, Flymo, McCull och, Poulan Pro, Weed Eater, Husqvarna Automower ®, HTC, Pullman E ­ rmator and other product and feature marks are trademarks of Husqvarna Group. 56 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group 57 / Sustainovate Progress Report 2019 / Husqvarna Group Head office Husqvarna AB (publ) | Mailing address: Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Regeringsgatan 28 | Telephone: +46 8 738 90 00 | www.husqvarnagroup.com Registered office Husqvarna AB (publ) Jönköping | Mailing address: SE-561 82 Huskvarna, Sweden Visiting address: Drottninggatan 2 | Telephone: +46 36 14 65 00
