COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 CONTENTS INTRO CEO statement........................................................................................................................................ 3 Did we reach our 2019 goals? ................................................................................................................ 4 Introduction............................................................................................................................................. 5 Company Profile #WeArePressalit .......................................................................................................... 6 PEOPLE Who are the people of Pressalit? ........................................................................................................... 7 Spectrum of diversity ..................................................................................................................... 7 Humans of Pressalit........................................................................................................................ 8 The PULSE of Pressalit........................................................................................................................... 9 Educating in favour of Pressalit AND the individual.............................................................................. 10 Ensuring well-being and good health ................................................................................................... 11 Replacing theory with practice.............................................................................................................. 12 Healthy and tasty.................................................................................................................................. 13 Building bridges and advocating for the SDGs .................................................................................... 14 ENVIRONMENT Keeping the facility services sustainable.............................................................................................. 16 Production Short Stories....................................................................................................................... 17 Responsibility down the line.................................................................................................................. 18 SOCIETY Partnering with UNICEF........................................................................................................................ 20 Changing Places – Changing Lives....................................................................................................... 21 Pittsburgh Airport: A Pressalit Case Story............................................................................................ 22 Donating clothes for a good cause....................................................................................................... 23 Parasports – getting ready for the Paralymmpics in 2020.................................................................... 24 OUTRO No point going halfway – we keep moving forward.............................................................................. 25 2020 Goals............................................................................................................................................ 26 Appendix 1: Global Compact Compliance 2019................................................................................... 27 CEO STATEMENT Welcome to Pressalit’s annual Communication on Progress We have continued to take responsibility for compliance with report of 2019. I am proud that we, once again, can show our code of conduct throughout our entire value chain by conprogress in our work supporting the United Nations’ Global ducting supplier audits; an important initiative to ensure that Compact and renew our obligation towards creating a better everyone we work with supports the United Nations’ Global world for everyone. Compact and our code of conduct. At Pressalit, we are continuously engaged in the area of At Pressalit, we will continue to work with sustainability across environmental protection, human rights, responsible labour all levels of our organization. We are determined to keep practices and prevention of corruption. Working with demonstrating how companies play a crucial role, not only Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability is an financially but also in terms of sustainability, in creating a integrated part of our Pressalit DNA as we have worked with better and more sustainable tomorrow – and to advocate developing a responsible and sustainable company for more others to do so too. In line with what John F. Kennedy said than half a century; and therefore it is natural for us to in 1961, Pressalit wants to inspire people both internally and continue this journey. And that is exactly what we are on; externally to think: “ask not what the world can do for you – a journey. We know, we are not there yet but we are on the ask what you can do for the world”. #TellEveryone way – and why stop halfway? In the year 2019, we have taken even more steps in the right Kim Boyter direction. Among other things, we have been working more on CEO, Pressalit A/S reducing waste throughout our supply chain. 3 DID WE REACH OUR 2019 GOALS 1. Optimise the product lifecycle in our value • At our International Sales Summit in June 2019, the chain in order to promote a cradle to cradle participants (Pressalit-employees and distributors) perspective in our product development on a long participated in a collaborative event with UNICEF on term. activating our work with the SDG’s further. We focus on the Product Life Cycle when implementing • In the beginning of September, we participated in the product improvements and changes. Therefore, the Life annual UNICEF Cup with the purpose of collecting money Cycle Perspective has been implemented to be a standard for tetanus vaccines for children all over the world. element when planning product changes. This means that • As a part of our Leadership Network in September, all the impact of the changes on the life cycle of the product managers visited the UN-city in Copenhagen to learn more is always taken into account when we develop new about personality profiles and our partnership with UNICEF. products. Hence, we always consider the use of • We participated in World Children’s Day at the UN-city in sustainable materials. Additionally, we have updated our Copenhagen and celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Business Case Template to include a section about the Convention on the Rights of the Children. considerations of Life Cycle Perspective and sustainability. 7. Actively advocate for the SDGs and our work with 2. Maintain a level of at least 6 % of employees on them internally and externally with at least 7 special terms. initiatives throughout the year. In 2019, the level of employees employed on special In 2019, we have worked with the SDGs through a terms was 6,4 percent. number of activities beside the initiatives mentioned in this report. These include i.e.; 3. Maintain the high score in our annual PULSE-survey. • Christmas dinner for homeless people in Aarhus. SDG #2 In 2019, the score of Satisfaction & Motivation is 81 in the • Education of blue collar employees. SDG #4 PULSE-survey and Opportunities & Barriers is 77. • Cooperation with Studenterhus Aarhus on teaching an See more on page 9. international student Danish. SDG #4 • Sponsor of Rare Disease Day in Aarhus. SDG #10 4. Decrease the diffusion of satisfaction within the • Own production of honey. SDG #2, #13, #15 PULSE-survey. • World’s Best Morning SDG #13, #17 In 2019, only 10 % of the score was under 75 on both Loyalty and Satisfaction & Motivation, which means that 8. Increase the focus on sustainability in our facility the diffusion has decreased. See more on page 9. services, particularly with a focus on reduction of food waste and an increase in climate-friendly food 5. Reduce the amount of waste from our production. in our canteen. In 2019, we have taken more initiatives to reduce the In 2019, we focused on maintaining a sustainable amount of production waste. See more on page 17 approach in our facility services by i.e. making it possible for the employees to bring home leftover food from the 6. Activate our UNICEF-partnership in marketing lunch buffet every day and not just on Fridays. campaigns and internally with at least 4 activities See more on page 16. throughout the year. In 2019 we have made the following activities throughout 9. Work actively with Pressalit’s internal diversity the year: spectrum to increase tolerance and understanding • In March, we held a co-creation workshop with represenIn 2019, we have worked with our internal diversity tatives from UNICEF and Pressalit Sales and Marketing to spectrum by choosing two parameters to focus particularly find possible ways of implementing and thereby derive on: Interns and age. See more on page 7. value from the partnership in relation to Sales and Marketing. 4 INTRODUCTION Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a pivotal for Pressalit’s commitment to the UN’s global corporate the Pressalit culture, and it has been since our beginning. sustainability initiative was manifested in 2002, as the ten At Pressalit, we take our co-responsibility seriously and we principles of the UN Global Compact was integrated into care about contributing both locally and globally. Both our Code of Conduct. Taking shape as internal ethical rules our company culture and business approach are deeply for all employees to know and to work with. We continuously rooted in the belief that we as a company have an important review our work with the principles to ensure that we are up responsibility of leaving a positive impact, socially as well as to date. environmentally. This involves activities and collaborations between Pressalit, our surrounding society, NGOs, as well as national and international institutions and organisations. Our sustainability ambition was extended further than before Included under these headings are our work with the ten in 2016, when we adopted the UN Sustainable Development principles. In relation to our Code of Conduct, People reflects Goals (SDG). In particular, Pressalit focuses on three SDGs, both diversity and human rights initiatives. People are an which are specifically relevant to our core business: essential part of Pressalit’s spirit, and have been for 65 years. #4 Quality Education, #6 Clean Water and Sanitation, and #12 Responsible Consumption and Production. Environmentally, Pressalit wants to leave a positive impact on the world for the next generations, as we believe we have a This Communication on Progress report accounts for Pressalit’s responsibility to minimize our impact on the environment and sustainable initiatives and activities, which were implemented climate. Therefore, we take a practical approach to operating a in 2019. Overall, the report comprises our work with CSR in business, and are aware of the environment both internally and relation to the ten principles of the UN’s Global Compact and externally. the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Not alone does Pressalit take a particular interest in the local Under three headings we will present our sustainable progress community but also in the society and as Pressalit has grown throughout 2019. and expanded beyond the Danish border, so has our local community. We therefore have a certain responsibility to act PEOPLE • ENVIRONMENT • SOCIETY ethically and in compliance with the law. Consequently, we are demanding our suppliers and other stakeholders also to comply with these principles. More information on this topic under Appendix 1: Global Compact Compliance 2019 5 COMPANY PROFILE #WeArePressalit Pressalit is a privately owned Danish Ltd. Company formally Pressalit’s production is placed in Ry, Denmark, where the owned by Pressalit Holding, which has been owned by the company headquarter is located as well. We want to stay local Boyter family for three generations. but global; While our roots are deeply planted in Ry and our local society, Pressalit is a global company with offices in eight Since the beginning in 1954, Pressalit has been designing countries around the world. We export approximately 80 % of and producing toilet seats of the highest quality. Since 1975, our products, and operate in 45 international markets across Pressalit has also been developing accessible bathrooms and the world. height-adjustable kitchens for people with reduced mobility. Today we design, develop, produce and sell products in the At Pressalit, we aspire to create value for both our customers, following product categories: employees and our surrounding community. Corporate social responsibility is an embedded part of the Pressalit DNA. The • Toilet seats Pressalit we are today builds on a long tradition for decency • Bathroom accessories and responsibility which started long before the term CSR was • Accessible bathrooms even introduced. This tradition is a natural gathering point for • Shower and Changing tables our culture and values which we experience that both • Daycare changing tables managers and employees cherish. We are therefore proud • Height adjustable kitchens and thankful to take part in the journey towards a better and more sustainable world. 6 WHO ARE THE PEOPLE OF PRESSALIT? Pressalit is a place with a diverse workforce – and we have been In 2019, our top management team chose two parameters that so for a long time. We believe that diversity strengthens our we had a special focus on during the year in order to secure our business, as a diverse group of employees contributes to an future. These parameters include: ever-evolving and innovative culture. Therefore, we are open • Age, as we consider all life stages to have their own to attracting, retaining, and developing a wide spectrum of strengths, and employees so Pressalit reflects the global society in which we • Interns, as we want to contribute to learning and to providing operate. Our four shared values – We Listen, We Give, We Play, new experiences in return of fresh ideas as a part of our We Act are the basis for our vivid culture and make room for profound focus on global goal #4 Quality Education and our diversity as well. value We Give. SPECTRUM OF DIVERSITY “We wish to ensure an organization with many different In addition to Global Compact’s focus on human rights, we have generations represented to balance new inputs and experience, added a dimension by implementing a diversity spectrum divided to embrace new ways of working whilst acknowledging the way into eleven parameters that represent the different areas in which our stakeholders work plus ensuring a smooth transition of Pressalit actively works to ensure diversity. knowledge within our organization.” Mette Dyhl Prola, Chief Marketing Officer e x ittyyn unaalilio S o g stieolni earlnsl PoecraR Intiona Estudeanrtntossuhnip V d u c l inctkegernAdgeed S p e c iab a G th ni ci tyr ilityialEto wo rk 2019 SPECTRUM Ab Soc inte rns OF DIVERSITY 78% 84% 82% 87% feel we are open to feel they can be feel we are open to all answer that we represent all sexual orientations themselves religious beliefs different educations Sexuality Educational Personality Religion background 11 0 special internships 7 12 Vocational Social interns Special internship students Interns 6,4% 61% are employed on anwer that we represent special terms 20-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 61-> 63,2% 36,8% different etnicities Ability to work Age Gender Ethnicity 7 HUMANS OF PRESSALIT Meet a couple of the humans of Pressalit here. TIM KNOWLES “I applied for a lot of different internships, because I wanted to make sure to find a place to intern. Nevertheless, I did have a Tim is Sales Manager and he has the top three list over the companies where I really wanted to go – responsibility for all activities in and Pressalit was one of them. I liked the job ad because it was Australia & New Zealand relating to about supply chain and optimization of quality, which I find really all of our business areas. interesting. So, when I got the offer of doing my internship here I said yes without hesitating. On the days where I know that I “I’m a one-man band based in am starting on a new task or that I have an interesting meeting, I Sydney, looking after Australia & New Zealand, with a big team look even more forward to get to work and to see what the day behind me at Pressalit HQ in Denmark. A typical day at the will bring.” office, if there is such a thing, is predominantly spent talking to architects and interior designers. A lot of things that we do are truly unique, niche. We are a fantastic global brand blended with brilliant people. For me, my colleagues and company culture JESPER HAUGAARD make the work environment somewhere that you want to stay. I am as passionate about what I do now, as I was when I first Jesper is an Operator and a part of started many decades ago. There is so much variability in my the production of kitchen units. main role as Sales Manager, I get involved in many other business elements on behalf of Pressalit, which gives me new We make the adjustable height units things to learn It excites me.” for kitchens. It is a huge area of expertise and there is a lot to learn because it is very complicated. I like that it is kind of challenging. I want to feel like what I do is interesting. The process of SARA LUNØ getting to know the things you do to the bone – as I do after 15 years – is a pleasure. When you are on the top of the wave Sara is an intern in the producwhere everything is going well, you have all the small pieces, tion of toilet seats. She is studying and nothing is missing – if there are even some great tunes on Value Chain Management and for a the radio – that is just the best feeling and everything comes semester, she is doing an internship together.” at Pressalit to gain hands-on experience to complement the theory she has obtained through her education. 8 THE PULSE OF PRESSALIT The PULSE-survey is an extensive annual employee-satisfaction A goal for the 2019 PULSE-survey was to maintain a high score survey. The intention of the PULSE survey is to give an insight of and to decrease the diffusion of satisfaction within the survey. the organisation’s pulse, metaphorically speaking. The objective The diagram below shows the development in the PULSE-score is to measure our employees’ commitment and motivation and over the last three years. It shows us how the score not only has to ensure that they have a say in terms of our work structures maintained a high level but also has increased. Furthermore, the and company culture. Furthermore, it enables Pressalit to bendiffusion of satisfaction within the survey has decreased by 5 chmark our employees’ work satisfaction and to identify areas percentage points. As there is only 10 % of our employees, who for possible improvements. have a score that is below 75 in both Loyalty and Satisfaction & Motivation. Among other things, the survey measures the employees’ “Will vs. Can Ability”, which concerns whether employees are In general, we have improved on all of the factors that we are satisfied with and motivated in their jobs, and whether they have measuring in the survey. We are proud to be able to improve the necessary competencies and opportunities to carry out their these positive results already. As our general score in the tasks. This year 89.6 % of our employees answered the PULSE-survey is now this high, we aim to maintain this level questionnaire in the PULSE-survey. All questions are graded for the 2020-survey. from 1 to 10, where 10 is the best and 1 is the worst score. 9 EDUCATING IN FAVOUR OF PRESSALIT AND THE INDIVIDUAL FROM UNSKILLED WORKER TO SKILLED INDUSTRIAL OPERATOR As a part of the IGU-project, Ulf Sørensen is training to It is a win-win situation to upgrade good employees. become a skilled Industrial Operator. Becoming a more skilled worker is certainly the incentive for Ulf and the other WITH AN INTEGRATIONAL PERSPECTIVE participants. Influence is a strong motivational factor: The project is not just about training unskilled workers; it has an integrational aspect as well. The IGU project is about a “My employer shows respect for my work, I really feel that, refugee and an unskilled employee sharing a job and taking but I also hope that I will gain more influence when I’m a turns going to school. This means that they both, after 18 skilled Industrial Operator. On new procedures and finding months, will have a certificate of education. It has already shown better solutions for instance. Whatever is beneficial for the that we are able to recruit and integrate competent refugees company is beneficial for me. A good result makes me happy and at the same time raise the skills of unskilled workers to too, especially If I have had a say in the matter.” skilled workers. “Both educational, employment, and integrational political perspectives are something that we have at heart because we are a company, where performance and responsibility go hand in hand.” Kim Boyter, CEO 1010 ENSURING WELL-BEING AND GOOD HEALTH EXERCISING FOR A BETTER WORK ENVIRONMENT One of the great advantages of the daily exercises is that no shoulder injuries have been recorded since they started The employees in the goods reception are exercising on a exercising. Furthermore, the participants have less back pains, daily basis for a better work environment. They are doing because they use their muscles in a different way than they exercises for their backs and shoulders with elastic bands at would do without the exercises. the whiteboard meetings to keep themselves fit and free of injuries. They have done this for a couple of years now. The participating employees agree that it is a good way to get some extra workout done. Additionally, it is a way to socialize Finn Andersen, who devotedly makes his exercises, says: with your colleagues and even laugh with – and sometimes of – “One of the reasons that we have been able to continue each other. doing our exercises is that we do them at the same time as the whiteboard meeting, which is always part of our routine. Therefore, more elastic bands have been purchased, so that Therefore, it is easier to remember to do the exercises.” all employees now have the opportunity to do some exercising. 1111 REPLACING THEORY WITH PRACTICE During 2019, Pressalit had the pleasure of educating and As the interns come from different academic fields and working with 12 interns, in total. The interns come from various institutions, it enables them to contribute with various interesting educational backgrounds. The fields span from marketing and perspectives, and the latest knowledge from their field. communications to engineering and supply chain management. Therefore, it is a win-win situation; We contribute to learning and new experiences, and in return Pressalit receives fresh The interns do not only obtain plenty of hands-on experience, ideas. they also experience a steep learning curve and have lots of responsibility alongside a new social and professional network. 12 HEALTHY AND TASTY The lunch at Pressalit is served every day, along with a smile This means that there are plenty of vegetables to find on the from the kitchen staff. The food is not just homemade and tasty; buffet as well as fish on a daily basis. Once a week, you can it is also healthy. also find fish and a vegetarian dish as the main dish of the day. Homemade, tasty and healthy are key words describing our The buffet differs every day and it always serves a hot dish of lunch at Pressalit. the day, a salad bar, and different kinds of cold meat and cheese. So, the kitchen attempts to meet the dietary recommendations from ‘Sundhedsstyrelsen’ (red. the Danish health board). Enough organic A reduction of CO2 The production of heat for The production of nourishment to fertilize emissions with 4163.9 kg 192.2 days in an average 5369.3 kWh 13 9530.9 kg carrots household BUILDING BRIDGES AND ADVOCATING FOR THE SDGS In the early summer of 2019, more specifically from the 18th to SUSTAINABILITY ON THE AGENDA the 20th of June, Pressalit invited all international colleagues and Advocating for the SDGs was one of our goals for 2019. We did large distributors to an international Sales Summit at Pressalit’s this actively during the Sales Summit. Through presentations and headquarters in Ry, Denmark. At the Sales Summit, the goal was workshops, we shared our knowledge and experiences with the to build new and strengthen existing partnerships and relations SDGs and our work with them as inspiration for the participants. with the participants. Between social events, This is part of a greater ambition where we want Pressalit had made an agenda filled with professional activities to #TellEveryone. We know, we cannot fulfil the goals by with the purpose of sharing knowledge and know-how. ourselves but we know, we can do it together – and we are Professional presentations, workshops and company visits were actively working on making the “together feeling” stronger to part of the Summit, which the participants were very satisfied reach the goal. with. “We strongly believe, that when we advocate for – and enter – WE HAND OUT KNOWLEDGE partnerships, there is no limit as to what we can achieve. In general, Pressalit spends a lot of resources on quality Therefore, partnering up with our international colleagues and education and we gladly share our knowledge; this was also distributers to discuss ways to work with the Global Goals was the case at the Sales Summit. We created the conditions for an exhilarating experience that not only strengthens our bond networking and teamworking between distributors. Sales but also our faith in a better world.” techniques were shared and partnerships were born. Mette Dyhl Prola, Chief Marketing Officer, Pressalit A/S. The production of heat for The production of 192.2 days in an average 5369.3 kWh 1414 household 15 KEEPING THE FACILITY SERVICES SUSTAINABLE Both in our Canteen and in Cleaning, we focus on This means that the vegetables and fruits are washed instead initiatives that help us become more sustainable. of pealed, which results in less waste of the vegetable. Furthermore, the food is reused in other dishes. For The staff in our Canteen is doing sustainable actions daily. instance they make croutons and rye bread fries out of This is for instance reducing food waste by focusing on using leftover-bread. To further prevent good food from being thrown all of the products and especially the vegetables, which are out, employees can bring home leftover food from the lunch organic. buffet every day if they want to. In Cleaning, we aim to economize by being aware of the dosage of the use of cleaning products. Furthermore, we are now using a system that reduces water in Cleaning because of the use of mops and microfiber cloths. Finally, we sort the waste to make sure that recyclable waste will be reused. The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 1616 household PRODUCTION SHORT STORIES MINIMIZING WASTE IN OUR PRODUCTION SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING Minimizing waste in our production has been a large area of Our packaging is FSC-certified because we care about our focus in 2019. In our toilet seat production, we have made environment and the climate. 71% of our packaging is made changes using hydraulics which has decreased the amount of from recycled materials. In 2019, we have started defining a excess material in the pressing process considerably; now the packaging project in which sustainability is also a key area. amount of excess material is almost non-existent. The project is planned to start out in 2020. QUALITY MEETINGS REDUCE WASTE REDUCTION OF HARMFUL SUBSTANCES AND OIL ON Four times each week, our Product Development team, our BRACKETS Production team and our Senior Production Specialist meet We have optimized the processes around our brackets. to discuss quality in the production. These meetings have led Because our brackets are now so clean and free of oil and to reduction in the amount of withdrawn products and thereby heavy metals, we have a realistic ambition about closing down waste in general. Due to these meetings, work instructions have our sewage treatment plant. This does not only increase been improved and entrance control of our brackets have producivity, it also increases our positive impact on the become an integrated part of our quality control; and due to environment and the community, which we are a part of. this, higher quality and less waste have become a reality. These small stories are all part of a greater story: we are on a journey towards a better and more sustainable future. Our ambitions are high and we will keep working until we reach them. In our production alone, 2019 was a year where many initiatives were taken to move us into the right direction. The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 1717 household RESPONSIBILITY DOWN THE LINE We do not only comply with the 10 principles of United Nations’ ENVIRONMENT AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Global Compact; we make sure that our suppliers do so as well. The other focus area includes an investigation of the environFirst of all, all our suppliers are subject to our Code of Conduct mental impact and ensuring that our suppliers counteract all and its underlying terms – they simply must comply with it. Sekinds of corruption. The suppliers must have rules in place cond, we do supplier audits several times each year to ensure regarding quality control as well as environmental policies that that our suppliers keep their promise to act in accordance with they must act in accordance with. Our auditors ask for and see our Code of Conduct and the United Nations’ Global Compact. documentation of how this is done; for example, on what the suppliers do with waste and wastewater. The supplier audits are a high priority activity at Pressalit. Our two educated auditors do an average of approximately 20 In relation to anticorruption, this is not only a focus area at audits a year around the world to check up on the conditions supplier audits; internally we have a clear and thorough on terms of human rights, labour rights, environment and system over transaction. Transactions are being checked anti-corruption at our suppliers. and controlled in several departments to make sure we have control over where each penny goes. “Suppliers must adhere to our Code of Conduct. They need to know that we demand compliance with United Nations’ Global WE TAKE ACTION Compact and our Code of Conduct in any link in our supply Action speaks louder than words and therefore it is important chain” for Pressalit to take action towards our suppliers if they do not Jan Mortensen, Senior Production Specialist, Pressalit A/S comply with our Code of Conduct or the 10 Global Compact principles. If our auditors find something to improve, they usually HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR RIGHTS make an action plan with the supplier. These action plans are One of the focus areas include ensuring human rights and created as a help for the supplier – and our auditors see the labour rights. Our auditors examine the employees’ working differences they result in, when they revisit. hours and their working conditions in general. Among other things, they look at work safety and the policies conducted Pressalit has stopped cooperating with suppliers after supplier within this area, the length and number of breaks during a audits; we take actions and it has consequences if our suppliers working day, the general atmosphere at the workplace and do not act in accordance with our Code of Conduct or United the employees’ seniority. They also look at the diversity in the Nations’ Global Compact principles. workforce and the age of employees to make sure we are not practising child labour. They observe and do not hesitate to make direct contact to the employees to form the overall picture of the supplier as a workplace and to ensure that the supplier comply with the 6 principles within human rights and labour rights. 18 19 PARTNERING WITH UNICEF Our partnership with UNICEF means that we have been visiting We invited customers and colleagues to spend the day in the the UN City in Copenhagen a couple of times throughout 2019. name of team spirit and to support UNICEF’s work with charity. Both for our internal Leadership Network in September and as In addition, we invited our colleagues to bring along their families guests at World Children’s Day in November, where the 30th to make a day of it. anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child was celebrated. As mentioned in the chapter about our 2019-goals, The tournament was hosted by Denmark’s Most Charitable we have organized activities related to our partnership with Football Team in collaboration with UNICEF. Together with UNICEF, such as UNICEF Cup. everyone participating, we raised money for more than 500.000 tetanus vaccines for children all over the world. FOOTBALL IN THE NAME OF CHARITY In order to support the good cause of raising money for tetanus vaccines for children all over the world, Pressalit participated in UNICEF Cup 2019 on Saturday the 7th of September 2019. The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 2020 household CHANGING PLACES – CHANGING LIVES The Changing Places Consortium was established in 2005 PRESSALIT AND CHANGING PLACES calling for Changing Places toilets to be installed in all big public Pressalit believes that everyone has the right to a life without places. Due to the lack of accessibility in standard accessible restrictions. Therefore, accessibility and freedom are some of toilets or ‘disabled toilets’, many people with disabilities are the most important keywords for our business. Our long-stanlimited from taking part in everyday activities that take place in ding experience and focus on quality means that we can now public spaces. According to a study made by Professor James call ourselves experts in providing solutions for Changing Places Hogg from the University in Dundee, there are ¼ million people toilets at an international level. – in the UK alone – who do not have access to toilet facilities in public that meet their needs. Changing Places toilets fit the We are proud to call ourselves a leader in accessible bathneeds of people with profound and multiple learning disabiliroom solutions and aids used on the ever-increasing number of ties or other physical disabilities because they provide more Changing Places toilets around the world and we would like to space and better facilities and equipment; space, facilities and contribute to the creation of even more. By raising awareness of equipment that are not only nice to have but crucial to meet the the Changing Places concept, what it is, why it is important and needs of these people and to make them feel included in genehow it can be established through the use of our products, we ral. Without Changing Places toilets, the person with a disability hope to be able to do just that. is put at risk. In 2019, we launched a section on our international website. Without access to toilet facilities in public, millions of people The purpose of this section is to advocate for ‘really accessible around the world are being excluded from society. Going out bathrooms’ with the result of creating more accessibility and is either impossible or unworthy for these people as they are even rights to water and sanitation for everyone. This is directly forced to getting their diapers changed on wet toilet floors or connected to our work with SDG #6 in the back of the car in public parking lots. The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 2121 household PITTSBURGH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT: A PRESSALIT CASE STORY Many families, affected by a disability, do not fly long distance Hence, these products are a huge reason why families get the – in fact, many do not fly at all. In 2019, Pittsburgh Internatifull range of opportunities in life despite any physical or mental onal Airport took a big step toward changing this. The airport challenges. We are proud that our business contributes to established a sensory room for children to relax and calm down reducing inequalities and giving everyone the right to clean before a flight. In addition to this, Pittsburgh International Airport water and sanitation as it has been proven at Pittsburgh installed a Pressalit adult sized changing table and a height adInternational Airport and many more places worldwide. justable wash basin in the family rest room next to the sensory room to increase the level of accessibility. The airport stated that many more people than expected use the changing table and that it makes a great difference to the The adult sized changing table at the airport makes it possible users as well as other travellers; it simply creates a snowball for families to travel as the nursing situation – for children and effect as the flight becomes more relaxed for everyone. adults with disabilities – does not become an issue. Further“An adult sized changing table is a more, the changing table and the height adjustable wash basin game changer.” is used by people with temporary disabilities. Patricia McCloud, mother of Jordan who is diagnosed with “It is nice to know that the autism and Intellectual Disability changing table is there – it is security.” Sarah Parks, mother of Colby who is diagnosed with “When the right accommodations are autism not available, I have to always decide on whether to do life or not.” Dr. Josie Badger, diagnosed with congenital myasthenic syndrome The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 2222 household DONATING CLOTHES FOR A GOOD CAUSE In the process of working with sustainable consumption, we turnout, considering that we have approximately 250 Danish focus on implementing initiatives intended to reduce waste employees. Thus, the campaign entailed a great amount of by recycling and reusing. In April, Pressalit participated in Red commitment. Cross’ annual campaign “Smid Tøjet” (in English: Drop your clothes). By donating used clothes to a good cause, where Some of the clothes were donated to Danish people with other people will be able to get use of it, instead of throwing it difficulties, who struggle to afford clothes. Other clothes were out, we add to a more responsible approach to consumption. shipped to various locations around the world for people in need. During the campaign, which ran for about a week, our employees turned in bags filled with clothes and shoes. It resulted in ”I appreciate that we have the opportunity to help people 50 bags of clothes for the cause – which is quite a good who need it, and at the same time do something good for the environment – and one´s closet at home.” Line Herlev, HR & Communications Consultant The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 2323 household PARASPORTS – GETTING READY FOR THE PARALYMPICS IN 2020 Still, the majority of our sponsorship budget is reserved for parasports. And, in 2019 the news still evolve around the Paralympics, which is just around the corner in 2020. NEW PERSONAL SPONSORSHIP WITH TAEKWONDO ATHLETE LISA GJESSING In 2019, Pressalit has entered a new personal sponsorship agreement with para-taekwondo fighter Lisa Kjær Gjessing whose goal is to qualify for and win a gold medal at the Paralympic Games in Tokyo in 2020, when taekwondo will be part of the official Paralympic program for the very first time. ROSENMEIER COMPLETES CHAMPION HAT-TRICK As Peter Rosenmeier in September took home the gold medal in the men’s single tournament at the European Para Table Tennis Championships, he completed the champion hat-trick. This means that Rosenmeier has won the three major tournaments – The European Championships, the World Championships, and the Paralympics. The production of heat for 192.2 days in an average 2424 household NO POINT GOING HALFWAY – WE KEEP MOVING FORWARD As we have explained in this report, Pressalit takes initiative A part of our work lies within ensuring that everyone we work and responsibility. The report has given you an insight into our with complies with United Nations’ Global Compact principles. work to improve the world one step at a time. Sustainability and Also, advocating for the Global Goals is a way for us to inspire Corporate Social Responsibility are core elements in our way of others, individuals as well as companies, to work for a better thinking and it will continue to be so. and more sustainable world – and therefore, we will carry on our work to: As stated before, we know we are not there yet, but we will keep moving forward until we reach the Global Goals; Pressalit will keep moving forward to make good even better. #TellEveryone #WeArePressalit 25 2020 GOALS GOALS FOR OUR EFFORTS IN 2020: • Implementing an energy-optimisation system in order to track our CO2 emissions with a long-term aim of a CO2 neutral production • Increasing the cross-organizational involvement in sustainability initiatives in order to root the sustainable mentality thoroughly throughout our organization • Increasing focus on sustainability by working only with sustainable suppliers; both in terms of human rights and environment • Integrating recyclability in our products and thereby reducing waste in our production • Maintaining a level of at least 6% of our employees being hired on special terms • Maintaining our high number of interns • Exploring alternative options within transportation for internal use between our HQs two locations with a 4 km distance, for instance green transportation, electric bicycles, reviewing our car policy etc. • Maintaining the target high score in our annual PULSE-survey (employee satisfaction survey) • Decreasing the diffusion of satisfaction within the PULSE-survey • Activating our UNICEF-partnership in marketing campaigns and internally throughout the year • Actively advocating for the SDGs and our work with them internally and externally with at least 7 initiatives throughout the year • Increasing the focus on sustainability in our facility services, particularly with a focus on climate-friendly food in our canteen and reducing/eliminating the amount of plastic cups used in the company Pressalit A/S • Pressalitvej 1 • 8680 Ry, Denmark • T: +45 8788 8788 • pressalit@pressalit.com, www.pressalit.com APPENDIX 1: GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE 2019 HUMAN RIGHTS CLIMATE Our supplier contracts include our Code of Conduct and our In 2019, Pressalit A/S has mapped our energy consumption and suppliers commit themselves to work for increased responsireported this to the authorities in accordance with Danish law bility in the areas within Global Compact, e.g. Human Rights. requirements. The mappings has formed the basis for identificaThrough our suppliers, we thus ensure a greater responsibility tion of areas for improvement to reduce environmental footprint. beyond our own supply chain. We regularly audit our suppliers, Furthermore, we have updated its quality and environmental also by unannounced audits, in order to ensure compliance with policy. It states the following; our Code of Conduct. During 2019, we found no deviations from the standards we require of our suppliers in the field of “Pressalit ‘s products are developed in cooperation with relevant Human Rights. stakeholders to ensure that the products meet the customers’ quality and environmental expectations throughout the product ANTI-CORRUPTION lifecycle. In practice,this means that our quality and environmenAt Pressalit, good business ethics start with management, tally conscious employees focus on efficiency, resource and as a company we take responsibility for making sure our consumption and waste reduction in all processes. Our quality managers and employees can make responsible decisions in and environmentally conscious employees are passionate about accordance with our ethic guidelines. All employees and delivering products, where quality is never compromised, while managers are trained in our Code of Conduct as part of their our notably high reliability of delivery is maintained. onboarding program. In addition, managers are trained in how We meet customers and our own requirements and legislation to guide and support their employees as best as possible if and in our industries. We seek to avoid pollution of all kinds and when they meet challenges in their line of work that may be in work to improve our quality and environmental conditions. conflict with our Code of Conduct, e.g. in relation to antiTherefore, continuous improvements are an important part of corruption. the management task at all levels. Our global presence ensures local knowledge and expertise so we can provide fast and As a part of the United Nations initiative Global Compact we efficient customer service, in the form of guidance at all stages act in accordance with the principle: “Businesses should work of the purchase. The Quality and environmental policy sets out against corruption in all its form, including extortion and bribery”. the direction for Pressalit ‘s work to continuously ensure the All our agreements are open and written down. They can thererealization of our quality and environmental objectives.” fore be shown, read and understood by colleagues. Where we use products instead of money it is part of an open agreement. Indirectly, the policy thereby aims to reduce climate effect, Where we have other relations to co-operation partners and/or however Pressalit A/S does not have a specific climate policy at customers we have a clear argumentation for the choice of that present. partner. When we are hosts we are aware of the value signal of our generosity and make sure that we keep a fair level of hospitality. We are aware of what invitations we participate in; both who invites and why they invite. The same goes for presents. We are aware of what we receive and why. For example, we register all Christmas presents given to Pressalit and Pressalit’s employees with value greater than DKK 500. Pressalit’s sponsorships are written down agreements. During 2019, we have had no experiences of violation of our anti-corruption guidelines. 27
