GLOBAL COMPACT PROGRESS REPORT 2020 CREATING TOMORROW’S SOLUTIONS 1 1 Statement of Continued Support (Message from the CEO) Ladies and Gentlemen, sustainable products for their we received the platinum markets. recognition level from EcoVaWacker Chemie AG joined the dis. As an energy-intensive com1 UN’s Global Compact in 2006 pany, we are always striving to Our employees are a key pillar – a further example of Statement reduce our ecological footprint. of our innovative strength and WACKER’s voluntary commitof Continued We create more efficient and sustainability. They play a deciments. In our daily work since Support safer processes, use resive role in implementing our then, we have been implementsources responsibly and avoid goals for sustainable developing Global Compact’s ten prinwaste. ment. ciples for protecting human 2 rights, upholding social and enAs active members of society, Together, we are responsible vironmental standards, and we are aware that we can only for a more sustainable future. Governance fighting corruption. And we achieve our goals, and a sushave kept you informed of our tainable value-creation chain, progress. together with our partners. We Munich, April 2020 3 support initiatives such as KoAimed at attaining a more suspernikus projects (for promotSpecial Events tainable society, our Sustainaing the transition to renewable Dr. Rudolf Staudigl and Awards Balance® strategy promotes energy) and Together for SusPresident & CEO of the balance between ecologitainability (a chemical-industry Wacker Chemie AG cal, social and economic facinitiative for promoting imtors. This includes implementprovements in the chemical ing our SDGs. Our goal as an supply chain). We honor hu4 innovative chemical company man rights in our company and Practical is to achieve a neutral CO2 in the supply chain. As we take Actions footprint by 2050 with sustainaour responsibility seriously, not ble products. only do we assess our suppliIn accomplishing this, we focus ers according to sustainability on our employees and our ofcriteria, but we also have our 5 ferings. We continuously adapt own track record assessed for Principles our product portfolio with our adherence to social and enviof UNGC strong teams so that our cusronmental standards. This year tomers always have ever-more we’re proud to announce that 2 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 2 Governance – Strategic Orientation for the future Our sustainability agenda SustainaBalance®: To achieve a more sustainable society, we balance ecological and socioeconomic concerns by following three guidelines: 1 Statement of Continued Support 2 Value UP Footprint DOWN Collaboration BEYOND Governance By empowering our teams, We create efficient and safe processes, As a contributing member of society, we enable our customers use resources responsibly, avoid waste we strive for a sustainable value to provide more sustainable and minimize our footprint chain together with all our partner solutions 3 Special Events and Awards Our roadmap 2030: Higher degree of electrificaMore Sustainable Products Fewer direct (process) tion plus a more sustainable emissions supply chain 4 Practical 90% neutral or positive sustaina50% reduction in specific energy con>60% electrification of our processes Actions bility contribution in 2030 (in line with sumption by 2030 (vs.2007) (with respect to our total energy demand) WACKER Sustainable Solutions) with ongoing transition towards renewa33% reduction in specific emissions in ble energy By constantly improving our portfolio 2030 (vs.2012) and replacing critical products, we By further optimizing our internal pro90% of key suppliers with a positive 5 enable our customers to offer more sustainability contribution Principles sustainable solutions in the end marcesses, integrated production, energy efof UNGC ket. ficiency, and carbon capture and utilizaBy collaborating with industry partners, tion, as well as investigating the circular we support initiatives like the Copernicus economy and fossil-free steam generaprojects to promote energy transition and tion. Together for Sustainability to drive improvements in the chemical supply chain. 3 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 2 Governance – Strategic Orientation for the future Our Sustainable Corporate Management Is Based on Voluntary, International Initiatives 1 Statement of Continued Support WACKER has been an active member of As a member of the UN Global Compact Launched in 2011, the TfS initiative aims the Responsible Care® initiative since since 2006, we actively support the goals at recording the sustainability perfor1991 and, as a program participant, the of this, the world’s most important and exmance of suppliers and optimizing their company must act to continually improve tensive initiative for responsible corporate ecological and social standards. Our 2 health, safety and environmental performembership means we have taken a key management. The Global Compact adGovernance mance on a voluntary basis – even in the dresses the protection of human rights, step in improving the sustainability of our absence of statutory requirements. social and environmental standards, and entire supplier chain. the fight against corruption. 3 Process Control and Reporting System Special Events and Awards Integriertes Aside from our vision and Sustainability Report Managementsystem goals, our ethical principles IMS form the third pillar of WACKER’s corporate policy guidelines. These prin4 We control operational processes via our ciples are laid down in five Every two years, we publish a sustainability corporate codes – includPractical integrated management system (IMS) . report in order to inform our stakeholders Actions ing the Code of SustainaThis system stipulates uniform standards about WACKER’s sustainability work in an bility – and are supplethroughout the Group for issues relating to open and comprehensive manner. In 2019, quality, environmental protection, and mented by a body of WACKER published its Sustainability Reregulations and directives. health and safety. We have our Group port for 2017/2018. 5 They are mandatory for all management system certified by an interemployees worldwide. Principles national certification organization to enof UNGC sure its compliance with ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environmental protection) and, at our German sites, also with ISO 50001 (energy). 4 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 3 Special Events and Awards in 2019 A Popular Employer in the Sustainability Week IMS: Sustainability Management Chemical Industry 1 Statement The initiative focused on sustainability The regional focus of sustainability manIn 2019, WACKER’s own executives of Continued goal number twelve. The theme of “Susagement in the reporting year was Euagain rated it one of the most popular Support tainable Consumption and Production” rope. Our sites at Jena, Halle, Holla, employers in the German chemical incovers a number of different angles, León, Plzeň and Stetten underwent dustry. In the annual VAA survey of exranging from sustainable production health and safety audits. In addition, enecutives in the chemical industry, workflows, responsible procurement vironmental aspects were examined at WACKER came in third out of a total of 2 and protection of our natural resources, Holla, Plzeň and Stetten. In 2020, the re23 companies. Governance to garbage prevention, recycling and efgional focus will be on Asia. forts to raise awareness. 3 Special Events and Awards Initiative to evolve Corporate Culture Nature Conservation In 2019, the Group’s Executive Board and senior execIn 2019, we launched a project to upgrade the ecologiutives launched an initiative to evolve WACKER’s corcal status of unused green spaces at the Burghausen 4 porate culture and rolled it out across the organization site with the aim of improving the habitat for insects. A Practical worldwide. The initiative focuses on empowerment section of the embankment of the Alz canal near the Actions (delegating and taking responsibility), collaboration, inBurghausen site is being cultivated as a wildflower volvement and performance, all of which rest upon the meadow to encourage local flora and attract insects. As pillars of trust and purpose. Through this initiative, the owner of the land, we are using this project to stimWACKER is seeking to advance the Group’s transforulate ecological development in partnership with the 5 mation into a more flexible organization that relies more Landschaftspflegeverband Altötting (Altötting LandPrinciples strongly on the individual responsibility of its employscape Conservation Association). The project is supof UNGC ees. ported by the Bavarian Environment Ministry’s landscape conservation program. 5 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Overview 1 Statement of Continued Support Value Up Footprint Down Collaboration Beyond 2 Governance Human Rights Labor Standards & Safety Anti-Corruption and Bribery Respect for Human Rights….………. 7 Plant Safety…......…………………….12 Anti-Corruption……………………......18 Human Rights Committee……………… 7 Safety Training and Inspections….... 12 Managing Corporate Risks................ 18 Personnel Matters.....………………...7 Safe Transport of Hazardous 3 Basic& Advanced Training……....... 8 Materials…………………………........ 12 Social Responsibility Special Events Diversity & Equal Opportunity...…..... 8 Product Safety ……………................ 13 Sustainable Supply-Chainand Awards Proportion of Women in Executive Workplace Safety..........……............. 13 management……...............................20 Positions……………………………….9 Neighbors...................................…… 20 Work-Life Balance...................….......9 Environment & Climate Schools & Universities.......................21 Employee Turnover.…………………. 9 Environmental issues........................ 16 Commitment to Disadvantaged Employee Representation...…………9 Environmental Protection............…...16 Children & Teenagers....................... 21 4 Energy............................................... 16 WACKER Relief Fund....................... 21 Sustainable Products Emissions.......................................... 17 Practical Actions Ecological Product Assessment.……11 Water................................................. 17 WACKER Sustainable Solutions…… 11 Life Cycle Assessment...................... 11 ISC.................................................... 11 5 Principles of UNGC 6 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical 4 Actions: Praktische Human Rights Umsetzung: Menschenrechte Respect for Human Rights Human Rights Komitee employees who are disabled or have chronic health issues are integrated in the Respect for human rights, and the eliminaThe Human Rights Committee, consisting workplace over the long term. Vocational tion of human rights abuses, are fundaof the member departments HR, Compli1 training has always been a focus of mental to our activities. We are explicitly ance, Sustainability and Procurement & WACKER’s personnel-development activiStatement committed to the UN Global Compact’s Logistics (PL), was established in 2018. of Continued ties. We offer our employees attractive Ten Principles and, thus, to protecting huThe committee is tasked with prioritizing Support compensation, good promotion prospects man rights and avoiding complicity in hupotential effects on human rights and a share in our company’s success. All man rights abuses. We condemn slavery (WACKER, the supply chain, etc.), checkkey personnel matters are dealt with by the and all other forms of forced or compulsory ing existing management approaches for corresponding Executive Board commitlabor. In this area, we follow the OECD protective and control mechanisms, identi2 tees. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, fying weak points and covering information Governance the ILO Core Labor Standards and the UN needs. It therefore also concerns itself with In our Code of Conduct, we explicitly comGuiding Principles on Business and Huglobal implementation of the National Acmit ourselves to the UN Global Compact’s man Rights. We are currently in the protion Plan for Business and Human Rights Ten Principles. They include the principles cess of implementing the requirements of (NAP). on labor standards, namely upholding the 3 the National Action Plan for Business and freedom of association (Principle 3), elimiSpecial Events Human Rights. Personnel Matters nating all forms of forced labor (Principle and Awards 4), abolishing child labor (Principle 5) and Our efforts focus not only on working conWACKER’s success is a team effort, ineliminating discrimination (Principle 6). We ditions in our company, but also on humanvolving the whole workforce. That is why also make commitments to our customers rights compliance in the supply chain. We the company – in the spirit of the UN’s Susto uphold these same labor standards. expect our suppliers to follow the principles tainable Development Goal 8: Decent 4 of both the Global Compact and the ReWork and Economic Growth – encourages The sanctions we impose for any proven sponsible Care® initiative. It is a requireits employees to realize their potential, asmisconduct in personnel matters are dePractical Actions ment that is anchored in our General sume responsibility and contribute their termined by the seriousness of the inciTerms and Conditions of Procurement. To own ideas. We support their endeavors by dent. There were no incidents of note in check compliance, we conduct assessproviding basic and advanced training opthe reporting year. ments and audits in line with the criteria of portunities. We want our employees to 5 the Together for Sustainability initiative. have secure jobs, generous employee benefits and a work culture that facilitates Principles of UNGC a positive work-life balance. It is important to us that they all enjoy equality of opportunity. A further aim is to ensure that any 7 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Human Rights Basic and Advanced Training at High in personnel-development activities and sity Charter. Ever since then, WACKER Levels advanced training (2018: € 8.7 million). has set yearly priorities to sensitize employees to the opportunities and chalWACKER has made vocational training a 1 Diversity and Equal Opportunity lenges of a diverse workforce. The focus in focus of its personnel-development activi2019 was on age, experience and cultural Statement ties. In 2019, 201 young people began apEqual opportunity: we view human diverdiversity. of Continued prenticeships at WACKER or at the sity as an asset. We oppose discriminatory Support Burghausen Vocational Training Center or derogatory treatment on the basis of At WACKER, special arrangements are in (BBiW). With a total of 618 apprentices, gender, race, ethnicity, religion, ideology, place for anyone who has severe disabiliWACKER had slightly more apprentices disability, sexual orientation or age. These ties, who is of equivalent status or whose than the year before (2018: 599). The perprinciples are valid across the WACKER health is impaired. WACKER’s system of 2 centage of apprentices (ratio of apprenGroup and, as part of our corporate culture, workplace integration management calls Governance tices to Group employees in Germany) was are embodied in our Code of Teamwork & for close cooperation between supervisors, 5.6 percent, marginally higher than the Leadership. Employees can notify their suemployees, Human Resources, employee prior-year figure (5.5 percent). In 2019, pervisors, even anonymously, of any porepresentatives, representatives of emWACKER kept on virtually all suitably qualtential discrimination or report it to a comployees with disabilities and Health Ser3 ified apprentices – 148 graduates – hiring pliance officer, employee representative or vices in order to provide targeted support Special Events 126 on permanent contracts and 22 on designated HR contact person. Complaints in line with local laws. and Awards temporary contracts. The Burghausen Voare investigated and the reporting party inDiversity management at WACKER focational Training Center also provides formed of the outcome. Cases of potential cuses not only on inclusion, but also on the training for partner companies outside the discrimination are included in the monthly issues of gender and cultural background. WACKER Group. compliance report submitted to the ExecuPeople from over 65 different nations work tive Board. In addition, they are listed in the 4 To keep abreast of demographic trends for WACKER. At the end of 2019, 36 out of regular reports submitted to the Superviand offer young people long-term proa total of 174 senior executives groupwide Practical sory Board. We require all employees at spects, a company agreement for were of non-German nationality, correActions our German sites to familiarize themselves WACKER Germany about hiring qualified sponding to 20.7 percent of the total. Overwith the country’s General Equal Treatapprentices is in effect through the end of all, 14 nationalities were represented at the ment Act (AGG) by completing an e-learn2022. Under the agreement, suitable apsenior executive level. ing course. 5 prentices receive a job offer after graduating. If the offer is for a long-term position, Promoting diversity: in 2015, WACKER Principles hiring is permanent; for temporary posilaunched a groupwide initiative to promote of UNGC tions, hiring is limited accordingly. In 2019, diversity and inclusion in its workforce, and WACKER invested a total of € 8.5 million in also signed Germany’s nationwide Diver8 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Human Rights Proportion of Women in Executive Pomore than 900 companies have joined the abroad are free to unionize as well. At nonsitions Pact. German sites where there is no (statutory We have set a goal to significantly increase or voluntary) employee representation, HR 1 the proportion of women in middle and upEmployee Turnover staff members are the contacts for emper management positions in the medium ployee interests. Statement Good social benefits, competitive compento long term. WACKER’s talent-manageof Continued sation and motivating tasks make ment process helps systematically identify Support WACKER an attractive employer. That is and nurture women with management poevident in our employees’ long-standing altential. The corporate governance report legiance to the company. The average contains additional information about the length of service in Germany (permanent 2 proportion of women in management and, staff) was 18.1 years (2018: 18.1 years). in particular, about how WACKER is impleGovernance The average length of service of menting the German statute on equal opWACKER’s executive personnel was 21.6 portunity for women and men in manageyears. In Germany, the fluctuation rate ment that came into force on May 1, 2015. dropped (2019: it was 0.5 percent; 2018: 3 0.7 percent). Internationally, it remained Work-Life Balance Special Events constant (2019 and 2018: 8.4 percent). and Awards WACKER offers its employees extensive Groupwide, it dropped in the reporting peopportunities to balance their private and riod (2019: it was 2.7 percent; 2018: 2.8 professional lives. These range from multipercent). ple work-time models, childcare assistance, and school-vacation support at Employee Representation 4 Burghausen (our largest site) through to Our employees in Germany make use of Practical one week of “family time” for parents of their option to unionize. Every WACKER Actions children under eight and support for emsite in Germany has employee representaployees caring for relatives. tion. WACKER actively nurtures the social WACKER’s membership in the “Famipartnership. In the interests of the comlienpakt Bayern” (Family Pact Bavaria) netpany’s employees, relations between man5 work, sponsored jointly by the Bavarian agement and employee representatives Principles state government and Bavarian industry, are close and constructive. Innovative and of UNGC highlights our goal to foster a familyworkable company agreements are one refriendly corporate culture. To date, more sult of this dialogue. WACKER employees 9 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 10 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Sustainable Products Ecological Product Assessment WACKER Sustainable Solutions aims to: Life Cycle Assessment When assessing the sustainability of prodPromote and expand our existing Our life cycle assessments (LCAs) quantify ucts, we take account of economic, envisustainable business fields the environmental impact of our products 1 ronmental and social aspects throughout Establish new sustainable business from their manufacture through to the moStatement the entire product life cycle. The instruareas ment they leave the factory gate. Such of Continued ments we use for this are the WACKER Identify and assess sustainabilityanalyses allow us to evaluate the sustainSupport ECOWHEEL® and WACKER Sustainable related risks to our business portfoability of our products and production proSolutions. We also perform life cycle aslio at an early stage cesses, and to improve them accordingly. sessments, which enable us to track the In an LCA, we take account of all relevant, The Executive Board convened a Sustainprogress of a product from its manufacture potentially harmful effects on soil, air and 2 ability Council to monitor and coordinate through to when it leaves the factory gate. water, as well as all material flows associthe WACKER Sustainable Solutions ProGovernance ated with the system in question. This inWe use the WACKER ECOWHEEL® to gram. Its members, who are drawn from cludes raw-material consumption and identify key sustainability topics at a qualithe business divisions and corporate deemissions from supply and disposal protative level and, together with our custompartments, rate the company’s sustainabilcesses, from energy generation and from 3 ers, set priorities for research projects. Our ity performance. The Sustainability Council transport. In the reporting period, evaluations factor in the material, water coordinates interdepartmental measures Special Events WACKER POLYMERS updated its LCA and energy consumption of a product, as and reviews the progress made by the proand Awards data for dispersions and for dispersible polwell as its ecotoxicity, over the entire life gram. ymer powders. WACKER SILICONES had cycle. LCAs performed for the entire silicone proOur aim is to continually increase the production chain and, where requested, supportion of products that contribute to susWACKER Sustainable Solutions plied customers with the processed data. tainability. By the end of 2019, we had as4 Practical Launched in 2018, the WACKER Sustainsessed over 85 percent of our products Actions able Solutions program puts into effect our (measured by sales share). 75 percent of ISC goal of focusing on sustainability. The prothese make a neutral or positive contribuIn order to systematically assess raw magram is intended to anchor sustainabilitytion to sustainability. For the remaining 25 terials that we use in our products, we have related aspects more firmly in our business percent, we are identifying starting points set up our Identifying Substances and Mix5 models, to identify new, sustainable busifor improvements, such as substituting intures of Concern (ISC) system in a dediPrinciples ness opportunities and to minimize susgredients. cated database. of UNGC tainability-related risks at an early stage. 11 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Labor Standards & Safety Plant Safety system we use for sustainability reporting cerning the International Carriage of Dan(SPIRIT). The reports are evaluated and gerous Goods by Road (ADR) in the shipAn important goal at WACKER is to operate measures tracked. Incident reports that ofping areas at our sites and warehouses in plants and processes in a manner that 1 fer cross-division or cross-site learning efGermany (2018: roughly 12,000). We turn poses no risk to people or the environment. fects are processed and forwarded to any away any that are defective. Failure rates Statement To this end, we have installed a groupwide company units with a similar risk potential. have been extremely low for years now. of Continued safety management system that addresses Support The rate for 2019 was roughly 2.8 percent both workplace and plant safety. Safety Training and Inspections for hazardous-goods shipments by road The first stage in ensuring the safety of our WACKER attaches particular importance from Burghausen, our largest site in Gerplants is to systematically identify and to providing its safety experts with ongoing many (2018: 2.0 percent). As elsewhere, 2 assess risks. This includes analyzing not training. We hold regular training sessions, we rely on welltrained personnel for only how well we control the energy present for example, on plant safety and explosiontransport safety. Governance in a process (e.g. pressure, heat), but also damage protection. In 2019, we audited We regularly discuss the issue of transport what effect a single error might have on a our European sites in Halle, Holla, Jena, safety with our logistics providers in Gerchain of events that could culminate in the León, Plzeň and Stetten. WACKER awards many at occasions like our annual Supplier 3 escape of a substance or an accident. After recognition to facilities that operate for susDay. If deficiencies are found, we agree imcompleting this comprehensive analysis, tained periods of time without a reportable Special Events provements and then follow up on their imand Awards we specify safety measures to prevent accident. plementation. Contractually defined speciundesired events. fications, including the requirements profile Safe Transport of Hazardous Materials for providers of road transport logistics, enWACKER ensures that its products are able WACKER to ensure that logistics prostored and transported safely, especially viders meet its stringent safety require4 where hazardous goods are involved. All ments. Selected shippers of hazardous sites at which WACKER produces and goods are audited annually. Practical Actions ships goods must comply with locally and internationally applicable transport regulaFor products with a high hazard potential, tions, as well as with WACKER’s own strict we use packaging and tanks of the highest safety standards. quality. 5 Our safety management system focuses on In 2019, roughly 14 percent of total shipPrinciples prevention. Even so, safety-critical inciments in Germany were shipments of hazof UNGC dents cannot always be prevented. Across ardous goods. Some 9,000 trucks for hazthe Group, we enter any incident relevant to ardous-goods shipments were inspected safety, health or the environment in the IT pursuant to the European Agreement con12 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Labor Standards & Safety Product Safety metric ton must be registered and evaluWorkplace Safety ated. The scope of evaluation work is Workplace and plant safety are vitally imWACKER provides information on the safe largely determined by the quantity proportant for WACKER. That is why use of its products and works continually to 1 duced or imported and by the expected WACKER defines safety targets together prevent or reduce the use in products of risks. Particularly high-risk substances are with its executives in Germany (in upper Statement any substances harmful to human health subject to regulatory approval. As part of and middle management) during its annual of Continued and the environment. WACKER complies Support REACH, WACKER had submitted 550 regtarget-setting process. with the chemical legislation applicable in istration dossiers, including any revisions, the destination countries to which it ships WACKER’s processes and standards for to the European Chemicals Agency its products. The expense involved in folworkplace safety are aligned with the inter(ECHA) by the end of 2019. In the course lowing and implementing such legislation national standards OHSAS 18001 and 2 of its regular evaluation activities, ECHA worldwide continues to rise steadily. ISO 45001. Systematic workplace safety Governance required additional information for many of includes regular evaluation of hazards and As a guide for our product developers, we the dossiers, all of which we provided on work-area monitoring. maintain a list of substances that WACKER time in 2019. products may no longer contain. In addition All our employees are given safety training WACKER’s close contact with its suppliers 3 to prohibited and restricted chemicals tailored to their particular work areas. extends to matters relating to substances (such as materials listed in Annexes XIV WACKER Germany, for example, offers Special Events not yet registered under REACH. We refer and Awards and XVII to the REACH Regulation), the list over 40 online courses on occupational to our data when verifying the registration includes substances that many companies safety issues. Topics range from general status and, where necessary, request infind undesirable. As far as possible, we safety guidelines for office and laboratory formation to ensure that we use only avoid substances on the European Chemworkers to instruction on safe behavior in REACH-compliant raw materials. icals Agency’s List of Substances of Very potentially explosive atmospheres and the 4 High Concern (SVHC). To promote the safe use of chemicals, the classification of hazardous materials. International Council of Chemical AssociaPractical The REACH Regulation, which came into In the reporting year, we continued the retions (ICCA) developed its Global Product Actions force in 2007, governs the registration, view of protection plans for compressors Strategy (GPS), which is a guideline on evaluation, authorization and restriction of begun in the previous year, including any how to assess chemical properties and chemicals within the European Union. necessary retrofitting. We had initiated the provide product safety information. In EuREACH involves the collection of extensive safety program in response to the findings 5 rope, most GPS requirements are satisfied data and imposes stringent requirements from the investigation of the 2017 exploby REACH and by the CLP Regulation Principles on the manufacturers, importers and users sion at Charleston, USA. (Classification, Labeling and Packaging of of UNGC of chemical products. All substances on Substances and Mixtures). Similarly, the program to improve the the European market that are used or imsafety of pipe bridges was continued. The ported in annual quantities exceeding one 13 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Labor Standards & Safety focus here was on repairing piping that is aimed at informing and motivating employees particularly prone to corrosion, and on laon safety issues. Our sites at Plzeň (Czech beling and documenting every last pipe Republic) and Nanjing (China), as well as 1 bridge. those at Adrian and Charleston (USA), orgaStatement nized such Safety Days in 2019. Workplace accident performance is one of of Continued Support the most important non-financial perforWe are continuing to implement our WACKER mance indicators. Compared with the preSafety Plus (WSP) program, which looks at vious year, we changed our workplace sites with particularly low accident rates and safety goal to reduce accidents: the new makes use of their successful safety 2 goal is to ensure that the number of workmeasures, such as safety patrols, emergency Governance place accidents per 1 million hours worked drills and holding discussions with the workdoes not exceed 2.0 groupwide in 2020 force. The goal of WACKER Safety Plus is to (prior-year goal: 1.7). The accident rate acrecognize and avoid unsafe behavior. tually achieved was 3.4 workplace acci3 dents per 1 million hours worked, up someSpecial Events what from the previous year. In the and Awards reporting period, WACKER again had no fatal workplace accidents in its workforce. Very few accidents at WACKER involve chemicals. The most common causes are tripping, slipping, falling and lack of care 4 when performing manual activities. We are Practical never satisfied with our accident rate, and Actions we regularly update our workplace safety initiatives. In 2019, we again reviewed how effectively our German sites implement key safety regulations including, for example, 5 updated rules governing the preparation of Principles safe-work permits and a campaign to raise of UNGC awareness of the accident risks associated with smartphone use. Another initiative is the Safety Days program – focused events 14 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 15 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Environment & Climate Environmental Concerns Our Groupwide standards for protecting Energy the environment apply to all our production By setting quantifiable environmental tarThe chemical industry is one of the most sites and technical competence centers. gets, we aim to lower the environmental imenergy-intensive sectors. WACKER’s sites The site managers ensure that environ1 pact of our production activities. The longin Germany consume around 4,000 GWh of mental protection requirements and enviStatement term goals regarding CO2 emissions and electricity, accounting for about 0.8 percent ronmental standards are met at their parof Continued energy consumption that applied at of the country’s electricity consumption. ticular locations. The Group Coordinator Support WACKER Germany have been extended to WACKER is continually improving the enfor the Environment looks at how sites imthe WACKER Group. The Executive Board ergy efficiency of its processes. This enaplement environmental standards in prachas defined energy targets for WACKER to bles us to remain globally competitive while tice and performs random checks to verify further lower specific energy consumption at the same time contributing to climate legal compliance. 2 (amount of energy per unit of net production protection. Governance output). Our goal is to reduce the Group’s In 2019, WACKER invested € 5.1 million in Many chemical reactions generate heat specific energy consumption to onehalf of environmental protection (2018: € 5.9 milthat can be put to use in other production the 2007 level by 2030. lion). Environmental operating costs processes. In addition to recovering heat amounted to € 82.9 million (2018: € 82.9 Environmental Protection from such chemical reactions, we have 3 million). Examples of capital expenditure been using integrated heat-recovery sysSpecial Events WACKER attaches particular importance to on environmental protection: at the tems in Burghausen and Nünchritz for and Awards integrated environmental protection, which Burghausen site, we enhanced the availayears and are continually improving and exbegins right at the product-development bility of our sludge incineration facility by panding them. In this way, we reduce the and plant-planning stage. WACKER is conautomating tasks, and thus reduced polluamount of primary energy (natural gas) tinually working to improve its production tant emissions. At our wastewater treatconsumed by our power plants. processes, with the aim of conserving rement plant in Nünchritz, we automated the 4 sources. A key task is to close material inflow of nutrients and additives in order to Practical loops and recycle byproducts from other aralign them with demand, to avoid excess Actions eas back into production. This enables us additions and to lower discharges into wato reduce or prevent energy and resource terways. consumption, emissions and waste, and to integrate environmental protection into our 5 production processes. At WACKER, we Principles monitor resource and waste targets at site of UNGC and divisional levels. 16 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Environment & Climate In 2019, we adopted energy-efficiency Nünchritz’s cogeneration plant, produced a measures to improve climate protection. In measures to further reduce specific energy total of 1,075 GWh of electricity in 2019 addition to tracking our indirect greenhouse consumption. To this end, we continued to (2018: 1,431 GWh). Thus, WACKER gengas emissions from procured energy enhance our production plants’ heat-recoverated about 27 percent of its total electric(Scope 2), we also measure all WACKER1 ery processes and integrated systems, and ity requirements in Germany itself. relevant emissions along the value chain Statement optimize electrical power consumption. (Scope 3) that are generated, for example, of Continued WACKER is subject to the regulations of by the procurement of raw materials, prodSupport WACKER’s German production sites acthe EU emissions trading system because uct transport or waste disposal. WACKER counted for 69 percent (2018: 77 percent) of its power plants at the Burghausen and discloses Scope 3 data in its Sustainability of the Group’s total electricity consumption. Nünchritz sites, and its silicon-metal proReport, as well as in the Climate Change The share of procured electricity rose in duction plant in Holla, Norway. We have Report of the Climate Disclosure Project 2 2019. This was because we began in Aucovered shortfalls since 2014 by buying (CDP). In 2019, WACKER submitted its Governance gust of that year to install a new gas turbine emission allowances for facilities subject to second CDP Water Security Report (for the to modernize the Burghausen site’s comemissions trading. Groupwide, carbon direporting year 2018), improving its overall bined heat and power (CHP) plant for elecoxide emissions from captive power plants result to B–. This was made possible by detricity and steam generation. During this subject to emissions trading rules and from tailed analyses of the company’s processes 3 work, we have been unable to generate our siliconmetal production in Holla totaled and by more systematic data capture (prior Special Events own electricity there, which must be exterabout 0.9 million metric tons in the reportyear: D; scale from A to D, representing the and Awards nally procured. This capital expenditure on ing period (2018: 1.0 million metric tons). levels Leadership (A), Management (B), the upgrade of our CHP plant will substanAwareness (C) and Disclosure (D)). Registially reduce our greenhouse gas emissions Emissions tered CDP users can download the details. compared with the public energy mix. The new turbine has an output of over 130 MW, In 2019, direct emissions of carbon dioxide Water 4 enabling the CHP plant to achieve fuel effi(Scope 1 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) In 2019, WACKER submitted its second Practical ciency of over 86 percent. That means it will declined by 5 percent year over year, CDP Water Security Report (for the reportActions operate more efficiently and produce lower mainly due to the new turbine and the fiveing year 2018), improving its overall result emissions than the almost 20-year-old facilmonth shutdown of the CHP plant in to B. This was made possible by detailed ity it replaces. Burghausen necessitated by its installaanalyses of the company’s processes and tion. Commissioning of the new Furnace 8 Our primary source of energy is natural gas. by more systematic data capture. 5 at the Holla site resulted in a further direct At Burghausen, our largest site, we produce Principles cut in carbon dioxide emissions. steam and electricity in the CHP plant using of UNGC a cogeneration system. This plant, together Monitoring the Group’s carbon footprint is with Burghausen’s hydroelectric plant and an important tool from which we derive 17 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Anti-Corruption and Bribery Preventing Corruption and Bribery Managing Corporate Risks Corruption and bribery have no place in our Risk and compliance management at business model. Our principles on this are WACKER is presented in detail in the risk 1 contained in our Code of Conduct and all management report, which forms part of Statement WACKER employees are required to follow the combined management report. The of Continued them. same is true for the central risk areas afSupport fecting WACKER’s business and how they Training courses on compliance sensitize are dealt with. employees to specific risks and to the rules of conduct that apply at work. Compliance Overall, we see no serious risks that might 2 is a compulsory training subject for all arise from environmental concerns, perGovernance WACKER Group employees. sonnel matters, social issues, human rights, corruption or bribery. Similarly, we According to Transparency International’s see no serious sustainability risks that Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI), more might arise from our business relationships than half of the countries in which 3 WACKER operates have a low to very low or our products. Special Events risk of corruption. and Awards In 2019, as part of our prevention measures, 29 organizational units and 20 percent of the legal entities underwent risk assessments for corruption and bribery. 4 One case of bribery came to light. It was inPractical vestigated and dealt with a termination of Actions employment contract. 5 Prinzipien des UNGC 18 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 19 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Social Responsibility WACKER sees itself as a good corporate The results of TfS audits and assessments Manufacturing Practice). In the case of incitizen – as part of the society in which we are integral to our process of supplier evaldustrial suppliers, we also require certificalive and work. That is why we practice souation. When the results are unsatisfaction to ISO 14001 (environmental proteccial responsibility, especially in the regions tory, we speak to the supplier about how tion). 1 where our sites are located. they could make improvements. ReasStatement sessments or repeated audits are used to Neighbors of Continued follow up on progress. Consistently poor Support Sustainable Supply-Chain Management Corporate citizenship is based on good reresults and lack of cooperation have conlations with municipalities and neighbors. With production sites in Europe, the Amerisequences and may ultimately lead to busiWe speak openly about what happens becas and Asia, WACKER procures goods ness relations being terminated. We take a hind our factory gates. Across the world, and services from numerous countries. As risk-based approach when assessing our 2 our sites address the public’s questions. a member of both the United Nations Global suppliers. Governance Local residents who turn to us receive Compact and the chemical industry’s ReOur aim is to use TfS to evaluate the susprompt, clear answers to their concerns. sponsible Care® initiative, we consider it vitainability performance of all our key supWe achieve this by operating local hotlines tal to verify that our suppliers fulfill the genpliers, who account for 70 percent of the and having central contact persons in erally accepted sustainability principles that 3 Group’s procurement volume. Since joinplace. form part of our General Terms and CondiSpecial Events ing TfS, we have made good progress tions of Procurement. Particularly important We publish information about our sites in and Awards along this path. At the end of 2019, 72 perissues in an audit include working condiour environmental reports and brochures. cent of our key suppliers and 84 percent of tions, ethical standards, safety standards We hold open houses and other outreach their procurement volume were covered by (especially for handling hazardous materievents, including WACKER’s Knowledge a valid TfS assessment or audit (i.e. no als) and the management of local resources Forum, Burghausen’s Environment Informore than three years old). Overall, more (water use, energy consumption, etc.). mation Days and Nünchritz’s annual com4 than 72 percent of our global procurement munity meeting. Practical As verification is vital, WACKER joined the volume in 2019 was covered by TfS – for Actions Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative in raw materials, the figure is actually 88 perAt many of our sites, we offer local commuJanuary 2015. Launched by the chemical cent and, for energy, 95 percent. A monthly nities free services, including health and industry, this procurement initiative develmanagement report tracks how successeye checkups in India and a Household oped a process for auditing and assessing fully TfS goals are met. Hazardous Waste Day at Adrian (USA), 5 a supplier’s sustainability performance. Bewhere neighbors bring in household chemFurther, we expect our suppliers to use a Principles cause results are standardized and accesicals that are not allowed in trash cans. management system that meets the reof UNGC sible to all TfS members, the program is quirements of ISO 9001 (quality) or compaalso attractive for suppliers. rable specifications such as GMP (Good 20 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 4 Practical Actions: Social Responsibility Schools and universities Commitment to Disadvantaged ChilWACKER Relief Fund Provides Aid dren and Teenagers WACKER wants to get children and young Following the catastrophic tsunami of 2004, people interested in technology and the natWe want to improve children’s and teenagWACKER founded a relief fund (WACKER 1 ural sciences. As a chemical company, we ers’ lives and job prospects. This is why we HILFSFONDS) to help victims of natural Statement will need outstanding scientists in the fusupport Die Arche (“The Ark”) – a German disasters. This charitable fund provides of Continued ture, and are pursuing multiple strategies to charity for the young. “The Ark” helps fivelong-term assistance for reconstruction Support find them. to twelve-year-olds from socially disadvanprojects in devastated regions. WACKER taged families in several German cities. has always matched its employees’ donaWACKER supports progressive teaching The Munich branch helps over 100 children tions to the charity. methods and modern approaches to school and teenagers daily with warm meals, 2 management. We are a founding member Sri Lanka: Over €400,000 to build and homework assistance and extracurricular Governance of the Bavarian Educational Pact, a foundamaintain a school in Sri Lanka; the activities, as well as advice and counseltion comprising 143 companies and the WACKER employee cent-donation proing. state of Bavaria. Its goal is to modernize the gram keeps the school running. Bavarian educational system. In 2019, the From 2007 to 2019 WACKER made annual Nepal: Over €100,000 for rebuilding 3 number of teachers in Germany and Austria donations of €100,000 to the charity’s Muschools and kindergartens in Nepal’s Sindtrained in WACKER’s CHEM2DO® experinich branch so that in over 13 years of partSpecial Events hupalchok Province. and Awards ment kit reached 2,500. Now in its sixth nership, WACKER has donated more than year, the kit prepares educators for experi€1.3 million. China: More than €100,000 for rebuilding ments involving silicones and cyclodextrins an elementary school that was destroyed in that can then be conducted in class. Sichuan province WACKER places great emphasis on fosterHaiti: Over €300,000 for running an ele4 ing young scientific talent and maintaining mentary/middle school in Gressier after Practical close contact with universities. Our rehelping fund its reconstruction. Actions searchers are frequently invited to deliver Pakistan: €50,000 for rebuilding an elepresentations and lectures at universities. mentary school in the Swat district. University groups visit our locations to gain insights into work at an industrial company. 5 Students can write their bachelor’s, masPrinciples ter’s and doctor’s theses at WACKER, work of UNGC as interns with the company or take vacation jobs. 21 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 5 Principles of UNGC UNGC Principle Implementation at WACKER Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protec• Corporate philosophy and target setting 2, 3 1 tion of internationally proclaimed human rights; • Principles of Corporate Ethics 4 Statement • Participation in initiatives 4 of Continued and … • Orientation on standards 3 Support • Corporate Citizenship 20, 21 Principle 2: • Supply Chain Management 20 … make sure that they are not complicit in human • Human Rights Committee 7 rights abuses 2 Governance Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of associa• Labor union 9 tion and the effective recognition of the right to col• Global employee representation 9 lective bargaining; … • HR staff members for employees’ interests 9 3 Special Events and Awards Principle 4: … the elimination of all forms • We condemn slavery and all other forms of 7 of forced and compulsory labor; … forced or compulsory labor as well as child labor • Social benefits, working time models 7 and • work safety 13,14 4 • Supply Chain management 7,20 Practical Principle 5: …the effective abolition of child labor; Actions Principle 6: …the elimination of discrimination in respect of em• Equal treatment, trainings 8 ployment and occupation. • Compliance report 18 5 • Equal opportunity charter 8 Principles of UNGC • Proportion of Women in Executive Positions 9 22 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 5 Principles of UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary ap• SustainaBalance® 3 proach to environmental challenges; … • Environmental targets and transparent key fig16,17 ures 1 • Integrated environmental protection 16,5 Statement • Activities for more energy efficiency 16,17 of Continued • Product, plant and transport safety 12,13 Support Principle 8: 2 … undertake initiatives to promote greater environ• SustainaBalance® 3 Governance mental responsibility; and … • Alignment to SDGs 3 • Sustainable products, Product safety, trainings 11,13,14 • Nature Conservation 5 3 Special Events Principle 9: and Awards … encourage the development of environmentally • SustainaBalance® 3 friendly technologies. • Innovation strategy 2 • Sustainable products 11 Principle 10: 4 Businesses should work against corruption in all its • Code of Conduct 18 Practical forms, including extortion and bribery. • Trainings for employees 18 Actions • Compliance Management 18 5 Principles of UNGC 23 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020 Wacker Chemie AG Hanns-Seidel-Platz 4 81737 München Tel.: +49 89 6279-0 sustainability@wacker.com www.wacker.com/sustainability The contents of this publication apply to men and women alike, even if gender-specific words (e.g. “he” or “she”) are used for simplicity’s sake. CREATING TOMORROW’S SOLUTIONS 24 Wacker Chemie AG – Progress Report UNGC – 2020
