Progress to UN Global Compact Principles Rev 1.0 · 05/2020 Statement of support Ladies and gentlemen, ams has been a statutory member of the UN Global Compact coalition since 2009 and has been actively reporting progress towards the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption since then. This year we are communicating our detailed progress through the ams Communication on Progress 2020 Report. ams is a worldwide leader in sensor solutions focused on optical, image and audio sensing. For us, “Sensing is Life” and our passion is in creating sensor solutions that make devices smarter, safer, convenient and more environment-friendly. Our global business activities are governed by our company code of conduct, a binding set of principles for all of our employees as well as our global network of partners and customers. Each day we hold ourselves accountable to delivering to the highest business, strategic, ethical and environmental standards. We made significant progress towards the 10 Principles in 2019 underpinning our commitment: ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification: The ams manufacturing facilities in Austria and the Philippines have been DIN EN ISO 14001 certified for many years. We successfully received ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification for the 3 production locations in Singapore in 2019. 1.2 GWh electrical energy reduction: We reduced the electrical energy usage at our headquarters in Austria by 1.2GWh in 2019. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP): ams has been a proud member of the CDP since 2009. We publish information on our emissions footprint annually. Building a diverse and inclusive workforce: As a company, we recognize the importance of having a workforce that both reflects and complements our customer base. To this end, we continue to invest in building a world-class workforce where all employees are treated equally. With the introduction of our Women in Network (WIN), we have created a safe, supportive network for women to connect, communicate and share experiences internally. The leadership team gets direct feedback on the barriers which our female employees are confronted with. This enables us to take action and to actively engage with them on challenges and opportunities. Fostering innovation through employee learning and growth opportunities: Employees are our greatest asset, and as a company we have the responsibility to invest and grow our talent. We recently launched the ams Virtual University, an innovative platform for continuous learning, across 15 countries. Employees can choose from a menu of approximately 14,500 courses across technical, personal, professional leadership and management fields. We are partnering with Cornell University’s online professional development arm, eCornell as well as LinkedIn Learning and Semitracks to ensure we deliver an outstanding learning experience. Working with non-profits to support non-privileged communities: Helping and supporting the local communities is part of the ams DNA. Our initiatives have touched tens of thousands of people. From our sponsorship of the Austrian national team for the Homeless World Cup, where we have expanded the program to allow participants to gain important skills for job-searching, to a multiyear co-operation with the SOS Children’s Villages that supports children in need, ams is committed to not just providing funds but to offering employee expertise and time to create opportunities and make these initiatives happen. As we move forward with the expected combination of ams and Osram, we plan to align the corporate responsibility initiatives of both companies in the anticipated integration process with a view to further promote corporate responsibility at the combined company. Best Regards, Alexander Everke, CEO Thomas Stockmeier, COO Human Rights & Labor Standards PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should Business should ensure Business should uphold support and respect that they are not complicit the freedom of association the protection of in human rights abuses. and the effective internationally recognition of the right proclaimed human rights to collective bargaining ACTIONS • We support and respect the protection of interna• We prohibit any form of employee discrimination. tionally proclaimed human rights for all. • Our Company Core Values and Leadership Princi• We have a Global Compliance Board to ensure that ples describe our core values and the leadership we are conducting our business operations in full qualities we expect from all employees. compliance with all national and international re• Our company Code of Conduct is a binding set of gulations and laws. principles and behaviors for all of our employees. • Our business Code of Conduct and supplier agreeIt outlines our expectations regarding employee ments are compliant with the International Human behavior towards all employees, customers and Rights Bill Core values and leadership program. suppliers. • ams selects suppliers based on their capabilities to • We have long established avenues where empprovide competitive solutions but also based on loyees can voice any of their grievances anonymtheir commitment to sustainability and the fulfillously and directly into executive management ment of our Code of Conduct. We have a rigorous from anywhere in the world through our Global supplier audit system which incorporate self-asEmployee Communications Platform. sessment through to on-site audits. We continuously review progress and diligently set and agree goals and expectations for continuous improvement. Human Rights & Labor Standards PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 6 Business should support Business should support Business should support the elimination of all forms the effective abolition of the elimination of of forced and compulsory child labour discrimination in respect labour of employment and occupation ACTIONS • Our company Code of Conduct is a binding set of • We recently launched the ams Virtual University, an principles and behaviors for all of our employees. innovative platform for continuous learning, across It outlines our expectations regarding employee 15 countries. Employees can choose from a menu behavior towards all employees, customers and of approximately 14,500 courses across technical, suppliers. personal, professional leadership and management fields. We are partnering with Cornell University’s • We have long established avenues where emponline professional development arm, eCornell as loyees can voice any of their grievances anonymwell as LinkedIn Learning and Semitracks to ensure ously and directly into executive management we deliver an outstanding learning experience. from anywhere in the world through our Global Employee Communications Platform. • Our MyNeo (new employee orientation) onboarding program was implemented in 2019. It was • Our Code of Conduct prohibits any form of forced created to support the integration of new empand compulsory child labor. loyees into the company in a consistent and effec• We comply with the employment rights set out in tive manner. international conventions of the United Nations • We have increased our social engagements sub(UN), the International Labor Organisation (ILO), stantially and are proud sponsors of the Austrian the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and national team for the Homeless World Cup. We Development (OECD) and the UN Global Compact also entered into a multi-year co-operation with Initiative. the SOS Children’s Villages that supports children • We introduced a new diversity program, the in need. Women in Network (WIN), a supportive network for women to connect, communicate and share experiences internally. Our goal is to make women more visible within the company and to help them gain the necessary skills to advance within the organization. Environment PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 9 Precautionary approach Support initiatives for Development to environmental greater awareness of and diffusion of protection environmental environmentally responsibility friendly technologies ACTIONS • Our manufacturing sites in Premstaetten (Austria), • We decreased the industrial grade chemicals that Calamba (Philippines), Ang Mo Kio/ Woodlands/ are used in the preparation of ultrapure water, the Tampines (Singapore) are all ISO 14001 certified. treatment of wastewater and for exhaust air purification by 7.8% in 2019. • Our headquarters in Austria runs on 100% renewable electricity (hydropower). • We decreased our process chemicals usage by 10% in 2019 through process optimization and solvent • We reduced the electrical energy usage at our recycling. headquarters in Austria by 1.2GWh in 2019. • We are in compliance with California Proposition 65. • All our products are free of SVHC Substances as outlined in the REACH Directive 2006/1907/EC. • ams has a policy in place prohibiting the use of minerals from illegal mining and all of our products are conflict-minerals free. Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Action against corruption ACTIONS • We have a zero-tolerance policy to bribery and corrup• We use an online tool to track completion of comtion and all forms of it are strictly prohibited and are pliance trainings and the system sends reminders to non-negotiable. This is detailed in our anti-corruption employee when deadlines for completion are approCompliance Codex. aching. We update our training materials regularly. • Our Compliance Codex is an integral part of the • All violations are reported to our Compliance Board yearly employee performance review process. All emand dealt with accordingly. ployees must complete mandatory compliance and anti-corruption trainings using our e-learning tool. • We are committed to the highest level of honesty and integrity in all of our business relationships. • All new employees are automatically signed up to complete all anti-corruption mandatory trainings that are built into our new employee orientation program.
