Annual and sustainability report 2019 “We believe in the Power of True Joy” Contents 2019 in brief 1 Risks and risk management 71 Words from the President 2 Letter from the Chairman 75 Goals and strategies 4 Corporate Governance Statement 76 Long-term financial targets 4 Remuneration of the Group Management Team 82 Sustainability targets 5 Internal control over financial reporting 84 Strategic priorities 6 Board of Directors 86 Cloetta’s value chain 12 Group Management Team 88 Cloetta’s sustainability agenda 14 Financial reports, contents 90 The confectionery market 17 Group financial statements and notes 91 Brand, category and product development 19 Parent Company financial statements and notes 131 The consumer in the spotlight 20 Proposed appropriation of earnings 140 Strategic product development 23 Auditor’s report 141 Brand and category leadership 25 Ten-year overview 144 Cloetta’s leading brands 30 Key ratios 146 Cloetta’s main markets 34 Reconciliation of alternative performance measures 148 Supply chain 41 Sustainability governance 150 Factories 46 GRI index 153 Resource effectiveness and environmental impact 48 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report 155 Raw material 50 Definitions 156 Responsible sourcing 52 Glossary 157 Employees 54 History 158 Share and shareholders 58 Shareholder information 161 Financial performance 64 Net sales and profit 64 Financial position 67 Comments on the cash flow statement 69 Future outlook, Environmental impact and environmental management, Sustainability report 70 The audited annual report for Cloetta AB (publ) 556308-8144 consists of 6–11 (business model), 15–16, 73 (risks and risk management) and 5, 14–16, the administration report and the accompanying financial statements on 41–42, 48–49, 56–57, 150–152 (material sustainability matters, governance pages 1–4 and 64–140. and performance indicators). The reviewed sustainability account consists of pages 5, 12–16, 41–42, The annual report and sustainability report are published in Swedish 48–57, 150–154. The statutory sustainability report can be found on pages and English. The Swedish version is the original. Cloetta – a leading confectionery company in the Northern Europe. SALES IN 50 FOUNDED IN 1862 2,600 LEADING BRANDS EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES 8 ANNUAL SALES SEK 6.5BILLION CHOCOLATE CANDY PASTILLES CHEWING GUM PICK & MIX NUTS Our purpose Cloetta’s purpose, “We believe strategies and goals in the Power of express the compaTrue Joy” ny’s business idea. Cloetta’s strengths •S  trong leading local brands. • Core markets in stable Northwestern Europe. • Strong European leader in pick & mix. • Scale benefits in Northwestern Europe versus local competition. • Route-to-market scale in core markets. • Locally tailored innovation. A joyful product portfolio Cloetta’s net sales by category “Kicking off dinner with friends” “After every meal” 2% 4% Other Nuts “Welcome to the party!” 6% Chewing gum “Always by my side” 59% Candy 12% Pastilles “Family road trip” 27% 73% Pick & mix Branded “Enjoy the mountain packagedtop view” products 17% Chocolate “Fun flavors to break the ice” “Prepping for adventure” “Let the movie begin” “Finally, the weekend” Cloetta’s net sales by country International Markets 6% q Germany 6% q qSweden 31% UK 7% u Nordic Other countries The Netherlands 33% 67% 14% u Norway 5% u Denmark 10% p p Finland 21% THE YEAR IN BRIEF 1 WORDS 2019 in brief FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND Q1 Q2 • Cloetta Capital Markets day held in Stockholm. S T R AT E G I E S • Niklas Truedsson appointed as Chief Pick & Mix Officer. • Dividend of SEK 1 per share THE CON• Value Improvement Program Plus FECTIONERY launched, a new company-wide is paid out . program to increase profitability and • Läkerol given a new design, invest in growth. and a wide media campaign MARKET • Earn-out consideration of SEK 146m is launched. related to the acquisition of Candyking • Cloetta Leading Performance Program is BRAND, settled. launched, the next step in Cloetta’s Lean program for increased manufacturing Net sales C AT E G O R Y & efficiency. SEKm PRODUCT DE2,000 V ELO PM ENT Q3 • Cloetta launches a new employer branding concept “Sweet spot for your career”. • Cloetta’s annual report 2018 ranked Q4 • Nathalie Redmo appointed as Head 1,500 C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS 1,000 by e.com-ReportWatch as one of the of Investor Relations and Communitop six in a selection of more than 300 cations . companies worldwide. • Cloetta signs a new global contract 500 • Cloetta in the Netherlands ranked by with communications agency PHD S U P P LY MT 500 magazine as the top employer of Media International. all FMCG companies in the Netherlands. CHAIN 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 n 2018 n 2019 E M P L OY E E S Examples of new product launches during the year Free cash flow SEKm 300 250 SHARE AND 200 SHARE150 HOLDERS 100 50 FINANCIAL 0 PER FOR–50 MANCE Key ratios –100 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 n 2018 n 2019 SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net sales 6,493 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 RISKS Operating profit (EBIT), adjusted 1 743 677 604 695 690 Operating profit, adjusted Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), SEKm adjusted, %1 11.4 10.9 10.4 13.6 12.2 250 Operating profit (EBIT)1 727 660 527 635 671 C O R P O R AT E Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), GOVER NANCE 200 %1 11.2 10.6 9.1 12.4 11.8 Profit before tax 648 562 443 469 493 150 S TAT E M E N T Profit for the period 498 483 –97 –191 386 Earnings per share, basic, SEK 1.74 1.69 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 FINANCIAL Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 1.74 1.68 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 100 Net debt/EBITDA, x 1 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.4 3.0 REPORTS Free cash flow 1 538 444 555 719 766 50 Cash flow from operating activities1 724 628 712 889 927 1) T his metric has been affected by IFRS16 ‘Leases’ as of 1 January 2019. Comparative figures are not 0 restated. See Note 29 for indicative key figures excluding the impact of IFRS16. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 For definitions, see page 156. n 2018 n 2019 S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 2 W ords from the president Cloetta well positioned to deliver on financial targets During 2019, Cloetta delivered strong growth in both branded packaged products and pick & mix, whilst improving the operating profit. When summarizing 2019, I am particularly believe in the Power of True Joy”. We want and results to integrate the Global pleased that we have continued to deliver our products to play a positive part in adding Compact’s principles into our business, branded packaged growth, whilst making that special touch to people’s daily lives. culture and daily operations. good progress on our journey towards When they savor Cloetta’s products, people bringing sustainable value to the pick & mix experience a moment of true joy. Strategic initiatives business. This has been achieved through Cloetta will continue to strengthen My goal is to grow Cloetta organically, in focused attention and investments in our its position as the leading confectionery line, or better than the market, and at the core markets, categories and brands. company in northern Europe within its key same time reach an EBIT margin, adjusted categories. Thanks to the Group’s strong of at least 14 per cent. Increased sales and local brands, Cloetta is well prepared to By focusing on our core categories and improved profitability respond to the growing trend of consumers markets and, over time, doubling sales in This year’s net sales increased by SEK 275m requesting local brands. International Markets, we will be able to to SEK 6,493m (6,218) compared to the achieve our desired growth. Additionally, same period of last year, driven by strong Updated sustainability agenda we will consider selective acquisitions in growth in branded packaged products as We continue to incorporate sustainability our core categories in our main markets or well as pick & mix. Organic growth was 2.3 into our business strategy and operations. adjacent markets. per cent. Operating profit, adjusted for items This means anticipating, understanding We have identified three key focus areas affecting comparability, amounted to and exceeding stakeholders’ expectations that support us in reaching our financial SEK 743m (677). The improvement in opof Cloetta. Among other things, consumers targets. These are growing the branded erating profit, adjusted, was driven by sales should be offered high-quality products as packaged business, bringing sustainable growth and cost efficiencies, partly offset by well as alternatives such as products with value to the pick & mix business as well as increased marketing investments. less or no sugar. reducing costs and driving efficiencies across Cloetta’s sustainability work also aims the organization. Dividend in line with policy to reduce environmental impact from I am also pleased that we have achieved production and packaging and to require Branded growth the target of 2.5x net debt/EBITDA for the sustainability-related actions of our suppliWe have now been able to organically grow fourth consecutive year. In combination ers. During the year, we achieved our goals the branded packaged business, which has a with improved profitability and a healthy for responsible sourcing of prioritized raw margin above 14 per cent, for eight concash flow, this enables the Board to propose materials in 2019, with 100 per cent UTZ secutive quarters. This has been achieved a dividend in line with our dividend policy of certified cocoa and 100 per cent segregated through working with fewer but bigger innoSEK 1.00 (1.00) per share for 2019. palm oil. vations as well as increasing our marketing We are currently intensifying our investments that are visible to the consum“We believe in the ambitions in sustainability. Cloetta’s new ers. During the year, the share of marketing Power of True Joy” sustainability agenda and targets will be visible to consumers reached 60 per cent It is our belief that when consumer demands finalized and presented in 2020. compared to 40 per cent a year ago. and expectations are met or exceeded, Cloetta continues to support the UN We have also increased our focus on Cloetta will grow as a company and our Global Compact’s ten principles in human premiumization and value growth, both in brands will flourish. rights, labor, environment and anti-corrupterms of achieving a higher price on the same This consumer-centric approach is well tion. In this annual and sustainability revolume as well as the same price for less reflected in our new purpose statement “We port, we present our performance indicators volume. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 W ords from the president 3 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS “ We have all AND S T R AT E G I E S the building THE CONblocks in place FECTIONERY to drive both MARKET growth and BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & profitability. ” PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY We will continue to focus on profitable As we close the year, 11 out of 17 targeted growth in branded packaged products and CHAIN growth within the branded packaged production lines have been addressed by we started our value creation journey with business, thereby driving a favorable mix the “Perfect Factory” program, aiming to pick & mix. Across the organization people effect across the business and enabling us to create higher efficiency and less waste in our worked hard to reduce costs as well as to inE M P L OY E E S reach an EBIT margin, adjusted of at least factories. crease the capacity in our factories. I hereby 14 per cent. In 2019, indirect costs were addressed want to thank all employees for their hard through the Value Improvement Program work and contribution to the achievements Sustainable value to pick & mix Plus, that is centered around zero-based in 2019. Pick & mix is a growing and important budgeting. In the Netherlands, we increased For 2020, my focus remains on the consumer market for us based on underlying our central sales capabilities in response above-mentioned focus areas of growing SHARE AND global consumer trends such as individualto our customer demands, whilst reducing the branded packaged business, bringing SHAREism and less use of plastic packaging. With our field sales-force, thereby delivering both sustainable value to the pick & mix business HOLDERS the shift to e-commerce, retailers are also inincreased collaboration service and savings. as well as reducing costs and driving efficiencreasingly looking for products that can give Furthermore, we will continue to focus cies across the organization. We will continconsumers an experience in stores. This is on creating “One Cloetta” with a common ue to increase our pricing, to compensate for FINANCIAL something that the pick & mix category can agenda and scale synergies to produce better higher commodity costs and a weaker SEK, PER FORoffer. As a leading confectionery company in conditions for growth. During the year, we with a potential negative impact on volumes reached an agreement with PHD Media for the Swedish pick & mix business. Cloetta MANCE Northern Europe we see great opportunities to develop the category further, thereby International, part of Omnicom Media has a profitable business with a healthy cash driving profitability and growth. Group, to consolidate to one media agency. flow in stable markets. We have leading local In the short term, our focus is on The agreement will create additional synbrands, which we are making more competimproving the operating profit margin from ergies and scale, and allow us to invest more itive, as well as competent and committed RISKS pick & mix in Sweden. During the year, price effectively in our brands to enable continued employees that are proud of our company increases have been implemented in the organic growth. and our products. In conclusion, we continue Swedish business to address higher costs to execute on our organic growth strategy as well as to turn around the loss-making From acquisition to organic growth and are well positioned to deliver on all our C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE business by year-end 2020. We have also For many years, the growth of Cloetta was financial targets. finalized the contract to consolidate two only driven by acquisitions. Today, Cloetta warehouses into one, effective mid-2020. We has successfully made a strategic shift from Stockholm, March 2020 S TAT E M E N T continue to focus on activities to optimize acquisition growth to organic growth and at the assortment and improve merchandizing the same time delivered margin expansion. efficiency across all markets. We have all the building blocks in place to Henri de Sauvage-Nolting FINANCIAL drive both growth and profitability, and in President and CEO REPORTS Reduce costs and drive efficiency the medium term this will drive Cloetta’s Several initiatives were carried out during EBIT margin, adjusted to at least 14 per cent. 2019 to reduce costs as well as to drive effi2019 has been a great stepping stone for ciencies throughout the business. us where we had another four quarters of S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 4 G oals and strategies Long-term financial targets Organic sales growth EBIT margin Net debt Cloetta’s long-term target is to Cloetta’s long-term target is an Cloetta’s long-term target is a increase organic sales at least EBIT margin, adjusted of at least net debt/EBITDA ratio of 2.5x. in line with market growth. 14 per cent. Sales EBIT and margin, adjusted Net debt/EBITDA SEKm SEKm % SEKm 7,000 800 16 3,500 7 6,000 700 14 3,000 6 600 12 5,000 2,500 5 500 10 4,000 2,000 4 400 8 3,000 1,500 3.0 3 300 6 2.4 2.4 2,000 1,000 2.3 2.2 2 200 4 1,000 100 2 500 1 0 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 nn EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted, % nn Net debt, SEKm Net debt/EBITDA, x Comment on the year’s outcome Comment on the year’s outcome Comment on the year’s outcome Historically, total annual growth in The EBIT margin, adjusted improved In 2019, and for the fourth year in a the markets where Cloetta is active has during the year. The improvement was row, Cloetta met its long-term target for been around one to two per cent. In 2019 driven by sales growth and cost efficiennet debt/EBITDA. Net debt/EBITDA organic growth accounted for 2.3 per cies, partly offset by increased marketing reached 2.2x. cent, encompassing growth of branded investments. packaged products and pick & mix which both amounted to 2.3 per cent. Dividend policy Cloetta’s policy is to have a dividend payout ratio of 40 to 60 per cent of profit for the year. Comment on the year’s outcome In line with the policy, the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 1.00 (1.00) per share for 2019, which corresponds to 58 per cent (60) of the profit for the year. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 G oals and strategies 5 WORDS FROM THE Sustainability targets PRESIDENT Consumers Employees Responsible sourcing GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S Less sugar and sugar-free Employees Cloetta’s ambition Cloetta’s larger Cloetta has zero tolerance for occupational Cocoa: All cocoa and chocolate brands will offer injuries. The LTIR target for 2019 was 5.0. purchased by Cloetta must be UTZ THE CONalternatives Read more about Health and safety on certified. In this way, the chocolate that FECTIONERY with less sugar, no page 41. Cloetta produces will be based on UTZ MARKET added sugar Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) certified cocoa. LESS SUGAR & or sugar-free (LTIR is absence due to an incident (for more SUGAR-FREE than 24 hours) per 1,000,000 hours worked.) Palm oil: All palm oil in Cloetta’s prodBRAND, products. ucts must be RSPO certified (RSPO: Number C AT E G O R Y & 10 Round Table on Sustainable Palm No artificial colors or flavours PRODUCT DEOil). The factories must also be RSPO Cloetta believes V ELO PM ENT 8 Target 2019 certified. it is important to increase the Shea butter: All shea butter purchased C L O E T TA’ S proportion of nat6 by Cloetta must be sustainably produced according to AAK’s principles. MAIN NAFNAC ural ingredients. No Artificial Flavorings & Cloetta’s target is 4 MARKETS No Artificial Colors to have switched Outcome 2019 entirely to natural colors and flavors in its 2 Cocoa: All cocoa purchased by Cloetta products by the end of 2020. Read more in 2019 was UTZ certified. S U P P LY about ingredients on page 21. 0 Palm oil: Cloetta has removed palm oil 2017 2018 2019 CHAIN from most of its range. All palm oil in Cloetta’s products were RSPO certified in 2019. RSPO certification of all E M P L OY E E S Cloetta’s factories commenced during the year. We estimate that we will be fully certified in 2020. Shea butter: All shea butter purchased by Cloetta in 2019 was sustainably SHARE AND produced according to AAK’s principles.. SHARERead more about responsible sourcing HOLDERS on pages 52–53. FINANCIAL Reduced climate and environmental impact PER FORMANCE Energy consumption Waste Carbon dioxide emissions Energy consumption per produced tonne The volume of waste per produced tonne CO2 emissions from production to be to be reduced by 5 per cent by 2020, comto be reduced by 25 per cent by 2020, comreduced by 5 per cent per produced kg RISKS pared with 2014 levels. pared with 2014 levels. by 2020, compared with 2014 levels. Energy consumption Waste Carbon dioxide emissions Goal MWh/prod. tonne 2020 kg/prod. tonne CO2e (Scope 1+2) per prod. kg Goal Goal 2020 2.0 70 0.35 C O R P O R AT E 2020 60 0.30 GOVER NANCE 1.5 50 0.25 S TAT E M E N T 40 0.20 1.0 FINANCIAL 30 0.15 20 0.10 REPORTS 0.5 10 0.05 0.0 0 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 S U S TA I N The figures for 2016 and 2017 have been adjusted. ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 6 G oals and strategies Strategic priorities “We believe in the Power of True Joy”. Cloetta’s purpose is that our products play a positive part in adding that special touch to people’s daily lives. When they savor Cloetta’s products, people experience a moment of true joy. The consumer always comes first in everything that we do. We are convinced that when consumer demands and expectations are met, Cloetta will grow as a company and our brands will flourish. Cloetta will strengthen its their individual preferences, tions for growth by building position as the leading conevery time. The grocery retail “One Cloetta” with a comfectionery company in trade also desires products mon agenda across the entire Northern Europe within the that can give consumers an Group. candy, chocolate, pastilles, experience in stores, which is chewing gum, nuts and pick & something that pick & mix can Furthermore, a focus on mix categories. offer. cost-efficiency enables Cloetta to increase profitaThanks to the Group’s strong Cloetta’s goal is to grow bility and invest for the future. local brands, Cloetta is well organically by 1–2 per cent, Investments are being made positioned to respond to the which is in line with or better to strengthen and increase growing trend of consumers than the market. This would the company’s manufacturing demanding local brands. mean an organic growth of capacity, and to enhance 1–2 per cent in Cloetta’s core the value of the company’s Individualization is another markets, Sweden, Finland, most attractive brands. strong global trend. As the Netherlands, Denmark, Cloetta’s goal is to achieve the leading pick & mix the UK, Germany and Noran EBIT margin, adjusted of at player, this trend is favorable way and to expand and grow least 14 per cent. to Cloetta as the category faster with selected brands allows consumers to choose in International Markets. the mixture of candy that suits Cloetta will create the condi<< B ack to contents Cloetta CloettaAAnnual andSsustainabilit nnual and eport 2019 ustainabilit yy Rreport G oals and strategies 7 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY CHAIN Driving growth Enabling Financing E M P L OY E E S • Strengthen local brands and growth growth selectively expand brands internationally • Focus on the core markets and • Zero-tolerance for work• Drive cost-saving activities SHARE AND double sales in International place accidents throughout the entire Markets SHAREorganization within Value • Create “One Cloetta” with Improvement Program Plus HOLDERS • Grow market shares and volume one shared agenda and in branded packaged products way of working • Further develop the “Perfect Factory” a Lean FINANCIAL • Grow the pick & mix penetration • Strengthen brand and program in manufacturing PER FORand value in core markets category management • Increase capacity to be able MANCE • Make selective acquisitions in • Create a winning culture to insource additional manuCloetta’s categories in core or • Develop, attract and facturing adjacent markets retain skilled leaders and • Improve the effectiveness RISKS • Offer consumers in all markets employees of marketing, and internal the choice of regular, less-sugar, systems and processes or sugar-free products C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta Annual A nnual and sustainabilit R eport2019 S ustainabilityy report 2019 << B ack to contents 8 G oals and strategies Strategic background Since today’s Cloetta was created in 2012 based decision-making and allows orders large number of brands, and second came through the merger of Cloetta and Leaf, the to be traced from the customer through the acquisition of Candyking, which made Group has developed in several phases. Impurchasing of raw materials, manufacturpick & mix an important part of the Group’s mediately after the merger, the focus was on ing, warehousing, delivery and invoicing. business. streamlining the network of factories, which Implementation will conclude in 2020 with Since 2018, the Group has focused on involved approx. 40 per cent of the products Germany as the last market. achieving organic growth with the customer changing factories. At the same time, the Two large structural changes took place front and center. This is how Cloetta will implementation of the group-wide business in 2017. First, Cloetta’s Italian business reach its financial goals. system commenced, which has enabled factwas sold including several factories and a Focus for 2019–2020 Cloetta will continue to create organic growth and generate a profitable pick & mix business by focusing on lower costs, greater efficiency and increased investments in marketing of the largest brands. The long-term goal of at least 14 per cent EBIT margin, adjusted will be achieved through three prioritized focus areas: 3 Lower costs 1 Organic growth Create opportunities for and greater for branded • Essential marketing investments efficiency packaged • Investments in manufacturing for growth products • Achieving financial goals Other value-creating initiatives EBIT margin, • New and shared best practices, including revenue adjusted Pick & mix business, optimization, net productivity, portfolio management profitability and growth and mix ≥ 14.0% Long-term goal 2 Reduce indirect costs • Program based on zero-based budgeting Perfect Factory • Cost-efficiency through the Leading Performance program • Continued insourcing of the sold Italian factories Branded packaged products • Efficient, faster cross-market innovation • More effective marketing Pick & mix business • Candyking, create synergies • Increase margins EBIT margin, • From a volume to a value-adding business adjusted 11.4% 2019 Value Improvement Program Plus << B ack to contents Cloetta CloettaAAnnual andSsustainabilit nnual and eport 2019 ustainabilit yy Rreport G oals and strategies 9 WORDS 1 Organic growth FROM THE PRESIDENT for branded packaged products GOALS Focus on organic growth AND S T R AT E G I E S for branded packaged products THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Sales of the Group’s branded packaged prodalso allow reduced lead times from concept/ Growth in branded ucts have increased for eight consecutive idea to final product on the market. packaged products, BRAND, quarters and Cloetta grew its market shares One of the most important innovations change from previous year C AT E G O R Y & in 5 of 16 categories in its core markets during recent years has been successively % PRODUCT DEduring 2019. As branded packaged products offering lower sugar and sugar-free alterna4 V ELO PM ENT have an EBIT margin, adjusted of over 14 tives for the major brands. New alternatives 3 per cent at a Group level, growth within of Red Band, Malaco and Venco have enaC L O E T TA’ S 2 the branded packaged products category is bled these brands to reach new consumers. important for Cloetta to be able to reach its One quarter of the lower-sugar products 1 MAIN profitability target. were purchased by consumers who are new 0 MARKETS There is a clear strategy for growth for to the segment. –1 branded packaged products which focuses on both the core operations and the Group’s Media investments –2 strong brands, and also more clearly focuses Media investments have increased during –3 S U P P LY on the Group’s main markets. 2019 in absolute terms, while the company’s CHAIN –4 media campaigns have become more focused Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Innovations and new products with fewer but larger campaigns with 2017 2018 2019 Cloetta has made fewer but larger investgreater consumer visibility. Cloetta knows E M P L OY E E S ments in new products and flavors during the that the Group’s largest brands are loved by year. New products are needed for the contheir consumers, and the brands need to be fectionery sector as interest is growing in the visible constantly to remain top-of-mind for The fact that Cloetta brands. At the same time, innovations should consumers. now offers lower-sugar fulfil a purpose for both Cloetta and the reIn terms of the global brands, the Group tail trade, and there should be consumer dehas carried out common campaigns that and sugar-free alterSHARE AND mand for them. By being more selective with have, to a greater extent, been suitable for natives is important SHAREnew products, focus can be given to novelties use in several markets. The purpose was that have a chance of becoming permanent. to increase visibility of marketing investfor the organic growth HOLDERS If possible, new products and flavors should ments amongst consumers. During the year, of branded packaged be able to be launched in several markets Cloetta also signed a global media contract products. FINANCIAL under different brands. Fewer new products for the core European markets. PER FORMANCE Global brands RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta Annual A nnual and sustainabilit R eport2019 S ustainabilityy report 2019 << B ack to contents 10 G oals and strategies 2 Pick & mix business, profitability and growth Focus on the pick & mix business The pick & mix category constitutes a large making business by year-end 2020. In growth together with the retail trade. share of the confectionery market in the conjunction with increased prices, activities Cloetta offers a holistic concept including Nordic countries and Cloetta has several to make in-store merchandizing more effecstands, bags and merchandizing, both under years of experience and great knowledge of tive as well as reduce costs for warehousing Cloetta’s name and under the customer’s the category. Cloetta implemented a new and distribution were initiated for impleown name. Furthermore, there is a hybrid pick & mix strategy in 2019 to drive the busimentation in 2020. service in which the customers themselves ness towards sustainable value creation. Insourcing of Cloetta’s products in the manage merchandizing. In addition to As a result of these market activities, pick & mix range has continued according Cloetta’s own pick & mix concepts Cloetta sales of pick & mix once again increased to plan. Since the acquisition of Candyking offers bulk sales to other concept suppliers from the second quarter of 2019. Yet, the at the end of 2017, approximately 7.5 tonnes enabling availability of Cloetta products and main short-term focus during the year has have been insourced and about 4 tonnes additional profitable sales. been to increase profitability in the business. remain to be insourced. Optimization of the product assortUnique position Increase profitability in Sweden ment has been carried out to coordinate The Group is on the right path towards creIn 2018, the pick & mix business in Sweden the assortment across all markets, where ating a more unique offering and positioning experienced a loss of SEK 60m. During possible. The pick & mix concept is based on pick & mix to compete more effectively for 2019, price increases have been implemented the consumer being able to select their own consumers. A single concept is currently bein the Swedish business to address higher individual bag of candy, making a large asing developed, which will work in all markets costs as well as to turn around the losssortment an important part of this business with common stands, bags and containers. model as well. A project to develop e-commerce is also underway. Cloetta’s objective is to be able to Four business models Increase growth in other markets – offer the best service to the retail trade and medium-term to consumers. In the core markets outside Sweden, Cloetta continues to focus on creating profitable Cloetta offers customers four different pick & mix business models: Holistic concept • Includes branding, the assortment, fixtures Sales in core markets and in-store merchandizing. Share of Cloetta’s pick & mix sales Own private labels • Similar to the holistic concept but products are sold under the own private brands of the retailer. Hybrid Sweden • In the hybrid model, the customer handles in-store merchandizing themselves. 36% Finland Bulk • Bulk sales to other pick & mix concepts or Norway 18% sales of individual products. 8% Business models UK 16% Denmark Bulk 24% u t Holistic concept 18% 55% Hybrid Other markets 7% u 4% Own private labels u 14% << B ack to contents Cloetta CloettaAÅrsnnualoch Annual and and ustainabilit yy Rreport hållbarhetsredovisning Ssustainabilit eport 2019 G oals and strategies 11 WORDS 3 Lower costs FROM THE PRESIDENT and greater efficiency GOALS Focus on lower costs AND S T R AT E G I E S and greater efficiency THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Cloetta needs to invest to continue to duced, which translates into lower costs and By using industry leading best practices and grow. This includes both increasing market increased capacity. By increased resource zero-based budgeting principles all indirect BRAND, investments for branded packaged products effectiveness Cloetta also reduces its negaand marketing costs are being reviewed. C AT E G O R Y & and also responding to increased demand. tive impact on the environment. Several activities are being driven in parallel PRODUCT DEThe Group’s network of factories is running The program is built on standardized within the scope of the program to improve V ELO PM ENT at full capacity due to the increased sales of tools, real-time measurement, process profitability and provide flexibility for branded packaged products, and insourcing control and skilled employees. Essential Cloetta to invest in its brands. of Candyking’s products and products that investments in manufacturing are being To create visibility into Cloetta’s cost C L O E T TA’ S were previously produced by the Italian carried out gradually to increase capacity, structure benchmarking was performed at MAIN factories. efficiency and to reduce carbon dioxide emisthe beginning of 2019 for an analysis and MARKETS sions. As an example, drying capacity will be evaluation of Cloetta’s costs. Through transIncreased efficiency in increased during 2020 through investments parency, accountability and rigor, Cloetta the Group’s factories – in new drying chambers. has improved cost control and created a Perfect Factory Program structure through which all cost-saving S U P P LY The “Perfect Factory” program was Value Improvement Program Plus opportunities are reviewed and the need for CHAIN launched in 2019 and will run over several In 2019, Cloetta launched a group-wide all spend is challenged. Overlapping projects years. A systematic approach with tools, holistic program aimed at improving profitaare screened with the objective of confirming training, knowledge exchange and other bility, referred to as the Value Improvement that all activities that occur contribute to E M P L OY E E S improvement activities will lead to greater Program Plus. Part of the program focused profitable growth as a part of the journey to efficiency and reduced waste per unit proon optimizing the cost structure of Cloetta. achieving our financial targets. SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta Annual A nnual and sustainabilit R eport2019 S ustainabilityy report 2019 << B ack to contents 12 G oals and strategies Cloetta’s value chain Cloetta creates value through the purpose “We believe in the Power of True Joy”. Cloetta creates value for the company and its stakeholders through great products, innovative product development, efficient purchasing and high-quality manufacturing, as well as good relations with the retail trade and marketing that strengthens the brands. 3 Manufacturing 2 Purchasing • Cloetta had 2,629 employees during 2019 and total personnel costs amounted to SEK 1,440m. Cloetta’s eight factories had 1,680 employees. 1 Product • Cloetta’s total purchasing costs amounted to SEK 4,023m during the year, of • During the year, Cloetta produced 106 thousand tonnes of candy, chocolate, chewing gum, pastilles and nuts. development which SEK 2,539m was for raw materials and consumables. The three main Value creation raw materials in terms of purchasing • Product development is based on costs are sugar, cocoa and milk powder. a combination of consumer-driven needs/preferences, innovation and opportunities in the existing manufacturing network. Environment • Continuous improvements enable more efficient energy consumption in manufacturing aimed at reducing • Cloetta’s suppliers are subject to an carbon dioxide emissions. Sustainable corporate development approval process in which product safety, quality and social and environ• Increased resource efficiency through mental requirements are assessed. reduced wastage. • Cloetta has prioritized increasing the proportion of natural ingredients. The • Cloetta promotes sustainable manu• Systematic environmental managegoal is for Cloetta’s product portfolio facturing of prioritized raw materials ment is being used in all factories. to be free from artificial flavorings such as cocoa, palm oil and shea Workplace environment and artificial colorants during 2020. butter. Read more on pages 52–53. • Focus on leadership, management • Cloetta develops and offers lowerof workplace environment risks and sugar or sugar-free alternatives for reduction of work-related injuries. its major brands. Under the Malaco, • Health and safety activities with a Red Band and Venco brands, Cloetta systematic way of working are part of has launched lower-sugar and sugardaily follow-up and control. free alternatives. Product safety • All factories have a product safety system. • The factories work proactively with product safety and quality to ensure more satisfied customers and fewer product complaints. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 G oals and strategies 13 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Profit for the year GOALS SEK 498m AND S T R AT E G I E S 5 Consumers THE CONShareholders FECTIONERY A certain share of non-restricted equity MARKET 4 Customers • Cloetta believes in “The Power of True Joy” in that our products give that special touch to people’s daily life. Cloetta is distributed to Cloetta’s shareholders in the form of dividends, after the business has been provided with the capital BRAND, provides strong brands and a large C AT E G O R Y & necessary for continued development. For range of pick & mix products. 2019 the Board of Directors has proposed PRODUCT DEa dividend of SEK 1.00 per share, which V ELO PM ENT • Total net sales amounted to • Cloetta always provides feedback on SEK 6,493m. Cloetta’s largest customer complaints and points of view. corresponds to approx. 58 per cent of the category is the grocery retail trade. profit for 2019, to be paid in 2020. In 2019, C L O E T TA’ S The service trade is also a very imporSEK 289m was distributed to the shareMAIN tant customer group. holders through dividend distribution. MARKETS Distributed value SEK 5,981m* S U P P LY t Shareholder, • Cloetta provides high-quality prodSEK 289m 5% CHAIN ucts that are marketed responsibly. • Consumers are offered a wide range of E M P L OY E E S • Cloetta fulfils environmental and products with non-artifical flavorings food safety requirements, such as and colorants. t Suppliers of raw through BRC and ISO certification. materials and • Cloetta uses environmentally adapted consumables, SEK 2,539m • Cloetta is reducing the amount packaging solutions. 42% of transportation packaging and optimizing transportation to improve SHARE AND financial and environmental perforSHAREmance. HOLDERS t Employees, FINANCIAL SEK 1,440m 24% PER FORMANCE Tax information Cloetta paid SEK 1,464m (1,326) in various taxes in 2019. These were mainly value-added tax, sugar tax and employment-related taxes. The difference between corporate income tax t Other suppliers, RISKS paid and the income tax charge for the year is mainly driven by timing differences. SEK 1,501m 25% Creditors, Tax paid per country financial partners, Taxes paid t SEK 62m 1% Corporate Germany 1% qq Slovakia 1% t Corporate income tax C O R P O R AT E income tax 4% q q Other 1% qBelgium 2% SEK 150m 3% UK 4% q t Sweden GOVER NANCE EmploymentValue-added Norway u 13 % * G enerated value of SEK 6,493m S TAT E M E N T related tax taxes u 14% excluding profit for the year, amortization, t 41% t Finland depreciation and impairments and 19% Total 13% including paid dividends. Total retained FINANCIAL SEK 1,464m economic value of SEK 512m. t The Netherlands Economic impact 9% REPORTS Sugar tax Denmark u Manufacturing and sales of Cloetta’s 35% u 43% products generate economic value that benefits its stakeholders. Tax paid in Norway and Denmark is proportionally higher due to sugar taxes. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 14 G oals and strategies Cloetta’s sustainability agenda Cloetta continues to integrate social and environmental aspects into its business strategy and operations. This allows the company to identify risk and opportunities, understand and manage its impact on people and the environment, and live up to external expectations. This is also how Cloetta creates the conditions for growth. Materiality analysis Goals, programs and follow-up systems are Cloetta’s sustainability agenda conCloetta reports the results of its sustainain place for each area. The goals cover the tributes to eight of the 17 UN Global bility work in accordance with the Global period until the end of 2020 and are detailed Sustainable Development Goals Reporting Initiative (GRI). Amongst other under each section of the annual report. things, this means that the Group has defined Cloetta’s sustainability agenda contributes the sustainability-related aspects that are to eight of the 17 UN Global Sustainable most relevant for creating long-term value Development Goals (SDG). for the company and its stakeholders and for running business operations responsibly. Sustainability agenda Representatives of the primary stakeholders in development regularly contribute to Cloetta’s materiality During the year Cloetta carried out a new analysis. Read more on pages 150–152. materiality analysis to further develop the Cloetta’s sustainability agenda encomsustainability agenda and set new goals. passes the following areas: consumer first, This work will be finalized and the updated employee development and health, reduced sustainability agenda will be presented climate impact and responsible sourcing. during 2020. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 G oals and strategies 15 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT The consumer comes first Cloetta will offer high-quality and safe products. GOALS In response to consumer preferences, Cloetta also AND offers products with more natural raw materials, less sugar, sugar-free products and products with S T R AT E G I E S functional properties, such as chewing gum for better dental hygiene. THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Significance Approach Governance BRAND, Consumers should feel confident that • Product safety and quality are always top • Code of conduct Cloetta’s products are safe and of high of mind. • Cloetta’s sustainability board C AT E G O R Y & quality, and that Cloetta is transparent • Cloetta develops alternatives with natural • Cloetta’s product board PRODUCT DEabout product content and the impact of raw materials and less sugar or no sugar, • Responsible marketing raw materials. V ELO PM ENT and markets products responsibly and • Lean 2020 ethically. • BRC (British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety) C L O E T TA’ S • GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) MAIN • Internal control policy MARKETS Most important goals Significant risks Global goal • All products must be of high quality and safe. • Brand-related risks resulting in decreased 2. Zero hunger • All major brands will have a lower-sugar or sales. 12. Responsible consumption and production S U P P LY • Political decisions such as sugar taxes. 17. Partnerships for the goals CHAIN sugar-free alternative. • By 2020, Cloetta’s products will not contain • Risk of changing consumer dietary artificial flavorings or colorings. preferences, with negative consequences for Cloetta. E M P L OY E E S SHARE AND Employee development and health SHARECloetta’s employees are essential to the company’s success. HOLDERS It is therefore of fundamental importance that Cloetta is able to attract, retain and develop the most competent and engaged employees. Cloetta has activities, plans and goals in place for ensuring that the workplace is as attractive and safe as possible. FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS Significance Approach Governance Being able to attract, develop and retain • Cloetta secures its future supply of skills by • Code of conduct the right employees is a pre-requisite for being an inclusive employer that prioritizes • HR policy Cloetta’s long-term profitability. employee health and safety and well-being, • Cloetta’s leadership platform offers interesting opportunities to grow and • Cloetta’s sustainability board C O R P O R AT E places sustainability high up on its agenda. • Lean 2020 GOVER NANCE • Fraud and whistleblower policy • Internal control policy S TAT E M E N T Most important goals Significant risks Global goal • Zero-tolerance vision for workplace • Health and safety in Cloetta’s factories. 3. Good health and well-being FINANCIAL injuries. • Inability to recruit and retain the right 8. Decent work and economic growth • Improvement of employee engagement employees. REPORTS through the Great Place to Work Trust index. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 16 G oals and strategies Reduced climate impact Cloetta endeavors to consume resources as efficiently as possible. Cloetta is developing packaging solutions with improved environmental performance. The climate impact of Cloetta’s own operations and from transportation is being reduced by Cloetta optimizing energy consumption, reducing emissions and waste, and prioritizing climate-smart transportation. Significance Approach Governance Management of global challenges, in terms • Cloetta is becoming more resource-efficient • Code of conduct of climate change, access to resources, and monitors, thereby staying ahead of, • Cloetta’s sustainability board dissemination of chemicals and plastics. new regulations. The company thus manages its environmental and climate impact and • ISO 14001 creates the conditions for long-term profit• Lean 2020 ability. • Internal control policy Most important goals Significant risks Global goal By 2020: • Negative impact on the environment. 12. Responsible consumption and production • 5% less energy consumption vs 2014. • Legislation. 13. Climate action • 5% reduced CO 2 emissions vs 2014. 15. Life on land • Lower availability and/or higher prices of • 25% less waste vs 2014. important raw materials. By 2025: • 100% recyclable or reusable packaging. Responsible sourcing Cloetta integrates social and environmental requirements into the sourcing process and controls that suppliers comply with them. The purchasing departments for each raw material (palm oil, cocoa and shea butter) endeavor to increase transparency and traceability, and also contribute to better environmental and social conditions in places where the raw materials are produced. Significance Approach Governance Many of the raw materials • Cloetta includes environmental and social requirements into • Code of conduct contained in Cloetta’s products the sourcing process, thus promotes supplier compliance with • Cloetta’s sustainability board originate in countries where the company’s requirements. there is a higher risk of deviation • UTZ and RSPO • Cloetta maintains high ethical standards in its business relations. from Cloetta’s Code of Conduct. • Internal control policy • Cloetta has a program for sourcing of certified raw materials (palm oil, cocoa and shea), which aims to increase transparency • Fraud and whistleblower policy and traceability and contribute to improved environmental and social conditions in places where the raw materials are produced. Most important goals Significant risks Global goal • Sustainability program applied • Infringement of 3. Good health and well-being to priority raw materials. human rights. 8. Decent work and economic growth • Brand-related 12. Responsible consumption and production No later than 2020: 13. Climate action • Palm oil will be RPSO-SG certified. risks resulting in decreased sales. 15. Life on land • Palm oil in glazing agents largely 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions replaced with alternatives. • Limited access to im17. Partnerships for the goals portant raw materials. • All cocoa and chocolate must be UTZ certified. • 100% sustainable shea butter. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 T he confectionery market 17 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT The confectionery GOALS AND market S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY The confectionery market is traditionally divided into candy, chocolate, pastilles MARKET and chewing gum. Cloetta is active in all these categories, as well as in nuts. BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DECloetta’s main markets are Sweden, Finland, for around 62 per cent and chewing gum trade account for approximately one third of the Netherlands, Denmark, the UK, Germafor around 8 per cent of the total market in the total market. V ELO PM ENT ny and Norway. The total market for confecCloetta’s main markets. In Cloetta’s main markets, the nut tionery in Cloetta’s main markets amounts market is experiencing annual growth of 1–2 C L O E T TA’ S to approximately SEK 269bn (253). Competitive market per cent in volume. However, in the past two MAIN The global market for confectionery is domiyears the growth has been around 4 per cent MARKETS Mature market nated by international companies like Mars/ a year due to price increases and a shift to the The confectionery market is relatively Wrigley, Mondelez, Nestlé, Ferrero, Perfetti, premium product category. insensitive to economic fluctuations and Haribo and Lindt & Sprüngli. However, in shows stable growth that is driven primarily the local markets these meet tough opposiConsumption patterns S U P P LY by population trends and price increases. tion from players with locally established Confectionery is one of the most impulseCHAIN Market recessions affect Cloetta mainly brands such as Cloetta, Fazer, Orkla and driven categories in the retail trade. With up through general price pressure from the Toms. No player has a strong position across to 80 per cent of purchasing decisions made retail trade and increased competition from all European markets. at the point of sale, brand, availability and E M P L OY E E S the trade’s own private labels. However, Consolidation of the confectionery product placement are significant success private labels account for a relatively small industry is taking place gradually. The infactors. share of confectionery compared to other dustry as such has a long history and the pace The European confectionery market is grocery products. of technological product innovation is low. characterized by strong consumer loyalty Since growth takes place mostly through to local brands. The main considerations the development of existing strong confecThe nut market when buying are brand, flavor, quality and SHARE AND tionery brands, the continuous launch of new Cloetta is also active in the nut market via curiosity about new products. SHAREflavors and products is a key success factor. the brands Nutisal and Parrots. The total nut Consumption patterns and taste prefIn terms of value, candy including erences vary between the different markets. HOLDERS market in the Nordic region is worth around pastilles accounts for 30 per cent, chocolate SEK 5bn, and the private labels of the retail For example, compared to the rest of Europe, FINANCIAL PER FORConfectionery consumption Market size, by region, Market development MANCE per capita Cloetta’s main markets, 2019 in Cloetta’s main markets Kg per person 2019 SEK billion EURO billion 20 120 20 RISKS 100 15 15 80 C O R P O R AT E 10 60 10 40 GOVER NANCE 5 5 20 S TAT E M E N T 0 0 0 FINANCIAL Sw Fin De Ge UK No ed n r rw Neth Ge rm UK Ne S N F D the wed orw inlan enm 2007 2013 2019 en land mar man ay erl an rla en ay d ark u Chocolate u Candy u Chewing gum k y an y nd ds s REPORTS Source: Global data The graph refers to candy and chocolate in u Chocolate u Chewing gum the countries where Cloetta is active. u Candy incl. pastilles Source: Mintel and Global data Source: Global data Market size and growth rates have been calculated based on new data to Cloetta for 2019, comparative figures have also been adjusted. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 18 T he confectionery market the Nordic region has a lower per capita A large share of the everyday consumpin the next five years will be driven by online consumption of chocolate, but a significantly tion of confectionery has traditionally taken sales. E-commerce now accounts for 36 higher consumption of candy. place via the service trade, i.e. filling stations per cent of global FMCG growth, making and convenience stores, kiosks, etc. Over it crucial for retailers and brand owners to Pick & mix the past decade, confectionery sales to the understand and unlock the channel. Kantar The pick & mix category has a very strong service trade have decreased, primarily due (market research and insight company) exposition in the Nordic countries and acto the presence of fewer filling stations, but pects that online grocery sales will continue counts for a high share of the total confecalso because the service trade has developed to flourish and should account for 10 per cent tionery consumption, while the consumpits own snack alternatives that compete with of total FMCG sales worldwide in 2025. tion of pick & mix is considerably lower confectionery. According to recent research, Europe in Central Europe where packaged candy with 5.6 per cent value share is the second and chocolate have a stronger position. In Other sales channels largest market in the world for e-commerce Sweden, pick & mix accounts for 30 per cent Since availability and a strong brand are two following Asia. However, despite the proxof the total confectionery market, while in key factors for impulse-driven purchases, imity and economic similarities of European the other Nordic countries it accounts for 5 Cloetta continuously evaluates new types of countries, they are still embracing e-comto 15 per cent. Pick & mix candy as a market sales channels to ensure availability where merce at varying speeds. While the UK and is growing faster than packaged products in the consumers are found. France remain in the lead, with 7.5 per cent most Nordic countries. Other sales channels include those and 5.6 per cent market share respectively, where confectionery has been offered for Germany 1.7 per cent and the Netherlands Traditional sales channels many years, including ferry lines, movie the2.6 per cent lag behind. Mega-cities hold a Cloetta’s foremost sales channels in all atres, airports and arenas, and also channels much larger share of the online grocery marmarkets are the grocery retail trade and the that have not been traditionally associated ket than smaller towns and cities, or rural service trade. with confectionery sales, such as building areas. For example, in London e-commerce The grocery retail trade has undergone supply stores, furniture and appliance accounts for almost 10 per cent of the total extensive consolidation and restructuring stores, hotels and bars. FMCG market. over the past ten years, and the number of One key success factor is to develop The profile of people who buy grocerstores has decreased at the same time as different packaging solutions to help customies online is mainly young families with floor space per store has grown. Conceners in the different channels to display the children. In emerging markets, e-commerce tration in the grocery trade is high in the products. is also more popular with young high-income majority of European markets, which means consumers. The key driver for buying online that the channel can place high demands on E-commerce is convenience. The major accelerator is its suppliers. Nonetheless, as a leading supE-commerce is continuing to grow globally technology with mobile and voice assistants plier Cloetta has the opportunity to develop in all types of industries with almost half of set to play a crucial role. Read more partnerships that benefit both sides. Strong e-commerce revenue coming from mobile about Cloetta’s e-commerce development brands and high-quality products that are devices in 2019. Historically, the consumer on page 27. attractively priced and can be effectively disgoods industry has not been a leader in the played and marketed are therefore of major e-commerce segment, but forecasts continue importance. to indicate that half of this industry’s growth Cloetta’s sales channels Grocery retail trade Service trade Travel, home and e-commerce Increasingly fewer and larger stores, Generous opening hours, centrally Includes movie theatres, building supply which is leading to greater efficiency and located in the form of convenience stores stores, airports and arenas. This channel strength. Typically covered by central and filling stations. An increasingly wide often requires support in developing its agreements at a national level. range of snack alternatives. confectionery sales. The e-commerce sales channel is growing rapidly, although still at a relatively low level compared to other consumer goods. Pantone 485 (Red) 100m 100y Pantone 116 (Yellow) 15m 100y Pantone 301 (Blue) << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 19 WORDS FROM THE Strategies for growth: PRESIDENT Brand, category and GOALS AND product development S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY CHAIN 1 2 3 E M P L OY E E S The consumer Strategic Brand and SHARE AND in the spotlight product category SHAREListen, understand and evolve development leadership HOLDERS Consumers are the key to growth, Innovate to enable growth Accelerate growth which is why they are at the center • Enter new markets and • Continuous support for core FINANCIAL of all the Group’s strategies. segments and implement brands through effective PER FOR• Understand trends and values new initiatives marketing campaigns MANCE • Assess behaviors, preferences • Enhance experiences • Leverage category developand needs through new flavors and ment strategies and future • Validate concepts, products and textures key growth drivers with retail RISKS advertising customers • Ensure sustainability and • Ensure safety, quality and consumer choice • Develop pick & mix concepts transparency • Increase the value of • Develop consumer-centric products and customer-centric activ• Provide the right choices C O R P O R AT E ities through a strong and • Develop new packaging • Use all feedback to improve competent sales force GOVER NANCE every day technologies and sizes • Increase visibility in stores S TAT E M E N T • Sales and in-store campaigns FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 20 B rand , category and product development The consumer in the spotlight Consumer insights and trends are the key source of input for Cloetta’s strategies, development and continuous improvement. To ensure consumer satisfaction we apply the principle that consumers must feel confident that products are safe and of high quality, and that Cloetta is transparent in the information provided about the content of the product. 6 distinct consumer trends On-the-go Greater Responsibility for More and more, we eat away from home on our way to and from different individualization the environment Consumers increasingly wish to satisfy activities. Greater availability of prodtheir individual needs. This means that and human rights ucts and different packaging solutions One key trend is the interest in the effects they want the option of both choosing allow consumers to satisfy their desires of food production on the environment products, and also having access to immediately. and the social conditions of the producer. products and services that are individSuppliers have responded to consumer ualized and can be adapted to different demand for information, above all in occasions. Pick & mix is a good example terms of the origin of raw materials, the of a concept that is individualized. farmer’s working conditions, quality and farming methods, by introducing different types of labelling and certification. E-commerce and digital channels increasingly important E-commerce is growing rapidly across Health and less sugar all sectors, including the grocery People are increasingly looking for raw retail trade. Both grocery retailers materials with positive health benefits. and food companies are building up There is also continued interest in Local, genuine brands their own e-commerce capacity to sell natural and genuine raw materials. Local brands with a strong history are their products online. New players are Additives of various types and artifivery popular with consumers. This is also capitalizing on the fast growth of cially produced substances are being evident in social media. During the year, e-commerce. Alongside the growth of questioned in favor of natural materials. Cloetta has carried out campaigns in e-commerce, direct communication E-numbers are being replaced with the several markets that are based on this with consumers via social media is name of the additive in plain language. trend: Venco as the typical Dutch brand, emerging as one of the most important Natural sugar or stevia are preferred to Sisu as the most Finnish there is, and channels for feedback, capturing trends artificial sweeteners. stadium advertising for Gott & Blandat and sharing inspiration and preferences Less sugar is another important when Sweden has played in the football with others. trend. European Championship qualifiers. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 21 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S Fulfil consumer expectations THE CONon choice and transparency FECTIONERY MARKET The importance of transparency also provides alternatives in the form of are being questioned from a health standCloetta gives consumers the chance to make sugar-free products, products with less sugar point, even though they are safe and have BRAND, well-informed choices, by being clear and and products that are naturally free from been approved for food products. To respond C AT E G O R Y & transparent about the contents of its prodsugar. to consumer demands, Cloetta is working PRODUCT DEucts, their calorific value and the impact of Cloetta is working to have a sugar-free to remove artificial flavorings and colorants V ELO PM ENT the raw materials included. alternative or an alternative with a reduced from its assortment. amount of sugar for its major brands. Cloetta’s target is to have switched C L O E T TA’ S Cloetta offers choices entirely to non-artificial colorants and flaSugar is an important ingredient for No artificial flavorings, vorings in its products by the end of 2020. MAIN providing products great taste, texture and no artificial colorants MARKETS preservative properties. There is an increasing consumer interest in Cloetta’s purpose, “We believe in the natural ingredients. Different types of addiPower of True Joy” means that Cloetta tives and chemically produced substances S U P P LY CHAIN E M P L OY E E S SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E Goal GOVER NANCE Offer No S TAT E M E N T Artificial alternatives FINANCIAL Flavorings (NAF) with or Colors (NAC) REPORTS LESS SUGAR & less sugar NAFNAC by 2020 No Artificial Flavorings & SUGAR-FREE No Artificial Colors S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 22 B rand , category and product development Cloetta’s consumer promise Less sugar Natural raw materials Nuts – full of nutrients In response to the increasing demand Artificial colorants and flavorings will Nuts are a natural source of many for products with less sugar and be entirely replaced by natural fruit and beneficial nutrients and also contain sugar-free products, Cloetta offers plant extracts during 2020. This means antioxidants. Cashew nuts are rich in products with less sugar. Cloetta’s longthat all other unnecessary additives will iron, folic acid and zinc. Peanuts are term goal is that all our major brands be removed. The Jelly Bean Factory rich in protein and contain high levels will be able to offer both sugar-free and is an example of a product that only of vitamin B3. Almonds are rich in low-sugar alternatives. contains natural ingredients. vitamin E and pistachios are very rich in antioxidants. High quality and product safety High quality and product safety are pre-requisites for food production and are strictly adhered to in every step of Clear declaration Better dental health Cloetta’s manufacturing process, from of ingredients, and with xylitol The sweetener xylitol, which has fewer inspection of raw materials to finished certification calories than natural sugar, is extracted products. Good quality raw materials, Cloetta works continuously to develop correct handling and well-controlled from various deciduous trees and responsible and clear information about processes create the right flavor, maize. Xylitol prevents caries and is the contents of the products via packappearance and texture and eliminate found in several of Cloetta’s chewing ages and our website. If the product any risks to consumers. Cloetta also gum products, such as Jenkki and contains ingredients that are certified endeavors to reduce its direct negative Mynthon, and in the pastille Läkerol by third parties, this is also stated on climate impact by using resources more Dents. the packaging, as well as on the website. efficiently. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 23 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Strategic product development GOALS AND Strategic product development includes the expansion into new segments (pure S T R AT E G I E S innovations) but also product extensions as launch of new flavors and textures. Strategic initiatives also include the product adaptation to new geographical THE CONmarkets and the pricing strategies with potential changes in packaging sizes. FECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT The most significant costs in product Strategic product Innovation and trends Product development is a key driver for the development arise in the product launch development strength of Cloetta’s brands and enables phase. They are primarily associated with C L O E T TA’ S during the year differentiation in the market. Cloetta’s innomarketing activities, but also with ensuring MAIN vation work and optimization of the product efficient manufacturing. MARKETS development process create the conditions for new product launches and re-launches. A focus on taste Fashion and trends are present in all Packaging and marketing can tempt consectors, including confectionery, where they sumers to try a new product, but if the taste S U P P LY are primarily related to colors, packaging, doesn’t measure up to expectations there CHAIN flavors and ingredients. Identifying the is rarely a second purchase. It is therefore trends that could be significant to Cloetta critical that the new products launched by is of major importance. Knowledge about Cloetta meet consumer requirements and E M P L OY E E S market trends and consumer behavior is expectations. When Cloetta develops new Plopp Almond + Bridge necessary for the development of successful products, the focus is on taste and texture. product innovations. Before a product is launched, it undergoes Market analysis, trend monitoring both internal and external taste tests via and interaction with consumers in social consumer panels that assess factors such as media provide the marketing department flavor, texture and overall impression. SHARE AND with valuable data for analysis of changes in To systematically gather consumer SHAREconsumption patterns. feedback, Cloetta uses a consumer panel that HOLDERS Natural ingredients and consideration regularly provides feedback and ideas online for environmental and ethical matters are after receiving product samples to their factors that are increasingly affecting the homes. The ideas received are extremely FINANCIAL confectionery market. Cloetta continuously valuable to Cloetta’s innovation work. PER FORreviews all products and questions their inWithout approval from the consumer gredients. For example, sweeteners and fruit panel, products are not released on the MANCE flavorings have been replaced with stevia market. A large database of earlier tests and Gott&Blandat 30% less sugar and fruit juice. Stevia is used in Läkerol and reference values facilitates the necessary (original, sour and Liquorice) xylitol is used in Läkerol Dents, Jenkki and assessment. Mynthon. Cloetta has an ambition to launch RISKS sugar-free or lower-sugar alternatives for Launches in new markets all major brands. Examples of products A product that is successful in one market launched include Red Band 30% less sugar can be launched in another market under Tupla Mint Finland and Gott & Blandat 30% less sugar, and an existing local brand. For Cloetta, with its C O R P O R AT E Venco liquorice with zero sugar, sweetened many brands in different markets, econoGOVER NANCE with Stevia. mies of scale in production can be utilized effectively by matching brands. S TAT E M E N T Product development process Some examples include: An effective product development process • Sportlife Mints from the Netherlands sold is essential for profitable growth. Product as Mynthon ZipMint in Finland. FINANCIAL development is steered by combining market REPORTS • Polly from Sweden sold as Pops in Norway. opportunities and consumer behavior with existing brands. Malaco Moustache S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 24 B rand , category and product development Marketing Innovation Consumer & brand marketing Innovation product development • Who? 1 1 • Internal and external • Why? Target Trends fact gathering group • When? • Collaboration • What? • Technological development The path to 2 a new product 2 Technical • Needs Consumers • Preferences – collaboration solutions • Ideas between Marketing & • Role in existing product lines • Feelings Innovation • Exchanges between factories 3 3 Product Concept solution • Evaluation • Product development • Market surveys • Packaging • Packaging solution Package design In addition to tasting good and being affordaHologram ble for the consumer, a new product must be commercially attractive to the retail trade The Jelly Bean Factory and be part of a category strategy reflecting local consumer expectations. Its weight, – brand building packaging and distribution are adapted to at airports the various sales channels and markets. With Cloetta’s most international brand, The Jelly the right packaging, many of the products Bean Factory, is sold from its home country that are strong in one market can also secure of Ireland to markets as far away as China. a good position in a new market. The brand is sold in several channels, major Package sizes are often associated with markets, food stores, department stores pricing strategies for different customer and also airports, where travellers love to categories and markets. Changing a package take the brand home or to their destination size is therefore a strategic decision for how to enjoy the lovely flavors. In 2019, a brand can be further developed in order to a holographic display was created, to reach new customers and, thereby, also new generate traveller interest in The Jelly Bean Factory and provide information about the consumers. benefits it offers. Travel retail For many years Cloetta has had substantial sales to ferry lines, charter tour operators and airports, referred to as Travel Retail. Well-known brands and unique packages in terms of both appearance and size are two of the most important competitive tools in this market. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 25 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY CHAIN Brand and category leadership E M P L OY E E S Confectionery is the most impulse-driven category in retail. Consequently, good availability and visibility in stores, alongside strong brands with high recognition and loyalty, are critical to confectionery sales. Cloetta’s continuous development SHARE AND and care of its brands, together with a strong sales force, are therefore of vital SHAREHOLDERS importance. FINANCIAL PER FORBrand management awareness, preference and emotional Category development MANCE Cloetta’s ten largest brands account for connection to Cloetta’s products. When Confectionery is a very important and profitaround 49 per cent (49) of the Group’s sales. combined with in-store activities and visiable category in grocery retail. Hence, cateRead more about the leading brands on pages bility, marketing communication stimulates gory development and category management 30–33. product trial, cements loyalty and increases are key levers in developing penetration and RISKS For each brand there is an individual overall demand for products. loyalty through consumer experience and development plan aimed at continuously upCloetta’s marketing is based on each service. Profitable growth for both Cloetta dating and developing the brand. To ensure brand’s strategy and position. Marketand its customers is supported by always strong and sustainable consumer connection ing is often characterized by images and having the best facts and insights. C O R P O R AT E emotion-creating brand advertisements, GOVER NANCE with our brands, activities such as impactful and relevant communication, new flavors sponsorship and events directed at selected Category vision and strategy and line extension, package development target groups. A long-term category vision supports the S TAT E M E N T and marketing campaigns are considered key One overarching ambition is to ensure development of the confectionery shelf, the drivers for growth. that the marketing investments Cloetta assortment and consumer experience both makes are effective. This involves identifying today and in the future. Powerful brands and FINANCIAL Marketing communication the factors that influence and create consuma differentiated product portfolio that fits er impressions, which must be carefully deREPORTS Effective and well-planned marketing comtoday’s and future consumer and customer munication across relevant touch-points, veloped and planned ahead of each campaign needs are important parts of the category shaped by the audience profile and behavior, based on the defined performance objectives. vision. Thus, any category strategy in supS U S TA I N is the key driver for building consumer See campaign examples on page 29. port of this vision must be built on solid and ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 26 B rand , category and product development relevant insights on consumers and how they other concept suppliers. Read more on page Examples of new shop in the store. 10. flavors during the year Through the Parrots brand, Cloetta is New flavors also a leading pick & mix player in the natuLaunching new and attractive product ral snacks market in Sweden and Finland. variants or flavors, in segments where there is consumer demand, strengthens Cloetta’s Package development offering to both customers and consumers. An important part of Cloetta’s brand manSince successful product innovations agement consists of package development to inspire trial of both the new product and the provide the best consumer experience. The original product, good seasonal products and packaging material must perform several innovations normally lead to incremental functions, including protecting the product sales. on its route to the consumer, enabling easy handling of the product, providing product Pick & mix information and communicating the brand. Juleskum Polka Cloetta is the leading concept supplier in the Package development also includes retail pick & mix category in the Nordic region and packaging for various sales channels. the UK. This means that the Group offers Cloetta’s goal is that all packaging will retailers a total concept in pick & mix, under be reusable or recyclable by no later than the brands Candyking, Karamellkungen, 2025. Read more on page 48. Parrots and Karkkikatu. The concept consists of products, Visibility in stores fixtures and merchandizing as well as inOne decisive success factor for consumer store and logistics services. A customer can sales is good exposure in the store, thus, how choose from different concepts containing the retail trade perceives Cloetta’s new prodbetween 16 and 200 articles. The assortment ucts and innovations is a crucial factor. Cusconsists of chocolates, gummy candy, hardtomers must consider products to be needed, Gott & Blandat Fizzypop & Co boiled candy, toffee, foam, liquorice and easy to handle and profitable for retail. natural snacks that the consumer can pick in Cloetta has a large, trend-setting and bags or cups. Today, pick & mix accounts for innovative sales force in its core markets. 27 per cent (28) of the Group’s sales. Through good retail trade relations and Cloetta also provides the pick & mix extensive knowledge about the industry, concept under the private labels of certain market and products, Cloetta can present atLäkerol Raspberry Liquorice retailers, and also sells pick & mix candy to tractive sales solutions that support the cusFurther develop core brands Awareness and loyalty Development Availability Tools for strengthening Tools for strengthening Tools for strengthening the brands the brands the brands • Impactful, visible and effective • New flavors, innovations and • A large competent sales force brand communication. seasonal products to respond supports retail. to relevant consumer needs. • Consumer focus: valuable • Cloetta offers the retail trade insights drive relevance. • Package development to a complete product range to make the product visible and satisfy consumer freedom of Challenges also to adapt to different sales choice. • Leverage technology to channels. improve consumer services Challenges and experience. Challenges • Continuously identifying new • Further coordination between channels through which to • Be visible wherever the markets and brands will crereach consumers. consumer is: optimise goals ate opportunities, economies for marketing and sales • Developing sales solutions of scale and cost synergies. campaigns. that suit different customer categories. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 27 WORDS tomers’ business objectives and create added line channel consumers do not walk through Cloetta uses tools to track specific value for both Cloetta and the customer. the shopping aisle the same way as they do brands in different media and performs FROM THE The most important part of the sales offline. To bridge this gap Cloetta constantly general brand performance measurement PRESIDENT force’s day-to-day work consists of helping develops new marketing tools to get noticed (e.g. brand consideration and preference). the individual retailers display Cloetta’s and end up in a shopping cart. However, the The most important method for gauging products to achieve higher turnover rates positive side is that it has never been easier the success of marketing investments for GOALS and margins in the store. Through the sales to become part of a non-food shopping fast moving consumer products, such as AND organization’s category knowledge and mission. Cross-border marketplaces offer Cloetta’s, is always immediate reactions S T R AT E G I E S strong in-store presence, Cloetta can reach new opportunities to cross-sell Cloetta’s during sales. out with campaigns, monitor local compliproducts in combination with goods from ance with centrally negotiated listings and completely different categories such as books Protection of THE CONdistribution agreements, and ensure good and outdoor gear. intellectual property rights FECTIONERY visibility on the store shelves, in the checkout Cloetta’s e-commerce strategy is foTo prevent infringement of Cloetta’s intellines and in other places. Read more on page cused on growth through a dynamic channel lectual property rights, the company uses a MARKET 28. that matches our strong offline shares in special monitoring service, which provides online trade. Online sales of confectionery alerts about applications for both national BRAND, Sales-promotional activities are still lower than for other consumer and international registration of brands that C AT E G O R Y & Cloetta typically combines marketing activproduct categories, but they are growing at are identical to, or can be confused with, PRODUCT DEities with in-store campaigns. New products double-digit pace. In line with the European Cloetta’s key brands. V ELO PM ENT are normally given sales support through trend, the e-commerce maturity of Cloetta’s For example, Kexchoklad’s chequered campaigns, events, in-store activities and adkey markets is varied. For instance, online pattern has been design-protected for many vertisements to reach consumers as quickly grocery spend per capita in the Netherlands years and the name “Kexchoklad” has been C L O E T TA’ S as possible. is double that of Finland. This means that trademarked since 2004. MAIN Cloetta will set clear priorities for where and MARKETS E-commerce how to drive e-commerce projects, such as E-commerce is one of the key focus areas through mobile image optimization, e-trade for Cloetta with its products being sold marketing activation and limited-to-online across a wide-range of online players from product development. S U P P LY “Brick & Clicks” (e.g. ICA.se and AH.nl), CHAIN “Pure Play” (e.g. Mathem.se and PicNic.nl), Measurement tools “Cross-border Marketplaces” (e.g. Amazon) Effective marketing is dependent on conto its own e-commerce shop in Finland tinuous monitoring and analysis of changes E M P L OY E E S (www.ksylitolikauppa.fi). Confectionery is in consumer patterns. In-depth knowledge known as an impulse-purchase category, to of consumer behavior and media trends is which arrival of online shopping brings both essential for successful product development challenges and new opportunities. In an onand marketing. SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Categories in which Cloetta is a market leader FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE Finland Pastilles Sweden Candy RISKS Pastilles Chewing gum The Netherlands Candy Pick & mix Pastilles Chocolate bars Candy Chocolate bags Chewing gum Pick & mix C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Denmark S TAT E M E N T Pastilles Norway Candy Pastilles FINANCIAL Pick & mix Candy United Kingdom Pick & mix REPORTS Pick & mix S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 28 B rand , category and product development Success factors for the sales organization Good relations with Good visibility for Boost sales To increase sales, Cloetta’s products customers at a central Cloetta’s products need to be wherever consumers are. The High visibility in stores, particularly at and local level the checkout stands, is vital for growth in task for Cloetta’s sales organization is Through good relations with the retail therefore to increase display space and sales. In order to increase the visibility of trade and in-depth knowledge of the sales in existing stores and also seek new Cloetta’s products, the sales force works industry, market and products, Cloetta non-traditional sales points for selected actively to increase the number of display can present attractive sales solutions parts of the product range. points in the stores. that support each customer’s business objectives. Ensure compliance Effective sales camThe right products for with customer paigns in cooperation the right customer Selling the right products to the right agreements with customers customer generates profitability for both The sales force ensures compliance with Marketing campaigns are typically comCloetta and for the customer. Cloetta’s central agreements and that the agreed bined with sales promotional activities in sales force is well located and effective, range of products is found in the stores. stores. The sales force helps retailers to which provides good opportunities for a display these in the best way. presence at many different sales points. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 29 WORDS Impactful campaigns FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT Skipper’s Pipes in the 2019 Danish election C L O E T TA’ S Aakkoset There is a general tendency in society for politicians and people to speak more than MAIN – brand re-launch they listen. Ahead of the Danish election, MARKETS The classic Finnish candy bag Aakkoset has the ambition for Skipper’s Pipe was to make undergone a comprehensive re-positioning people’s ears bigger and their mouths and brand upgrade during the year, encomsmaller, i.e. encourage people to listen more. passing new packaging design and broad Which was the background to the message: S U P P LY communication. The new distinctive identity Stik Piben ind (stick a pipe in your mouth). CHAIN was launched in spring as a multi-channel Politicians received Skipper’s pipes and strategy including high impact presence postcards with the message “Stik piben ind” at Helsinki railway station. Communication which was supported by a campaign web E M P L OY E E S achieved significant attention value and site, print advertising, outdoor posters, postMalaco Gott & Blandat was well liked, contributing to record-high cards with pipe stickers in cafés and train salty liquorice 30% less market share during summer. stations, digital screens in city centers and activities in social media. In total, 55,000 sugar pipes were handed out as samples. New choices continue to support growth in the core markets. Sweden’s most popular SHARE AND mixed bag range, Gott & Blandat, gave the SHAREconsumer new choices with the launch of a new mixed bag of salty liquorice with 30% HOLDERS less sugar. The launch was supported by media campaigns and visibility in stores. FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS Venco – continued success for the Netherland’s number C O R P O R AT E one liquorice brand GOVER NANCE In 2019 Cloetta continued to build on the story of the Venco brand. The objective S TAT E M E N T was to both further strengthen the “Typical Dutch” brand positioning, and also to build Läkerol relaunch – Anytime, Anywhere FINANCIAL a new position within sugar-free liquorice. Läkerol is the refreshingly tasty pastille, that you can allow yourself to enjoy anytime, anyThe campaign built on communications in where. This year’s campaign for Läkerol set out to re-establish Läkerol in consumers’ minds 2018 which included this new message. The and make the brand more relevant in consumers’ everyday life. TV campaigns combined with REPORTS campaign was rolled out through all relevant campaigns in other media reached consumers, driving increased awareness of the brand. media channels; TV, online video and social In Norway Läkerol launched the world’s biggest pastille box which successfully created a lot media, combined with in-store sampling, of awareness around the brand. In Sweden Läkerol took part in the pink ribbon campaign, displays and promotions. driving significant consumer interest in the brand and the campaign itself. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 30 B rand , category and product development Cloetta’s leading brands Cloetta is the name and symbol of the Nordic region’s oldest confectionery company, with a very strong local heritage. Cloetta’s brands fulfil the purpose: “We believe in the Power of True Joy”. Ahlgrens bilar is a car-shaped foam that a large majority of the Swedes love and enjoy. The original flavor and elegant design have remained unchanged since 1953, when Ahlgrens’ candy factory decided to try to manufacture marshmallows. The result was not as expected; instead it turned out to be small foam pieces of candy in the shape of a car. Sweden’s best tasting car was born! New car models have been launched since then. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Poland, Thailand and the US. Aakkoset has been a beloved Finnish candy bag classic since 1970. It has a bold, diamond-patterned design and clever, playful messaging. Aakkoset translates to “alphabets” and the Bridge slogan “literally good” encapsulates Aakkoset’s positioning is a candy mix that was created in 1966 as the ultimate indulgence for sweet cravings. when some employees were playing the Sold in: Finland and travel retail. card game bridge and ate a mixture of different tasting products that were made at the factory. One day someone came up with the idea of launching this mix of Candyking/Karamellkungen varied delicious flavours in a bag; including allows you to put together the most delicious sweets on the market chocolate-coated hazelnuts, liquorice and lets you mix things your way. Sour, sweet and salty. Hard, soft sticks and peppermint drops. and chewy. The original brand, Candyking, in Sweden known as Sold in: Sweden, Norway and Denmark. Karamellkungen, has been developed over 30 years. Sold in: Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, the UK, Ireland, Poland and the Baltics. Center has been around since 1941 when the roll was first launched in Sweden. Center is the tasty roll at the center of attention – just unroll a piece and enjoy! Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Estonia and Finland. Chewits has a strong brand heritage, launched in the UK in 1965 as a chewy sweet for children. Known for its unique chewy texture, the range of delicious fruity chews are individually wrapped in stick packs, sold in multi-packs and sharing bags. 2019 saw the Familie Guf launch of a new colorful pack design with “Chewie is a well-known and beloved brand in Denmark and is the best-selling the Chewitsaurus” the cheeky dino who likes to product within Cloetta Denmark. Familie Guf is a very inclusive brand chew. Newest to the range are Chewits Juicy Bites, and celebrates all different kinds of families with the slogan: ”Candy for liquid-filled bon-bons with a juicy strawberry flavour. all kinds of families.” Even the mix of candy in the bag is diverse, consistSold in: the UK, Ireland, Norway, Finland, ing of both sweet and salty liquorice, wine gums, foam, caramel etc. the Baltics, Russia and Belarus. Sold in: Denmark and Sweden. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 31 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT The Jelly Bean Factory offers 36 different flavors of gourmet jelly beans, GOALS AND made from 100 per cent natural flavors and fruit juices. Free from gluten, gelatine and nuts. The Jelly Bean Factory was established in 1998 in S T R AT E G I E S Ireland. Every day over 12 million gourmet jelly beans are manufactured in the factory in Dublin, THE CONpackaged in a wide range of playful formats. “The most juicy, mouth-watering jelly beans on the planet.” Jenkki FECTIONERY Sold in: around 50 countries worldwide, mainly is the market-leading chewing in the UK, Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, gum brand in Finland, where it was MARKET Switzerland, Austria, the Baltics, Russia, Canada, launched in 1951. Since 1975 the the US, Cyprus, Portugal, Spain, Israel, China, brand has been sweetened with the dental innovation xylitol, and has BRAND, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand. thus become a smart tooth-friendly C AT E G O R Y & habit for Finns: a breath freshener PRODUCT DEand a nice little treatment after each meal. V ELO PM ENT Sold in: Finland and Estonia. C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS Juleskum is the original that has become a natural part of the Swedish Christmas tradition. Cloetta started making marshmallow Santas as early as the 1930s. Each year a limited edition is released, S U P P LY this year with a “polkagris” taste. Although Juleskum is only sold around Christmas, it is the third largest-selling candy bag in CHAIN Sweden on an annual basis. Sold in: Sweden, Norway and Denmark. E M P L OY E E S King SHARE AND The De Vries family started producing SHAREpeppermint in 1902, and from 1922 under the brand name King. Over time, the brand has HOLDERS evolved from a simple throat lozenge into a modern breath freshener. Today, after nearly 100 years, it still contains the same secret peppermint blend that makes King so loved by FINANCIAL many Dutch consumers. PER FORSold in: the Netherlands, Belarus, Belgium, MANCE Canada, Lithuania, Suriname, the UK and Kexchoklad the US. was launched as early as 1938 and is one of Cloetta’s active Swedish classics. Sweden’s best-tasting between-meal snack. Three layers of RISKS crispy, chocolate-covered filled wafers make Kexchoklad a snack for active people who need to quickly fill up their energy reserves. Sold in: Sweden, Denmark and the Baltics. C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Lonka S TAT E M E N T are soft and delicious sweets made with passion and high quality. Since the first Lonka factory opened in 1920 in the Netherlands, Lonka has been providing consumers with traditional favorites like caramel, FINANCIAL fudge, soft nougat and chocolate. Lonka products make coffee and tea moments more indulgent. REPORTS Sold in: Benelux, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, the UK, Spain, Switzerland, France, South Korea, Latvia, Singapore and South Africa. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 32 B rand , category and product development New design 2019! Läkerol is a classic brand and the tastiest refresher for all occasions – “anytime and anywhere.” The first box was sold in 1909. In 2019 the brand was given a design make-over and an extensive media campaign supported the re-launch. Läkerol comes in a variety of flavors and is perfect when you want to soothe your throat, freshen your breath or just fancy something tasty. Läkerol YUP is the fresh and soft pastille sprinkled with a thin layer of xylitol crystals, with the perfect balance of sweet and sour. Läkerol Dents is the most delicious way to take care of your teeth. Läkerol makes people talk. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Benelux, Switzerland, the US, Singapore, Suriname, India, Hong Kong and Lebanon. Mynthon is the leading pastille brand in Finland, where it was launched in 1976. Fresh and effective is the essence of the brand. Mynthon consists of chewy, hard and compressed pastilles in a variety of tasty flavors. In 2012, chewing gum was also launched under the brand. Malaco Sold in: Finland, Norway, Germany, offers a wide variety of confectionery products. the Baltics and The name Malaco comes from the first letters of the Belarus. company name Malmö Lakrits Compani, founded in 1934. Over the years, many new products have been launched under the brand, such as Gott & Blandat, TV MIX, Aakkoset, Familie Guf, Lagerman Konfekt and Kick. Quite simply – Saturday all week long. Sold in: Sweden, Denmark, Finland, the Baltics, Germany, Israel, Italy, Malta, Russia, Thailand, the UK and the US. Nutisal is the Group’s nut expert as of 2014. The business started in a shop in Beirut, Lebanon. Back in 1948, a unique ‘dry-roasting’ method Plopp was developed for roasting without oil. Nutisal is the bar for indulging yourself or someone close to your took this technology to Europe and created a heart. Originally introduced in 1949 Plopp is loved by many range of dry-roasted mixes that was launched for its good milk chocolate and its sweet liquid toffee filling. In in 2007. Since no oil is used in the process, the 2018, Plopp expanded its brand by launching milk chocolate consumer can enjoy the genuine taste of nuts. tablets with exciting flavors from the candy, chocolate and Sold in: Sweden, Denmark, Finland, the snacks portfolio. Netherlands, Switzerland, Suriname, Italy and Sold in: Sweden. Latvia. Polly was launched in 1965 and is the leading brand of bagged chocolate on the Swedish market. It’s Pops impossible to eat just one. Polly is delightfully chewy Pops are one of Norway’s foam drops, covered with chocolate. The original is best-kept and tastiest secrets flavored with vanilla, arrack and butter toffee. Polly is – bags of light and airy chocoalso the candy that surprises, for example Polly with late bites. Pops is fun to share, a taste of Ahlgrens bilar. perfect for the weekend Sold in: Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Poland. treat and enjoyed by the whole family. Sold in: Norway. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 B rand , category and product development 33 WORDS Red Band FROM THE has roots going back to 1928. Since its start, the Red Band brand has built up a leading position in the Dutch and German PRESIDENT confectionery markets with a promise to deliver fun, quality and pleasure. The classic Wine Gum Mix, the original Drop GOALS Fruit Duo’s and Pret Mix are some of the well-known products that are sold under the Red Band brand. Today Red Band also offers the consumer more alternatives with the sugar-free AND version, the 30% less sugar and the vegetarian version. S T R AT E G I E S Sold in: the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, the Sisu Baltics, Canada, France, Ireland, Kosovo, Suriname and was launched in Finland in 1928 and it is a Taiwan. THE CONliquorice pastille flavoured with a secret Sisu aroma. Sisu is named after the true nature of the Finnish people. The word ‘sisu’ means FECTIONERY guts, endurance or relentless courage. For the Finns, Sisu is part of the Finnish spirit MARKET that no other brand can replace. With Sisu, Skipper’s Pipes you can do it. Sisu comes in several flavors packaged in boxes. BRAND, was established in 1920 and is a Sold in: Finland. C AT E G O R Y & unique product due to its pipe shape and pink or yellow sprinkles on top, PRODUCT DEresembling embers. Today there are two different versions; sweet or salty liquorice. The origiV ELO PM ENT nal liquorice pipe has been a great success and is iconic for thousands of Danes, and is probably one of the most photographed pieces of candy! The pipe is 80% hand-made and packed. Sold in: Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Greenland, The Faroe Islands and Estonia. C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS Sportlife was launched in the Netherlands in 1981 as the first chewing gum in “blister” packaging. Since its start, Sportlife has been a leader in the Dutch market and also has a strong S U P P LY position in Belgium. Sportlife’s brand positioning is “unexCHAIN pected freshness” and has an international brand profile. In 2015 Sportlife launched its best-selling flavors in tubs. Sportlunch Sold in: The Netherlands, Belgium and Suriname. is a crispy wafer generously coated with pure milk E M P L OY E E S chocolate in easily breakable pieces. Sportlunch was launched in Sweden in 1937, under the name “Mellanmål” and the name was changed to Sportlunch in 1996. Sold in: Sweden, Norway, Estonia and Lithuania. SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORTupla MANCE was launched in 1960 and is the number one chocolate bar in Finland. Tupla means ´double´ in Finnish and Tupla original contains two pieces that are filled with energy and easy to share. The original Tupla has a cocoa nougat filling covered with milk chocolate, with a twist of saltiness and roasted almonds. The taste and texture of Tupla is fuel for the body and attitude. Tupla comes in RISKS different flavors and sizes, and since 2015 also as a sport bar Tupla+, which contains protein. Sold in: Finland, the Baltics and Russia. Venco was launched as early C O R P O R AT E as 1878 and is the leading liquorice brand GOVER NANCE in the Netherlands. Venco has ‘a passion S TAT E M E N T TV mix for liquorice’, which is delivered in a wide range of unique, iconic and top-selling FINANCIAL has been an important part of Finnish weekend items like chalk and honey liquorice. When the Dutch think candy since 1989. It is the most versatile mixed of liquorice, they think of Venco. In 2019 Venco launched REPORTS bag combining best-selling pick & mix candy with a sugar-free range with three different flavors: Sweet, Salt exciting novelties. Perfect for sharing with your and Honey. These sugar-free products are packed in smallfriends and family. er bags than the normal Venco products and the packaging Sold in: Finland. is re-sealable. Sold in: the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Israel, South Africa and Suriname. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 34 C loetta’ s main markets Cloetta’s main markets Cloetta’s main markets are the countries where the Group has its own sales and distribution organization, and include Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Denmark, the UK, Germany and Norway. • M ain markets – countries where Cloetta has its own Sweden Finland • organization. 31% 21% C ountries where Cloetta’s products are sold • primarily through distribution agreements. Share of Cloetta’s sales. Norway 5% UK The 7% Netherlands 10% Denmark 14% Germany 6% International Markets 6% Market size and growth rates have been calculated based on new data to Cloetta for 2019, comparative figures have also been adjusted. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C loetta’ s main markets 35 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Sweden GOALS AND Sweden is the largest single market in the Nordic region, with around one third S T R AT E G I E S of the total confectionery consumption. The total market grew in 2019. THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DE31% 10.2 million V ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN SWEDEN MARKETS Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2014–2019 Candy S U P P LY CHAIN Chocolate Consumer sales Axfood, Pastilles of approx. Coop, ICA, Chewing gum Source: Nielsen SEK 16 bn Bergendahls 1.6% Nuts E M P L OY E E S and Privab Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, Sweden In Sweden Cloetta is the market leader in candy and pastilles, Confectionery market excl. pick & mix SHARE AND Mondelez (including the Marabou brand) in chocolate and Wrigley’s SHAREin chewing gum. Overall, Cloetta is the second largest player in the Chewing gum 11% u t Candy and pastilles 34% HOLDERS Swedish market for packaged confectionery, with a share of around 23 per cent (23). Mondelez has approximately 30 per cent (30) of the market. The retail chains’ private labels have a share of around 3 per FINANCIAL cent (5) of the confectionery market and 43 per cent (42) within nuts. PER FORPick & mix, an important category that accounts for 30 per cent MANCE of the total market, is not included in the market shares above, but through contracts with retailers Bergendahls and ÖoB, the acquiChocolate 55% u sition of Candyking and sales of candy to other pick & mix players, Source: Global data Cloetta is the market leader in this category. RISKS Sales channels Largest players, Sweden The Swedish grocery retail trade is concentrated and increasingly Confectionery market excl. pick & mix centrally controlled, but with good opportunities for influence at the local store level. The task for Cloetta’s sales force is to ensure distriC O R P O R AT E Others 40% u t Cloetta 23% bution as well as placement and space in the stores in accordance with GOVER NANCE the central agreements, and also to provide the trade with support in implementing campaigns and launches. The pick & mix concepts are S TAT E M E N T handled by a dedicated sales and merchandizing organization. #2 The service trade is a vital sales channel. In recent years, alternative sales channels like building supply stores, movie theatres, arenas, FINANCIAL t Mondelez 30% REPORTS etc., have become increasingly important. Fazer 7% p Source: Global data Organization In Sweden, there are a total of around 300 employees including the sales and merchandizing organization and the office in Malmö. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 36 C loetta’ s main markets Finland Finland is the third largest market in the Nordic region, with around one fifth of the region’s total confectionery consumption. The Finnish market grew in 2019. Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales 21% 5.5 million FINLAND Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2014–2019 Candy Chocolate Consumer sales Pastilles S-Group, Kesko of approx. Chewing gum and Tokmanni 12 bn 3.2% Nuts Source: SOK SEK Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, Finland Cloetta is the second largest player in the Finnish market, with a share Confectionery market excl. pick & mix of around 25 per cent (25) of packaged confectionery. The market Chewing gum 7% q leader is Fazer, with approximately 40 per cent (40) of the confectiont Candy and pastilles 45% ery market. The private labels of retail chains have a share of around 8 per cent (8) of confectionery sales in the Finnish market. Cloetta is the market leader in pick & mix which represents about 10 per cent of the total market value. Sales channels The Finnish grocery retail trade is dominated by two players, Kesko Chocolate 48% p and S-Group. Lidl has a larger share of retail trade compared to the Source: Global data other Nordic countries with 10 per cent. Finland has the most centralized purchasing of all the Nordic region markets which enables new products to achieve wide distribution and become quickly available to Largest players, Finland consumers. Confectionery market excl. pick & mix Organization Others 29% u t Cloetta 25% In Finland, there are around 200 employees in the sales and merchandizing organization and at the office in Turku. Cloetta Finland has one of the strongest sales organizations in the country, with 130 people in field sales, visiting stores every day. #2 Mondelez t Fazer 40% 6% u Source: Global data << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C loetta’ s main markets 37 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT The Netherlands GOALS AND The Netherlands is the sixth largest confectionery market in Western Europe. The S T R AT E G I E S Dutch market grew slightly in 2019 mainly driven by chocolate, candy and pastilles. THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DE14% 17.1 V ELO PM ENT million C L O E T TA’ S NETHERLANDS MAIN MARKETS Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2014–2019 Candy S U P P LY Albert Heijn, Chocolate CHAIN Consumer sales Superunie, Pastilles of approx. Jumbo Chewing gum 25 bn Supermarkten 4.4% Nuts E M P L OY E E S SEK Source: IRI Pick & mix and Maxxam Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, the Netherlands Cloetta is the largest player in the candy category in Holland with Confectionery market SHARE AND a market share of 21 per cent (20), and the second largest player in SHAREthe chewing gum market with a market share of 30 per cent (30). Chewing gum 14% u Candy and pastilles 43% t HOLDERS This has enabled the company to build strong relationships with the Dutch retail trade. Cloetta’s share in the overall chocolate and sugar confectionery market is 10 per cent (10). The private labels of retail FINANCIAL chains have a share of around 9 per cent (9) of confectionery sales in PER FORthe Dutch market. MANCE Sales channels Chocolate 43% u The grocery retail trade is concentrated around a few major players. Source: Global data Primarily centralized purchasing allows for wide and rapid distribution of new products that are launched. RISKS The hard discount retail chains have increased their share of the Largest players, the Netherlands market during the year, with a high proportion of private labels. Other Confectionery market important channels for confectionery are pharmacy and out-of-home. q Cloetta 10% Online grocery shopping has a stronger position in the NetherC O R P O R AT E Others 72% u GOVER NANCE lands than in any other of Cloetta’s main markets, despite the fact that t Perfetti 11% overall e-commerce is lagging in the Netherlands. S TAT E M E N T Organization #2 t Mondelez 7% Cloetta has around 85 employees in the commercial organization at the office in Oosterhout mainly focusing on the Dutch market. The FINANCIAL REPORTS Oosterhout office also supports the Cloetta International Markets division through back-office and support activities including demand, Source: Global data customer service, marketing, business controlling and finance & accounting. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 38 C loetta’ s main markets Denmark Denmark accounts for around a quarter of the Nordic region’s total confectionery consumption. The confectionery market grew during the year. Share of Population Top-selling brands Cloetta’s sales 10% 5.8 million DENMARK Market size Cloetta’s largest CAGR Cloetta’s presence customers 2014–2019 Candy Chocolate Consumer sales Coop, Salling Pastilles of approx. Group and Chewing gum Source: Nielsen SEK 11bn Reitan 2.5% Nuts Pick & mix Cloetta’s sales and competitors Categories, Denmark Cloetta is the second largest player in the Danish market for candy Confectionery market excl. pick & mix and pastilles, with a market share of around 19 per cent (19). Haribo Chewing gum 7% q is the market leader with around 25 per cent (24). The private labels t Candy and pastilles 45% of retail chains have a market share of around 9 per cent (6). Cloetta is the leading pick & mix player in Denmark and has strong positions in both candy and nuts. Sales channels Chocolate The grocery trade in Denmark is moving towards increasing cen48% u tralization, albeit with a combination of centrally driven chains and a more decentralized approach than in the other Nordic countries. Source: Global data Extensive efforts are therefore required at an individual store level to achieve distribution and sales of in-store display racks. Growth in the discount channel has ceased and new channels such as non-food Largest players, Denmark outlets and DIY stores are growing in importance. Candy and pastilles excl. pick & mix Organization Others 42% u t Cloetta 19% In Denmark, there are around 100 employees at the offices in Brøndby and Randers and in the sales and merchandizing organization. #2 t Haribo 25% Toms 14% p Source: Global data << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C loetta’ s main markets 39 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT UK Germany GOALS The UK is the second largest market Germany is the largest market in AND in Western Europe and accounts for Western Europe and accounts for S T R AT E G I E S 7 per cent of Cloetta’s sales. It is a market 6 per cent of Cloetta’s sales. The market characterized by fierce competition from is characterized by its large proportion THE CONall international confectionery companies. of discounters and hard discounters. FECTIONERY MARKET Market size Market size BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEConsumer sales Consumer sales V ELO PM ENT of approx. of approx. SEK 83 bn SEK 109 bn C L O E T TA’ S MAIN UK GERMANY MARKETS Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands customers Candyking customers Red Band The Jelly Bean Factory The Jelly Bean Factory S U P P LY Chewits Lonka CHAIN Lonka Lekkerland, Nutisal Hancocks, Source: Global Data Source:Global Data Edeka, Kaufland, Wilko’s and Metro and Tesco E M P L OY E E S Rewe Cloetta’s sales Cloetta’s position and organization Cloetta is the market leader in pick & mix in the UK with the CandyCloetta is primarily active with the wine gum and liquorice brand SHARE AND king concept. However, pick & mix is still a very small segment of the Red Band and the premium brand The Jelly Bean Factory. Lonka SHAREconfectionery market in the UK. In addition, Cloetta is a strong niche and Nutisal are also sold in Germany. Through its strong heritage in HOLDERS player with the premium brand The Jelly Bean Factory. Cloetta also wine gum and liquorice products, Cloetta Germany has built a sussells the Chewits brand to multiple channels and Lonka to discount tainable position with a candy portfolio covering different segments and Cash & Carry in the UK. in the market. The Red Band premium standing pouch product line FINANCIAL The Candyking concept is sold and delivered direct-to-trade is clearly seen as a differentiator by both the German consumer and PER FORwhereas a distributor model is used for Chewits and Lonka. The Jelly trade buyers. MANCE Bean Factory is distributed via multiple distributors. Organization Organization Cloetta has its own small organization in Bocholt, Germany with 12 Both the pick & mix business and the branded packaged products employees. The office takes care of customer contact and the brands, business are commercially managed out of Cloetta’s office in Fareand also has direct contact with all the large customer groups, which RISKS ham. Cloetta has a sales and merchandizing team of approximately are supplied directly out of the logistics center in central Germany. 130 people. To ensure full country service coverage, Cloetta Germany works with 6 different agents and over 60 sales representatives representing Cloetta. C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 40 C loetta’ s main markets Norway International Markets Norway is the smallest market in the International Markets accounted for Nordic region, with just under a fifth of the 6 per cent of Cloetta’s sales in 2019. region’s total confectionery consumption and accounts for 5 per cent of Cloetta’s sales. The volumes in the Norwegian confectionery market increased in 2019. Market size Consumer sales of approx. SEK 13 bn NORWAY Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands Cloetta’s largest Top-selling brands customers distributors Red Band The Jelly Bean Factory Continental Läkerol Coop, Sweets (Belgium), NorgesGruppen Tosuta (Canada) Source: Nielsen and Rema 1000 and Spiwag (Switzerland) Cloetta’s sales and competitors Cloetta’s sales Cloetta is the third largest player in the Norwegian confectionery International Markets consist primarily of sales to countries where market, with a market share of 8 per cent (9). The market leaders are Cloetta does not have its own sales and marketing organization, a Mondelez with 37 per cent (38) and Nidar (owned by Orkla) with 22 total of more than 50 markets. Sales to International Markets are per cent (22). Cloetta is the leading player in the candy category and split into four regions, Americas, Asia-Pacific (APAC), Middle East Cloetta is also the leading pick & mix concept provider with approxiand Europe (including Africa). mately one third of the market. The main markets are Switzerland, the Baltics, Canada, USA, In 2019, the sugar tax was reduced back to the level it was at prior Middle East and Hong Kong/Singapore. In these markets Cloetta to the 2018 increase. This has had a positive effect on the confectionfocuses on three categories, candy, chocolate (indulgent) and pasery market in Norway with increased volumes. tilles, which encompass six strategic Cloetta brands including The Jelly Bean Factory, Red Band and Läkerol plus some strong regional Organization Cloetta brands. In Norway, Cloetta has around 65 employees at the office in Høvik just outside of Oslo and in the sales and merchandizing organization. Organization All markets within International Markets are serviced by external distributors managed out of regional hubs, which Cloetta has in APAC, the Baltics and Switzerland. A new hub for Middle East has Largest players, Norway been established in Dubai. All other distributors are managed by Confectionery market excl. pick & mix local Cloetta staff in Oosterhout, The Netherlands. q Cloetta 8% Others 18% u Brynhild 7% u Conaxess #3 8% u t Mondelez 37% Nidar (Orkla) 22% p Source: Global data << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 41 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Supply chain GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Cloetta has a total of eight factories, located in Sweden, Slovakia, the Netherlands, Belgium and Ireland. The company produced a total of approximately 106,000 BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & tonnes of candy, chocolate, chewing gum, pastilles and nuts in 2019. PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS During 2019, the supply chain organizaand safety work is focused on two areas. workplace safety and employee health. As an tion was re-organized into five functions: Firstly, Cloetta is working to reduce physical example, a new Head of Health and Safety manufacturing, technology, supply chain, risks in its factories and other places of work, has been recruited to accelerate Cloetta’s strategy development and the support orand the second focus is on promoting a safety efforts in the area. S U P P LY ganization. These functions are responsible mindset. CHAIN for manufacturing, technology, safety, the In 2019 Cloetta continued to reduce the environment, planning, logistics, purchasrisks by investing in safety systems for maing, quality, value engineering and project chine isolation and through new routines for E M P L OY E E S management. chemicals management. The company also Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) Furthermore, Cloetta started a new worked on strengthening the safety mindset (LTIR is absence due to an incident (for more Leading Performance program during the through its Hearts and Minds program. than 24 hours) per 1,000,000 hours worked.) year, with a vision to create the Perfect FacDuring the year, the Total Incident Rate Number 10 tory. The program is a continuation of the (TIR) reduced by 30 per cent from 133.7 to previous Lean 2020 program and will im94.3. Despite this, the Lost Time Incident SHARE AND Target SHAREprove efficiency even further, reduce waste Rate (LTIR), which is absence due to an 8 2019 and leftovers, as well as create increased injury, increased from 6.2 to 6.7. This means HOLDERS flexibility and capacity in the factories. The that the 2019 target of 5.0 was not achieved. 6 program involves improving Operational In all instances the employees returned to Excellence, as well as strategic investments work in their full capacity. 4 FINANCIAL to modernize the factory network. Cloetta is naturally not satisfied with PER FORthis result and is determined to drive health 2 MANCE Health and safety and safety even harder. The underlying Health and safety in the workplace are funcauses have been analysed and Cloetta has 0 damental to Cloetta. The company’s health dedicated more resources to strengthening 2017 2018 2019 RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T 106 thousand 1,680 FINANCIAL tonnes produced 2019 8 FACTORY EMPLOYEES REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 42 S upply chain Management systems methods are essential for manufacturing outlines requirements to manage product Cloetta has a central management system to high-quality confectionery. safety, integrity, legal compliance and qualensure standardized working methods in its Continuous efforts are made to ensure ity, and the operational controls in the food operations. Each production unit has a localthat products meet the requirements and industry. ly adapted management system that is linked expectations of consumers and retailers. To support and facilitate compliance to the central system. Central policies, goals with BRC and EU regulations, Cloetta has and procedures are broken down and impleQuality and safety of raw materials also developed its own Good Manufacturing mented at a factory level. Suppliers are selected, evaluated and Practice (GMP) Manual, aligned and updatThe management systems cover the approved against a defined set of criteria. ed with the best reference standards in the workplace environment, quality, product The performance of suppliers is monitored food industry, which is being implemented in safety and the environment. These systems through a risk-based supplier audit program all factories. Internal independent auditors are based on international standards (BRC carried out by a specially trained audit team. monitor that implementation is effective. Global Standard for Food Safety, ISO 14001 A risk-based control plan is used to check Each factory receives an audit score and for the environment), recurring risk assessthat raw material is delivered in conformrequirements for improvement plans along ments and continuous improvements. ance with the specifications and EU regulawith new target scores to be achieved for One important aspect of this working tion requirements. continuous improvement. method is a systematized meeting structure Cloetta also has a Food Safety & Fraud for monitoring of results against targets, to Team to ensure timely knowledge of emergProducts detect both deviations and proposals for iming risks from the supply chain. The team For each product there is a detailed specprovement. Goals and results are visualized implements measures to prevent undesirable ification of the flavor, aroma, appearance, on screens in the factories, to provide knowleffects on products and the brands. texture and package. A central sensory panel edge about the current situation, which helps carries out training and adaptation across to raise awareness and engagement of the Manufacturing the Cloetta factories to ensure that qualified employees. Actions can be taken immediateManagement of food safety in manufacturtasters are in place to monitor the perforly in the event of deviations and systematic ing is based on the HACCP method (Hazard mance and conformity of the products. follow-up enables proactive improvements. Analysis Critical Control Points) whereby Cloetta’s tracking system enables Read about Cloetta’s environmental risks of chemical, biological, microbiological, tracing of all raw materials from suppliers work on pages 48–49. and physical contaminants are identified through all stages of manufacturing and and managed to eliminate and minimize any product shipping to the customers, and vice Quality and product safety conceivable risks to consumers. versa. Cloetta places rigorous demands on quality All of Cloetta’s factories are certified Cloetta has established a detailed proand product safety. First-class raw materials according to the BRC Global Standard for cess which enables rapid recall of a product and correct treatment and processing Food Safety, an international standard that from the market if needed. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 43 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Vision for the Perfect Factory through GOALS Cloetta’s Leading Performance Program AND S T R AT E G I E S (CLPP) THE CONIn 2019 Cloetta took the next step towards its vision for the Perfect Factory. FECTIONERY Through cross-functional teams and high participation from the factory floor, MARKET reliability has improved, and the amount of waste and leftovers has further BRAND, decreased. C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY CHAIN E M P L OY E E S SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS • Team-centric, activity-based • Reliable equipment that is pro• Engaged, visible leadership team C O R P O R AT E staffing. actively maintained based on that reinforces the desired culture defined standards and repaired with regular performance dialogue GOVER NANCE • Engaged, cross-trained employefficiently when down. and improvement measures. ees, relentlessly driving improveS TAT E M E N T ment using Lean tools. • Digitalized information visualization from every line. Real-time metrics FINANCIAL • Stable processes operated with and continuous dialogue so as to up-to-date standard work instruccorrect gaps between current and tions. Use of statistical process REPORTS target performance. control to ensure predictability and to identify and correct deviations. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 44 S upply chain Complaints, feedback per million contacts the relevant factory. The factory factories will take place in 2020. The system consumer units sold uses the information from complaints to will also provide data for financial planning Number systematically identify root causes and and long-term sales and production planning Goal 2019 10 <7.6 eliminate them. to ensure that all functions in the Group are coordinated. Cloetta works continuously 8 Planning and logistics to optimize its flows and working methods, Effective production planning leads to less both internally and externally, together with 6 capital being tied up in the form of inventocustomers and suppliers. ries of both raw materials and finished products, while also increasing service levels. Purchasing 4 Delivery accuracy is one of the most critical Cloetta’s largest cost items in production are parameters for the retail trade. To ensure a raw materials and packaging. 2 high level of service and effective utilization Cloetta collaborates closely with its of the network of factories, Cloetta has delargest raw material suppliers, among other 0 veloped a process for the entire supply chain, things through automated order and delivery 2017 2018 2019 from raw materials to customers. processes that are adapted to raw material In 2019, Cloetta commenced a project consumption in each factory. Consumer and customer feedback to implement a new planning system for Cloetta’s range includes products that Feedback from individual consumers is the supply chain, which will encompass the are produced by other manufacturers. extremely valuable in Cloetta’s pursuit of planning processes from demand forecastExternal production is only outsourced to continuous improvement. ing in all markets, service and inventory manufacturers with the same high-quality Each market has a Consumer Service optimization, delivery planning, scheduling standards that are applied to production in unit that receives, evaluates and responds and integration of third-party suppliers. The Cloetta’s own factories. External manufacto feedback and complaints. In the event of system was implemented as a pilot at the turers are evaluated and tested regularly. quality defects, Consumer Service always end of 2019 and roll-out to all markets and << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 45 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Success factors for manufacturing GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Employee health Flexibility Cost efficiency A production line is often used for several Cloetta’s sales are based on large and safety different products. Rapid changeovers volumes. Cost efficiency is necessary in BRAND, A healthy and safe workplace environC AT E G O R Y & and cleaning are vital for high machine order to stay competitive. ment is a fundamental right for each emPRODUCT DEcapacity utilization. Flexibility also ployee. Being and feeling safe at work is means that each employee knows how to V ELO PM ENT essential in order to develop and perform work on more than one line. well in the workplace. C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY CHAIN E M P L OY E E S SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS Delivery accuracy High and Engaged employees C O R P O R AT E Good production planning is essential Good communication about processes for effective production and low wareconsistent quality and goals creates engaged employees GOVER NANCE The goal is to always deliver safe prodhousing costs, and also for delivery ucts with the required flavor, appearance who understand the business and how S TAT E M E N T accuracy to the customers. their work contributes to the Group’s and texture. overall results. FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 46 S upply chain Factories Production at eight factories Ljungsbro Helsingborg Sneek Dublin Roosendaal Turnhout Levice Production by factory in 2019, tonnes Helsingborg, Sweden, 1,752 tonnes q Dublin, Ireland, 2,568 tonnes q Sneek, the Netherlands, 5,654 tonnes q t Levice, Slovakia, 29,157 tonnes Roosendaal 2, the Netherlands, 8,296 tonnes u Total Turnhout, Belgium, 14,502 tonnes u 106,237 tonnes Roosendaal 1, the Netherlands, 18,754 tonnes p p Ljungsbro, Sweden, 25,554 tonnes 1) Spoorstraat 2) Borchwerf << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 47 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S Levice, Slovakia Ljungsbro, Sweden Roosendaal (Spoorstraat), the Netherlands THE CONProduction volume 2019: 29,157 tonnes Production volume 2019: 25,554 tonnes Production volume 2019: 18,754 tonnes Number of plant employees: Approx. 765 Number of plant employees: Approx. 370 Number of plant employees: Approx. 145 Number of machine lines: 1 2 production lines, Number of machine lines: 12 production lines Number of machine lines: 5 production lines, FECTIONERY 35 packaging lines with in-line packing, 3 separate packaging lines 10 packaging lines Largest brands: Malaco, Red Band, and 1 chocolate production center Largest brands: Red Band, Malaco, Venco, MARKET Läkerol, Chewits, Venco, Läkerol Dents, Mynthon Largest brands: Kexchoklad, Ahlgrens bilar, Lakrisal Center, Polly, Plopp, Sportlunch, Juleskum, Tupla Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding, Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding, BRAND, extrusion, coating, hard and soft-boiled candy Manufacturing methods: Chocolate moulding, coating and compression of pastilles and toffee, chocolate enrobing starch moulding, coating and wafer production C AT E G O R Y & Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food Safety PRODUCT DESafety and IFS Food Safety and ISO 14001 V ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS S U P P LY CHAIN E M P L OY E E S Turnhout, Belgium Roosendaal (Borchwerf), the Netherlands Sneek, the Netherlands Production volume 2019: 14,502 tonnes Production volume 2019: 8,296 tonnes Production volume 2019: 5,654 tonnes Number of plant employees: Approx. 115 Number of plant employees: Approx. 65 Number of plant employees: Approx. 105 Number of machine lines: 2 production lines, Number of machine lines: 7 production lines, Number of machine lines: 7 production lines, 4 packaging lines 14 packaging lines 14 packaging lines Largest brands: Malaco, Red Band Largest brands: Lonka, Red Band Largest brands: Sportlife, Jenkki, King Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding Manufacturing methods: Toffee manufacturing Manufacturing methods: Chewing gum, coating, SHARE AND Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food and nougat moulding lozengers and hard-boiled candy Safety and ISO 14001 Certifications: IFS, GMP and BRC global standCertifications: IFS, GMP and BRC Global StandSHAREard for Food Safety ard for Food Safety HOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E Dublin, Ireland Helsingborg, Sweden Production volume 2019: 2,568 tonnes Production volume 2019: 1,752 tonnes Number of plant employees: Approx. 85 Number of plant employees: Approx. 30 GOVER NANCE Number of machine lines: 1 production line, Number of machine lines: 6  production lines, 10 packaging lines 4 packaging lines S TAT E M E N T Largest brands: The Jelly Bean Factory Largest brands: Nutisal, Parrots Manufacturing methods: Starch moulding Manufacturing methods: Dry roasting, frying and FINANCIAL Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food coating of nuts Safety and ISO 14001 Certifications: BRC Global Standard for Food REPORTS Safety S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 48 S upply chain Resource effectiveness and environmental impact Cloetta reduces its negative impact on the environment by using resources more efficiently during manufacturing, in packaging and during transportation. Resource effectiveness regarding energy, climate and waste. Prolized films from plastic packaging, which As a member of the UN’s Global Compact, cesses and instructions for data collection increases their recyclability. Approximately Cloetta applies the principle of caution in are in place and data is reported monthly and 85 per cent of Cloetta’s plastic packaging is its environmental work. The principle of consolidated at Group level. now recyclable. caution is particularly relevant to how the Cloetta’s goal is to reduce energy company deals with the impact from its consumption by 2020 and CO2 emissions Energy efficiency emissions into the air and water, as well as in relation to produced volume by 5 per In 2019, the factories implemented a number chemical usage. We also apply the principle cent, and the amount of waste in relation to of the energy-saving projects that were deof caution concerning allergies and food produced volume by 25 per cent compared to fined as part of the 2018 energy audits. The products, supported by our quality and food 2014 levels. impact has been noticeable in the annual safety programs. energy key performance indicator, in spite of Cloetta uses resources efficiently by Sustainable packaging the warm summer. focusing on the energy consumption of its To reduce the environmental impact of In 2019 energy consumption in relation manufacturing facilities, including recycling packaging and use resources more effectiveto the volume produced decreased from 1.83 and waste. ly, Cloetta has defined a program to develop MWh/tonne to 1.79 MWh/tonne, resulting Cloetta monitors the environmental more sustainable packaging solutions with in a decrease from 0.30 to 0.26 kg CO2/kg impact of products and packaging throughimproved environmental performance. in the amount of carbon dioxide in relation out their entire lifecycle. This is done by The aim of the project is to make Cloetta’s to the amount produced. This means that understanding and dealing with the impact packaging 100 per cent recyclable by no later Cloetta reached its 2020 carbon dioxide within each phase. In areas where Cloetta than 2025. target already during 2019. The target was has a limited direct impact, the company Cloetta defines packaging as recyclable a reduction of 5 per cent in relation to proworks through partnerships, for example if it has been manufactured from one single duced volume compared with 2014. RSPO, UTZ and suppliers. type of material, or if the packaging is a Cloetta’s direct emissions (scope 1) from All the factories have systematic laminate, it is composed of at least 80 per combustion of oil, gas and LPG decreased environmental work ongoing including cent polythene (PE) and/or polypropene by 7 per cent, from 12,079 tonnes CO2e to action plans and follow-up within a number (PP) plastic, and a maximum of 10 per cent 11,267 tonnes CO2e. This is in line with of different areas. Cloetta’s management of any other polymer materials, fibers or Cloetta’s increased production volumes. The system is based on ISO 14001. Material local aluminium. indirect emissions (scope 2) from electricity environmental matters, goals and activities During the year, Cloetta started using and district heating consumption decreased are defined within the management system. recycled material in its plastic packaging. by 15 per cent, from 19,206 tonnes CO2e to Cloetta has set Group-wide goals for 2020 Cloetta is also gradually removing metal16,279 tonnes CO2e. Goal –5% –5% –25% 100% recyclable energy CO2 waste packaging by 2020 by 2020 by 2020 material by 2025 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 49 WORDS Environmental key FROM THE performance indicators 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Sources of energy PRESIDENT GWh Energy consumption (total, GWh) 1 193 188 179 180 215 Energy consumption (MWh/produced tonne)1 1.79 1.83 1.85 1.80 1.85 Gas 71 u t Electricity 72 CO 2 e Scope 1 + 2 (kg/produced kg)1 0.26 0.30 0.25 0.27 0.35 GOALS AND Waste (kg/produced tonne)2 62 64 67 64 67 Recycling (%)2 88 88 82 81 81 Total Wastewater (m 3/produced tonne)2 2.0 1.7 1.7 1.5 2.9 193 GWh S T R AT E G I E S COD* (kg/produced tonne)2 16.4 15.6 14.2 15.0 17.6 THE CON1) T he sold Italian businesses have been excluded since 2016. The factories in Dublin, Helsingborg and District Roosendaal Borchwerf were added in 2017 but have been included in the key performance indicators heating 11 p FECTIONERY since 2014. For this reason, the values for 2014, the base year, have been adjusted for total energy p Steam 28 consumption, energy consumption per produced tonne, and CO 2e (Scope 1 + 2) per produced kg. MARKET 2) T he sold Italian businesses have been excluded from 2016 onwards. The factories in Dublin, Helsingborg and Roosendaal Borchwerf are included as of 2016. BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & Energy consumption Carbon dioxide emissions PRODUCT DEGoal V ELO PM ENT MWh/prod. tonne 2020 CO2e (Scope 1+2) per prod. kg Goal 2020 Transportation 2.0 0.35 Cloetta optimises transportation to reduce 0.30 freight costs and its impact on the climate C L O E T TA’ S and environment. This includes aiming 1.5 0.25 MAIN for high fill rates and collaborating with 0.20 MARKETS carriers with larger load capacity. To the 1.0 greatest extent possible, a combination of 0.15 trains, ships and trucks are used, for a better environmental performance. In 2019, 4 per 0.10 S U P P LY 0.5 cent more products were transported and 0.05 CHAIN the total CO2 emissions (scope 3) due to transportation from the factories to the cus0.0 0.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 tomers’ central depots increased by 13 per E M P L OY E E S The figures for 2016 and 2017 have been adjusted. cent, which indicates increased efficiency. This equates to 41 kg CO2e per transported Waste Recycling tonne of product. kg/prod. tonne % Goal 70 2020 100 Waste and recycling SHARE AND 60 All eight factories sort their waste and aim to 80 increase recycling and reduce waste. During 50 SHAREthe year, 5,873 (5,766) of a total of 6,689 40 60 HOLDERS (6,575) tonnes was recycled. This means that the recycling rate for the year amounted 30 40 to 87.8 per cent compared with 86.2 per cent FINANCIAL last year. 20 20 PER FOR10 MANCE Wastewater Factories work to reduce the amount of 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 wastewater as well as improve the quality of wastewater. During the year the volume RISKS Wastewater COD* of wastewater was 210,786 (174,867) m3 of m3/prod. tonne kg/prod. tonne water. This corresponds to 2.0 (1.7) m3 per 3.0 20 tonne of produced product. COD, a measurement of the quality of wastewater, increased 2.5 from 15.6 to 16.4 kg per tonne of produced 15 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE 2.0 product. S TAT E M E N T 1.5 10 1.0 FINANCIAL 5 0.5 REPORTS 0.0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 *C OD (Chemical Oxygen Demand), is a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed in complete chemical decomposition of organic compounds S U S TA I N in water. ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 50 S upply chain Raw material Raw materials and packaging account for more than half of total manufacturing costs. In terms of value, the most significant raw materials are sugar, cocoa, nuts, glucose syrup and polyols. Prices and costs als are available for a period equal to six to to production capacity. In recent years, The prices of Cloetta’s most important nine months of production. This also creates speculative trading of agricultural commodraw materials are set on the international predictability in prices and financial outities has increased dramatically, which has European commodities exchanges, either comes, since price changes affect Cloetta’s contributed to greater price volatility. directly, as is the case for cocoa, or indirectly purchasing costs after a certain delay. In this such as with glucose syrup, the price of which way, Cloetta usually avoids temporary price Suppliers is influenced by the price of wheat and barley. swings in the commodities market. Cloetta uses several suppliers for the majoriThis means that Cloetta’s purchasing costs ty of raw materials, but significant consolifor these items are dependent on market Agricultural policy dation has taken place among the suppliers, pricing. Aside from the production volume, The prices of many of Cloetta’s raw materials which has sometimes made it difficult to the total cost for raw materials is also affectare affected by agro-political decisions find alternative suppliers. The ten largest ed by factory efficiency. regarding subsidies, trade barriers, and such. suppliers of raw materials and packaging Cloetta has a central purchasing unit Within the EU for example sugar quotas account for around 30 per cent (27) of the that can carry out more effective purchasing, were in place until 2017. total purchasing volume. both by consolidating and by using local purThe prices of agricultural commodiSuppliers to Cloetta are evaluated and chasing opportunities. As a rule, the central ties are naturally also affected by supply approved before they can deliver to the factopurchasing unit pre-purchases the most and demand, i.e. the size of the harvest and ries. Read more on page 52. important raw materials so that raw matericonsumption of food products in relation SUGAR COCOA MILK NUTS << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 51 WORDS Breakdown of raw material and packaging costs FROM THE PRESIDENT Other 19% u t 23% Packaging GOALS Flavors 5% u AND Milk powder/ S T R AT E G I E S milk products 5% u t 12% Sugar Gelatine 6% u THE CONPolyols FECTIONERY (sweetener) 6% u p 10% Cocoa MARKET Nuts and seeds 6% p p 7% Glucose syrup BRAND, Sugar Cocoa beans C AT E G O R Y & Cost trend Cost trend PRODUCT DEEuro/Tonne Euro/Tonne 800 3,500 V ELO PM ENT Cost trend Sugar 700 3,000 Sugar prices declined to their lowest levels in C L O E T TA’ S 2018 after the abolition of the European sugMAIN 600 2,500 ar quota system in 2017. In 2019, European MARKETS sugar prices increased significantly due to a 500 2,000 more balanced European market. Cocoa S U P P LY 400 1,500 The price of cocoa was stable during 2019 CHAIN due to a balance between supply and de300 1,000 2011 2015 2019 2011 2015 2019 mand. The price of cocoa is often subject to Source: Data Commodity Source: Data Commodity sharp fluctuations that are partly explained E M P L OY E E S by the fact that the cocoa exchange is comMilk powder Almonds Cost trend Cost trend paratively small and therefore of interest for speculation. The price of cocoa is naturally Euro/Tonne Euro/Tonne 3,500 12,000 also dependent on the level of supply, i.e. the harvest and trends in demand. SHARE AND 3,000 10,000 Nuts SHARENut prices are affected mainly by supply and 2,500 8,000 HOLDERS demand, weather conditions and thereby the harvest and exchange rates, since most 2,000 6,000 nut prices are quoted in US dollars. The cost FINANCIAL of nuts, particularly cashews, continued to 1,500 4,000 PER FORdecrease in 2019 while the cost of almonds MANCE was higher than in 2018. 1,000 2,000 2011 2015 2019 2011 2015 2019 Source: Data Commodity Source: Data Commodity Milk powder The price of milk powder increased in 2018 Corrugated and continued to rise in 2019 due to low RISKS Cost trend stocks in Europe. Euro/Tonne 800 Gelatine The price of gelatine from pork increased C O R P O R AT E greatly, due to a large imbalance between GOVER NANCE supply and demand. S TAT E M E N T 700 Packaging Purchase costs for packaging materials, 600 especially paper-based packaging material, FINANCIAL such as corrugated material, decreased REPORTS during 2019. 500 2011 2015 2019 Source: Data Commodity S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 52 S upply chain Responsible sourcing Cloetta manages risks in its supply chain by setting and following up food-safety, environmental and social requirements. Supplier controls are part of deviations from agreements with Cloetta. indicators. The objective is for suppliers to the sourcing process Suppliers must also submit self-assessments retain their status as approved suppliers Cloetta has an extensive product range of social and environmental conditions. to Cloetta and continuously improve their that requires many different types of raw This includes describing their own risk performance. materials and ingredients. Consequently the management. Based on these evaluations, Cloetta carried out 25 audits in 2019. All company has many suppliers. Cloetta has Cloetta decides on which suppliers to audit 75 new suppliers were assessed in terms of processes in place to assess new suppliers on location. The current focus is on product their food safety, product quality, environand monitor existing ones. The work is based quality and food safety, and the auditing mental considerations, workplace conditions on Cloetta’s Code of Conduct, Supplier activities will be expanded to include other and human rights. 23 of these suppliers had Guiding Principles and Cloetta Quality aspects of sustainability. All suppliers are operations in high-risk countries. Agreement. These documents cover human part of Cloetta’s risk-based program for rights, rights and terms of work, environsupplier control. Suppliers are audited Sustainability program mental protection, and product quality and and/or monitored based on country and for prioritized raw materials food safety. sector-specific circumstances, as well as Many of the raw materials that are used in Suppliers are obliged to adhere to these their own performance over time. Audits are Cloetta’s products originate in countries governance documents and report any performed by specially trained auditors and where the risk of deviation from Cloetta’s changes in their operations that may lead to monitoring takes place using specific Code of Conduct is higher. Cloetta’s sustainability program involves paying particular attention to purchasing of prioritized raw materials. For cocoa and palm oil, third-parGoal ty certification is applied. For shea butter, Goal Cloetta uses the AAK sustainability program. Cloetta purchases certified raw mate100% of suppliers rials and cooperates with organizations who certify and work directly with raw material suppliers so as to improve traceability, work approved according Sustainability to a common set of requirements and carry to Cloetta’s programs include out training that can contribute to positive Code of Conduct cocoa, palm oil change in countries where the raw materials and shea butter are grown. UTZ certified cocoa Through UTZ the cocoa farmers receive Cocoa is cultivated by around • Training in new farming methods. 5 million farmers and employs • S upport in buying better plants, which leads some 40 million people, close to a higher yield. to 70 per cent of these are • U TZ certified cocoa farmers produce more located in West Africa, primarily than growers that are not affiliated with UTZ. Ghana and Ivory Coast. COCOA Since 2014 Cloetta has been buying cocoa ute the raw material to international cocoa challenges. One of the most significant is solely from UTZ certified farmers. In this wholesalers, after which the cocoa is sent low productivity. Limited knowledge about way, Cloetta secures access to high-quality to Europe. Every year, Cloetta purchases how to grow high-quality cocoa efficiently cocoa, while contributing to sustainable approximately 3,000 tonnes of cocoa in the is one of the root causes. production and positive change for the form of cocoa pulp, cocoa butter and cocoa The farmers also struggle with ageing cocoa farmers. powder from suppliers in Europe. cocoa trees and declining soil fertility while often lacking the means to address Sourcing of cocoa Low productivity for the challenges. West Africa accounts for around 70 per the cocoa farmers cent of the total global harvest of cocoa West African cocoa farmers face a number beans. Local intermediaries then distribof economic, social and environmental << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S upply chain 53 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT RSPO certified palm oil GOALS Around AND 85% of all palm oil in the S T R AT E G I E S world comes from THE CONMalaysia and PALM OIL FECTIONERY Indonesia MARKET 8 principles that farmers BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & must respect PRODUCT DE1. Transparency V ELO PM ENT 2. Compliance with laws and regulations 3. C ommitment to long-term economic and financial viability C L O E T TA’ S MAIN 4. U se of best farming practices 5. E nvironmental responsibility and conservation A number of Cloetta’s products contain farming is used in plantation operation. of natural resources and biodiversity MARKETS 6. R esponsible consideration for individuals and palm oil. However, Cloetta does not To improve traceability, Cloetta has communities affected by palm oil production buy pure palm oil, only oils and fats transitioned to RSPO segregated palm 7. R esponsible development of new plantations that contain derivatives of palm oil. oil, which means that Cloetta will reS U P P LY 8. C ommitment to continuous improvement Suppliers must comply with Cloetta’s ceive information about which mills the requirement that palm oil extraction palm oil comes from. During the year, CHAIN By respecting the eight key principles, the negative impacts of palm oil cultivation on the must not be permitted in primary the process for RSPO certification of environment and communities can be reduced. forest, peatlands, areas with protected Cloetta’s factories commenced. Certififorest or areas where slash-and-burn cation is likely to be complete in 2020. E M P L OY E E S Sustainable shea butter SHARE AND SHAREWomen HOLDERS organized in groups More then 100,000 FINANCIAL PER FORwomen involved MANCE SHEA BUTTER Since 2017 Cloetta has been collaborating the supply chain would contain a series of Another important benefit for the with AAK (a supplier of oil and fat soluintermediaries. women is the possibility of obtaining tions) regarding sustainable shea butter. AAK helps the women to organize advance payments. At the beginning of the RISKS In a number of West African countries, themselves into producer groups and trains season, AAK extension officers visit the AAK has set up a sustainability program them in business management and in good producer groups to discuss the women’s for direct sourcing of shea kernels aimed at post-harvest practices. outlook for the season. Part of the volume C O R P O R AT E empowering women in rural areas. Since is then pre-financed and the women are July 2018 Cloetta has only sourced segreAdvantages for the women paid this money at a time of the year when GOVER NANCE gated and traceable shea butter covered by The main advantage for the women is a they have little or no other income. It is also S TAT E M E N T the AAK direct sourcing program. higher return, as they are paid the same a guarantee that AAK will return and buy price that AAK would otherwise have paid all their shea kernels. to the intermediaries. It is also a guaranThe program has been running since FINANCIAL The basis of the program AAK runs a program office for sustainable teed outlet for all of their shea kernels. The 2009 in Burkina Faso and since 2015 in REPORTS shea kernels in Ghana. The basic princiadvantage for AAK and Cloetta is a more Ghana. More than 100,000 women are ple of the program is to establish a direct secure, transparent and sustainable supply involved in the program, which has had trade relationship with the women in rural chain with increased opportunities to a major impact on the lives of the many areas that collect shea nuts. Traditionally, impact the quality of the shea kernels. women and their families. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 54 E mployees Employees Cloetta is driven by the conviction that value is created by its employees, and that the ability to attract, retain and develop the best and most competent people is crucial to the company’s success. Cloetta has four core values that guide how its people work and act, both within and outside the company. These core values are Focus, Passion, Teamplay and Pride. Focus Passion Teamplay Pride is about doing the fundamentals is about “going the extra mile”, is about mutual responsibility, is about being proud of with self-confidence, ambition being positive and having fun. doing your part and supporting our company, our brands, and a “will do” attitude. each other. our products and our personal contribution. In 2019, Cloetta launched Employee Jourincluding a tool-kit containing aptitude tests Develop ney, a strategic review of the Group’s focus and self-assessment tests. For all positions, Cloetta uses the 70-20-10 method for learnareas within HR, which also clarifies Cloetta selection is based on a job description with a ing, whereby 70 per cent happens on the job, as an employer. Employee Journey was decompetence specification against which the 20 per cent together with others and 10 per veloped to provide a simple way to visualize candidates are compared, in combination cent through formal training. the four overarching HR areas: Attract, with an analysis of the different tests and A key aspect of employee development is Welcome, Develop and Engage. interviews. Cloetta’s annual performance management process, in which managers and employees Attract Welcome evaluate and discuss objectives, behavior Cloetta endeavours to be an attractive Cloetta Tasting is a new introduction and performance. This process is supported employer in the markets where the company program that is now being rolled out in all by the Workday system. is active and thereby attract and retain valucountries. Cloetta Tasting includes welcome Several Cloetta-specific courses in difable employees. meetings, online courses, films and a welferent areas are being developed into differcome candy tub, which is also full of tasks to ent academies. The core idea of an academy Recruitment strategy be completed during the induction period. is to share best practice both internally and The Group’s recruitment strategy to outside Cloetta. Within manufacturing, the attract the best candidates is continuously core course is linked to continuous improvedeveloped and improved. The strategy ment under the banner of Perfect Factory. includes recruitment processes for different Within sales, the different countries collate target groups, best practices per country knowledge to create the Perfect Store, for and training for managers in how to recruit, << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 E mployees 55 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS ”Sweet spot for your career” is Cloetta’s employer branding slogan that has S U P P LY been further developed during the year. A common communication platform CHAIN for employer branding has been created consisting of a common career portal, a common recruitment tool and integration with LinkedIn and other social media channels to reach the identified target groups. E M P L OY E E S There are many benefits to working at Cloetta: • Fun – Not only does Cloetta have fun • Strong brands – Cloetta was founded in • Impact – the chance to make a difference products, its people also have fun on the job. 1862 and is famous for its well-known, strong – Cloetta is a company that offers the best Cloetta offers products that create joy, which local brands in categories including candy, of two worlds: both international and local, is evident in the company’s welcoming culture chocolate, nuts, pastilles, chewing gum and large-scale and small-scale, personal and that is built on authenticity and camaraderie pick & mix. SHARE AND professional, challenging and decisive, free and where having fun together at work is and responsible. encouraged. This is an important basis for creating an innovative, open and inclusive SHAREworking climate. HOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORexample how to create effective checkout developing individuals and the organization. edge and skills are respected, regardless counters, and other priorities for the sales In 2019, a program for potential Group Manof gender, gender neutrality or expression, MANCE organization. Within marketing, seminars agement Team candidates was developed. ethnic background, religion or other faith, are organized that take a deeper look at physical disability, sexual orientation or age. marketing when people share experiences, Engage The Group has zero tolerance for discrimifor example regarding the future model for Cloetta’s organisation is made up of mulnation and ensures that everybody is given RISKS brand platforms. ti-cultural and internationally experienced the chance to provide feedback in meetpeople that work in an open environment. ings, through employee surveys or via the Leadership Cloetta works continuously to improve whistleblower service. Questions related to Cloetta’s management tool, Management the workplace environment. The goal is to harassment and discrimination are included C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Drives, includes analyses that map out what provide a healthy workplace environment in in the employee survey. drives each employee, what energizes them which all individuals feel safe and appreciatand what drains them of energy. The tool ed and have the opportunity to grow. Cloetta Energy S TAT E M E N T helps both managers and employees become Cloetta encourages people to have Through a healthy workplace environment, aware of their own motivations and thereby a good work-life balance. Both men and employees are supported in managing the kind of work approach they are best women should be able to combine work with stress and a heavy workload. The Cloetta FINANCIAL suited to. The tool has also been developed home and family. To the extent possible, the Energy program is a fun and engaging way REPORTS into Cloetta competencies. Group supports flexible working. to promote well-being and a sustainable, Cloetta has a special process for talent Cloetta is a workplace where diversity healthy lifestyle, and thereby Workplace and succession management aimed at and employees’ different qualities, knowlHappiness. Using common themes and S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 56 E mployees through local implementation, the program everybody feels safe. Read more about the based incentives program. Other remunerafocuses on strengthening employee health “Safety first” program on page 41. tion varies from country to country based on and vitality and also supports well-being and local laws. engagement. Employee survey Areas that have been covered by Cloetta During the last few years Cloetta has conCode of Conduct Energy include: ducted the Great Place to Work employee Towards the end of 2019 the Board of Direc• The body – physical well-being survey. The objective is to create a strong tors approved a revised Code of Conduct. corporate culture characterized by trust, The purpose of the Code of Conduct is to • The mind – mental well-being pride and enjoyment. It is essential that there ensure that Cloetta employees and business • Behavior – healthy habits is a genuine interest in how the employees partners have a clear understanding of • Habitat – home and workplace environment perceive their place of work, what they the principles and ethical values Cloetta appreciate and what they feel needs to be upholds. The code applies to all Cloetta’s improved. employees and all other parties who act Safety first Cloetta’s goal is that the Great Place to on behalf of Cloetta, including temporary Continuous improvement and development Work Trust Index will be equal to or exceed employees, consultants, contractors and of workplace safety programs is a natural the previous year’s level. At the end of 2019, members of the Board, within the entire part of Cloetta’s operations. The aim is to Cloetta conducted the employee survey Cloetta Group. All employees and other repcreate a good physical workplace environwithin the manufacturing units. The reresentatives have a responsibility to adhere ment and a healthy workplace climate where sponse rate totalled 74 per cent and the Trust to the code. Employees should also be aware Index was 51 per cent, a slight improvement of the Group’s other policies and guidelines compared to the last measurement of 47 in as they may provide further guidance and 2017. information. In 2020, Cloetta will replace the Great Cloetta’s whistleblower service gives Place to Work survey with another survey employees the opportunity to report susto promote employee engagement in the pected deviations from Cloetta’s Code of company even further. Conduct anonymously. Salary and remuneration Number of employees To ensure a clear framework and strategy for The average number of employees in 2019 Cloetta’s remuneration and salary structure, was 2,629 (2,458). Of the average number of Cloetta is benchmarking this with the help employees, 82 per cent (78) are covered by of a consulting firm. Remuneration for all collective agreements. In production there positions at Cloetta is being compared with are certain periods with a higher workload, equivalent positions at other FMCG compasuch as ahead of Easter and Christmas, when nies. This comparison is being done for all of extra staff is hired. Other areas of operation Cloetta’s countries of operation. The Group also use temporary and extra staff. 14,0 per Management Team and a number of other cent (11.8) of the employees (headcount) key people are part of a long-term sharewere temporary staff per year end. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 E mployees 57 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Facts about Cloetta’s employees MARKETS Gender distribution, all employees Age distribution 31 December 2019 % S U P P LY 100 CHAIN 43% 57% 80 E M P L OY E E S 60 7% 36% 50% 7% Part-time Full-time Full-time Part-time 40 employees employees employees employees 20 SHARE AND Gender distribution, Gender distribution, 0 SHAREGroup Management Team Board of Directors under 30 30–50 over 50 HOLDERS 31 December 2019 31 December 2019 Employees Group Management Team Board of Directors 18% FINANCIAL 82% 50% 50% PER FORMANCE RISKS Number of employees by category and region as per 31 December 2019 Employees Slovakia Sweden Netherlands Finland UK Belgium Denmark Ireland Norway Germany Italy Others Total C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Number of employees – Women 485 488 176 297 178 24 71 32 19 10 2 3 1,785 S TAT E M E N T – Men 278 379 345 53 56 93 55 52 18 5 2 3 1,339 Number of permanent employees FINANCIAL – Women 413 421 137 287 178 18 69 23 18 10 2 3 1,579 – Men 218 323 266 51 56 77 53 37 17 5 2 2 1,107 REPORTS Number of temporary employees – Women 72 67 39 10 – 6 2 9 1 – – – 206 – Men 60 56 79 2 – 16 2 15 1 – – 1 232 See note 5 for average number of employees per country. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 58 S hare and shareholders Share and shareholders Cloetta’s class B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 16 February 2009. Cloetta was originally introduced on the stock exchange in 1994 and has been listed in a number of different owner constellations since then. Cloetta’s shares are part of the OMX Stockholm Mid Cap index, and also the Nordic and Swedish industry sector index for Food Producers, Food & Beverage and Consumer Goods. Six reasons to invest in Cloetta Strong local brands Clear strategy Attractive 1 2 3 to deliver growth non-cyclical market Cloetta has an extensive portfolio of In order to drive growth, the most The confectionery market is relatively strong local brands that are well estabimportant daily activities include broadinsensitive to economic fluctuations lished in the minds of the consumers. ening distribution, updating packaging, and shows stable growth that is priThe brands have been cherished for promotional and advertising activimarily driven by population trends and generations and consumers have a perties, line extensions and launching of price increases. Historically, annual sonal relationship with the brands they seasonal products. In addition to these, market growth has been between one have grown up with. strategic activities such as innovation, and two per cent. geographical roll-outs, brand extensions and brand re-launches are also given priority. Acquisitions are also part of the growth strategy. Focus on continued Strong market Attractive cash-flow margin expansion 4 positions and distribution 5 generation and dividend 6 Cloetta’s profitability has improved In its core markets, Cloetta has strong Cloetta’s business has a very strong over the past few years. In order to move sales and marketing organizations that cash-generating capacity. Low and towards Cloetta’s financial target to have excellent relations with the retail stable capital expenditure combined reach an EBIT margin, adjusted of at trade. Cloetta’s wide portfolio of marwith effective management of working least 14 per cent, there will be a continket-leading products creates economies capital generate robust cash flows and ued focus on cost-effectiveness, growth of scale, and its brands are often highly thereby allow for share dividends in and profitability. important to the retail trade. accordance with the goal to distribute 40 to 60 per cent of profit for the year. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S hare and shareholders 59 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS Shareholders¹ Share price and trading² The share’s beta S U P P LY At 31 December 2019 Cloetta AB (publ) had Between 1 January and 31 December 2019, and standard deviation³ 24,910 (23,956) shareholders, an increase of 182,617,131 Cloetta shares were traded on The price volatility of an individual share CHAIN 4 (19) per cent since the previous year-end. Nasdaq Stockholm for a total value of compared to the market as a whole is known Of the shareholders, 1,072 were financial SEK 4,951m, equal to around 65 per cent as its beta. A beta of greater than 1 indicates E M P L OY E E S and institutional investors and 23,838 were of the total number of class B shares at that the share price is more volatile than the private investors. Financial and institutional the end of the period. Trading on Nasdaq market average. The Cloetta share’s beta in investors held 89.8 per cent of the votes and Stockholm accounted for 48.3 per cent, and 2019 was 0.45 (0.68), which means that the 88.0 per cent of the share capital. other markets where the Cloetta share was Cloetta share was less volatile than the averThere were 768 foreign shareholders traded include Cboe Global Markets at 39.1 age on Nasdaq Stockholm. The Cloetta share who held 41.5 per cent of the votes and 48.9 per cent, LSE Group at 5.2 per cent, Aquis at had a standard deviation of 1.6 per cent (1.6) SHARE AND per cent of the share capital. The 15 largest 4.7 per cent, Liquidnet at 0.9 per cent, UBS in 2019. Standard deviation is a measure of shareholders accounted for 64.2 per cent at 0.7 per cent, ITG at 0.6 per cent, Sigma-X the share’s variability from its average value SHAREof the votes and 57.9 per cent of the share at 0.3 per cent and Nomura Group at 0.2 per for the measurement period, i.e. how volatile HOLDERS capital. At 31 December 2019, AB Malfors cent. the share was during the year. Promotor was Cloetta’s largest shareholder The highest quoted bid price during the with a holding representing 38.2 per cent period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 Share capital and capital structure FINANCIAL of the votes and 27.2 per cent of the share was SEK 33.34 on 5 November 2019, and the Cloetta’s share capital at 31 December 2019 PER FORcapital in the company. The second largest lowest bid price was SEK 22.32 on 28 Janamounted to SEK 1,443,096,495. The total MANCE shareholder was Franklin Templeton, with uary 2019. The share price on 31 December number of shares is 288,619,299, divided 5.8 per cent of the votes and 6.8 per cent of 2019 was SEK 31.70 (last price paid). During between 5,735,249 class A shares and the share capital, and the third largest sharethe period from 1 January to 31 December 282,884,050 class B shares, equal to a quota RISKS holder was Wellington Management with 4.1 2019, Cloetta’s share price increased by 30.5 value per share of SEK 5. According per cent of the votes and 4.8 per cent of the per cent, while Nasdaq OMX Stockholm PI to the Articles of Association, the share share capital. increased by 29.6 per cent. capital shall amount to not less than C O R P O R AT E Trading categories, % Marketplaces, % LIT, , i.e. buy-and-sell orders are public. Traditional 1 January–31 December 2019 1 January–31 December 2019 GOVER NANCE exchange trading. Off-book, stock trades that are executed away from the exchange and are Other 2.8% q Dark 5.8% q Lit Nasdaq OMX Aquis 4.7% q S TAT E M E N T registered later. Off-book, stock trades that are executed away Auction 7.2% q q 48.9% LSE Group 5.2% q q 48.2% from the exchange and are registered later. SI SI, Systematic Internalisers, outside regulated 10.6% u FINANCIAL markets or trading platforms. Auction, auction trading process on an exchange Cboe Global REPORTS Dark buyers and sellers trade shares anonymousMarkets ly, without public transparency. Not registered on 39.1% u any public exchange.. 1 Source: Euroclear and Monitor Off-book 2 Source: Nasdaq Stockholm and Fidessa 27.5% u 3 Source: SIX Source: Fidessa Source: Fidessa S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 60 S hare and shareholders SEK 400,000,000 and not more than Euroclear Sweden AB administers the comSupervisory Authority of every transaction SEK 1,600,000,000, divided between no pany’s share register and registers the shares conducted related to changes in their holdless than 80,000,000 shares and no more to owners. Each A share grants ten votes ings of Cloetta shares once a total amount than 320,000,000 shares. and each B share one vote in shareholder of EUR 5,000 has been reached within a meetings. All shares grant equal entitlement calendar year, according to the regulation of Dividend policy to the company’s profits and an equal share the European Parliament and of the Council Cloetta’s long-term goal is a dividend payin any surplus arising from liquidation. on Market Abuse. Listed companies are out of 40–60 per cent of profit for the year. Should the company issue new shares of required to record a logbook of individuals The ambition is for the cash flow to be used class A and class B through a cash or set-off who are employed or contracted by the comfor dividends, but that it should also provide issue, holders of class A and class B shares pany and have access to insider information financial flexibility for complementary have the right to subscribe for new shares of relating to the company. These can include acquisitions. Neither the Swedish Compathe same class in proportion to the number insiders, and also other individuals who have nies Act nor Cloetta’s Articles of Association of shares already held on the record date. If obtained inside information. Cloetta records contain any restrictions regarding the right the issue includes shares of only class B, all a logbook for each financial report or press to dividends for shareholders outside Sweholders of class A and class B shares have the release containing information that could den. Aside from any limitations related to right to subscribe for new class B shares in affect the share price. banking or clearing activities in the affected proportion to the number of shares already jurisdictions, payments to foreign shareholdheld on the record date. Corresponding rules Silent periods ers are carried out in the same manner as to of apportionment are applied in the event Cloetta maintains a silent period of at least shareholders in Sweden. A dividend of SEK of a bonus issue or issue of convertibles and 30 days prior to the publication of its quar289m was transferred to the shareholders subscription warrants. The transference of a terly financial reports. During this period, in 2019. For 2019 the Board proposes a class A share to a person who is not previousrepresentatives of the Group do not meet dividend of SEK 1.00 (1.00) per share, which ly a holder of class A shares in the company is with financial media, analysts or investors. is equal to 58 per cent of the profit for the subject to a pre-emption procedure, except period. The dividend is resolved on by the when the transfer is made through division of Annual General Meeting (AGM) and disjoint property, inheritance, testament or gift bursement is handled by Euroclear Sweden to the person who is the closest heir to the AB. The right to a dividend is granted to bequeather. After receiving a written request those persons who are listed as shareholders from a holder of class A shares, the company in the share register maintained by Euroshall convert the class A shares specified in clear Sweden AB on the record date. the request to class B shares. Articles of Association Individuals with an insider position Cloetta’s Articles of Association contain Persons discharging managerial responsibila Central Securities Depository (CSD) ities for Cloetta and persons or legal entities provision and its shares are affiliated with closely associated with them are obliged to Euroclear Sweden AB, which means that notify Cloetta and the Swedish Financial Investor relations 2019 Cloetta meets regularly with investors and analysts. At least twice a year, trips are made to Europe and the USA to meet investors and shareholders. In addition, Cloetta regularly attends major investor club meetings, lunches and evening meetings organized by banks and the Swedish Shareholders Association (Aktiespararna). JANUARY SEB Nordic Seminar, Copenhagen Interim report Q4 NOVEMBER Avanza Börsdag (Capital Markets Day) JAN DEC V FE OCTOBER NO B MARCH Interim report Q3 Annual report Cloetta Capital Markets day OCT MAR APRIL SEPTEMBER SEP APR Annual General Meeting Interim report Q1 Carnegie Small/Mid Cap Seminar Investor Road show, New York AU G AY M JUL JUN MAY Investor Road show, London JULY JUNE Interim report Q2 Handelsbanken Nordic Mid/Small Cap Seminar << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S hare and shareholders 61 15 largest shareholders at 31 December 2019 Shareholder countries, % share of capital WORDS 31 December 2019 % of FROM THE % of share Total no. of No. of A No. of B Belgium 1.6% q qOther countries 5.6% votes capital shares shares shares Luxembourg 2.0% q PRESIDENT UK 11.4% u AB Malfors Promotor 38.2 27.2 78,552,542 5,729,569 72,822,973 GOALS Franklin Templeton 5.8 6.8 19,706,413 – 19,706,413 Wellington Management 4.1 4.8 13,878,706 – 13,878,706 Dimensional Fund Advisors 2.6 3.1 8,853,972 – 8,853,972 AND t Sweden S T R AT E G I E S Norges Bank 2.3 2.7 7,764,529 – 7,764,529 51.1% Vanguard 1.7 2.0 5,854,381 – 5,854,381 AXA 1.5 1.7 5,019,893 – 5,019,893 USA 28.2% p THE CONSource: Euroclear Ulla Håkanson 1.5 1.7 5,000,000 – 5,000,000 FECTIONERY Försäkringsbolaget PRI 1.2 1.4 4,081,282 – 4,081,282 Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund 1.2 1.4 4,077,700 – 4,077,700 Shareholder countries, % of votes MARKET 31 December 2019 Carnegie Fonder 0.9 1.1 3,065,715 – 3,065,715 Belgium 1.4% q qOther countries 4.8% BlackRock 0.9 1.1 3,057,800 – 3,057,800 Luxembourg 1.7% q Olof Svenfelt 0.9 1.0 3,000,030 30 3,000,000 BRAND, UK 9.7% u Swedbank Robur Fonder 0.9 1.0 2,900,200 – 2,900,200 C AT E G O R Y & XACT Fonder 0.6 0.7 2,160,392 – 2,160,392 PRODUCT DETotal, 15 largest shareholders 64.2 57.9 166,973,555 5,729,599 161,243,956 V ELO PM ENT Other shareholders 35.8 42.1 121,645,744 5,650 121,640,094 USA tSweden Total 100 100 288,619,299 5,735,249 282,884,050 23.9% u 58.5% C L O E T TA’ S Source: M  onitor by Modular Finance AB. Data collated and processed from Euroclear, Morningstar, Source: Euroclear MAIN Finansinspektionen (Sweden’s financial supervisory authority) and others. MARKETS Trustee-registered accounts/shareholders are not included in this list. Current holdings for the 15 largest shareholders can be found at www.cloetta.com Number of shareholders 31 December Number S U P P LY Size categories at 31 December 2019 25,000 No. of share% of share Total no. of No. of A No. of B CHAIN holders % of votes capital shares shares shares 20,000 1–500 18,632 0.7 0.8 2,315,903 3,204 2,312,699 501–1,000 2,558 0.6 0.7 2,150,370 500 2,149,870 15,000 E M P L OY E E S 1,001–5,000 2,757 1.9 2.2 6,472,110 1,832 6,470,278 5,001–10,000 391 0.9 1.0 2,996,668 – 2,996,668 10,000 10,001–15,000 120 0.5 0.5 1,521,577 – 1,521,577 15,001–20,000 80 0.4 0.5 1,452,746 – 1,452,746 5,000 20,001– 372 95.0 94.1 271,709,925 5,729,713 265,980,212 Total 24,910 100 100 288,619,299 5,735,249 282,884,050 SHARE AND 0 SHARESource: Euroclear 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 HOLDERS Source: Euroclear Shareholders by country at 31 December 2019 Shareholder categories at 31 December 2019 No. of % of No. of % % share% of share Total no. of No. of A No. of B share­ of share% of share FINANCIAL holders votes capital shares shares shares holders holders of votes capital PER FORPrivate investors 23,838 95.7 10.2 12.0 MANCE Sweden 24,142 58.5 51.1 147,505,522 5,735,249 141,770,273 USA 55 23.9 28.2 81,340,248 – 81,340,248 Of which, Swedish 23,686 95.1 10.1 11.9 UK 72 9.7 11.4 32,910,634 – 32,910,634 residents Luxembourg 23 1.7 2.0 5,860,927 – 5,860,927 Legal entities 1,072 4.3 89.8 88.0 Of which, Swedish 456 1.8 48.4 39.2 RISKS Belgium 10 1.4 1.6 4,720,820 – 4,720,820 residents Other 608 4.8 5.6 16,281,148 – 16,281,148 countries Total 24,910 100 100 100 Total 24,910 100 100 288,619,299 5,735,249 282,884,050 Of which, Swedish 24,142 96.9 58.5 51.1 residents C O R P O R AT E Source: Euroclear Source: Euroclear Development of the share GOVER NANCE Increase in Total Increase in Total no. Year Event share capital share capital no. of shares of shares S TAT E M E N T 1998 Opening share capital, par value of the share is SEK 100 – 100,000 – 1,000 FINANCIAL 2008 Non-cash issue in connection with de-merger of Cloetta Fazer 99,900,000 100,000,000 999,000 1,000,000 2008 Share split, quota value of the share changed from SEK 100 to SEK 4 – 100,000,000 23,119,196 24,119,196 REPORTS 2008 Bonus issue, quota value of the share changed from SEK 4 to SEK 5 20,595,980 120,595,980 – 24,119,196 2011–2012 Conversion of convertible debenture loan 2,836,395 123,432,375 567,279 24,686,475 2012 Issue in kind 825,934,620 949,366,995 165,186,924 189,873,399 2012 Rights issue 493,729,500 1,443,096,495 98,745,900 288,619,299 Source: Euroclear S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 62 S hare and shareholders Incentive schemes The table below represents the main characteristics of the share-based long-term incentive plans that have been approved by the AGM. For more information about the incentive plans, see page 82, and Note 23 on pages 121–122. LTI 2019 LTI 2018 LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 AGM approval date 4 April 2019 16 April 2018 4 April 2017 12 April 2016 23 April 2015 Maximum number of B shares to be allocated 1,648,046 1,201,602 1,221,698 1,524,100 2,000,000 as a percentage of total shares 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.7 as a percentage of voting rights 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 Number of employees offered the opportunity to participate 45 54 70 73 74 Number of participants at inception date 30 44 49 49 46 Estimated number of B shares to be allocated, subject to possible recalculation 912,533 404,979 97,325 as a percentage of total shares 0.3 0.1 0.0 as a percentage of voting rights 0.3 0.1 0.0 Number of participants at reporting date 28 35 31 Vesting date 29 April 2019 25 April 2018 Realized performance target, % 0.0 59.9 Actual number of matching shares granted on vesting date 109,369 100,542 Actual number of performance shares granted on vesting date 0 237,940 Total number of B shares granted on vesting date 109,369 338,482 as a percentage of total shares 0.0 0.1 as a percentage of voting rights 0.0 0.1 Number of participants at vesting date 30 29 Share price performance 40 Closing price, SEK No. of shares traded, thousands 80,000 35 70,000 30 60,000 25 50,000 20 40,000 15 30,000 10 20,000 IR contact 5 10,000 Nathalie Redmo 0 Investor Relations 0 Phone: +46 766 96 59 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Switchboard: +46 8 527 28 800 Cloetta B OMX Stockholm_PI No. of shares traded, thousands per month Source: WebfinacialGroup E-mail: ir@cloetta.com Analysts Share data The following analysts regularly monitor Marketplace Nasdaq Stockholm Cloetta’s development: Date of listing 16 February 2009 Carnegie: Mikael Löfdahl, Segment Mid cap miklof@carnegie.se Sector Food Producers, Food & Beverage Handelsbanken: Nicklas Skogman, and Consumer Goods nisk03@handelsbanken.se Ticker symbol CLA B Nordea: Stefan Stjernholm, stefan.stjernholm@nordea.com ISIN code SE0002626861 Currency SEK SEB: Andreas Lundberg, Standard trading unit 1 share andreas.lundberg@seb.se No. of shares in issue 288,619,299 A and B shares Highest price paid in 2019 SEK 33.34 (5 November 2019) Lowest price paid in 2019 SEK 22.32 (28 January 2019) Last price paid 2019 SEK 31.70 Share price growth in 2019 30.5 per cent The share’s beta against SIXGX 0 .45 (0.68) NASDAQ The share’s standard deviation 1.6 (1.6) STOCKHOLM << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S hare and shareholders 63 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT Frequently asked questions to Cloetta C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Why don’t you sell product X or active. We may also acquire brands within nuts, chewing gum with xylitol and pastilles. MARKETS Y anymore, and do you have any our categories but in countries that are close Additionally, we are offering candy with plans to launch product Z? to our main markets. lower sugar and no sugar. If we no longer sell a product, this is unforWe also believe that the major chaltunately often due to insufficient demand for Will you use your strong cash flow lenge in this context is hidden sugar, i.e. the S U P P LY the product in question. In certain cases, it for acquisitions, to reduce debt or sugar hidden in everyday food products like CHAIN could also be because the product’s profitato pay dividends to shareholders? breakfast cereals, yoghurt, bread, etc., and to bility has been too low or even negative. The In 2019 we reached our target net debt/ a certain extent also carbonated beverages. launch of new product types can sometimes EBITDA ratio of 2.5x for the forth consecCloetta’s products are among the most honE M P L OY E E S be difficult if we lack a brand that can carry utive year, we therefore deem that we have est, since all consumers are aware that they them, and at the same time the necessary the capacity for both acquisitions and share contain sugar. marketing investments can be so high that dividends. The dividend pay-out ratio should the products would not be profitable. be 40 to 60 per cent of net profit. However, How big is the risk that various we see no reason to reduce the net debt/ sugar taxes will be introduced, How will you meet your EBITDA ratio to a level much lower than and how will that affect you? SHARE AND margin target? 2.5x. In general, we have to count on the posSHAREThe long-term goal of an EBIT margin, adsibility that different countries will both HOLDERS justed, of at least 14 per cent will be achieved What is your pricing strategy? introduce and abolish sugar and confectionthrough the following three prioritized We adjust our prices based mainly on flucery taxes from time to time. When different focus areas: Growing the branded packaged tuations in raw material costs and exchange taxes are introduced it naturally affects our FINANCIAL business, bringing sustainable value to pick rates. This means that over time, Cloetta sales, but only to a fairly minor extent since PER FOR& mix as well as reducing costs and driving will hopefully avoid the impact of cost our products are of a type that consumers MANCE efficiencies across the organization. trends in raw materials. Sometimes we also want, and can afford to treat themselves to, adjust prices in conjunction with initiatives despite price increases. When will you meet your such as new product launches or changes in 14 per cent margin target for packages. Why do you use palm oil EBIT margin, adjusted? During 2019 we have also implemented in your products? RISKS During 2019 we have continued once again price increases in the Swedish pick & mix Palm oil in and of itself is a very good oil. It is to strengthen our margin. Our target EBIT business to address higher costs as well as very effective for surfaces and has excellent margin, adjusted remains the same, and as to turn around the loss-making business by properties for food production. To prevent year-end 2020. negative environmental consequences, C O R P O R AT E communicated during the 2019 Capital Markets Day our ambition is to achieve it in We will continue to increase our pricing Cloetta only uses RSPO-segregated palm GOVER NANCE the medium term. during 2020, to compensate for higher oil, which means that the oil is produced commodity costs and a weaker SEK, with a sustainably and does not contribute to deS TAT E M E N T Do you plan to make additional potential negative impact on volumes for the struction of rain forests. However, the small acquisitions, and if so, in which Swedish pick & mix business. amount of palm oil that was previously used countries? in the glazing of a number of candy products FINANCIAL REPORTS We aim to pursue acquisitions that are conHow is Cloetta affected by to give them a protective surface and prevent sistent with our current product portfolio. the ongoing debates about sugar, them becoming sticky, has been exchanged This means that we acquire brand-driven health and childhood obesity? for alternative oils. companies within the same categories, For those seeking an alternative to products preferably in countries where we are already with sugar, Cloetta offers options such as S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 64 F inancial performance Financial performance Net sales and profit Condensed consolidated profit and loss account Net sales Net sales for the year increased by SEKm 2019 2018 SEK 275m to SEK 6,493m (6,218) compared to last year. Organic growth was 2.3 per cent Net sales 6,493 6,218 and exchange rate differences were 2.1 per Cost of goods sold –4,112 –3,934 cent. Sales of branded packaged products Gross profit 2,381 2,284 grew by 4.7 per cent. Pick & mix sales grew by 3.8 per cent. Other income – 4 Sales of branded packaged goods account for 73 per cent (72) of total sales, Selling expenses –1,011 –1,025 and pick & mix accounts for 27 per cent (28) General and administrative expenses –643 –603 of total sales. Divided by category, candy Operating profit 727 660 accounts for 59 per cent (58) of sales and chocolate accounts for 17 per cent (18). PasNet financial items –79 –98 tilles account for 12 per cent (12), chewing gum for 6 per cent (6), nuts for 4 per cent (4) Profit before tax 648 562 Income tax –150 –79 and other products for 2 per cent (2). Profit for the year 498 483 Sales in seven main markets Cloetta has seven main markets, of which Sweden is the largest with around 31 per cent (31) of the Group’s sales. The second largest market is Finland with 21 per cent (21). The Netherlands accounts for 14 per cent (14), Denmark for 10 per cent (9), the UK for 7 Net sales Operating profit, adjusted per cent (7), Germany for 6 per cent (5) and Norway for 5 per cent (6). SEKm SEKm 2,000 250 Sales of branded packaged products grew in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, 200 Germany and International Markets. Sales 1,500 were stable in Finland but declined in the Netherlands and the UK. Sales of pick & mix 150 grew in Denmark and Norway but declined 1,000 in Sweden, Finland and the UK. 100 500 50 0 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 n 2018 n 2019 n 2018 n 2019 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial performance 65 WORDS Other markets Gross profit Employees In addition to the main markets, Cloetta’s Gross profit amounted to SEK 2,381m The average number of employees was 2,629 FROM THE products are sold through distributors in (2,284), which is equal to a gross margin of (2,458). Employee numbers have been upPRESIDENT about 50 additional markets. Sales in other 36.7 per cent (36.7). dated following the implementation of a new markets increased in 2019 and accounted for company-wide HR system. Comparative 6 per cent (7) of the Group’s sales. Operating profit numbers have not been restated. GOALS Operating profit amounted to SEK 727m AND Pricing strategies (660). Operating profit, adjusted for items Research and development S T R AT E G I E S In Cloetta’s main markets the grocery trade affecting comparability, amounted to Costs for research and development (R&D) is consolidated with few, very large retail SEK 743m (677). The improvement in opwere charged to operating profit in an chains. In total, Cloetta’s ten largest customerating profit, adjusted, was driven by sales amount of SEK 35m (22) and are primarily THE CONers accounted for around 46 per cent (46) of growth and cost efficiencies, partly offset by attributable to the development of new prodFECTIONERY the Group’s sales. increased marketing investments. uct and brand varieties as well as packaging Concentration of the grocery retail trade solutions within the framework of the existMARKET exerts strong price pressure on all of its supItems affecting comparability ing product range. No expenses for research pliers. Cloetta is contentiously improving it’s Operating profit for the year includes items and development have been capitalized. BRAND, efficiency to cope with the pressure from the affecting comparability of SEK –16m (–17) C AT E G O R Y & grocery retail trade. To offset changes in raw that are mainly related to costs for the intePRODUCT DEmaterial costs and exchange rates, Cloetta’s gration of Candyking. V ELO PM ENT strategy is to pass these on by adjusting its prices. C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Cloetta’s net sales by country MARKETS International Markets 6% q Germany 6% q qSweden 31% UK 7% u S U P P LY Nordic Other countries CHAIN The Netherlands 33% 67% 14% u E M P L OY E E S Net sales – change Norway 5% u 6,500 SEKm 129 6,493 Denmark 10% p p Finland 21% 146 6,218 Exchange rate changes 6,000 Operating expenses Organic growth Other 15% q SHARE AND Raw materials, 5,500 packaging material SHARETransportation 4% u and finished goods Amortization/ t 44% HOLDERS 5,000 depreciation 5% u Advertising, promotion, u 4,500 selling and marketing 7% FINANCIAL Personnel expenses u PER FOR4,000 25% MANCE 2018 2019 RISKS Total operating expenses – change including cost of goods sold SEKm 146 5,766 6,000 5,562 –141 109 36 20 10 17 –66 73 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Raw materials, packaging Personnel Transportation Maintenance Advertising, promotion, Energy Leasing Depreciation, amortization Other 5,000 S TAT E M E N T 4,000 selling and marketing material and finished goods and impairment charges 3,000 FINANCIAL REPORTS 2000 1,000 0 2018 2019 S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 66 F inancial performance Total operating expenses Cost of goods sold Distribution and Administrative expenses 11% q warehousing 8% q t Cost of goods sold 71% Manufacturing costs 38% u t Raw materials and packaging 54% Selling expenses 18% u Quarterly data 2019 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2018 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales, SEKm 6,493 1,722 1,629 1,583 1,559 6,218 1,646 1,538 1,472 1,562 Operating profit, SEKm 727 209 195 159 164 660 159 180 155 166 Operating profit, adjusted, SEKm 743 216 200 161 166 677 174 194 145 164 Operating profit margin, % 11.2 12.1 12.0 10.0 10.5 10.6 9.7 11.7 10.5 10.6 Operating profit margin, adjusted, % 11.4 12.5 12.3 10.2 10.6 10.9 10.6 12.6 9.9 10.5 Seasonal variations of products in Sweden in connection with the opment of the Swedish krona against the Cloetta’s sales and operating profit are holiday season. euro during the year. Other financial items subject to some seasonal variations. Sales in amounted to SEK –31m (–51). The decrease the first and second quarters are affected by Net financial items of the other financial items is for SEK 21m the Easter holiday, depending on the quarter Net financial items for the year amounted the result of the lower interest expenses in which it occurs. In 2019, Easter was in the to SEK –79m (–98). Interest expenses related to the contingent earn-out considersecond quarter and in 2018 in the first quarrelated to external borrowings were ation which was settled in the first quarter of ter. In the fourth quarter, sales are usually SEK –29m (–31), exchange differences on 2019. Of the total net financial items, higher than in the first three quarters of the cash and cash equivalents were SEK –19m SEK –23m (–73) is non-cash in nature. year, which is mainly attributable to the sale (–16) which mainly related to the develNet financial items Sensitivity analysis The effects on profit before tax of changes in SEKm 2019 2018 selected key factors are shown below. These Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies –19 –16 are estimated effects which could occur Other financial income 2 5 with an isolated change in each variable and Unrealized losses on single currency interest rate swaps –1 –2 should be interpreted with caution. The Interest expenses on third-party borrowings and realized losses on single calculations are hypothetical and should neicurrency interest rate swaps –29 –31 ther be considered as an indicator of either Interest expenses, third-party pensions –11 –10 of these factors being more or less likely to Interest expenses, contingent earn-out liabilities –4 –25 change, nor the size of the magnitude of the Other financial expenses –17 –19 change. Real changes and their effects may Net financial items –79 –98 be larger or smaller than presented below. In addition, it is likely that the real changes will affect other items, and that actions by Cloetta and others, as a result of the changes, may thereby affect other items. Profit Sensitivity analysis Change before tax Currency risk Profit for the year If the Swedish krona –/+ 10% –/+ SEK 50m Profit for the year was SEK 498m (483). Key ratios weakens/strengthens against the Euro Income tax for the period was SEK –150m % 2019 2018 Interest rate risk (–79). The effective tax rate from continuing Interest rate +/– 1% SEK–6 /SEK 2m operations for the year was 23.1 per cent Gross margin 36.7 36.7 Commodity Operating profit (14.1). The effective tax rate for 2018 was sigprice risk margin 11.2 10.6 Average raw +/– 10% –/+SEK 150m nificantly impacted by the remeasurement of Operating profit material prices deferred tax balances as a result of changes margin, adjusted 11.4 10.9 in the enacted tax rates. Profit for the year Return on capital equates to basic earnings per share of employed 10.0 9.5 Cloetta’s development is affected by multiple SEK 1.74 (1.69) and diluted earnings per Return on equity 11.9 12.2 factors, which include those accounted for share of SEK 1.74 (1.68). in the section Risks and risk management on For definitions, see page 156. pages 71–74. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial performance 67 WORDS Financial position FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS Consolidated balance sheet to SEK –258m (–184). Exchange differencAND es related to tangible assets recognized in S T R AT E G I E S SEKm 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 foreign subsidiaries amounted to SEK 23m (38) during the year. THE CONASSETS Non-current assets Current assets Intangible assets 5,684 5,626 FECTIONERY Current assets amounted to SEK 2,401m MARKET Property, plant and equipment 1,559 1,354 (2,161). This change is due to a combination Deferred tax asset 9 16 of increased inventories of SEK 123m, highOther financial assets 7 11 er trade receivables of SEK 90m and higher BRAND, Total non-current assets 7,259 7,007 cash and cash equivalents of SEK 28m. C AT E G O R Y & Current assets PRODUCT DEEquity and liabilities Inventories 888 765 V ELO PM ENT Equity Trade and other receivables 928 838 Consolidated equity at 31 December 2019 Current income tax assets 6 6 amounted to SEK 4,197m (3,968), which C L O E T TA’ S Derivative financial instruments – 1 Cash and cash equivalents 579 551 equates to SEK 14.5 (13.7) per share. On MAIN the balance sheet date, the share capital MARKETS Total current assets 2,401 2,161 amounted to SEK 1,443m (1,443). The TOTAL ASSETS 9,660 9,168 equity/assets ratio on the same date was 43.4 per cent (43.3). EQUITY AND LIABILITIES S U P P LY Equity 4,197 3,968 Liabilities CHAIN Non-current liabilities amounted to SEK Non-current liabilities 2,249m (3,261), which is a decrease of SEK Long-term borrowings 939 2,076 1,012m compared to the previous year. LongE M P L OY E E S Deferred tax liability 803 754 term borrowings totalled SEK 939m (2,076) Derivative financial instruments 3 3 and consisted of SEK 800m (2,078) in gross Provisions for pensions and other long-term employee benefits 499 419 loans from credit institutions, lease liabilProvisions 5 9 ities of SEK 140m (0) and SEK –1m (–2) in Total non-current liabilities 2,249 3,261 capitalized transaction costs. The deferred tax liability increased by SEK 49m to SEK SHARE AND Current liabilities 803m. Pension provisions increased by SEK SHAREShort-term borrowings 1,870 500 80m to SEK 499m. Derivative financial instruments 68 61 HOLDERS Total short-term borrowings amounted Trade and other payables 1,227 1,342 to SEK 1,870m (500) and consisted of Provisions 5 23 Current income tax liabilities 44 13 gross loans from credit institutions of FINANCIAL SEK 1,306m (0), commercial papers of Total current liabilities 3,214 1,939 PER FORSEK 499m (500), lease liabilities of MANCE TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,660 9,168 SEK 64m (0), capitalized transaction costs of SEK –0m (–1) and accrued interest on borrowings from credit institutions of Assets Of total intangible assets, 97 per cent SEK 1m (1). Cloetta has an extension option Total assets at 31 December 2019 amounted (97) or SEK 5,540m (5,460) pertained to for the current loans from credit institutions RISKS to SEK 9,660m (9,168), which is an increase goodwill and trademarks at 31 December of SEK 1,306m for another two years, until of SEK 492m compared to the previous year. 2019. Goodwill and trademarks are tested at July 2022. The change is for SEK 203m, the result of least yearly for impairment. the application of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ as of Property, plant and equipment Borrowings C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE 1 January 2019. amounted to SEK 1,559m (1,354). The In June 2018, Cloetta entered into an initial application of IFRS 16 on 1 January amendment and restatement of the term Non-current assets 2019 led to the recognition of right-of-use and revolving facilities agreement with a S TAT E M E N T Intangible assets totalled SEK 5,684m assets for an amount of SEK 229m. The group of four banks, in combination with the (5,626). The change consists mainly of year’s investments amounted to SEK 216m launch of a commercial paper program. exchange differences related to intangible (161). The year’s investments in property, The amendments to the term and revolving FINANCIAL plant and equipment referred primarily REPORTS assets recognized in foreign subsidiaries of facilities agreement comprised a EUR 50m SEK 83m (153). Investments for the year to continuous efficiency-enhancing and reduction (equivalent to SEK 519m) in the amounted to SEK 19m (23) and amortizareplacement investments in the existing multi-currency loan and a SEK 200m reduction amounted to SEK –43m (–46). production lines as well as investments in tion in the single-currency term loan. pick & mix fixtures. Depreciation amounted S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 68 F inancial performance Equity/assets ratio Equity at 31 December at 31 December Net debt/EBITDA % SEKm SEKm 50 5,000 3,500 7 3,000 6 40 4,000 2,500 5 30 3,000 2,000 4 1,500 3.0 3 20 2,000 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.2 2 1,000 10 1,000 1 500 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 nn Net debt, SEKm Net debt/EBITDA, x The facilities agreement bears variable cent (0.8) for the outstanding loans in EUR. for loans from credit institutions and the interest at a rate based on STIBOR, plus an Interest on the commercial paper amounted commercial paper was 0.74 per cent (0.86) applicable fixed margin for loans in SEK, to 0.38 per cent on average (0.22). Further, for the year. and variable interest at a rate based on an additional 35 per cent (35) of the fixed EURIBOR plus an applicable fixed margin applicable margin on the unutilized amounts Change in capital employed for loans in EUR. The applicable margin at of the credit revolving loans is paid as a Capital employed during the year increased 31 December 2019 was 0.9 per cent (0.9) for commitment fee. from SEK 7,027m to SEK 7,576m, i.e. an the outstanding loans in SEK and 0.8 per The combined effective interest rate increase of SEK 549m. Net debt Net debt SEKm 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities exceeded cash Gross non-current loans from credit institutions 800 2,078 and cash equivalents and other interGross current loans from credit institutions 1,306 – est-bearing assets by SEK 2,302m (2,091). Commercial papers 499 500 The net debt increased mainly due to the Lease liabilities¹ 204 – inclusion of the lease liabilities for an Derivative financial instruments (current and non-current) 71 63 amount of SEK 204m. The net debt/equity Interest payable 1 1 ratio on the balance sheet date was 54.8 per Gross debt 2,881 2,642 cent (52.7). Cash and cash equivalents –579 –551 Net debt 2,302 2,091 1) T he lease liabilities related to the leased right-of-use assets are included in the gross debt as of 1 January 2019. Comparative figures have not been restated. See Note 29 for indicative key figures excluding the impact of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial performance 69 WORDS Comments on FROM THE PRESIDENT the cash flow statement Free cash flow GOALS SEKm 300 AND Consolidated cash flow statement 250 S T R AT E G I E S SEKm 2019 2018 200 Cash flow from operating activities 150 THE CONbefore changes in working capital 908 792 100 FECTIONERY Cash flow from changes in working capital –184 –164 Cash flow from operating activities 724 628 50 MARKET Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets –186 –184 0 BRAND, Free cash flow 538 444 –50 C AT E G O R Y & –100 Other investing activities Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 PRODUCT DEAcquisition of subsidiaries –146 – n 2018 n 2019 V ELO PM ENT Disposals of property, plant and equipment 2 0 Cash flow from other investing activities –144 0 Cash flow from operating activities C L O E T TA’ S SEKm Cash flow from operating and investing activities 394 444 1,000 MAIN MARKETS Cash flow from financing activities –362 –665 800 Cash flow for the year 32 –221 S U P P LY 600 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 551 759 Cash flow for the year 32 –221 CHAIN Exchange difference –4 13 400 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 579 551 200 E M P L OY E E S Free cash flow consideration arising from the acquisition of 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The free cash flow was SEK 538m (444). Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries. Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital was SEK 908m Cash flow from financing activities Cash flow from investing activities (792). The increase compared to prior year Cash flow from financing activities was SEKm SHARE AND 0 is mainly the result of a higher EBITDA SEK –362m (–665). The cash flow from fiSHAREincluding the impact of SEK 74m related to nancing activities was related to the dividend HOLDERS IFRS 16 ‘Leases’. The cash flow from changdistribution of SEK -287m (–433), payments –100 es in working capital was SEK –184m (–164). of lease liabilities related to IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ The cash flow from investments in property, of SEK –74m (0) and other cash flow from FINANCIAL plant and equipment and intangible assets financing activities of SEK –1m (–232). In –200 PER FORwas SEK –186m (–184). 2018 the other cash flow from financing acMANCE tivities mainly related to net repayments on –300 Cash flow from changes borrowings of SEK –219m as a result of the in working capital amendment and extension of the facilities Cash flow from changes in working capital agreement. RISKS –400 was SEK –184m (–164). The cash flow from 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 changes in working capital was negatively Cash and cash equivalents impacted by the increase in inventories of The net cash flow was SEK 32m (–221), Cash flow from financing activities SEK –113m (–1) and an increase in receivwhich together with exchange differences SEKm of SEK –4m (13) increased cash and cash 0 C O R P O R AT E ables amounting to SEK –88m (50), which were partly offset by the increase in payables equivalents by SEK 28m to SEK 579m, –100 GOVER NANCE in an amount of SEK 17m (–213). compared to SEK 551m in the previous year. S TAT E M E N T –200 In addition, Cloetta had unutilized overdraft facilities totalling SEK 1,254m (1,227). –300 Cash flow from other investing activities Cloetta’s working capital requirement is exFINANCIAL –400 Cash flow from other investing activities was posed to seasonal variations, partly resulting –500 REPORTS SEK –144m (0). In the first quarter of 2019 from a build-up of inventories in preparation an amount of SEK –146m was related to the for increased sales ahead of the Christmas –600 settlement of the contingent earn-out holiday. This means that the working capital –700 requirement is normally highest during the –800 autumn and lowest at year-end. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 70 F inancial performance Future outlook During 2019 Cloetta delivered strong or2019, Cloetta’s organic growth was 2.3 per proposes an ordinary dividend of SEK 1.00 ganic growth in branded packaged products cent. Sales of branded packaged products per share (1.00), corresponding to around as well as pick & mix, whilst improving the grew by 2.3 per cent and pick & mix sales 58 per cent (60) of profit for the year. The operating profit. increased by 2.3 per cent. Another of the ambition is to continue using future cash Group’s long-term targets is to keep the net flows for payment of dividends while at the Goal attainment debt/EBITDA ratio at around 2.5x. At 31 same time providing financial flexibility for The Group’s target is an EBIT margin, December 2019 the net debt/EBITDA ratio complementary acquisitions. The long-term adjusted of at least 14 per cent. In 2019, the was 2.2x (2.3). target of a payout ratio of 40 to 60 per cent of EBIT margin, adjusted improved to 11.4 per profit for the year remains unchanged. cent (10.9). The improvement was driven Profitable growth by sales growth and cost efficiencies, partly The strategy and financial targets for Financial outlook offset by increased marketing investments. Cloetta stand firm. The focus in 2020 will be As in earlier years, Cloetta is not issuing any In terms of growth, the target is to increase on growing the branded packaged business, financial forecast for 2020. sales organically at least in line with market bringing sustainable value to pick & mix as growth. Historically, annual growth in the well as reducing costs and driving efficienmarkets has been one to two per cent. In cies across the organization. The Board Environmental impact and environmental management Cloetta works to reduce its environmental eight factories in five countries. The two that includes action plans and monitorimpact through systematic environmenSwedish factories in Ljungsbro and Helsinging in a number of areas. Environmental tal management. Cloetta’s greatest direct borg are subject to reporting requirements management is an integral part of Cloetta’s environmental impact comes from water and according to the Swedish Environmental operations and environmental aspects are energy consumption, wastewater emissions, Code. These permits apply until further taken into account when making decisions. waste and transportation. Over the entire notice. There are no injunctions in respect of Frequent evaluation and follow-up of measlife cycle of the products, the most significant the Swedish Environmental Code. ures increase awareness about the effects of environmental impact arises during raw The manufacturing units outside Sweoperations on the environment. material and packaging production. Cloetta den adapt their operations, apply for the necThe Group’s environmental policy and complies with the statutory environmental essary permits and report to the authorities environmental management are described requirements and the Group is not involved in accordance with local legislation. in more detail on pages 14–16, 48–49 and in any environmental disputes. At 31 DecemAll of Cloetta’s factories conduct 150–152. ber 2019, Cloetta conducted operations at systematic environmental management Sustainability report Pursuant to the Swedish Annual Accounts report can be found on pages 6–11 (business Act, chapter 6, paragraph 11, Cloetta AB model), 15–16, 73 (risks and risk manage(publ) has chosen to prepare its statutory ment) and 5, 14–16, 41–42, 48–49, 56–57, sustainability report as a separate report 150–152 (material sustainability matters, from the annual report. The sustainability governance and performance indicators). << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 R isks and risk management 71 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Risks and GOALS AND risk management S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Uncertainty about future events is a natural part of all business activities. Future events can have a positive impact on operations through opportunities BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & to create increased value, or a negative impact through risks that may have PRODUCT DEan adverse effect on Cloetta’s business and results. V ELO PM ENT C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Risks can arise as a result of events or Identification of risks risks are eliminated, and undesired events MARKETS decisions that are beyond Cloetta’s control, The identification of risks and proactive are minimized through proactive measures. but they can also be an effect of incorrect risk measures to limit them, or prevent them Alternatively, risks can be transferred, for management within Cloetta or among its from materializing and having a negative example through insurance or agreements. suppliers or customers. impact on operations, is of fundamental imHowever, certain risks are impossible to S U P P LY portance for operations and is a central part eliminate or transfer. These are often an CHAIN Organization for risk management of every manager’s responsibility at Cloetta. active part of business operations. Cloetta’s Board of Directors has a responsiCloetta works continuously to assess and bility to the shareholders to oversee the comevaluate the risks to which the Group is, and Risk overview E M P L OY E E S pany’s risk management. Risk assessment can be, exposed. All events that could affect A number of risk areas have been identified associated with business development and confidence in Cloetta or disrupt operations through Cloetta’s risk management process. long-term strategic planning is prepared by are essential to monitor and minimize. This A selection of these, and a brief description the Group Management Team and decisions takes place through business intelligence of how each risk area is handled, is presented are made by the Board of Directors. and dialogue with various stakeholders, on the following pages. The Group’s financial The Group Management Team continuamong other things. risk management is also described in more SHARE AND ally reports to the Board of Directors on risk detail in Note 26, on pages 122–124. SHAREareas such as the Group’s financial status Risk management Pages 84 and 85 contain a description and compliance with the Group’s finance Effective handling of risks is an integral of the internal control processes and risk asHOLDERS policy. Operational risk management that part of Cloetta’s management and control. sessment aimed at preventing misstatements takes place at all levels of the organization is Rapid distribution of relevant information in the financial reporting. FINANCIAL regulated by Cloetta’s Code of Conduct and a is ensured via the company’s management Management of risks in the workplace number of other central policies. structures and processes. Where possible, environment is described on page 41. PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 72 R isks and risk management Industry and market-related risks Cloetta works continuously to assess and evaluate the risks to which the Group is, and can be, exposed. Critical external risks are managed both strategically through business and product development, and operationally through daily purchasing, sales and marketing activities. Risks Management Probability Impact Market climate Financial crises can have a negative impact on consumption Historically, the confectionery market has been relatively mildly patterns. This can affect operations if Cloetta’s customers expeaffected by market downturns in consumption. This is particularly rience lower profitability, which leads to price pressure. true for Cloetta’s products, which most people can afford to buy. To support the customers’ business and promote sound pricing development, Cloetta cooperates with its customers on in-store sales activities and other measures. Competition The confectionery market is highly competitive and includes sevCloetta competes in the market through active pricing, product eral major players. Furthermore, grocery retailers offer private innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, marketing labels that compete with certain Cloetta products. This compeand the ability to predict and satisfy customer preferences. tition may limit Cloetta’s ability to increase prices to compensate It is important that Cloetta’s products are perceived as providing the for higher raw material costs. consumers with greater added value than the cheaper alternatives. Cloetta may also need to increase its investments in marketing Cloetta must therefore conduct effective marketing. and product development in order to retain or expand its market shares. Cloetta endeavors to offer the best pick & mix concepts in terms of the customer and consumer experience. Furthermore, an integrated Cloetta is a significant pick & mix player, which by its nature is a production chain enables Cloetta to be cost-effective in pick & mix. market that often consists of multi-year contracts that must be continuously renewed. Competition from other players, including the grocery retail chains, may cause Cloetta to lose major contracts. Retail trade The European grocery and service trade has undergone a Cloetta’s strong brands and market position, together with a strong development process of consolidation leading to the establishment of large, sales force and close cooperation with the retail trade, enable it sophisticated players with substantial purchasing power. These to maintain good relations with the retail trade. Cloetta also works major players are not necessarily dependent on individual brands actively with new sales channels. Cloetta has a relatively wide and and can hold back price increases and demand higher investment diversified customer base. In 2019 Cloetta’s ten largest customers in marketing initiatives. They can also take over shelf space that is accounted for around 46 (46) per cent of the Group’s total sales. currently used for Cloetta’s products for their own brands. Cloetta is working actively with retailers regarding e-commerce, E-commerce is challenging the current retail structure and over helping them to learn how to sell impulse confectionery products time, will most likely change the retail landscape substantially. online. The introduction of self-scanning services in stores might impact By supporting retailers in learning how to sell products in self-scansales of Cloetta’s products since they are often placed next to ning areas, Cloetta is able to maintain sales in the checkout area. regular store checkouts. Consumer trends Changes in consumer behavior give rise to both opportunities Health trends have not affected confectionery sales to any great exHealth and risks. Health trends and the debate on health, weight and tent, since confectionery is often eaten as a small luxury in everyday Social sugar may have a negative impact on confectionery consumplife. Cloetta works continuously to satisfy consumer preferences. In responsibility tion. The health trend has also spurred a growing interest in addition, Cloetta offers both sugar-free products and products with natural raw materials. less sugar, as well as products that promote dental health. In the In the wake of rapid globalization, individual consumers are more long term, Cloetta’s goal is for all products to be free from artificial aware of how their consumption patterns affect the environment colorants and additives (NAFNAC). and social/ethical conditions all over the world. Consumers want Cloetta strives to include the Code of Conduct in all agreements as to know more about product origins, manufacturing methods far as possible. Cloetta’s goal is to be open and, through cooperaand raw materials. Information indicating that Cloetta, or tion with other confectionery producers and via various organizaCloetta’s suppliers, do not take adequate environmental or social tions, to identify problem areas and contribute to improvements. responsibility could damage Cloetta’s brand. Laws and taxes Cloetta conducts operations through companies in a number Cloetta continuously assesses legal issues in order to predict and of countries. New laws, taxes or rules in various markets may prepare its operations for possible changes. The introduction of lead to limitations in operations or bring about new and higher confectionery taxes and fat taxes often has a short-term impact on demands. There is a risk that Cloetta’s interpretation of the sales. applicable tax laws, tax treaties and regulations in the different Provisions for legal disputes, tax disputes, etc., are based on an markets is not entirely correct or that such rules will change, estimation of the costs, with the support of legal advice and based possibly with retroactive effect. on the information available. Raw material Price development for raw materials is steered mainly by supply Cloetta continuously monitors the development of raw material prices and demand, and is beyond Cloetta’s control. The prices of sugprices and all purchasing is carried out through a central purchasing ar and many of the other raw materials purchased by Cloetta can function. To ensure access and price levels, Cloetta normally enters also be affected by agro-political decisions in the EU regarding into supplier contracts that cover the need for raw materials for a quotas, support, subsidies and trade barriers, and also by rising period of 6–9 months ahead. If the average raw material prices had living standards and the activity of financial investors on the been 10 per cent higher/lower at 31 December 2019, profit before commodities exchanges. tax for the year would have been around SEK 150m lower/higher. Cloetta’s policy is to compensate for higher raw material costs by raising prices to its customers. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 R isks and risk management 73 WORDS Operational risks FROM THE PRESIDENT Operational risks can often be influenced, which is why they are normally regulated by policies, guidelines and instructions. Operational risks are part of Cloetta’s day-to-day work and are managed by the operating units. GOALS Operational risks include those related to the brand, relocation of production, insurable risks and environmental, health and safety-related risks. AND Risks Management S T R AT E G I E S Probability Impact THE CONBusiness ethics Demand for Cloetta’s well-known brands is driven by consumers’ Cloetta takes a proactive approach by adhering to a Code of and brand risks association of these brands with positive values. If Cloetta or any Conduct, ethical guidelines and routines. FECTIONERY of the Group’s partners takes any measures that conflict with the values represented by the brands, the Cloetta brands could be MARKET damaged. BRAND, Social conditions Cloetta uses several raw materials that originate from regions or Cloetta’s Code of Conduct is part of all supplier agreements. C AT E G O R Y & in the supply chain countries with an increased risk of human rights violations and Cloetta assesses the raw materials and prioritizes involvement corrupt behavior. with suppliers and organizations for certain materials based on PRODUCT DEFurther, political instability in places where raw materials are climate, social and human rights related risks. V ELO PM ENT produced can have a negative impact on availability and costs. Cloetta purchases UTZ certified cocoa for its entire range of chocolate products. C L O E T TA’ S Most products, aside from parts of the chocolate and fudge range, are free from palm oil. During the year, Cloetta started to MAIN buy segregated palm oil in accordance with RSPO principles for the entire range of chocolate and fudge products. Certification of MARKETS Cloetta’s factories according to this standard was started in 2019 and will be concluded in 2020. During 2018 Cloetta changed to sustainable and traceable shea butter. S U P P LY CHAIN Environmental There is a risk that climate change will impact Cloetta. This may Cloetta is managing climate-related transition risks by monitorand climate related involve transition risks such as changing rules and taxation, ing business operations and adapting them to changing rules risks as well as physical risks. Physical risks include changes that and other circumstances. E M P L OY E E S are both long-term and urgent in nature, for example extreme Cloetta contributes to resilient raw material production through weather conditions and natural catastrophes that could impact the company’s program and certification for prioritized raw Cloetta’s access to raw materials and disrupt business operamaterials. This encompasses support to raw material producers tions directly or indirectly. for developing farming methods and for new plantation. Cloetta manages the environmental and climate impact of its business operations through systematic work within the scope of the company’s environmental management system. SHARE AND SHAREProduct safety Handling of food products places high demands on traceability, Cloetta works with first-class raw materials and in accordance risks hygiene and safety. In a worst-case scenario, inadequate control with international quality standards. Analyses through chemical HOLDERS can lead to contamination or allergic reactions. These types of and physical tests are performed on both raw materials and deficiencies in the handling of food products can lead to lower finished products. Issues of importance for product safety are FINANCIAL trust in Cloetta and the Group’s brands. collated in special policies. Plans for information or product recalls in the event of deficiencies have been prepared. PER FORMANCE Insurable risks Assets such as factories and production equipment can be Cloetta has an insurance program for property and liability risks, seriously damaged, for example in the event of a fire or power and works systematically to limit the risk of incidents and to outage. Product recalls can incur substantial costs, resulting have robust contingency plans in place to limit the effects of any from both direct costs and damage to Cloetta’s reputation. incidents. RISKS Relocation of To optimize efficiency, Cloetta continuously monitors capacity Cloetta has an experienced and efficient organization with manufacturing lines utilization in manufacturing. Moving manufacturing from one well-established routines for handling relocation of production factory to another is a complex process that can result in disruplines. tions and delays in production, which can in turn lead to delivery problems. C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Access to To a large extent, Cloetta’s future is dependent on its capacity Cloetta endeavors to continue to be an attractive employer. the right expertise to recruit, retain and develop competent senior executives and Employee development and follow-up plans, together with S TAT E M E N T other key staff. market-based and competitive compensation, enable Cloetta to Cloetta occasionally reorganizes and streamlines its operarecruit and retain employees. FINANCIAL tions, which in the short term may have a negative impact on its Cloetta has a strong and experienced organization that is well performance. equipped to handle organizational changes. REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 74 R isks and risk management Financial risks The primary financial risks are composed of foreign exchange, financing, interest rate and credit risks. Financial risks are managed by the Group’s central finance function according to the guidelines in the finance policy established by Cloetta’s Board of Directors. Financial risk management primarily aims to identify the Group’s risk exposure and, with a certain degree of foresight, to attain predictability in the financial outcome and minimize possible unfavorable effects on the Group’s financial results, in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. Consolidating and controlling these risks centrally enables the Group to minimize the level of risk while reducing the cost of measures such as currency hedging. Financial risk management is described in detail in Note 26, on pages 122–124. Risks Management Probability Impact Foreign exchange Exchange rate fluctuations affect Cloetta’s financial results partly The objective of Cloetta’s foreign exchange management is to risks in connection with buying and selling in different currencies minimize the effects of exchange rate fluctuations by utilizing (transaction exposure), and partly through translation of the profincoming currency for payments in the same currency. If the it and loss accounts and balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries Swedish krona had weakened/strengthened by 10 per cent to Swedish kronor (translation exposure). Cloetta’s reporting against the euro, the year’s profit before tax would have been currency is the Swedish krona, while many subsidiaries have the around SEK 50m (50) higher/lower. euro as their functional currency, thus translation exposure is The Group hedges parts of its translation exposure through significant. Aside from SEK and EUR, Cloetta also has exposure borrowing in EUR. to DKK, NOK, GBP and USD. Refinancing risks Refinancing risk refers to the risk that it will not be possible In 2019 Cloetta met its financial target related to a net debt/ to obtain financing or that financing can only be obtained at a EBITDA ratio of 2.5x. Through the term and revolving facilities significantly higher cost. agreement with four banks and the commercial program, Cloetta has a favourable situation for accessing financing, for example for potential acquisitions. Interest rate risks Cloetta is exposed to interest rate risks in interest-bearing The Group continuously analyses its exposure to interest rate current and non-current liabilities. Although some of the Group’s risk and performs regular simulations of interest rate movements. bank loans are hedged via interest rate swaps, there is still Interest rate risk is reduced by hedging a share of future interest exposure to interest rate risk for the parts that are not hedged or payments through interest rate swaps. when hedges expire. In 2019, if the interest rate had been 1 percentage point higher with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been approximately SEK 6m (5) lower. If the interest rate had been 1 percentage point lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been approximately SEK 2m (1) higher. Credit risks Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty to Cloetta will be Credit risk in trade receivables is relatively limited in that the unable to meet its obligations and thereby cause a loss. Group’s customer base is diverse and consists mainly of large Financial transactions also give rise to credit risks in relation to customers, and also because distribution takes place primarily financial and commercial counterparties. through the major grocery retail chains. Customers are subject to credit assessments in accordance with the credit policy, and the receivables balance is monitored continuously. The Group’s counterparties in financial transactions are banks and credit institutions with good credit ratings (between AA– and A-2). Valuation risks The Group has a number of assets and liabilities that have been Assets and liabilities are tested for impairment annually or when valued with the help of various experts. These include goodwill there is an indication that such testing may be necessary. Read and trademarks on the asset side and the pension liability and more in Note 11, Intangible assets on page 108–109 and Note 30, tax liabilities on the liability side. Critical accounting estimates and judgements on page 129. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 L etter from the C hairman 75 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Letter from the Chairman GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S In 2019, Cloetta showed positive development on most fronts. THE CONClarified focus areas and new ways of working have contributed to FECTIONERY strong growth in both branded packaged products and pick & mix, MARKET whilst improving the operating profit. BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DECorporate governance creates Group policies are key pillars of the organipertise and deep knowledge of the company, V ELO PM ENT systematic order zation. The purpose of the Code of Conduct will prove to be an excellent Chairman of The Board’s foremost responsibility to is to ensure that Cloetta employees and Cloetta’s Board of Directors. Cloetta’s shareholders is to ensure that business partners have a clear understandI would like to express my heartfelt C L O E T TA’ S the company is managed as effectively as ing of the principles and ethical values that gratitude to the CEO, Group Management MAIN possible, and also that Cloetta complies with Cloetta upholds. With the Code of Conduct and employees for their many excellent conMARKETS the laws and regulations required by legisand our other Group policies, we strengthen tributions in 2019. I would also like to thank lators, regulatory authorities and the stock our corporate culture to ensure that we act my colleagues on the Board of Directors for exchange. Corporate governance is aimed consistently and with high ethical standards their dedication and hard work during the at creating order and systems for both the in all the markets where we operate. year. S U P P LY Board and Group Management. By having a I wish Cloetta, all its shareholders, busiCHAIN clear structure, with well-defined rules and More and new shareholders ness partners, employees, and last but not processes, we can also ensure that manageDuring 2019 Cloetta gained 1,000 new least the Board of Directors and the entire ment and employees focus on developing the shareholders and by the end of the year we management team all the best and continuE M P L OY E E S business and strengthening the company. had almost 25,000 owners of company ing success for the future. shares. This means that the number of shareThe work of the Board holders increased for the eighth consecutive Stockholm, March 2020 During the year, the Board has worked year. It is encouraging that so many people together with the CEO and the Group want to invest in Cloetta shares. The Board Lilian Fossum Biner Management Team to follow up and develop intends to deliver on this entrusted confiChairman of the Board SHARE AND the focus areas that are aimed at improving dence so that all shareholders may continue SHAREgrowth and profitability. Greater attention to have confidence in Cloetta. HOLDERS has also been given to how to drive the business in a more sustainable way. Cloetta well positioned Through targeted efforts and investfor the future FINANCIAL ments in core markets and core categories, In the past year, Cloetta showed positive PER FORemphasis has been on growing the branded development on most fronts. Clarified focus MANCE packaged business. With an EBIT margin, areas and new ways of working have conadjusted of above 14 per cent, growth within tributed to strong growth in both branded this category is important for Cloetta to packaged products and pick & mix. For the reach its profitability target. fourth year running we have met our net Following the acquisition of Candyking debt/EBITDA target. In combination with RISKS in 2017, pick & mix now represents a signifiimproved profitability and a healthy cash cant part of Cloetta’s sales, but profitability flow, this enables us to propose a dividend in the Swedish business has not yet reached in line with our dividend policy of SEK 1.00 the desired level. Consequently, the Board (1.00) per share for 2019. C O R P O R AT E has turned its attention to improvements that the company is working on within pick & mix to bring adequate profitability to the business. I have now had the privilege of serving as Board Chairman of Cloetta for four years. It has been interesting and exciting to work, on behalf of all Cloetta shareholders, on “ In the past year, Cloetta showed GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T Initiatives to reduce costs as well as to drive efficiencies across the organization increasing the value of the company. With Cloetta well positioned for the positive FINANCIAL constitute the third focus area. An example future, it is now the right time to place the responsibility for the company into new hands development on REPORTS most fronts. of this is the Value Improvement Program Plus. In 2019, the Board endorsed a revised Code of Conduct, which together with the at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. I am convinced that my proposed successor Mikael Norman, with his comprehensive ex” S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 76 C orporate G overnance S tatement Corporate Governance Statement The purpose of corporate governance is to ensure that the company is managed as effectively as possible in the interests of its shareholders, and that Cloetta complies with all applicable rules. Corporate governance is also aimed at creating order and establishing systems for both the Board and the Group Management Team. Welldefined structures, clear rules and processes allow the Board to ensure that the Group Management Team and employees focus on developing the business and thereby creating shareholder value. Cloetta AB (publ) is a Swedish public limstock exchange in 1994 and has been listed than in conjunction with the publication of ited company, with corporate identification in a number of different owner constelthe third quarter report. Notice of the AGM number 556308-8144. The company’s class lations since then. At 31 December 2019, must be given no earlier than six weeks and B shares are traded on the Nasdaq Stockthe number of shares was 288,619,299 of no later than four weeks prior to the AGM holm, Mid Cap. The company is domiciled in which 282,884,050 were class B shares through publication in “Postoch Inrikes Ljungsbro, Linköping, and its head office is in and 5 ,735,249 were class A shares. Each Tidningar” (the Swedish Official Gazette) Stockholm. class B share corresponds to one vote and and on the company’s website. At the same each class A share corresponds to ten votes, time, confirmation that notification has Framework for corporate although all shares carry equal entitlement taken place must be published in Dagens governance to the company’s assets and profits. The Industri. Cloetta’s corporate governance is regulatnumber of shareholders at 31 December Every shareholder has the right to ed by external steering instruments that 2019 was 24,910 (compared to 23,956 at request that a matter be taken up at the AGM include the Swedish Companies Act, the 31 December 2018). On 31 December 2019, and in such case must submit a written reSwedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq AB Malfors Promotor was Cloetta’s largest quest to the Board. In order to be addressed Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers and the Swedshareholder, with a holding corresponding at the AGM, the request must be submitted ish Corporate Governance Code, as well as to 38.2 per cent of the votes and 27.2 per to the Board no later than seven weeks prior internal steering instruments such as the cent of the share capital in the company. For to the AGM. In accordance with Chapter 7, Articles of Association, instructions, policies more information about Cloetta’s shares paragraph 32 of the Swedish Companies and guidelines. The Swedish Corporate and shareholders, see section “Share and Act, at a general meeting of shareholders all Governance Code is available at shareholders” on pages 58–61. shareholders have the right to pose questions www.bolagsstyrning.se, where a descripto the company about the matters that are 2 tion of the Swedish model for corporate General meeting addressed at the meeting and the financial governance is also provided. During the year, of shareholders situation of the company and the Group. Cloetta complied with Nasdaq Stockholm’s Attendance at General Meetings Rules for Issuers and good stock market The general meeting of shareholders is of the Shareholders practice. Cloetta’s highest decision-making body. At Votes, % the general meeting, all shareholders have 100 Application of the Swedish the opportunity to influence the company Corporate Governance Code by exercizing the votes attached to their 80 In 2019 Cloetta complied with the Code, respective shareholdings. The powers and 63.9 63.0 with no deviations. duties of the general meeting are regulated 59.6 59.4 60.0 60 by the Swedish Companies Act and the 199 275 203 237 233 1 Articles of Association, amongst others. 40 Share and shareholders Cloetta’s financial year runs from 1 January to 31 December. 20 The class B shares of Cloetta AB (publ) have The Annual General Meeting (AGM) been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 16 must be held within a period of six months 0 February 2009 and have been traded on the after the end of the financial year. The date 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Mid Cap list since 2 July 2012. However, and location of the AGM must be commu● No. of people Cloetta was originally introduced on the nicated on the company’s website no later (shareholders, proxies, assistants and guests) << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 77 WORDS Governance structure FROM THE 1 Shareholders PRESIDENT Vote at the general meeting GOALS Information General meeting AND 2 of shareholders 7 Auditor3 S T R AT E G I E S Elects the auditor Appoints the nomiProposes the Board, auditor and nomiTHE CONnation committee nation committee ahead of next AGM FECTIONERY 3 Nomination committee1 MARKET Elects the Board of Directors BRAND, 5 Audit committee Board of Directors2 C AT E G O R Y & 4 The members of the Board are appointed by the AGM. Employee representatives and Information deputy representatives are appointed by PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT the employee organizations. The members of the audit and remuneration committees are appointed by the Board. 5 Remuneration committee C L O E T TA’ S Goals, strategies, policies, MAIN External steering instruments steering instruments, MARKETS core values, remuneration Important external steering instruments that provide structure the framework for corporate governance are: Reports, 8 internal control • The Swedish Companies Act • The Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rules for Issuers S U P P LY • The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance CHAIN 1 T he nomination committee prepares proposals for decision that are presented to the AGM. The AGM decides on principles for appointment of Internal steering instruments the nomination committee. 6 President and CEO Important binding internal control documents include: E M P L OY E E S 2 T he Board establishes the committees and • The Articles of Association appoints their members. • The Board’s work plan 3 T he auditor is responsible, on behalf of the • I nstructions for the President and CEO, the audit shareholders, for auditing Cloetta’s annual report, committee, the remuneration committee and accounts and the administration of the Board of The Group financial reporting Directors and the President and CEO. Reports to 6 Management Team • Policies the Board of Directors and the shareholders. SHARE AND SHARE2019 Annual General Meeting Aru and Alan McLean Raleigh. Patrick • The AGM decided to appoint the registered The most recent AGM was held on 4 April Bergander was voted in as a new Board public accounting firm Öhrlings PriceHOLDERS 2019 in Stockholm. The AGM was attended member. The AGM elected Lilian Fossum waterhouseCoopers AB (“PwC”) as the by 233 individuals representing 63 per cent Biner as the Chairman of the Board. auditor for the period until the next AGM. Former Board member Mikael Norman rePwC will appoint Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt FINANCIAL of the votes in the company. The CEO, the Board members, the company’s independent signed in conjunction with the AGM. Aside as the Lead Audit Partner. PER FORfrom the members elected by the AGM, the auditor, the chairman of the nomination • Rules for the nomination committee; MANCE employee organizations PTK and LIVS committee, and the Group’s CFO and SVP each appointed an employee representative • Guidelines for remuneration of the Group Corporate Communications and Investor and a deputy representative to the Board; Management Team; Relations were also present at the AGM. The RISKS AGM approved the proposals of the Board • Board fees were set at SEK 685,000 for • The implementation of a share-based longand the nomination committee regarding: the Board Chairman and SEK 315,000 for term incentive plan. • Adoption of the balance sheet and the profit each of the other Board members elected The complete minutes from the AGM can be and loss account; by the General Meeting of Shareholders. viewed at www.cloetta.com. C O R P O R AT E Fees for work on the Board committees • Appropriation of the earnings of the were set at SEK 100,000 for each member GOVER NANCE company through a dividend of SEK 1.0 per 2020 Annual General Meeting of the audit committee, SEK 150,000 for share, corresponding to SEK 288,619,299; The 2020 AGM will be held on Thursday, 2 the Chairman of the audit committee, April 2020, at 3pm at Stockholm Waterfront S TAT E M E N T • Discharge of liability of the board members SEK 100,000 for each member of the reand the Managing Director; muneration committee and SEK 150,000 Congress Centre, Nils Ericsons Plan (level) for the Chairman of the remuneration 4, in Stockholm. The Notice of the Annual • That the number of Board members General Meeting was published in February FINANCIAL committee; elected by the AGM shall be seven, with no REPORTS 2020 and contained the Board’s proposals. deputies; • Fees for the auditor are to be paid accordFor more information, please refer to the ing to approved account; • Re-election of sitting Board members section “Annual General Meeting” on page Lilian Fossum Biner, Camilla Svenfelt, 161 and www.cloetta.com. Mikael Svenfelt, Lottie Knutson, Mikael S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 78 C orporate G overnance S tatement nation committee by e-mail to nominationtive, Christina Lönnborn. All Board mem3 committee@cloetta.com. bers have attended Nasdaq’s stock market Nomination committee training course for boards and management. Work of the nomination committee Meetings of the nomination committee The average age of the Board members The task of the nomination committee is to The nomination committee held three elected by the AGM was 54 at year-end and prepare recommendations to be put before meetings ahead of the 2020 AGM. No fees three of the seven are women. For informathe AGM for decisions regarding election have been paid for work on the nomination tion about the Board members’ assignments of Board members and the Chairman of committee. outside the Group and holdings of shares in the Board, fees for the Board of Directors, Cloetta, see pages 86 and 87 and cloetta.com. potential remuneration for committee work, 4 election of a chairman of the AGM, election Board of Directors Diversity policy of auditors, auditing fees and rules for the Through the nomination committee, Cloetta nomination committee. The Chairman of The work of the Board applies rule 4.1 of the Swedish Corporate the Board presents an annual evaluation of The primary task of the Board is to serve the Governance Code as its diversity policy to the Board’s performance during the year to interests of the company and the shareholdpropose election of directors to the Board. the nomination committee, which provides ers, appoint the President and CEO and According to this rule, the board compoa basis for the nomination committee’s work ensure that the company complies with all sition must be set with regard to appropritogether with the provisions of the Swedish applicable laws, the Articles of Association ateness to the company’s operations and Corporate Governance Code and Cloetta’s and the Swedish Corporate Governance phase of development, and must collectively own company-specific requirements. The Code. The Board is also responsible for makexhibit diversity and breadth of competence, nomination committee’s recommendations ing sure that the Group is suitably structured experience and background among the for election of Board members, Board fees so that the Board can optimally exercise directors elected by the Annual General and auditors are presented in the notification its governance responsibility over the Meeting. An equal balance between the of the AGM and on www.cloetta.com. subsidiaries and that the company’s financial genders should be aimed for. The objective accounting, financial management and of the diversity policy is to underline the imComposition of financial circumstances in general can be portance of appropriate diversity within the the nomination committee controlled satisfactorily. At least once a year Board with regard to gender, age, nationality In accordance with the decision of the AGM, the Board shall meet with the company’s and experience, professional background Cloetta’s nomination committee shall conauditor without the presence of the Group and business expertise. The nomination sist of at least four and at most six members. Management Team, and shall continuously committee has confirmed that the Board of Of these, one shall be a representative of the and at least once a year evaluate the perforCloetta has an almost equal gender balance Board and three shall be members appointed mance of the President and CEO. and an appropriate composition in general. by the three largest shareholders in terms of voting power. The members appointed may Composition of the Board Independence of the Board themselves appoint one additional member. According to the Articles of Association, In accordance with the Swedish Corporate Cloetta’s Board of Directors shall consist of Governance Code, the majority of the Board Independence of at least three and at most ten members that members elected by the AGM shall be indethe nomination committee are elected annually at the AGM for a period pendent in relation to the company and its The majority of the nomination committee’s until the next AGM has been held. The AGM Group Management Team and at least two members shall be independent in relation on 4 April 2019 resolved that the Board of these shall also be independent in relation to the company and its Group Management shall have seven members appointed by the to the company’s major shareholders. Of the Team, and at least one of these shall also be AGM. On 4 April 2019, the AGM elected Board’s seven members, all are independent independent in relation to the company’s the following Board members to serve for in relation to the company and its Group largest shareholder in terms of voting power. the period until the end of the next AGM, Management Team and five are independent Of the appointed members, all four are to be held on 2 April 2020: Lilian Fossum in relation to the company’s major shareindependent in relation to the company and Biner (Chairman), Lottie Knutson, Patrick holders. its Group Management Team and three are Bergander, Mikael Aru, Mikael Svenfelt, independent in relation to the company’s Camilla Svenfelt and Alan McLean Raleigh. The Board’s instructions and policies largest shareholder in terms of voting power. In addition, the employee organization LIVS On a yearly basis, the Board reviews and appointed one employee representative to adopts a work plan for its own activities and Shareholder proposals the Board, Lena Grönedal, and one deputy those of the Board’s audit and remuneraAll shareholders have the right to contact the representative, Shahram Nikpour Badr. tion committees. The Board also adopts nomination committee to propose candiThe employee organization PTK appointed instructions for the President and CEO and dates for election to the Board. Proposals one employee representative to the Board, instructions for financial reporting. Among shall be sent to the Chairman of the nomiMikael Ström, and one deputy representaother things, these regulate the segregation of duties between the Board of Directors, Nomination committee ahead of the 2020 AGM the Chairman of the Board, the President and CEO and the auditor, quorum, conflict Share of votes at 31 Members Appointed by Independent1 Dec. 2019, % of interest, the work of the committees, internal and external reporting, routines Olof Svenfelt, Chairman AB Malfors Promotor Yes/No 37.8 for notification of general meetings, Board Isabelle De Gavoty Axa IM Yes/Yes 1.5 meetings and minutes. In addition the Board Johan Törnqvist Ulla Håkanson Yes/Yes 1.5 issued and adopted a Code of Conduct (new Lilian Fossum Biner The Board of Cloetta AB Yes/Yes 0 and approved in November 2019) and poli1) I ndependent from the company and its Group Management Team/from the company’s largest shareholder in terms of voting power cies for corporate Communications and IR, << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 79 WORDS Finance, HR, Insiders, Insurance, Internal The Chairman of the Board is responsible Board meetings Control, IT security, Mergers and for carrying out the evaluation and presentIn 2019 the Board held nine scheduled meetFROM THE Acquisitions, Fraud and Whistleblowing, ing the results to the nomination committee. ings, of which one was a statutory meeting. PRESIDENT Trade Sanctions, Anti-bribery and AntiThe intention of the evaluation is to gather The President and CEO, the CFO and the corruption. the Board members’ views on the Board’s Senior Vice President Corporate Comperformance, measures that can be taken munications & IR, who is also the Board GOALS Instructions and policies to improve the efficiency of board work, and Secretary, take part in the Board’s meetings. AND whether the Board has a well-balanced mix Other members of the Group Management S T R AT E G I E S of competencies. The evaluation provides Team participate as needed as rapporteurs valuable input for the nomination committee for special items of business. The Board reviews and adopts the following instructions and policies on a ahead of the AGM. In 2019, one of the board THE CONyearly basis: members has conducted interviews on behalf • Work plan for the Board 5 FECTIONERY of the Chairman with all Board members, Board committees • Instructions for the President and CEO including the employee representatives. The MARKET • Instructions for financial reporting results of the evaluation have been reported Audit committee • Work plan and instructions for to and discussed by both the Board and the In 2019 the Board audit committee consistBRAND, the Audit committee nomination committee. ed of members Patrick Bergander (chairC AT E G O R Y & • Work plan and instructions for man), Camilla Svenfelt and Mikael Aru. The PRODUCT DEthe Remuneration committee Governance and organization majority of the committee’s members shall • Code of Conduct V ELO PM ENT for sustainability work be independent in relation to the company • Corporate Communications and IR policy and its Group Management Team, and at • Finance policy least one of these shall also be independC L O E T TA’ S • HR policy The overall strategies for Cloetta’s sustainaent in relation to the company’s major MAIN • Insider policy bility work have been adopted by the Group shareholders. At least one member shall be MARKETS • Insurance policy Management Team and are controlled independent and have accounting or auditing • Policy for internal control and monitored through business planning processes at several levels of the company. expertise. Of the audit committee’s three • IT security policy The ultimate responsibility for sustainability members, all are independent in relation to • Mergers and acquisitions policy S U P P LY matters lies with Cloetta’s President and the company and its Group Management • Fraud and whistleblower policy (Anonymous CEO. Team, and two are independent in relation CHAIN reporting of violation of laws, the Code of Cloetta’s sustainability work is overseen Conduct or other rules at Cloetta) by the Director Sustainability Affairs, who to the company’s major shareholders. The • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy acts as a spokesperson for environmental work of the audit committee is regulated by and social issues and is responsible for special instructions that have been adopted • Trade sanction policy E M P L OY E E S identifying prioritized areas, acting as the stakeholders’ link to the management team by the Board as part of its work plan. The and supporting the implementation of audit committee is responsible for ensuring Evaluation of Board performance Cloetta’s sustainability agenda. the quality of the financial reporting and The performance of the Board is evaluated Environmental and occupational health the effectiveness of the company’s internal and safety managers are in place at all of the annually in order to continuously improve factories. control and risk management regarding the Board’s working methods and efficiency. financial reporting. In brief, the audit SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Board meetings in 2019 JANUARY Scheduled meeting; Cloetta Q4 and full-year results, Independent Audit Report from Audit Partner, Sustainability Review, Annual Report timetable and Annual General Meeting preparation FINANCIAL DECEMBER Scheduled meeting; Budget/business PER FORplans for the year ahead and bonus MANCE targets. JAN DEC RISKS V FE MARCH OCTOBER NO B Scheduled meeting; Annual Report 2018 and Scheduled meeting; Cloetta Q3 report report from the Remuneration Committee. MAR Talent and succession planning, Approval Code of Conduct, Feedback OCT C O R P O R AT E from the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee APRIL GOVER NANCE Scheduled meeting; Statutory meeting, ComposiSEP APR tion of the Board, Resolution on signatory powers, SEPTEMBER Instructions and policies, Resolution regarding Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee, S TAT E M E N T Scheduled meeting; Business AU AY Information regarding remuneration of the Board of strategies, Marketing and innovation, G Pick & Mix Strategy, M Directors, Appointment of Board representative to JUL the Nomination Committee and Timetable for Board JUN FINANCIAL Capex and restructuring plan. of Directors Meeting. REPORTS Scheduled meeting; Cloetta Q1, Pick & Mix review Value Improvement Program Plus presentation, M&A Strategy. JULY MAY Scheduled meeting; Cloetta Q2, Scheduled meeting; Manufacturing review and factory tour in S U S TA I N Report from Audit Committee. Ljungsbro. ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 80 C orporate G overnance S tatement committee, without affecting the other tasks shall meet at least twice every financial year. Henri de Sauvage-Nolting has been and responsibilities of the Board, shall meet In 2019 the committee held four meetings. President and CEO of Cloetta since 15 regularly with the company’s auditors to February 2017. Over and above the President remain informed about the focus and scope Board Chairman and CEO, on 31 December 2019 the Group of the audit. The company’s auditor shall be The Board Chairman shall be elected by Management Team consisted of the five reinvited to participate in the meetings of the the general meeting of shareholders, and gional presidents, the President Operations audit committee. The audit committee shall on 4 April 2019 the AGM re-elected Lilian (which includes purchasing and manufacmeet at least four times every financial year. Fossum Biner as the Chairman of the Board. turing), the Chief Pick & Mix Officer and At least once a year, the committee shall The Chairman shall supervise the work of the three Heads of the Group functions meet without the presence of any member of the Board and ensure that the Board disFinance/IT, Marketing and HR. the Group Management Team. All meetings charges its duties, and has special responsiThe Senior Vice-President of Commuof the audit committee must be documentbility for ensuring that the work of the Board nications and IR resigned on 1 September ed. The audit committee shall inform the is well organized and effectively executed 2019, thereafter the position is no longer part Board about the matters dealt with by the and for monitoring the Group’s developof the Group Management Team and instead committee. In 2019 the committee held four ment. The Chairman oversees the effective reports to the CFO. For information about meetings. implementation of the Board’s decisions and the President and CEO and other members is responsible for ensuring that the work of of the Group Management Team, see pages Remuneration committee the Board is evaluated yearly and that the 88 and 89. The remuneration committee shall have no nomination committee is informed about the The Group Management Team holds more than four members who are appointresults of this evaluation. regular management meetings and held ed by the Board on a yearly basis. One of twelve meetings in 2019. The meetings the members shall be the chairman of the are focused on the Group’s strategic and 6 committee. The Board’s remuneration President and operational development and financial committee consists of members Mikael Group Management Team performance. Svenfelt (chairman), Lottie Knutson and Lilian Fossum Biner. The majority of the The President and CEO is appointed by the 7 committee’s members shall be independent Board and supervises operations according Auditor in relation to the company and its Group to the instructions adopted by the Board, Management Team. Of the remuneraand is responsible for the day-to-day manThe auditor is elected by the AGM to extion committee’s members, all three are agement of the company and the Group in acamine the company’s annual accounts and independent in relation to the company and cordance with the Swedish Companies Act. accounting records and the administration its Group Management Team. The work of In addition, the President and CEO, together of the Board of Directors and the President the remuneration committee is regulated with the Chairman, decides which matters and CEO. The auditor’s reporting to the by special instructions that are adopted by are to be dealt with at Board meetings. The shareholders takes place at the AGM through the Board as part of its work plan. The main Board regularly evaluates the President and the presentation of the auditor’s report. At tasks of the remuneration committee are to CEO’s duties and performance. The Presthe AGM on 4 April 2019, the registered prepare recommendations to the Board for ident and CEO is responsible for ensuring public accounting firm Öhrlings Pricewaterdecisions on remuneration principles, remuthat the Board members are supplied with houseCoopers AB (“PwC”) was appointed neration and other terms of employment for the necessary information to make decisions as the auditor for the company for the period the Group Management Team, to monitor and presents reports and proposals at Board until the next AGM. The authorised public and evaluate programs for variable remunermeetings regarding issues dealt with by the accountant Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt was ation completed during the year and ongoing Group Management Team. The President appointed as the new Lead Audit Partner. programs for the Group Management Team and CEO regularly informs the Board and as adopted by the AGM and to monitor the Chairman about the financial position and current remuneration structures and levels development of the company and the Group. in the Group. The remuneration committee Organisational chart President and CEO Finance/IT HR Marketing Pick & mix The Netherlands/ Operations Sweden Denmark/Norway Finland International/UK Germany << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 81 WORDS uled Board meeting in December. External 8 financial information is regularly provided Press releases 2019 FROM THE Financial reporting in the form of: PRESIDENT • Interim reports; The Board of Directors is responsible for January ensuring that the company’s organization is • The annual report; • Management changes at Cloetta GOALS structured in such a way that the company’s • Press releases about important news that • Cloetta AB’s Q4 interim report financial circumstances can be controlled AND is deemed to have a potential impact on the October – December 2018 satisfactorily and that external financial share price; S T R AT E G I E S information, such as interim reports and February annual reports to the market, are prepared • Presentations for financial analysts, inves• Proposal by the Nomination Committee retors and the media on the date of publicagarding the Board of Directors of Cloetta AB THE CONin accordance with the legal requirements, tion of the year-end and interim reports; • Notification of Cloetta AB (publ) Annual applicable accounting standards and other FECTIONERY General Meeting requirements applicable to listed companies. • Meetings with financial analysts and MARKET The tasks of the Board are to oversee investors. March the Group’s financial development, assure • Management changes at Cloetta Awards for financial BRAND, the quality of the financial reporting and • Cloetta’s 2018 Annual report published on communication C AT E G O R Y & internal control and regularly monitor and the website Cloetta ranked in 3rd place for Best Group • Cloetta Capital Markets day 2019 evaluate operations. The task of the audit PRODUCT DEwebsite amongst Sweden’s 116 largest listed committee is to support the Board in assurV ELO PM ENT companies in Comprend’s Web ranking April ing the quality of the company’s financial resurvey. • Highlights: Cloetta AB (publ) porting. The audit committee also oversees C L O E T TA’ S Annual General Meeting 4 April 2019 During autumn 2019, Cloetta was voted the Group’s financial reports and significant • Cloetta AB’s Q1 interim report as “Best IR & website” (cloetta.com) in a MAIN accounting matters, as well as matters relatJanuary – March 2019 competition organised by Kanton, aimed at ed to internal control, compliance, material MARKETS promoting exemplary financial communicauncertainty in reported values, events after May tion amongst listed companies. The compe• Management changes at Cloetta the balance sheet date, changes in estimates tition consists of three sub-competitions in and judgements and other circumstances which annual reports, interim reports and July S U P P LY affecting the quality of the financial reports. • Cloetta AB’s Q2 interim report the company IR websites are assessed for all CHAIN The President and CEO ensures that the April – June 2019 companies with a primary listing on Nasdaq financial accounting in the Group companies Stockholm. is carried out in compliance with legal reSeptember Cloetta’s Annual report 2018 is one of • Election nomination committee appointed E M P L OY E E S quirements and that financial management six companies globally that rank the highest ahead of the Cloetta AB (publ) 2020 Annual is conducted in a satisfactory manner. CloetGeneral Meeting according to e.com-ReportWatch. ta AB’s President and CEO is a member • Cloetta increases its global marketing of the boards of all operating subsidiaries. investments Additional information Every month, the Group prepares a closing of At www.cloetta.com, the following informaOctober the books that is submitted to the Board and tion can be found: Articles of Association, • Cloetta AB’s Q3 interim report SHARE AND the Group Management Team. Code of Conduct, information from previous July – September 2019 SHAREFor each financial year, a profit stateAGMs and corporate governance reports • Nathalie Redmo appointed as Head of Invesment, balance sheet and investment budget tor Relations and Communications for Cloetta HOLDERS from previous years. are prepared and are adopted at the schedDecember • A new global media agreement signed with FINANCIAL PHD Media International PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 82 C orporate G overnance S tatement Remuneration of the Group Management Team Guidelines for remuneration of The short-term variable compensation structure for 2018 and 2019 is as follows: Group Management Team The current guidelines for remuneration of Short-term variable compensation the Group Management Team were adopted as a percentage of base salary by the AGM on 4 April 2019. The total Target level Maximum level remuneration shall be market-based and President and CEO 50% 100% competitive, and shall be proportionate to Other Group Management Team, average 35% 70% the individual’s responsibilities and powers. In addition to base salary, remuneration of the President and CEO, other members of Share-based long-term Pension benefits the Group Management Team and other exvariable compensation Pension benefits vary depending on the ecutives reporting directly to the President Share-based long-term variable compensaagreements and practices in the country and CEO can include: short-term variable tion consists of the share-based long-term where the individual is employed. Defined compensation, share-based long-term variable incentive plans, which are resolved on yearly contribution plans are strived for, which compensation, pension benefits, termination by the AGM. It is aimed at increasing value means that pension benefits most often conbenefits and other benefits. for the Group’s shareholders by promoting sist of defined contribution plans for which and upholding the senior management’s annual premiums are paid as a percentage Short-term variable compensation commitment to the Group’s development, of pension-qualifying salary up to the age of Short-term variable compensation is linked and thereby aligning the interests of the retirement. Variable salary and benefits are to specific business targets and is derived group management team and other key not pension qualifying unless provided by from the annual business plan approved employees with those of the shareholders to law or collective agreement. The retirement by the Board of Directors. The short-term ensure maximum long-term value creation. age is not less than 60 years and not more variable compensation is delivered through The targets for share-based long-term variathan 67 years. a cash-based bonus program. Short-term ble compensation are the compound annual The Board has the right to deviate from variable compensation is based on personal growth rate and operating profit margin, these principles in individual cases where targets linked to Cloetta’s Strategy and two adjusted. there is special reason to do so. operating targets: • Net sales growth • Operating profit Total variable remuneration of the Group Management Team incl. the President and CEO Remuneration of the Group Management Team SEK Thousand % incl. the President and CEO 20,000 80 2019 Pension benefits 13% u t Base salary 52% Other benefits 4% u 15,000 60 Share-based long-term variable compensation 6% u 10,000 40 Short-term variable compensation 25% u 5,000 20 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 nn Short-term and share-based long-term variable compensation Percentage of base salary << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 83 WORDS Termination benefits and SEK 49,670 thousand (42,527) excludevaluating programmes for variable remuUpon termination of employment on the part ing pension benefits. neration of the Group Management Team, FROM THE of the company, the notice period shall be no application of the guidelines for remunerPRESIDENT longer than 12 months. Any termination benShare-based long-term incentive ation adopted by the AGM and the current efits may not exceed one fixed annual salary. plan for senior executives remuneration structures and remuneration Due to employment contracts entered into On 4 April 2019, the Annual General levels in the company. Pursuant to paraGOALS by Leaf prior to Cloetta’s acquisition of the Meeting approved the Board’s proposal for graph 9.1, points 2 and 3 of the Swedish Code AND company, there are contracts with members a share-based long-term incentive plan. The of Corporate Governance, the Board hereby S T R AT E G I E S of the Group Management Team granting plan aligns the interests of the shareholders presents the following report on the results termination benefits exceeding 12 monthly with those of the Group Management Team of the remuneration committee’s evaluation: base salaries. and other key employees in order to ensure The variable compensation that is THE CONmaximum long-term value creation. payable according to the guidelines is linked FECTIONERY Other benefits A personal shareholding in Cloetta is to both the individual’s responsibility for Other benefits consists mainly of signrequired for all participants. See page 62 and results and the Group’s profitability targets, MARKET on fees, severance pay and company car Notes 23, 27 and 28 for more information which contributes to value growth for the benefits. about share-based payment. company’s shareholders. BRAND, Market surveys are conducted regularly C AT E G O R Y & President and CEO The Board of Directors’ report on with respect to salary statistics, remunerPRODUCT DEThe retirement age is 65 years. The pension the remuneration committee’s ation structures and levels for variable V ELO PM ENT terms consist of a defined contribution plan evaluation of remuneration of the remuneration. In the opinion of the remufor which annual premiums are paid up to Group Management Team neration committee, Cloetta’s remuneration the age of retirement in an amount correThe Board of Directors has established a structures and remuneration levels have alC L O E T TA’ S sponding to 30 per cent of pension-qualifyremuneration committee consisting of three lowed Cloetta to recruit and retain the right MAIN ing salary, consisting of base salary. Variable members who prepare recommendations for personnel to the Group Management Team. MARKETS compensation and other benefits are not decision by the Board regarding remunerRemuneration of the President and pension-qualifying. ation principles, remuneration levels and CEO for the financial year 2019 has been The President and CEO has a notice other terms of employment for the Group determined by the Board. Remuneration of period of six months. Upon termination on Management Team. The recommendations other members of the Group Management S U P P LY the part of the company, the notice period is have included the proportional distribution Team and of other senior executives has been CHAIN 12 months. between base salary and variable compendetermined by the President and CEO. sation and the size of any salary increases. Since the 2019 AGM, the remuneration Remuneration in 2019 Furthermore, the remuneration committee committee has met on five occasions. The E M P L OY E E S In 2019, the total remuneration of the Group has discussed pension terms and terminafull principles for remuneration of the group Management Team including the President tion benefits. management team in 2020 will be presented and CEO amounted to SEK 56,808 thouThe remuneration committee is also ahead of the AGM on 2 April. The suggested sand (50,399) including pension benefits, entrusted with the task of monitoring and principles for 2020 will not deviate in any material aspect from those applied in 2019. SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Remuneration cost incurred for the Group Management Short-term variable comProvision for pensation incurred in the share-based FINANCIAL 2019 Base year, expected to be paid long-term variable Other Pension SEK Thousand salary out in the next year compensation benefits Subtotal costs Total PER FORHenri de Sauvage-Nolting, 4,660 3,658 388 96 8,802 1,398 10,200 President and CEO MANCE Other group management team1 24,703 10,687 3,214 2,264 40,868 5,740 46,608 Total 29,363 14,345 3,602 2,360 49,670 7,138 56,808 RISKS of which, Parent Company 12,203 7 ,170 973 1,081 21,427 3,535 24 ,962 Short-term variable comProvision for pensation incurred in the share-based C O R P O R AT E 2018 Base year, expected to be paid long-term variable Other Pension SEK Thousand salary out in the next year 3 compensation 3 benefits Subtotal costs Total Henri de Sauvage-Nolting, 4,541 263 1,182 102 6,089 1,362 7,451 GOVER NANCE President and CEO Other group management team 2 27,490 1,815 –1,648 7,012 34,669 6,510 41,179 S TAT E M E N T Total 32,031 2,079 –466 7,114 40,758 7,872 48,630 FINANCIAL of which, Parent Company 11,210 478 –1,141 1,214 11,760 3,052 14,813 REPORTS 1) O ther Group Management Team comprised 12 persons for the period 1 January 2019 up to 31 March 2019, 13 persons for the period 1 April 2019 to 30 April 2019 and 12 persons for the period 30 April 2019 to 31 August 2019. As from 1 September 2019 the other Group Management Team consisted of 11 persons. 2) O ther Group Management Team comprised 11 persons for the period 1 January 2018 up to 28 February 2018, 12 persons for the period 1 March 2018 up to 15 July 2018, 11 persons for the period 16 July 2018 up to 14 August 2018, 10 persons for the period 15 August 2018 up to 11 November 2018. From 12 November 2018 the other Group Management Team consisted of 11 persons. 3) 2 018 numbers have been updated. This is in line with how the numbers are reflected in the balance sheet and profit and loss account. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 84 C orporate G overnance S tatement Internal control over financial reporting Cloetta’s internal control over financial recontrol policy form the platform for a set of Central and local financial reporting porting is based on the framework published guidelines and principles built on Cloetta’s risks are assessed with respect to account by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizacore values that govern financial reporting; balance assertions such as existence, comtions of the Treadway Commission (COSO • The management’s conduct and working pleteness, rights and obligations, valuation framework). The key objectives of Cloetta’s methods based on a clearly defined working and allocation, presentation and disclosure internal control environment for financial process described in documents such as: assertions and financial impact. The internal reporting are that it is appropriately struc– Rules of procedure for the Board of control environment is designed to mitigate tured and effective, provides reliable reports Directors risks identified to a level considered acceptand complies with any applicable laws and – Instructions for the President and CEO able by management. regulations. – Instructions for financial reporting Certain specific risks, for example risks The Board of Directors has defined – Finance policy related to taxes and legal matters and other policies regarding processes, roles and – Rules of procedure for and instructions financial risks, are reviewed proactively on responsibilities that are vital for financial to the audit committee; a periodic basis. Risks and risk management reporting and the internal control environ• Rules for representations, commitments are reported on separately in more detail in ment of the company. and disbursements to third parties clearly the annual report, on pages 71–74. Tax, legal defined in the Group’s authorization and other financial risks are reflected based framework; Roles and responsibilities on management’s best estimate and judge• Processes for leading and developing The Board of Directors is responsible for esment, and in accordance with the applicable employees in the organization and the tablishing fundamental rules and guidelines accounting standards in the consolidated attention dedicated to these matters by for internal control. The audit committee asfinancial statements. Cloetta’s Board of Directors. sists the Board of Directors with its oversight of the performance of the company’s risk Fraud risk Financial reporting competencies management function and internal control Cloetta’s Group Management Team, local The Group Management Team and local insofar as these affect the company’s quality management teams and the central finance management teams ensure that the company and integrity of financial reporting. The team are responsible for addressing the risk has employees with the right competency in Board of Directors and the audit committee of fraud and for carrying out a continuous all key (financial) positions and that there interact directly with the external auditors. assessment of the risk for fraud with respect are procedures in place to ensure that emWhere the Board of Directors is to the prevailing attitudes, incentives and ployees in key (financial) positions have the responsible for establishing fundamental opportunities to commit fraud. The Board of requisite knowledge and skills. rules and guidelines, the President and CEO Directors issued a fraud and whistleblower is responsible for the design effectiveness, policy aimed at preventing dishonest and/ Human Resources (HR) implementation and supervision of monior fraudulent activity and to establish proThe guidelines and processes for managetoring of the internal control environment cedures for reporting fraudulent activities ment of human resources play a fundamental within the Group. The CFO is responsible to Cloetta’s management and/or audit role in Cloetta’s system of internal control for the design and operating effectiveness of committee. and help ensure the effectiveness of internal the internal control environment within the In addition to the fraud and whistle­ control. Key processes include compensaGroup. At a local level, the design and opblower policy, Cloetta has adopted an tion and benefits, HR development, recruiterating effectiveness of the internal control anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. The ment, allocation of resources, performance environment is the responsibility of each of purpose of the policy is to prevent bribery management and routines for feedback to the area Presidents and local and regional and corruption by any employee or third the employees. finance teams. party acting on behalf of Cloetta. The trade control policy summarizes potentially apRisk assessment Control environment plicable sanctions and export control rules, Central and local risk assessments are preThe foundation for Cloetta’s internal control and compliance procedures to be followed pared and monitored periodically. In these environment is the company’s corporate by all Cloetta employees. The purpose of assessments the likelihood that risks could culture and behavior, amongst others, which this policy is to provide guidelines to ensure occur and the potential impact they may are reflected in: compliance with all local trade control laws have are assessed. Furthermore, the velocity • Performing our business with integrity and and regulations including countries through at which a risk could occur is considered. ethical values. Cloetta’s Code of Conduct, which shipments or financial transactions Business risks as well as financial reporting fraud and whistleblower policy, anti-bribflow. and other risks are considered in the risk ery and anti-corruption policy and trade assessments. Basis for risk assessment Existence, reported Completeness, all transRights and obligations, Valuation and allocation, Presentation and assets and liabilities exist actions during the reporting assets are the rights of all items in the financial redisclosure, items in on the reporting date. period are recorded and the organization and the porting are reported in comthe financial reports are reported. liabilities are its obligations pliance with IFRS valuation properly described, sorted as of a given date. principles and are correctly and classified. calculated and summarized and appropriately recorded. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 85 WORDS Process for financial reporting FROM THE Monthly PRESIDENT Collection of information Controls Processing and consolidation Reporting Local units report monthly accordThe Group’s reporting system Any corrections are implemented Reporting of operational and GOALS ing to an established timeframe contains embedded controls. In in dialogue with the affected financial information to AND in compliance with the applicable addition, the central finance team parties. Reconciliation occurs. the Board of Directors and the S T R AT E G I E S laws, regulations and accountcarries out analytical controls as Group Management Team. ing practices and the Group’s well as controls of completeness accounting manual. and reasonability. THE CONQuarterly FECTIONERY Audit committee External reporting MARKET The auditor attends every quarterly meeting. Possible actions are carried Cloetta publicly discloses its interim and year-end reports through out in respect of the audit report. press releases and publication on the company’s website. BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & Control activities Monitoring and improvement the audit committee, the President and PRODUCT DEControl activities are the policies and Cloetta continuously strengthens its internal CEO, the Group Management Team, the procedures that help ensure that managecontrol environment by evaluating the design central finance and treasury team and the V ELO PM ENT ment’s directives are carried out and that and operating effectiveness of the enviGroup’s various subsidiaries. Every month, the necessary actions are taken to address ronment. During the year, procedures are financial reports are reviewed against budget C L O E T TA’ S risks that may hinder the achievement of the performed to verify the design and operand established targets, and the results of MAIN company’s objectives. Control activities ocating effectiveness in specific areas. These self-assessments in the Group’s companies MARKETS cur throughout the organization, at all levels procedures are performed on a central and are reported. This review includes follow-up and in all functions. They include a range of a local level and are intended to address any of observations that are reported by Cloetta’s activities as diverse as approvals, authorizaweaknesses or inefficiencies in the interauditor. tions, verifications, reconciliations, reviews nal control environment. Internal control The company’s financial situation is disS U P P LY of operating performance, security of assets deficiencies detected through the ongoing cussed at each Board of Directors meeting. CHAIN and segregation of duties. monitoring activities or separate evaluations The Board’s audit committee has important Control activities are embedded in are reported upstream and corrective actions monitoring and control duties with regard to Cloetta’s business processes and play a key are taken to ensure continuous improvement loans, investments, financial management, E M P L OY E E S role in ensuring effective internal control in of the internal control environment. On a financial reporting and internal control. The the company. Local management is responsiquarterly basis the follow up and status of any audit committee and Board of Directors ble for having all required control activiweaknesses identified by internal procedures review and formally approve interim reports ties in place and maintained within their or external audits are reported and discussed and the annual report prior to publication. In organizations. The CFO is responsible for with the persons involved and members of addition, the audit committee receives reguensuring that control activities are designed Cloetta’s Group Management Team. lar reports from the independent auditor. SHARE AND and operating effectively and are maintained SHAREcentrally. The control environment is based Reporting routines Communication on a balanced mix of preventive and detecAn effective system for internal control reInternal communication HOLDERS tive controls and of automated and manual quires sufficient, up-to-date and reliable inEffective communication ensures the controls. In addition to a standard set of formation both of a financial and non-finaninformation flows in the organization. FINANCIAL automated controls embedded in Cloetta’s cial nature. As far as possible, management Separate communication channels are used central ERP system, local management reporting is directly linked to the financial to communicate internally, based on what is PER FORteams are encouraged to have as many aureporting and to the consolidation tool. most effective. MANCE tomated controls as possible, especially for Local management teams report routine transactions. Nevertheless, there are their financial results periodically and in External communication also manual control activities in place to veraccordance with the Group’s accounting and It is also important to maintain communiRISKS ify that the automated controls function as reporting policies. This reporting is the basis cation about relevant policies with external intended and for non-routine transactions. for Cloetta’s internal and external reporting parties such as customers, suppliers, regulaContinuous reviews are performed by and serves as a basis for legal and business tors and shareholders. the Group Management Team and local reviews. The business reviews are carried External communication is carried out management teams to safeguard proper and out according to a structure in which sales, in accordance with legal requirements and C O R P O R AT E accurate financial reporting. These reviews earnings, cash flow and other key ratios the Corporate Communications and IR GOVER NANCE are incorporated into the business processand trends of importance to the Group are policy. es and are an important part of Cloetta’s compiled and form a basis for analysis and S TAT E M E N T monitoring controls. The local management actions by the management and controllers Evaluation of the need for teams are responsible for ensuring compliat different levels. Other important and a separate internal audit function ance with relevant laws and regulations in group-wide components of internal control There is currently no internal audit function FINANCIAL their respective areas of responsibility. All and reporting routines include the annual at Cloetta. The Board of Directors has identified financial reporting risks are covbusiness planning process and the monthly reviewed this matter and determined that REPORTS ered by one or more control activities. and quarterly forecasts. the existing structures for monitoring and To ensure the efficiency of internal evaluation provide a satisfactory basis for control over financial reporting, reviews control. For certain special internal audit S U S TA I N are carried out by the Board of Directors, activities, external resources are used. ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 86 C orporate G overnance S tatement Board of Directors Lilian Fossum Biner Mikael Aru Patrick Bergander Position: Chairman of the Board Position: Member of the Board Position: Member of the Board Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Elected: 2016 Elected: 2017 Elected: 2019 Year of birth: 1962 Year of birth: 1953 Year of birth: 1971 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Education: M.Sc. Stockholm School of Education: B.Sc. Business Administration, Education: B.Sc. Business and Economics, Economics, Sweden. Linköping University, Sweden. Stockholm University. Other assignments: Board member of Carlsberg Other assignments: Board Chairman of AB Other assignments: – AS, Scania AB, LE Lundbergföretagen, a-connect Axel Granlund. Board member of AB Stenströms Previous assignments: CEO and former CFO and Givaudan Skjortfabrik, Dr Per Håkanssons Foundation and RSA Scandinavia (Codan/Trygg-Hansa). Several Previous assignments: VP and CFO of Axel Gorthon Foundation. positions at Electrolux, as CFO Asia Pacific and Johnson, Senior VP and HR Director at Electrolux. Previous assignments: CEO of Procordia Food Head of Group Business Control. CFO Business Independence: Sverige, as well as executive positions at Kraft area private at If Skadeförsäkring and consultant In relation to major shareholders: Yes Foods and Nestlé. and auditor at Arthur Andersen. In relation to the company and management: Yes Independence: Independence: Shareholding: Direct: 30,000 class B shares In relation to major shareholders: Yes In relation to major shareholders: Yes Related parties: – In relation to the company and management: Yes In relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: Direct: 3,855 class B shares Shareholding: Direct: 4,180 class B shares Related parties: – Related parties: – Lottie Knutson Alan McLean Raleigh Camilla Svenfelt Position: Member of the Board Position: Member of the Board Position: Member of the Board Member of the Remuneration Committee Elected: 2018 Member of the Audit Committee Elected: 2015 Year of birth: 1959 Elected: 2016 Year of birth: 1964 Nationality: British Year of birth: 1981 Nationality: Swedish Education: B.Sc. (Hons) Production Engineering Nationality: Swedish Education: Journalism at Stockholm University, and Production Management, University of StrathEducation: B.A. Stockholm University, Sweden. Sweden, Diplôme de Culture Francaise, clyde, Scotland. Other assignments: Board member of AB L’Université Paris IV, France. Other assignments: Trustee on the Board of the Malfors Promotor and a deputy board member Other assignments: Member of the board of Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply of the Hjalmar Svenfelt Foundation. Accounting Stena Line, STS Alpresor and Swedavia. (CIPS), Board Chairman of Robinson plc. supervisor at AB Malfors Promotor. Writer and advisor in the areas of leadership, Previous assignments: Executive Vice President, Previous assignments: – change and crisis management and tourism. Personal Care Supply Chain, Unilever. Independence: Previous assignments: Director of CommuIndependence: In relation to major shareholders: No nications at Fritidsresor Group for the Nordic In relation to major shareholders: Yes In relation to the company and management: Yes countries, at SAS Group’s communications In relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: D irect: 60 class A shares and department, journalist at the Swedish newspaper Shareholding: Direct: 7,887 471,485 class B shares Svenska Dagbladet and communications consultRelated parties: – Related parties: 55,095 class B ant at JKL and others. shares Independence: In relation to major shareholders: Yes In relation to the company and management: Yes Shareholding: Direct: 1,200 class B shares Related parties: – << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 87 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, Mikael Svenfelt Lena Grönedal Mikael Ström C AT E G O R Y & Position: Member of the Board Position: Deputy employee board member, LIVS Position: Employee board member, PTK Ledarna PRODUCT DEChairman of the Remuneration Committee Elected: 2008 Elected: 2016 V ELO PM ENT Elected: 2008 Year of birth: 1962 Year of birth: 1961 Year of birth: 1966 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Position at Cloetta: Factory Operative, Cloetta Position at Cloetta: Factory Operative, Cloetta Sverige AB Sverige AB C L O E T TA’ S Education: Marketing and Business Economics, Tibbleskolan and Law studies, Folkuniversitetet. Shareholding: Direct: – Shareholding: Direct: 32,243 class B shares. MAIN Other assignments: CEO and Board member of Related parties: – Related parties: – AB Malfors Promotor, board member of Bröderna MARKETS Börjessons Bil AB. Previous assignments: Senior positions in Nicator group, Dell Financial Services, GE Capital Equipment Finance AB and Rollox AB. Board Chairman of Fjärilshuset Haga Trädgård AB. S U P P LY CHAIN Board member of Fjärilshuset Haga Trädgård Café AB. Independence: In relation to major shareholders: No In relation to the company and management: Yes E M P L OY E E S Shareholding: D irect: 25 class A shares and 42,535 class B shares. Related parties: 5,729,569 class A shares and 72,822,973 class B shares. Shahram Nikpour Badr Christina Lönnborn SHARE AND Position: Deputy employee board member, LIVS Position: Deputy employee board member, PTK Elected: 2013 Unionen SHAREYear of birth: 1963 Elected: 2016 Year of birth: 1962 HOLDERS Nationality: Swedish Position at Cloetta: Factory Operative, Cloetta Nationality: Swedish Sverige AB Position at Cloetta: Store developer, Cloetta FINANCIAL Shareholding: Direct: – Sverige AB Related parties: – Shareholding: Direct: – Related parties: – PER FORMANCE Composition of the Board Fees2 Attendance 4 Elected by Year Year of Board Committee Board Audit Remuneration RISKS the AGM1 Nationality elected birth fees fees Independence 3 meetings committee committee Chairman Lilian Fossum Biner Swedish 2016 1962 685,000 100,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Members Camilla Svenfelt Swedish 2016 1981 315,000 100,000 Yes/No 9/9 5/5 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Mikael Aru Swedish 2017 1953 315,000 100,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Lottie Knutson Swedish 2015 1964 315,000 100,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 Patrick Bergander Swedish 2019 1971 315,000 150,000 Yes/Yes 9/9 5/5 S TAT E M E N T Alan McLean Raleigh British 2018 1959 315,000 – Yes/Yes 9/9 Mikael Svenfelt Swedish 2008 1966 315,000 150,000 Yes/No 9/9 5/5 FINANCIAL 1) Education and other assignments are shown on pages 86–87. 2) T he fees refer to set amounts during the period from the AGM on 4 April 2019 until the AGM on 2 April 2020. Board fees shall be paid in an amount of REPORTS SEK 685,000 (previously 620,000) to the Board Chairman and SEK 315,000 (previously 285,000) to each other member elected by the AGM. Fees for work on the Board committees were set at SEK 100,000 for each member of the audit committee (unchanged), SEK 150,000 for the Chairman of the audit committee (unchanged), SEK 100,000 for each member of the remuneration committee (unchanged) and SEK 150,000 for the Chairman of the remuneration committee (unchanged); For further details, see Note 6. 3) Independent in relation to the company and its Group Management Team/the largest shareholder. 4) A ttendance refers to meetings during the period from the statutory meeting following the AGM on 4 April 2019 until the publication of this annual report on S U S TA I N 12 March 2020. ABILITY Shareholding stated as at 31 December 2019 Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 88 C orporate G overnance S tatement Group Management Team Henri de Sauvage-Nolting Frans Rydén Regina Ekström Position: President and CEO Position: Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Position: Senior Vice President since 2017 since 2018 Human Resources since 2015. Employed by Cloetta since 2017. Employed by Cloetta since 12 November 2018. Employed by LEAF since 2004. Year of birth: 1962 Year of birth: 1972 Year of birth: 1963 Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Education: M.Sc., Chemistry, Amsterdam Education: BSc. Business Administration, Education: B.Sc. Business Administration and University, the Netherlands. M.Sc., Chemical Stockholm University, Master of Laws, Stockholm Economics, Lund University, Sweden. Engineering, Technical University of Twente, the University. Other assignments: – Netherlands. Post Doc in Business Administration, Other assignments: – Previous positions: SVP Human Resources and University of Leuven, Belgium. Previous positions: Various positions at MondeCommunications Scandinavia at Cloetta/LEAF, Other assignments: Board member of Agra lez including Chief Financial Officer for India, 2004–2014. SVP Human Resources Nordic at FinIndustrier, Norway. CFO for Indonesia, Finance Director Asia-Pacific, dus, 2000–2004, HR Manager Sweden/Nordic Previous positions: Executive Vice President of Regional Manager Financial Planning and Analyat Nestlé, 1995–2000, Trainee, Product Manager, Arla in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Between sis, and Area Manager Internal controls. Human Resources Manager, Marketing Manager 1989 and 2013 held positions in sales, marketing Vice President Finance at Arla Foods. at Mars Sweden and UK, 1987–1995. and manufacturing at Unilever in the Nordics, Shareholding: D irect: 78,288 class B shares Shareholding: D irect: 40,495 class B shares the Netherlands, UK and China. Last position at Related parties: – Related parties: – Unilever was as CEO of the Nordics. Shareholding: D irect: 73,797 class B shares Related parties: – Thomas Biesterfeldt Ewald Frenay Michiel Havermans Position: Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) Position: President Cloetta Middle Region Position: Senior Vice President Cloetta since 2018. since 2012 International since 2018. Employed by Cloetta since 1 May 2018. Employed by LEAF since 2000. Employed by Cloetta since 1 March 2018. Year of birth: 1980 Year of birth: 1963 Year of birth: 1973 Nationality: German Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Education: MBA (Major Marketing) at Hamburg Education: M.Sc. Economics, Erasmus University Education: MSc Economics, Erasmus University, University of Applied Sciences. Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Rotterdam. Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Previous positions: Marketing Director at Previous positions: Interim President Cloetta Previous positions: Regional Director sales and L´Oreal Paris in the Nordics (based in Denmark), Italy and Export Markets 2016–2017. Various marketing for Europe, Middle East and Americas previously Marketing and Group product manager positions at Leaf 2000–2012 including President at United Dutch Breweries (UDB). Export Director, at L´Oreal Paris in Germany and Sweden. Middle at Leaf and Chief Marketing Officer. MemCountry Manager UK and Managing Director VietShareholding: D irect: 12,542 class B shares ber of Leaf Executive Committee, 2008–2012. nam and the Philippines at Perfetti van Melle. Related parties: – 2005–2007 Vice President Segment ConfectionShareholding: D irect: 11,919 class B shares ery, 2004 –2005, Marketing Director of RBV Leaf Related parties: – the Netherlands 2000 –2004. Several marketing and sales positions at Mars Inc. 1989–1999. Shareholding: D irect: 29,677 class B shares Related parties: – << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 C orporate G overnance S tatement 89 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, Marcel Mensink Christian Boas Linde C AT E G O R Y & Ville Perho Position: President Operations (COO) since 2017 Position: President Cloetta Denmark and Norway Position: President Cloetta Finland PRODUCT DEEmployed by Cloetta since 2017. since 2018 V ELO PM ENT since 2015. Year of birth: 1971 Employed by Cloetta since 2013. Employed by LEAF since 2004. Nationality: Dutch Year of birth: 1968 Year of birth: 1979 Education: MBA University of Canterbury United Nationality: Danish Nationality: Finnish Kingdom, B.Sc. Food Technology van Hall InstiEducation: M.Sc. Economics, University of C L O E T TA’ S Education: M.Sc. Turku School of Economics, MAIN tute, the Netherlands. Aarhus, Denmark. Finland. Other assignments: – Other assignments: Board member of Crispy Other assignments: Co-owner and Board Previous positions: Supply Director, Mars SupFoods International A/S, Nakskov Mills Foods A/S member of Varastoaura Oy. Co-owner and Board MARKETS ply Petcare Europe. Several leading positions at and Anne Linde ApS. member of PLH Invest Oy. Mars in various business units, including Petcare, Previous positions: Head of Mars Denmark A/S, Previous positions: Sales Director Cloetta FinFood and Chocolate. Supply Director Mars Care & 2008–2013, several commercial positions at land 2010–2015, Category Development Manager Treats Europe. Plant director Mars Food UK, sevPepsiCo, 2002–2008, HJ Heinz UK, 1999–2002, LEAF 2004–2010, Global Account Manager Lidl eral different operational roles at Mars Chocolate. and Arla Foods, 1993–1996. at LEAF. S U P P LY Shareholding: D irect: 38,544 class B shares CHAIN Shareholding: D irect: 7,138 class B shares Shareholding: D irect: 31,902 class B shares Related parties: – Related parties: – Related parties: – E M P L OY E E S SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE Katarina Tell Niklas Truedsson Position: President Cloetta Sweden, Position: Chief Pick & mix Officer RISKS since 2018. since 2019. Employed by Cloetta since 28 May 2018. Employed by Cloetta since 30 April 2019. Year of birth: 1970 Year of birth: 1972 Nationality: Swedish Nationality: Swedish Education: Bachelor Marketing and AdministraEducation: M.Sc. Business Administration and C O R P O R AT E tion, Lund University, Masters in Food Nutrition, Economics, Lund University, Sweden. Umeå University. Other assignments: – GOVER NANCE Other assignments: Board member of DLF, Previous positions: Different roles at Unilever Dagligvaruleverantörernas Förbund. within Marketing, Sales and different managerial S TAT E M E N T Previous positions: General Manager Findus, roles in the Nordics and Asia, for example General Sweden. Managing Director Heinz Northern and Manager Unilever Sweden and Sales and CustomEastern Europe, Retail Sales Manager Heinz Sweer Director. CEO Risenta, part of the Paulig Group. den and Business Development Manager Findus. Shareholding: D irect: 6,932 class B shares FINANCIAL Shareholding: D irect: 20,816 class B shares Related parties: – REPORTS Related parties: – Shareholding stated as at 31 December 2019 S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 90 F inancial reports Financial reports Contents Group Parent Company Consolidated profit and loss account 91 Parent Company profit and loss account 131 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 92 Parent Company balance sheet 132 Consolidated balance sheet 93 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 133 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 94 Parent Company cash flow statement 134 Consolidated cash flow statement 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements Note 1 General information and accounting Note P1 Accounting and valuation policies 135 and valuation policies of the Group 96 of the Parent Company Note 2 Breakdown of income 104 Note P2 Breakdown of income 135 Note 3 Amortization of intangible assets, depreciation of Note P3 Personnel expenses and number of employees 136 property, plant and equipment and impairment of Note P4 Audit fees 136 non-current assets 105 Note P5 Net financial items 136 Note 4 Expenses by type 105 Note P6 Income taxes 136 Note 5 Personnel expenses and number of employees 105 Note P7 Deferred and current income tax 136 Note 6 Remuneration of the Board 106 Note P8 Shareholdings in group companies 137 Note 7 Items affecting comparability 106 Note P9 Cash and cash equivalents 138 Note 8 Net financial items 107 Note P10 Equity 138 Note 9 Income taxes 107 Note P11 Borrowings 138 Note 10 Audit fees 107 Note P12 Derivative financial instruments 139 Note 11 Intangible assets 108 Note P13 Accrued expenses and deferred income 139 Note 12 Property, plant and equipment 110 Note P14 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 139 Note 13 Tax assets and liabilities 111 Note P15 Related-party transactions 139 Note 14 Non-current financial assets 112 Note 15 Inventories 112 Proposed appropriation of earnings 140 Note 16 Trade and other receivables 112 Auditor’s report 141 Ten-year overview 144 Note 17 Cash and cash equivalents 113 Key ratios 146 Note 18 Equity 114 Reconciliation alternative performance measures 148 Note 19 Earnings per share 115 Definitions 156 Note 20 Borrowings 115 Note 21 Derivative financial instruments 117 Note 22 Contingent considerations 119 Note 23 Pensions and other long-term employee benefits 119 Note 24 Provisions 122 Note 25 Trade and other payables 122 Note 26 Financial risks and financial risk management 122 Note 27 Financial instruments measurement categories and fair values 124 Note 28 Related-party transactions 126 Note 29 Leases 127 Note 30 Critical accounting estimates and judgements 129 Note 31 Changes in accounting policies 129 Note 32 Events after the balance sheet date 130 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 91 WORDS Group financial statements and notes FROM THE PRESIDENT Consolidated GOALS AND profit and loss account S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY SEKm Note 2019 2018 MARKET Net sales 2, 7 6,493 6,218 Cost of goods sold 3, 4, 5, 7 –4,112 –3,934 BRAND, Gross profit 2,381 2,284 C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEOther income 2, 7 – 4 V ELO PM ENT Selling expenses 3, 4, 5, 7 –1,011 –1,025 General and administrative expenses 3, 4, 5, 7 –643 –603 C L O E T TA’ S Operating profit 727 660 MAIN MARKETS Exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents in foreign currencies 8 –19 –16 Other financial income 8 2 5 Other financial expenses 8 –62 –87 Net financial items –79 –98 S U P P LY CHAIN Profit before tax 648 562 Income tax 9 –150 –79 E M P L OY E E S Profit for the year 498 483 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 498 483 Earnings per share, SEK SHARE AND Basic1 19 1.74 1.69 Diluted1 19 1.74 1.68 SHAREHOLDERS Number of shares at end of period 19 288,619,299 288,619,299 Average number of shares (basic)1 19 286,578,395 286,492,413 Average number of shares (diluted)1 19 286,724,049 286,650,070 FINANCIAL PER FOR1) C loetta entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares to fulfill its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants of the long-term share-based incentive plan. The table in Note 21 presents the movements in the contracts after MANCE 1 January 2018. The outstanding contracts as at the reporting date consist of one contract for 2,080,883 shares at a share price of SEK 31.2385. RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 92 F inancial reports Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEKm 2019 2018 Profit for the year 498 483 Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans –80 –41 Income tax on remeasurement of defined benefit pension plans 17 9 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss for the period –63 –32 Currency translation differences 103 176 Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation –24 –58 Income tax on hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation 5 12 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss for the period 84 130 Total other comprehensive income 21 98 Total comprehensive income, net of tax 519 581 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 519 581 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 93 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Consolidated GOALS AND balance sheet S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY SEKm Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 MARKET ASSETS Non-current assets BRAND, Intangible assets 11 5,684 5,626 C AT E G O R Y & Property, plant and equipment 1 12 1,559 1,354 Deferred tax asset 13 9 16 PRODUCT DEOther financial assets 14 7 11 V ELO PM ENT Total non-current assets 7,259 7,007 C L O E T TA’ S Current assets MAIN Inventories 15 888 765 MARKETS Trade and other receivables 16 928 838 Current income tax assets 13 6 6 Derivative financial instruments 21 – 1 Cash and cash equivalents 17 579 551 S U P P LY Total current assets 2,401 2,161 CHAIN Total assets 9,660 9,168 E M P L OY E E S EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 18 1,443 1,443 Other paid-in capital 18 4,124 4,124 Translation difference reserve 18 733 630 Retained earnings including profit for the year 18 –2,103 –2,229 SHARE AND Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 4,197 3,968 SHARENon-current liabilities HOLDERS Long-term borrowings1 20 939 2,076 Deferred tax liability 13 803 754 Derivative financial instruments 21 3 3 FINANCIAL Provisions for pensions and other long-term employee benefits 23 499 419 PER FORProvisions 24 5 9 MANCE Total non-current liabilities 2,249 3,261 Current liabilities RISKS Short-term borrowings1 20 1,870 500 Derivative financial instruments 21 68 61 Trade and other payables 22, 25 1,227 1,342 Provisions 24 5 23 Current income tax liabilities 13 44 13 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Total current liabilities 3,214 1,939 Total equity and liabilities 9,660 9,168 S TAT E M E N T 1) A s of 1 January 2019, the right-of-use assets and the corresponding lease liabilities are included in the property, plant and equipment and long-term and short-term borrowings respectively. Comparative figures have not been restated. FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 94 F inancial reports Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Foreign currency Retained SEKm Share capital paid-in capital translation reserve earnings Total equity Balance at 1 January 2018 1,443 4,124 454 –2,203 3,818 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 483 483 Other comprehensive income – – 176 –78 98 Total comprehensive income for 2018 – – 176 405 581 Transactions with owners Share-based payments – – – 2 2 Dividend 1 – – – –433 –433 Total transactions with owners – – – –431 –431 Balance at 31 December 2018 1,443 4,124 630 –2,229 3,968 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – 498 498 Other comprehensive income – – 103 –82 21 Total comprehensive income for 2019 – – 103 416 519 Transactions with owners Forward contracts to repurchase own shares – – – –6 –6 Share-based payments – – – 3 3 Dividend 1 – – – –287 –287 Total transactions with owners – – – –290 –290 Balance at 31 December 2019 1,443 4,124 733 –2,103 4,197 1) T he dividend paid in 2019 comprised an ordinary dividend of SEK 1.00 per share. The dividend paid in 2018 comprised an ordinary dividend of SEK 0.75 per share and a special dividend of SEK 0.75 per share. Total equity is attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 95 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Consolidated GOALS AND cash flow statement S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY SEKm Note 2019 2018 MARKET Operating profit 727 660 BRAND, Adjustments for non-cash items C AT E G O R Y & Amortization/depreciation of assets 3 301 230 Impairment of assets 3 2 – PRODUCT DEProvisions for pensions –10 –8 V ELO PM ENT Other provisions and contingent earn-out considerations –23 2 C L O E T TA’ S Interest received 2 1 MAIN Interest paid –34 –36 Proceeds on derivative financial instruments –4 –4 MARKETS Income tax paid –53 –53 Cash flow from operating activities 908 792 before changes in working capital S U P P LY CHAIN Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in inventories –113 –1 Change in trade and other receivables –88 50 E M P L OY E E S Change in trade and other payables 17 –213 Cash flow from operating activities 724 628 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries 22 –146 – Investments in property, plant and equipment 12 –167 –161 SHARE AND Investments in intangible assets 11 –19 –23 SHAREDisposals of property, plant and equipment 2 0 HOLDERS Cash flow from investing activities –330 –184 Cash flow from operating and investing activities 394 444 FINANCIAL PER FORFinancing activities Proceeds from loans 20 – 163 MANCE Proceeds from commercial papers 20 1,557 999 Transaction costs paid 20 – –4 Repayment of loans 20 – –879 Repayment of commercial papers 20 –1,558 –500 RISKS Payment of lease liabilities 20 –74 – Dividends paid –287 –433 Other cash flow from financing activities 0 –11 Cash flow from financing activities –362 –665 C O R P O R AT E Cash flow for the year 32 –221 GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 17 551 759 Cash flow for the year 32 –221 FINANCIAL Exchange difference –4 13 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 17 579 551 REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 96 F inancial reports Notes to the consolidated financial statements Compliance with legislation and accounting standards General information and accounting Note 1 The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance and valuation policies of the Group with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) established by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and General information the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee Cloetta AB (publ), corporate identification number 556308-8144, (IFRIC), which have been endorsed by the European Commission Note 1 Note 2 is a Swedish-registered limited liability company domiciled in for application in the EU, with some supplementary requirements Note 3 Linköping, Sweden. The company’s head office is in Stockholm with from the Annual Accounts Act. The applied standards and interpreNote 4 the address Solna Business Park, Englundavägen 7D, SE-171 06 tations are those that were in force and had been endorsed by the EU Note 5 Solna, Sweden. as at 1 January 2019. Furthermore, the Swedish Financial Reporting Note 6 Board’s recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules Note 7 Financial year for Groups, has been applied. Note 8 The consolidated financial statements for the financial year from Note 9 1 January to 31 December 2019 include the accounts of the Parent Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures Note 10 Company and its subsidiaries (collectively the “Group” and individuIn accordance with the ESMA (European Securities and MarNote 11 ally the “group companies”). kets Authority) guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures Note 12 The annual report and consolidated financial statements were (APMs), additional information on the use of APMs, including exNote 13 approved for publication by the Board of Directors on 10 March planations of use and reconciliation of the APMs to the most directly Note 14 2020. The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of the Group reconcilable measures in the financial statements, has been included Note 15 and the Parent Company will be put before the Annual General in these financial statements. APMs presented in these financial Note 16 Meeting on 2 April 2020 for adoption. statements should not be considered a substitute for measures of Note 17 performance in accordance with IFRS and may not be comparable to Note 18 Disclosures regarding changes in group structure similarly titled measures by other companies. Note 19 Mergers Note 20 • On 1 March 2018 Lilla Fiket AB was merged into Candyking Note 21 Activities Sverige AB. Note 22 The activities of the Group mainly comprise: Note 23 • On 1 May 2018 Candyking Finland Oy and Karkkikatu Oy were • Sales, marketing and production of branded candy, chocolate, Note 24 merged into Cloetta Suomi Oy. pastilles, chewing gum and nuts, and Note 25 • On 1 May 2018 Candyking Danmark A/S was merged into Cloetta • Trading in candy, chocolate, pastilles, chewing gum and nuts. Note 26 Danmark ApS. Note 27 The countries of the European Union and Norway form the most Note 28 • On 1 May 2018 Candyking Norge AS was merged into Cloetta important markets. Note 29 Norge AS. Note 30 • On 23 December 2019 E Out Instrument AB was merged into Basis of presentation Note 31 Cloetta Sverige AB. Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, with the exNote 32 ception of certain financial assets and liabilities that are stated at fair Incorporations value according to the accounting policies described below. On 10 February 2020 Cloetta Middle East DMCC was incorporated. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are rounded to the nearest See Note P8 for more information. million Swedish krona. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS Liquidations and dissolutions requires management to use certain critical accounting estimates • On 8 February 2017 FTF Sweets USA Inc. was dissolved. The and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilithree-year unwinding period ended on 8 February 2020. ties, income and expenses. The estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a number of other factors that are considered • On 13 February 2020 Candyking Poland Sp. z o.o. was liquidated. reasonable under the given circumstances. The results of these estimates and assumptions are used to make judgements about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that cannot be readily determined from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 97 WORDS and assumptions. The estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an All incorporated and acquired companies are wholly owned ongoing basis. Changes in estimates are reported in the period of the directly or indirectly by Cloetta AB (publ) and are consolidated from FROM THE change, if the change affects that period only. Changes in estimates the date on which control is transferred. PRESIDENT are reported in the period of the change and in future periods, if the change affects both. Subsidiaries Note 30 provides a description of judgements made by the comThe consolidated accounts include financial information for Cloetta GOALS pany’s management in the application of IFRS that have a significant AB (publ) and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are entities controlled AND impact on the financial statements, and estimates that can lead to madirectly or indirectly by Cloetta AB (publ). The Group controls an S T R AT E G I E S terial adjustments in the financial statements within the next year. entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its Unless otherwise stated below, the following accounting involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns standards for the Group have been consistently applied in periods through its power over the entity. All subsidiaries are consolidated THE CONpresented in the consolidated financial statements. The accounting from the date on which control is transferred to Cloetta AB (publ). FECTIONERY standards for the Group have been consistently applied in reporting The Group applies the acquisition method to account for busiand consolidation of the Parent Company and the subsidiaries. ness combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition MARKET of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities Segment reporting incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interBRAND, An operating segment is an identified part of a group that engages ests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the C AT E G O R Y & in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent conPRODUCT DEexpenses for which discrete financial information is available. An sideration arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities V ELO PM ENT operating segment’s results are reviewed regularly by the entity’s assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair chief operating decision-maker to make decisions about resources values at the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are expensed to be allocated to the segment and assess its short and long-term as incurred. If the business combination is realized in stages, the C L O E T TA’ S financial performance. Operating segments are reported in a manner acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity MAIN consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operatinterest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition MARKETS ing decision-maker. The President and CEO, who is responsible for date through the profit and loss account. allocating resources and assessing the performance of the operating Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group segments, has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Any subsequent that makes strategic decisions. change to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is S U P P LY Within the Cloetta Group three regions have been identified as deemed to be a liability is recognized in accordance with IAS 32 in CHAIN the Group’s operating segments. The vast majority of sales take place the case of the forward purchase of shares, or IFRS 9 either in the in the markets for confectionery and nuts, i.e. cold snacks between profit and loss account or as a change to other comprehensive income main meals, in Western Europe. It is the Group’s goal to realize only if it is an asset which is classified as available for sale. Contingent E M P L OY E E S production efficiency through homogeneous production processes in consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its the different production facilities throughout the Group, regardless of subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. their location. The Group has sales mainly in the confectionery and Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of nuts segment, with comparable markets and customers. The Group the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling inhas an integrated distribution network and supply chain organizaterests in the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. tion. The identified operating segments are deemed to have similar If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the SHARE AND economic characteristics. subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized in the profit and loss SHAREAs a result of these consistencies between the different regions, account. HOLDERS for financial statement reporting purposes, the operating segments Group companies are deconsolidated from the date that control are aggregated into one reportable segment. For information about ceases. When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest the Group’s sales and earnings development and financial position, in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control FINANCIAL see the consolidated profit and loss accounts, balance sheet and cash is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognized in the profit PER FORflow statement. and loss account. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the MANCE purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an Classification associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts Non-current assets comprise amounts expected to be recovered or previously recognized in other comprehensive income in respect of paid after more than twelve months from the balance sheet date, that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of while current assets comprise amounts expected to be recovered or the related assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previRISKS paid within twelve months of the balance sheet date. Non-current ously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to liabilities comprise amounts which the Group, at the end of the the profit and loss account. reporting period, has an unconditional right to choose to pay later Note P8 provides an overview of all subsidiaries consolidated in than 12 months after the end of the reporting period. If the Group has the consolidated financial statements of Cloetta AB (publ). C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE no such right at the end of the reporting period, or if the liability is expected to be settled within the normal operating cycle, the liability Transactions eliminated on consolidation is reported as current liability. Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on S TAT E M E N T transactions between group companies are eliminated. Profits and Basis of consolidation losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are recognized Group structure in assets are also eliminated. FINANCIAL The company was originally founded in 1862. On 16 February 2012, REPORTS Cloetta AB (publ) acquired Leaf Holland B.V. (currently known as Cloetta Holland B.V.) from Yllop Holding S.A. The acquisition has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition for consolidation purposes, where Cloetta Holland B.V. is the accounting acquirer and Cloetta S U S TA I N AB (publ) is the legal acquirer. ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 98 F inancial reports Foreign currency When a foreign operation is disposed of, unrealized exchange differFunctional and presentation currency ences accumulated in currency translation adjustments after Items included in the financial information of each of our entities are 1 January 2006 (first-time adoption of IFRS) are recognized in profit measured using the functional currency of that entity, which is the or loss as part of the gain or loss on the sale. Goodwill and fair value currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign entity are treatoperates. The functional currency of foreign entities is generally local ed as assets and liabilities in the functional currency of the attributacurrency. The functional currency of the Parent Company is Swedish ble foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. kronor (SEK), which is also the presentation currency of the Parent Company. Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements are presented in SEK. With the exception of the changes explained in Note 31, the Group The functional currency of the majority of the subsidiaries is the has consistently applied the following accounting policies to all euro (EUR). The assets and liabilities are translated at the closing periods presented in these consolidated financial statements. Set out rate at the date of the financial statements. Income and expenses are below is an index of the significant accounting policies, the details of translated at the average exchange rate for the year. which are available on the pages that follow: I Net sales Transactions and balances II Cost of goods sold Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional III Other income currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transIV Selling expenses actions or the date of valuation where items are remeasured. Foreign V General and administrative expenses exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such VI Employee remuneration transactions, and from the translation at the year-end exchange rates VII Research and development expenses of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, VIII Net financial items Note 1 Income tax are recognized in the profit and loss account. IX Note 2 Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to cash and cash X Dividend distribution Note 3 equivalents are presented in the profit and loss account within exXI Items affecting comparability Note 4 change differences on cash and cash equivalents in foreign currenXII Intangible assets Note 5 cies. XIII Property, plant and equipment Note 6 The Group applies hedge accounting for foreign exchange gains XIV Deferred tax Note 7 and losses that relate to borrowings. These foreign exchange gains XV Financial assets Note 8 and losses are presented in the statement of comprehensive income, XVI Impairment of non-current non-financial assets Note 9 see Note 1. XVII. XVII Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Note 10 A monetary item held by a subsidiary, that is a receivable from XVIII Inventories Note 11 Note 12 or a payable to a foreign operation, for which settlement is neither XIX Current income tax Note 13 planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, is in substance XX Cash and cash equivalents Note 14 a part of the entity’s net investment in that foreign operation. Foreign XXI Offsetting financial instruments Note 15 currency differences are initially recognized in other comprehensive XXII Equity Note 16 income and reclassified from equity to the profit and loss account on XXIII Other non-current liabilities Note 17 disposal of the net investment. On disposal of the foreign operation, XXIV Provisions Note 18 the cumulative amount of the exchange differences relating to the XXV Employee benefits Note 19 foreign operation, recognized in other comprehensive income, is XXVI Borrowings Note 20 reclassified from equity to the profit and loss account on the same line XXVII Borrowing costs Note 21 where the gain or loss of the disposal is accounted for. XXVIII Trade payables Note 22 Upon consolidation, exchange differences arising from the transXXIX Leases Note 23 lation of the borrowings and other currency instruments designated Note 24 as hedges of such investments and the net investment in foreign The balance sheet, profit and loss account and cash flow statement Note 25 operations are recognized in other comprehensive income. include references to the notes. Note 26 All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the Note 27 profit and loss account within operating profit. Recognition of revenue and expenses Note 28 I Net sales Note 29 Financial statements of foreign operations Net sales are designated as income from the supply of goods, less Note 30 The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of all group comdiscounts and similar, excluding sales taxes and after elimination of Note 31 panies that have a functional currency other than the presentation intra-group sales. Net sales are recognized as follows: Note 32 currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: • Sales of goods are recognized when a group company has delivered • Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translatproducts to the customer, the risks and rewards of the ownership ed at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; of the products have been substantially transferred to the customer and the collectability of the related receivables is reasonably • Income and expenses for each profit and loss account are translated assured. at average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the For pick & mix sales the following performance obligations have been transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translatidentified in the contracts with customers: ed at the rate on the dates of the transactions; and • Sales of goods; • All resulting exchange differences are recognized in other compre• Utilization of fixtures; hensive income. • Merchandising services. For the performance obligations utilization of fixtures and merchan<< B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 99 WORDS dising services – which are satisfied over time – Cloetta selected Share-based long-term incentive plans an appropriate method for measuring Cloetta’s progress towards The cost of the share-based long-term incentive plans, which repFROM THE complete satisfaction of those performance obligations. For utilizaresent the grant date fair value of the shares expected to be vested, PRESIDENT tion of fixtures and merchandising services, the practical expedient multiplied by the shares vested and any social security expenses, (IFRS 15.B16) is applicable, whereas Cloetta recognizes revenue in is recognized in personnel expenses, which are included either in the amount to which it has a right to invoice. Since delivery of goods cost of goods sold, selling expenses or general and administrative GOALS and merchandising services normally takes place weekly, this output expenses in the profit and loss account. The costs of the share-based AND method best reflects that the measure of progress of the merchandislong-term incentive plans are recognized pro rata over the vesting S T R AT E G I E S ing service as a performance obligation is satisfied at the same time as period of each plan. the goods are delivered. Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded VII Research and development expenses THE CONas a reduction in net sales based on amounts estimated as being due Expenses for research are recognized in the cost of goods sold, FECTIONERY to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally selling expenses and general and administrative expenses in the on historical utilization and redemption rates. profit and loss account as incurred, depending on the nature of the MARKET asset. Expenses incurred on development projects are recognized II Cost of goods sold as intangible assets when it is probable that a project will generate BRAND, Cost of goods sold represents the direct and indirect expenses attribeconomic benefits in the future, in view of its commercial and technoC AT E G O R Y & utable to sales revenue, including raw materials and consumables, logical feasibility, and the costs can be reliably measured. Otherwise PRODUCT DEcost of work contracted out and other external expenses, personnel the expenses on development projects are recognized in the cost of V ELO PM ENT expenses in respect of production employees, depreciation costs, goods sold, selling expenses or general and administrative expenses impairment losses and losses on disposal relating to buildings and in the profit and loss account as incurred, depending on the nature of machinery and other operating expenses that are attributable to the the asset. C L O E T TA’ S production of products. Cost of goods sold is recognized in the profit MAIN and loss account when incurred. VIII Net financial items MARKETS Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies III Other income are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate at the Other income consists of gains on disposal of assets. Gains on disposreporting date. Any resulting exchange differences are recognized in al of assets are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal net financial items. Gains and losses related to the effective portion S U P P LY with the carrying amount and are recognized in other income in the of the net investment hedge are recognized in other comprehensive CHAIN profit and loss account when incurred. income and are not recognized in net financial items. Interest income and interest expenses on third-party borrowings IV Selling expenses are recognized in the profit and loss account when incurred using the E M P L OY E E S Selling expenses comprise the cost of brand support through direct effective interest method. and indirect advertising, promotional activities, the cost of supportUnrealized interest on contingent considerations is recognized ing sales and marketing efforts and amortization and impairment in other financial expenses at amortized costs. Interest income and losses of related intangible assets. The company promotes its prodexpenses on cash and cash equivalents and banking costs are recogucts through advertising, consumer incentives and trade promotions. nized in the profit and loss account when incurred, in other financial Selling expenses are recognized in the profit and loss account when income and expenses at amortized cost. SHARE AND incurred. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on single currency inSHAREterest rate swaps are recognized in other financial income and other HOLDERS V General and administrative expenses financial expenses at fair value. General and administrative expenses include the costs of general management, human resources, finance and administration, IX Income tax FINANCIAL information technology, and other back office services as well as The income tax expense for the period comprises current and dePER FORamortization of software. General and administrative expenses are ferred tax and is recognized in the profit and loss account. Corporate MANCE recognized in the profit and loss account when incurred. income tax is calculated on profit before tax in the profit and loss account, taking into account non-deductible expenses, non-taxVI Employee remuneration able profits and losses and/or temporary differences arising from Regular payments applicable local tax laws and other factors that affect the tax rate, Salaries, wages and social security costs are charged to the personnel e.g. changes in valuation allowances, adjustments in tax positions RISKS expenses, which are included either in cost of goods sold, selling exand changes in tax law, such as changes in enacted or substantively penses or general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss enacted tax rates. account over the period when the related services are rendered, and The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the in accordance with employment contracts and obligations. tax laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date C O R P O R AT E in the countries where the company’s subsidiaries and associates GOVER NANCE Termination benefits operate and generate taxable profits. A provision is recognized on the termination of employees as a result S TAT E M E N T of either an entity’s decision to terminate employment before the X Dividend distribution normal retirement date or an employee’s decision to accept an offer Dividends paid to the company’s shareholders are recognized as a liof benefits in exchange for the termination of employment. When ability in the consolidated financial statements in the period in which FINANCIAL the criteria for recognition of a provision for termination benefits are REPORTS the dividends are resolved on by the company’s shareholders. Divimet, the expenses are recognized either in cost of goods sold, selling dend payments are recognized in equity as part of retained earnings. expenses or general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 100 F inancial reports XI Items affecting comparability employees who are directly associated with, and who devote subItems affecting comparability are those significant items that are stantial time to, the project. Capitalization of these costs ceases no separately disclosed in the notes to the financial statements by virtue later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and of their size or incidence, in order to enable a full understanding of ready for its intended purpose. These costs are amortized over their the Group’s financial performance. Items affecting comparability are expected useful lives on a straight-line basis, with the useful lives recognized in the profit and loss account. Their classification in the reviewed annually. Other software-related costs that do not meet the profit and loss account depends on the nature of the items affecting above criteria for capitalization are recognized either in cost of goods comparability. sold, selling expenses or the general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account when incurred. Development expenses Principles of valuation of assets and liabilities previously recognized in the profit and loss account are not recogGeneral nized as an asset in a subsequent period. If not specifically otherwise stated, assets and liabilities are initially Software under construction is not amortized until the software recognized at the amounts at which they were acquired or incurred. is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Software under construction is subject to impairment testing at least annually XII Intangible assets or whenever events or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. The estimated economic useful lives of intangible assets are specified Amortization of software is recognized in cost of goods sold and as follows: general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. Trademarks Indefinite Goodwill Indefinite Other intangible assets Software 3–5 years Other intangible assets, except the right of free electricity, are capOther intangibles 5 years indefinite italized at historical cost and amortized based on their useful lives, with the useful lives reviewed annually. Other intangible assets are Note 1 subject to impairment testing at least annually, or whenever events or Trademarks Note 2 Acquired trademarks are measured at historical cost. In view of the circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. Note 3 history of Cloetta’s trademark portfolio, combined with Cloetta’s The indefinite right of free electricity acquired is capitalized at Note 4 commitment to continue supporting these trademarks with adveracquisition cost. In view of the indefinite nature of the right, the right Note 5 tising and promotion resources and continuous product developis not amortized, but is subject to impairment testing at least annualNote 6 ment, the useful lives of Cloetta’s trademarks are considered to be ly or whenever events or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. Note 7 indefinite in nature. Trademarks with indefinite useful lives are not For determining whether an impairment charge in respect of any Note 8 amortized, but are subject to impairment testing at least annually or intangible asset applies, see Note 11. Note 9 Note 10 whenever events or circumstances indicate a risk of impairment. Note 11 XIII Property, plant and equipment Note 12 Goodwill Items of property, plant and equipment are valued at historical cost Note 13 Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the less depreciation and impairment. Historical cost includes direct Note 14 excess of the consideration transferred over the Group’s interest in costs (materials, direct labour and work contracted out) and directly Note 15 the net fair value of the net identifiable assets and liabilities assumed attributable overhead costs including interest expenses. DepreciaNote 16 by the acquiree, and the fair value of any non-controlling interest in tion is accounted for using the straight-line method on the basis of Note 17 the acquiree. the estimated economic useful life. Government grants are deducted Note 18 For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a from the historical cost or the construction costs of the assets to Note 19 business combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units which they relate. Note 20 (CGUs), or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the The estimated economic useful lives of property, plant and Note 21 synergies of the combination. Each CGU or group of CGUs to which equipment are specified as follows: Note 22 the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group Land Indefinite Note 23 at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. Buildings 20–50 years Note 24 A CGU is the lowest level to which an asset that generates cash flows Machinery and equipment 3–55 years Note 25 independently from other assets can be allocated. A group of CGUs is PP&E under construction n/a Note 26 not larger than an operating segment. Note 27 Goodwill impairment tests are undertaken annually or more The residual values and useful lives of the assets are reviewed, and Note 28 adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potenNote 29 tial impairment. The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the An asset’s carrying amount is immediately written down to its Note 30 recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its Note 31 less cost of disposal. Any impairment is recognized immediately as estimated recoverable amount. Note 32 an expense and is not subsequently reversed. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds from the disposal with the carrying amount and are Software recognized in the profit and loss account. The classification in the Where computer software is not an integral part or a related item of profit and loss account depends on the nature of the gains or losses on computer hardware and not integral to the operation of an item of the disposal. property, plant and equipment, the software is treated as a separate Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of an intangible asset. asset or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is Acquired software licenses are capitalized at historical cost and probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be reliably measured. 3 to 5 years. All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the profit and Capitalized costs for internally generated software include exloss account when incurred. The classification in the profit and loss ternal direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing account depends on the nature of the property, plant and equipment. or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for Subsidies and grants related to investments in property, plant << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 101 WORDS and equipment are deducted from the related asset and are reflected or financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus, for an in the profit and loss account as part of the depreciation charge. item not at fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL), transaction FROM THE Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is recognized in costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issue. A trade PRESIDENT cost of goods sold, selling expenses and general and administrative receivable without a significant financing component is initially expenses in the profit and loss account depending on the nature of the measured at the transaction price. asset. The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual GOALS rights to the cash flows from the asset are realized, expire, or the comAND XIV Deferred tax pany has relinquished the right to receive the contractual cash flows S T R AT E G I E S The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of Tax is recognized in the profit and loss account, except to the extent ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in such that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is THE CONor directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other recognized as a separate asset or liability. FECTIONERY comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary differences at either: MARKET arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their • Amortized cost, carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. However, BRAND, • Fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) – debt deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial investment, C AT E G O R Y & recognition of goodwill. Deferred income tax is not accounted for if it PRODUCT DEarises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction • FVOCI – equity investment, or V ELO PM ENT other than a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, • FVTPL. affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recC L O E T TA’ S or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected ognition unless the Group changes its business model for managing MAIN to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized, or the financial assets, in which case all affected financial assets are reclasMARKETS deferred income tax liability is settled. sified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change Deferred income tax assets are recognized for unused tax losses in the business model. and deductible temporary differences, only to the extent that it is A financial asset is measured at amortized cost if it meets both of probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: S U P P LY • it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to they can be used. CHAIN collect contractual cash flows; and Deferred income tax assets are recognized on deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, associates • its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows and joint arrangements only to the extent that it is probable the that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal E M P L OY E E S temporary difference will reverse in the future, and there is sufficient amount outstanding. taxable profit available against which the temporary difference can The Group’s recognized financial assets, that are not derivatives, be utilized. consist mainly of trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents, Deferred income tax liabilities arise on taxable temporary difand to a minor extent of other receivables and accrued income. All ferences arising from investments in subsidiaries, with the exception these non-derivative financial assets meet the above criteria and are of deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of SHARE AND recognized at amortized cost. the temporary difference is controlled by the Group, and it is probable SHAREThe Group does not presently own any financial assets recogthat the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable nized at FVOCI – neither debt nor equity investments. All financial HOLDERS future. assets not classified as measured at amortized cost or FVOCI as For the unrecognized deductible temporary differences and tax described above are measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative losses carried forward, it is not yet probable that these may be utilized financial assets, see Note 21. FINANCIAL against future taxable profits or set off against other tax liabilities PER FORwithin the same tax group or tax jurisdiction. Subsequent measurement and gains and losses MANCE Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is – Financial assets at These assets are subsequently measa legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current FVTPL ured at fair value. Net gains and losses, tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities including any interest or dividend income, are recognized in profit or loss. However, relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either see Note 21 for derivatives designated as RISKS the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an hedging instruments. intention to settle the balances on a net basis. – Financial assets at These assets are subsequently measured The positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations amortized costs at amortized cost using the effective where the applicable tax rules are subject to interpretation are interest method. The amortized cost is C O R P O R AT E reduced by impairment losses. Interest inperiodically evaluated. Provisions are established where appropriate come, foreign exchange gains and losses GOVER NANCE on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the respective tax and impairment are recognized in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is authorities. recognized in profit or loss. Deferred taxes are not discounted. S TAT E M E N T Impairment of financial assets XV Financial assets Trade and other receivables are initially recognized at fair value Recognition and initial measurement and are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective FINANCIAL Trade receivables and debt securities issued are initially recognized REPORTS interest method less provisions for impairment. Loss allowances when they are originated. All other financial assets and financial for trade receivables are always measured at an amount equal to liabilities are initially recognized when the Group becomes a party to lifetime expected credit losses (ECLs). Lifetime ECLs are the ECLs the contractual provisions of the instrument. A financial asset (unless that result from all possible default events over the expected life of it is a trade receivable without a significant financing component) a financial instrument. Apart from trade and other receivables, the S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 102 F inancial reports only financial assets to which the impairment principles apply are transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash and cash equivalents. These amounts are invested in banks with cash flows of hedged items. high credit ratings and ECLs are deemed to be negligible. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive XVI Impairment of non-current non-financial assets income and accumulated in the translation reserve. The gain or loss Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amorrelating to the ineffective portion is recognized in the profit and loss tization but are tested annually for impairment. On the balance account within exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents sheet date, the Group also assesses whether there are indications of in foreign currencies. When the hedged net investment is disposed impairment of assets that are subject to amortization or depreciation. of, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to If such indications exist, an impairment test is performed. For the the profit and loss account as part of the gain or loss on disposals and purpose of testing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels recognized in the profit and loss account on the same line where the for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generatgain or loss of the disposal is accounted for. The Group has met the ing units). An asset is subject to impairment if its carrying value is requirement for applying net investment hedge accounting. higher than its recoverable value, where the recoverable value is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost of disposal and its value in use. XVIII Inventories Impairment costs are recognized immediately in the profit and loss Raw materials are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. account. The classification in the profit and loss account depends on Cost is determined using the FIFO method. the nature of the impaired asset. Inventories of semi-finished and finished products are stated Non-financial assets other than goodwill that are subject to an at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Costs represent the cash impairment loss are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment equivalent of the expenditure necessarily incurred to bring the goods at each reporting date. If it is established that a previously recogacquired to the condition and location for their intended use. Costs in nized impairment no longer applies or has decreased, the increased respect of work in progress and finished goods include the applicable Note 1 carrying amount of the asset in question is not set higher than what materials and labour costs, other direct costs, a representative share Note 2 the carrying amount would have been if the impairment had not been of the fixed manufacturing overhead costs based on normal operating Note 3 recognized. See Note 1.XII for impairment testing on goodwill. capacity, and variable manufacturing overhead costs based on actual Note 4 production during the period. Note 5 XVII Derivative financial instruments and hedging Net realizable value represents the estimated selling price in Note 6 activities the ordinary course of business less directly attributable, applicable Note 7 Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivvariable selling expenses and less costs of completion of inventory. Note 8 ative contract is entered into, and they are subsequently remeasured The write-downs, additions and releases related to the provision Note 9 at their fair value. The method of recognizing gains or losses depends for obsolete inventory are recognized in cost of goods sold in the Note 10 on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, profit and loss account. Note 11 Note 12 and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. The forward contracts Note 13 to repurchase own shares, interest rate swaps and forward foreign XIX Current income tax Note 14 currency contracts are not designated as hedging instruments. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax Note 15 The fair values of various derivative financial instruments are laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in Note 16 disclosed in Note 21. Movements in the hedging reserve in other the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operate and Note 17 comprehensive income are shown in the statement of other comgenerate taxable income. Note 18 prehensive income. The fair value of a derivative is classified as a Note 19 non-current asset or liability for the part which exceeds 12 months, XX Cash and cash equivalents Note 20 and as a current asset or liability for the part that will expire within Cash and cash equivalents represent cash in hand and cash at banks. Note 21 12 months. Current account overdrafts at banks are included under borrowNote 22 The fair value adjustment on interest rate swaps is recognized ings under the heading current liabilities. Note 23 in unrealized gains or losses on single currency interest rate swaps Note 24 in net financial items in the profit and loss account. The fair value XXI Offsetting financial instruments Note 25 adjustment on the forward foreign currency contracts is recognized The Group has a Multicurrency Functionality with Credit Facility Note 26 in the profit and loss account. The classification in the profit and loss for Global Cash Pool (Global Cash Pool agreement) with Nordea Note 27 account depends on the nature of the hedged item. Bank AB (publ), a Notional Group Account with Svenska HandelsNote 28 The contractual payments on single currency interest rate swaps banken AB (publ) and a multicurrency zero-balancing cash pool Note 29 are recognized in the realized gains or losses on single currency with Danske Bank A/S. If the following criteria are met, the cash and Note 30 interest rate swaps in the net financial items in the profit and loss cash equivalents of participating group companies and the current Note 31 account. account overdrafts at Nordea Bank AB (publ), Svenska HandelsNote 32 The forward contracts to repurchase own shares are settled via banken AB (publ) and Danske Bank A/S are offset and presented in shares for cash. Interest on the forward contracts to repurchase own the balance sheet as a net amount: shares is accrued over the contract period and settled in cash on the • There is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized settlement date. amounts; and • There is an intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and Net investment hedge settle the liability simultaneously. The Group applies hedge accounting. At the inception of the transaction, the Group documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objecXXII Equity tives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions. The Ordinary shares are classified as share capital. Incremental costs Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on directly attributable to the purchase, sale and/or issue of new shares an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 103 WORDS XXIII Other non-current liabilities ny-specific or reliable information, are accounted for as though they Contingent considerations are defined contribution schemes. In the event of a deficit in these FROM THE The fair value of the contingent considerations is calculated using the pension funds, the company has no obligation to provide supplemenPRESIDENT income approach and is linked to the performance of the acquired tary contributions, other than higher future contributions. companies. As part of accounting for business combinations, conThe contributions are recognized as personnel costs, which are tingent considerations are initially recognized. Contingent considincluded either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses or general and GOALS erations are discounted using the effective interest method. If the administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. Prepaid conAND fair value of contingent considerations deviates from the carrying tributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund S T R AT E G I E S amount, the difference is recognized in general and administrative or a reduction in the future payments is available to the Group. expenses in the profit and loss account. If the contingent consideration will be settled within 12 months Termination benefits THE CONfrom the balance sheet date, the contingent consideration is presentTermination benefits are payable when employment is terminated FECTIONERY ed as part of trade and other payables. before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for special compensation. A MARKET XXIV Provisions provision is recognized on the termination of employees as a result Provisions are recognized for legally enforceable or constructive of either an entity’s decision to terminate employment before the BRAND, obligations existing on the balance sheet date, when it is probable that normal retirement date or an employee’s decision to accept an offer of C AT E G O R Y & an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and benefits in exchange for the termination of employment. The expensPRODUCT DEthe amount has been reliably estimated. es related to this provision are recognized in personnel expenses, V ELO PM ENT Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood which are included either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses or that an outflow will be required for settlement is determined by congeneral and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account. sidering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized C L O E T TA’ S even if the likelihood of an outflow, with respect to any item included Share-based payments MAIN in the same class of obligations, is small. Share-based long-term incentive plans MARKETS The initial recognition, subsequent additions and releases to a The incentive plans qualify as equity-settled share-based payments. provision are recognized in the profit and loss account. The classiThe expenses for the plans will amount to the grant date fair value fication in the profit and loss account depends on the nature of the per share right times the number of share rights vested, including provision. any accelerated vesting. The expenses are recognized as personnel S U P P LY Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditure expenses, which are included either in cost of goods sold, selling CHAIN expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate expenses and general and administrative expenses in the profit and that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money loss account. and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision The total expense depends on the number of share rights vested, E M P L OY E E S due to passage of time is recognized as other financial expenses, third but any changes in the price of the Cloetta share after the grant date parties in the profit and loss account. do not impact the total expense. In some jurisdictions, social security If the expenditure to settle an obligation is expected to be expenses have to be paid. The total expense for social security conrecovered from a third party, the recovery is carried as an asset in the tributions will be based on the vesting date fair value of the Cloetta balance sheet if it is virtually certain to be received upon settlement share and is accrued on the balance sheet until vesting of the shares. of the obligation. Social security expenses recognized in the profit and loss account SHARE AND will therefore vary with changes in the share price. SHAREXXV Employee benefits HOLDERS Pension obligations Forward contracts to repurchase own shares The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of defined At inception of the forward contract to repurchase own shares, the benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit agreed consideration to be paid at the termination date, net of any tax FINANCIAL obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of effects, is recognized as a deduction from equity and as a financial liaPER FORplan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually bility. The interest costs directly attributable to the forward contract MANCE by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. are recognized in the net financial expenses in the profit and loss The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by account when incurred. At the termination date, the agreed considerdiscounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of ation will be paid and the financial liability will be derecognized as its high-quality corporate bonds for all countries in the Eurozone. For contractual obligation is discharged and cancelled. the Swedish plans, the discount rate is based on mortgage bonds. For RISKS the Norwegian pension plans, the market yield of covered bonds is XXVI Borrowings used. The rates of these bonds are used as equivalent to high-quality Borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, being the amount corporate bond rates in countries where there is no deep market in received taking into account any premium or discount, and less such bonds. transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans also include cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset and the redemption value is recognized in the profit and loss account ceiling, if any, excluding interest. Remeasurements are recognized over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method. S TAT E M E N T in other comprehensive income when incurred. All other expenses Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group related to defined benefit plans are recognized in the profit and loss has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at account when incurred, either in cost of goods sold, selling expenses least 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are FINANCIAL classified as non-current liabilities. REPORTS or general and administrative expenses. The interest on defined benefit obligations is recognized in net A financial liability is derecognized when its contractual obligafinancial items in the profit and loss account when incurred. tions are discharged, cancelled or expired. The defined benefit schemes in industry sector pension funds, Transaction costs paid on the establishment of credit facilities which are held by pension funds that are not able to provide compaare recognized to the extent that it is probable that some or all of S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 104 F inancial reports the facility will be utilized. In such case, the transaction costs are justed for inflation, country risk premium, security and lease specific recognized when the utilization occurs. If it is probable that some or adjustments for different asset categories and lease terms. The lease all of the facility will be utilized, the transaction costs are reported as liability is subsequently increased by the interest cost on the lease lideferred expense and netted against current borrowings and amorability and decreased by lease payments made. It is remeasured when tized over the contract period the facility relates to, using the effective there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an interest rate method. index or rate, a change in the estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or as appropriate, changes XXVII Borrowing costs in the assessment of whether a purchase or extension option is reaGeneral and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the sonably certain to be exercised or a termination option is reasonably acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which certain not to be exercised. are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those Policy applicable before 1 January 2019 assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their Lease contracts for which a significant part of the risks and rewards intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs are recognized in incidental to ownership of the assets does not lie with the Group are other financial expenses in the profit and loss account in the period in recognized as operating leases. Payments made under operating leaswhich they are incurred. es are recognized in the cost of goods sold, selling expenses and in the general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account on XXVIII Trade payables a straight-line basis over the term of the contract, taking into account Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have reimbursements received from the lessor. been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is See Notes 29 and 31 for further information on the transition from due within one year or less. If payment is expected to be settled later IAS 17 to IFRS 16 as per 1 January 2019. Note 1 than 12 months after the balance sheet date, the payable is presented Note 2 as non-current liabilities. Note 3 Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and are Note 4 subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest Note 2 Breakdown of income Note 5 method. Note 6 See Notes 1 (I) and (III) for the accounting policy. Note 7 XXIX Leases Note 8 Disaggregation of revenue from contracts Policy applicable from 1 January 2019 Note 9 with customers IFRS 16 “Leases” was issued in January 2016 and supersedes IAS Note 10 Cloetta generates revenues from the transfer of goods and services at 17 “Leases”. It results in almost all leases being recognized on the Note 11 a point in time and over time in the following major sales categories Note 12 balance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance and performance obligations. Note 13 leases has been removed. Under the new standard, an asset (the right Note 14 to use the leased item) and a lease liability to pay rentals are to be Note 15 recognized. The only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases. SEKm 2019 2018 Note 16 Lease payments for short-term and low-value leases are recognized Net sales Note 17 in the cost of goods sold, selling expenses and in the general and Packaged business 4,709 4,499 Note 18 administrative expenses, depending on the nature of the lease, on a Pick & mix 1,784 1,719 Note 19 straight-line basis over the lease term. Total 6,493 6,218 Note 20 The standard is mandatory for financial years commencing on Note 21 or after 1 January 2019. The standard affects the accounting for the The breakdown of net sales by category is as follows: Note 22 Group’s operating leases. Cloetta decided to opt for the modified Note 23 retrospective transition approach in which the right-of-use asset Total income Of which pick & mix Note 24 equals the lease liability per the transition date. For the calculation of SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note 25 the lease liability at 1 January 2019 the discount rates as at 1 January Net sales Note 26 2019 were used. Note 27 Sales of goods The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at Note 28 Candy 3,839 3,623 1,339 1,277 the commencement date of a lease contract. The right-of-use asset is Note 29 Chocolate 1,123 1,098 370 361 initially measured at cost, comprising the amount of the initial measNote 30 Pastilles 780 748 – – urement of the lease liability, any lease payments made at or before Note 31 Chewing gum 410 403 – – the commencement date less any lease incentives received, any initial Note 32 Nuts 224 231 75 81 direct costs and restoration costs, and is subsequently measured at Other 117 115 – – cost less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses and Total 6,493 6,218 1,784 1,719 adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The Group has elected not to separate lease and non-lease components and instead Other income accounts for these as a single lease component. Other – 4 – – The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of Total 6,493 6,222 1,784 1,719 the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. The Group determines the incremental borrowing rate using a build-up approach that starts with a risk-free interest rate, ad<< B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 105 WORDS The breakdown of net sales by country is as follows: Note 4 Expenses by type FROM THE % 2019 2018 PRESIDENT Sweden 31 31 See Notes 1 (II), (IV), (V), (VI) and (VII) for the accounting policy. Finland 21 21 The Netherlands 14 14 GOALS Denmark 10 9 SEKm 2019 2018 AND UK 7 7 Raw materials and consumables used 2,539 2,680 S T R AT E G I E S Germany 6 5 including change in inventory of finished goods and work in progress Norway 5 6 Personnel expenses (See Note 5) 1,440 1,331 Other countries 6 7 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 303 230 THE CONTotal 100 100 charges (See Note 3) Transportation expenses 236 200 FECTIONERY MARKET No individual customer accounts for more than 10 per cent of Lease payments 22 88 Cloetta’s total net sales. Advertising, promotion, selling and marketing expenses 407 397 Energy expenses 127 110 BRAND, Maintenance expenses 133 113 C AT E G O R Y & Amortization of intangible assets, Other operating expenses 559 413 PRODUCT DENote 3 depreciation of property, plant and equipTotal operating expenses 5,766 5,562 V ELO PM ENT ment and impairments of non-current assets The costs recognized relating to research and development amount C L O E T TA’ S See Notes 1 (II), (IV), (V), (XII), (XIII) and (XVI) for the accounting to SEK 35m (22). policy. MAIN MARKETS SEKm 2019 2018 Personnel expenses Software 32 34 Note 5 and number of employees Other intangibles 11 12 S U P P LY Land and buildings 17 16 See Note 1 (VI) for the accounting policy. CHAIN Machinery and equipment 165 168 Right-of-use assets 76 – Personnel expenses are specified as follows: E M P L OY E E S Total amortization/depreciation 301 230 SEKm 2019 2018 Salaries and remuneration Amortization/depreciation has been Group Management Team allocated by function as follows: – Sweden 28 22 Cost of goods sold 187 136 – Other 22 21 Selling expenses 11 12 Of which, short-term variable compensation General and administrative expenses 103 82 SHARE AND – Sweden 9 1 Total amortization/depreciation 301 230 – Other 5 1 SHAREHOLDERS Impairment Pension costs Group Management Team Intangible assets 2 – – Defined contribution plans 7 8 Total impairment 2 – Total salaries, remuneration and 57 51 FINANCIAL pension costs Group Management Team PER FORDepreciation charge right-of-use assets by MANCE asset category: Salaries and remuneration, Land and buildings 34 – other employees Transport 31 – – Sweden 305 277 Other equipment 11 – – Other 683 611 Total depreciation charge 76 – RISKS right-of-use asset Pension costs, other employees – Defined contribution plans 65 67 The impairment losses on intangible assets have been charged to cost – Defined benefit plans 7 8 C O R P O R AT E of goods sold. Total salaries, remuneration 1,060 963 GOVER NANCE and pension costs, other employees Total salaries, remuneration and pension 1,117 1,014 S TAT E M E N T costs, all employees Social security expenses, all employees 255 230 Other personnel costs, all employees 68 87 FINANCIAL Total personnel expenses 1,440 1,331 REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 106 F inancial reports The average number of employees is as follows: Note 6 Remuneration of the Board Average number of employees 2019 2018 – Group Management Team 12 12 Paid fees 2019 Board Commit– Other employees 2,617 2,446 SEK 000s fees tee fees Total Of whom, women – Group Management Team 2 2 Board Chairman – Other employees 1,431 1,317 Lilian Fossum Biner 663 100 763 The average number of employees by country is as follows: Board members Mikael Aru 305 100 405 Average number of employees 2019 2018 Patrick Bergander 1 210 100 310 Sweden 715 614 Lottie Knutson 305 100 405 Slovakia 757 736 Alan McLean Raleigh 305 – 305 The Netherlands 474 423 Mikael Norman 2 95 50 145 Finland 220 193 Camilla Svenfelt 305 100 405 UK 121 127 Mikael Svenfelt 305 150 455 Belgium 111 119 Total 2,493 700 3,193 Denmark 99 92 Ireland 74 76 Norway 40 59 Paid fees 2018 Board CommitGermany 10 9 SEK 000s fees tee fees Total Italy 4 7 Board Chairman Note 1 Other 4 3 Lilian Fossum Biner 620 100 720 Note 2 Total 2,629 2,458 Note 3 Board members Note 4 Of whom, women: Mikael Aru 285 67 352 Note 5 Sweden 388 323 Lottie Knutson 285 100 385 Note 6 Note 7 Slovakia 495 489 Alan McLean Raleigh 3 190 – 190 Note 8 The Netherlands 158 133 Mikael Norman 285 133 418 Note 9 Finland 181 154 Adriaan Nühn 4 95 – 95 Note 10 UK 83 85 Camilla Svenfelt 285 100 385 Note 11 Belgium 20 23 Mikael Svenfelt 285 133 418 Note 12 Denmark 51 45 Total 2,330 633 2,963 Note 13 Ireland 27 28 Note 14 Norway 21 28 1) Elected as per 4 April 2019. Note 15 2) Resigned on 4 April 2019. Germany 5 4 3) Elected as per 16 April 2018. Note 16 Italy 2 4 4) Resigned on 16 April 2018. Note 17 Other 2 3 Note 18 Total 1,433 1,319 Note 19 Note 20 Note 7 Items affecting comparability The specification of the gender distribution is as follows: Note 21 Note 22 % 2019 2018 See Note 1 (XI) for the accounting policy. Note 23 Percentage of women Note 24 Board of Directors 43 43 Note 25 SEKm 2019 2018 Group Management Team 17 13 Note 26 Acquisitions, integration and restructurings –13 –38 Other employees 55 54 Note 27 Remeasurements of – 21 Note 28 contingent considerations Note 29 See pages 82–83 for further details on remuneration of the Group Other items affecting comparability –3 0 Note 30 Management Team. Total –16 –17 Note 31 Note 32 Corresponding line in the consolidated profit and loss account: Net sales – 0 Cost of goods sold 2 3 Other income – 4 Selling expenses –6 –1 General and administrative expenses –12 –23 Total –16 –17 See pages 148–149 for alternative performance measures. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 107 WORDS The difference between the effective tax rate and the applicable tax Note 8 Net financial items rate in Sweden is attributable to the following items: FROM THE SEKm 2019 2018 PRESIDENT See Note 1 (VIII) and (XVII) for the accounting policy. Profit before tax 648 562 GOALS SEKm 2019 2018 Tax calculated at applicable tax rate for the Parent Company –139 –124 AND Exchange differences in cash and cash –19 –16 International rate differences –4 –1 S T R AT E G I E S equivalents in foreign currencies State and local taxes 0 – Other financial income, third parties 2 5 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes –10 –14 Other financial income at amortized cost 2 5 Adjustments recognized in the period for tax THE CONof prior periods 5 9 Effect of (substantially) enacted tax rate FECTIONERY Unrealized gains on 0 – changes –3 57 single currency interest rate swaps MARKET Tax losses for which no deferred income tax Other financial income at fair value 0 – asset is recognized in the current year – – Tax losses for which no deferred income tax BRAND, Total other financial income 2 5 asset was recognized in previous years 3 –12 C AT E G O R Y & Other –2 6 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings –24 –27 PRODUCT DEIncome tax –150 –79 Interest expenses, third-party pensions –11 –10 V ELO PM ENT Interest expenses, –4 –25 contingent earn-out liabilities Reported effective tax rate, % 23.1 14.1 Tax rate of Parent Company, % 21.4 22.0 C L O E T TA’ S Amortization of capitalised transaction costs –1 –8 Other financial expenses, third parties –16 –11 MAIN Other financial expenses The applicable tax rate for the Parent Company is based on the enactMARKETS at amortized cost –56 –81 ed tax rate, which is the Swedish corporate income tax rate. The reported effective tax rate is based on the relative proportion Unrealized losses on single currency interest of the group companies’ contribution to profit before tax and the rate swaps –1 –2 S U P P LY applicable tax regulations in the countries concerned. Realized losses on single currency interest CHAIN rate swaps –5 –4 Other financial expenses at fair value –6 –6 Total other financial expenses –62 –87 Note 10 Audit fees1 E M P L OY E E S Net financial items –79 –98 2019 2018 SEKm PwC KPMG Fee for auditing services 6 5 Note 9 Income taxes SHARE AND Fee for other services See Note 1 (IX) for the accounting policy. – Tax advice 0 0 SHARE– Audit-related advice 0 0 HOLDERS SEKm 2019 2018 – Other 0 1 Total other services 0 1 Current income tax 85 33 FINANCIAL Deferred income tax 65 46 Total audit fees 6 6 PER FORTotal 150 79 1) U ntil 2018 KPMG was elected as group auditor. As of 2019 PwC has been MANCE The year’s income tax expense corresponds elected as group auditor. to an effective tax rate of, % 23.1 14.1 Auditing services refer to the audit of the consolidated financial RISKS statements, the Parent Company’s statutory financial statements, the statutory financial statements of its subsidiaries, the accounts and the company’s administration by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO. C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 108 F inancial reports Note 11 Intangible assets See Notes 1 (XII) and (XVI) for the accounting policy. Other SEKm Trademarks Goodwill Software intangibles Total 1 January 2018 Acquisition or production costs 3,098 2,484 276 184 6,042 Accumulated amortization and impairments –53 –223 –206 –70 –552 Book value at 1 January 2018 3,045 2,261 70 114 5,490 Movements in 2018 Additions – – 23 – 23 Amortization – – –34 –12 –46 Acquisitions through business combinations – 6 – – 6 Exchange differences 62 86 4 1 153 Total 62 92 –7 –11 136 31 December 2018 Acquisition or production costs 3,160 2,586 291 158 6,195 Note 1 Accumulated amortization and impairments –53 –233 –228 –55 –569 Note 2 Book value at 31 December 2018 3,107 2,353 63 103 5,626 Note 3 Note 4 Movements in 2019 Note 5 Additions – – 19 – 19 Note 6 Amortization – – –32 –11 –43 Note 7 Impairments – – – –2 –2 Note 8 Transfers from property, plant and equipment – – 1 – 1 Note 9 Exchange differences 33 47 2 1 83 Note 10 Total 33 47 –10 –12 58 Note 11 Note 12 Note 13 31 December 2019 Note 14 Acquisition or production costs 3,198 2,638 315 136 6,287 Note 15 Accumulated amortization and impairments –58 –238 –262 –45 –603 Note 16 Book value at 31 December 2019 3,140 2,400 53 91 5,684 Note 17 Note 18 Estimated economic useful life Indefinite Indefinite 3–5 years 5 years – Note 19 indefinite Note 20 Note 21 Note 22 The carrying amount of software includes an amount of SEK 10m The most important assumptions in the calculations are the Note 23 (10) for software under construction. terminal growth rate and the pre-tax discount rate. EBITDA is Note 24 The other intangibles consist mainly of capitalized customer lists a key assumption when establishing the financial budgets. These Note 25 and benefits related to the right to free electricity. assumptions reflect, and do not differ from, prior experience and Note 26 external information sources. EBITDA is determined in the annual Note 27 Impairment testing of goodwill and trademarks budget process. The terminal growth rate is determined by assuming Note 28 Goodwill and trademarks do not generate cash inflows that are that the business will grow in line with consumer prices/inflation Note 29 largely independent of those from other assets. These are therefore based on central bank forecasts or similar unless otherwise stated. Note 30 allocated to the cash-generating unit (CGU) or group of CGUs Discount rates have been determined by applying the capital asset Note 31 pricing model. The terminal growth rate is in line with the Group’s expected to benefit most from these assets. A CGU is the lowest Note 32 level to which an asset that generates cash flows independently from long-term goal for organic growth and the management’s judgement. other assets can be allocated. A group of CGUs is not larger than an These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each CGU operating segment. and group of CGUs in the impairment analysis. The budgeted figures The estimated recoverable amount of all CGUs and groups of are based on past performance and management’s expectations for CGUs has been determined based on value-in-use calculations. market development. The weighted average growth rates used are These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on financonsistent with the forecasts used in the Group. The discount rates cial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period, used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant taking into account asset specific risks. Cash flows beyond the threeindustry and the risk particularly associated with the asset for which year period are extrapolated using a terminal growth rate. the estimates of the future cash flows have not been adjusted. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 109 WORDS For impairment testing, the following assumptions have been used FROM THE Terminal growth rate Pre-tax discount rate PRESIDENT % 2019 2018 2019 2018 Scandinavia/ 2.5 2.0 6.0 6.7 Sweden GOALS AND Finland 2.5 2.0 8.0 6.9 Middle/ 2.5 2.0 7.6 6.9 The Netherlands S T R AT E G I E S Group 2.5 2.0 5.5 6.8 THE CONGoodwill Goodwill is allocated to a CGU or group of CGUs not larger than an FECTIONERY operating segment. The allocation has been made to the groups of MARKET CGUs that correspond to the operating segments that are expected to benefit most, which are the commercial organizations of ScandinaBRAND, via, Finland and Middle. C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEThe following summary specifies the allocation of goodwill to the different groups of V ELO PM ENT cash-generating units SEKm Scandinavia Finland Middle Total C L O E T TA’ S 1 January 2018 937 1,008 316 2,261 MAIN Business combinations 6 – – 6 MARKETS Exchange rate differences 36 39 11 86 31 December 2018 979 1,047 327 2,353 S U P P LY CHAIN Exchange rate differences 6 24 17 47 31 December 2019 985 1,071 344 2,400 E M P L OY E E S Trademarks For trademarks, the related CGUs are the commercial organizations of the countries that own the respective trademarks. The products are mainly sold in the countries owning the trademarks. If products are sold by group companies in other countries, the trademark owner SHARE AND charges royalty fees to the selling party. SHAREThe following summary specifies the allocation of trademarks to the different cash-generating units HOLDERS Other The (corporate SEKm Sweden Finland Netherlands assets) Total FINANCIAL 1 January 2018 1,545 509 930 61 3,045 PER FORMANCE Exchange rate differences – 21 39 2 62 31 December 2018 1,545 530 969 63 3,107 RISKS Exchange rate differences – 11 21 1 33 31 December 2019 1,545 541 990 64 3,140 The key assumptions underlying the cash flow projections for the Corporate assets period covered by recent forecasts are included in the table below C O R P O R AT E Group-wide assets and liabilities, including the right of free electriciKey assumption used in Basis for determining value assigned ty and software under construction, that cannot be directly allocated GOVER NANCE value in use calculation to key assumption on a reasonable and consistent basis to the CGUs or groups of CGUs S TAT E M E N T are classified as corporate assets. A group impairment analysis has EBITDA External market studies on growth of market, historical growth rates in the been performed in which the carrying amount of the total group of period before the recession etc. CGUs, including the portion of the carrying amount representing FINANCIAL the Group’s corporate assets, is compared with the total recoverable Impairment of goodwill and trademarks REPORTS amount. An impairment analysis has been performed in which the carrying amount of a CGU or group of CGUs is compared with the total recoverable amount. No impairments have been recorded in the financial S U S TA I N years 2018 and 2019. ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 110 F inancial reports Note 12 Property, plant and equipment See Notes 1 (XIII) and (XVI) for the accounting policy. Land and Machinery and Assets under Right-of-use SEKm buildings equipment construction assets Total 1 January 2018 Acquisition or production costs 754 3,426 27 – 4,207 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –337 –2,532 – – –2,869 Book value at 1 January 2018 417 894 27 – 1,338 Movements in 2018 Additions – 27 134 – 161 Transfers 10 107 –117 – – Depreciation –16 –168 – – –184 Exchange differences 13 26 –1 – 38 Total 7 –7 16 – 16 31 December 2018 Acquisition or production costs 790 3,640 43 – 4,473 Note 1 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –366 –2,753 – – –3,119 Note 2 Book value at 31 December 2018 424 887 43 – 1,354 Note 3 Note 4 Movements in 2019 Note 5 Initial application of IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019 – – – 229 229 Note 6 Additions – 26 141 49 216 Note 7 Disposals – –1 –1 –1 –3 Note 8 Early terminations right-of-use assets – – – –1 –1 Note 9 Transfers 8 95 –103 – – Note 10 Depreciation – –1 – – –1 Note 11 Impairments –17 –165 – –76 –258 Note 12 Exchange differences 8 12 0 3 23 Note 13 Note 14 Total –1 –34 37 203 205 Note 15 Note 16 31 December 2019 Note 17 Acquisition or production costs 813 3,751 80 266 4,910 Note 18 Accumulated depreciation and impairments –390 –2,898 – –63 –3,351 Note 19 Book value at 31 December 2019 423 853 80 203 1,559 Note 20 Note 21 Buildings: Estimated economic useful life 3–55 years N/A 1–12 years Note 22 20–50 years Note 23 Land: Indefinite Note 24 Note 25 At 31 December 2019, the Group had contractual commitments for The estimated economic useful lives of machinery and equipment can Note 26 be further specified as follows: purchases of machinery and equipment for an amount of SEK 37m Note 27 (30). Estimated economic useful life Note 28 Note 29 Production lines 5–35 years Right-of-use assets are broken down as follows: Note 30 Packaging lines 5–25 years Note 31 31 Dec Production equipment 5–55 years Note 32 SEKm 2019 IT hardware 3–5 years Land and buildings 113 Fixtures 5 years Transport 56 Furniture 5–10 years Other equipment 34 Production vehicles 7–15 years Total 203 Vehicles 5 years Other 5–10 years << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 111 WORDS The breakdown of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets by country is as follows: FROM THE 31 Dec 31 Dec PRESIDENT SEKm 2019 2018 Sweden 2,998 2,757 Finland 1,642 1,603 GOALS The Netherlands 1,658 1,567 AND Other countries 945 1,053 S T R AT E G I E S Total 7,243 6,980 THE CONFECTIONERY Note 13 Tax assets and liabilities MARKET See Notes 1 (IX) and (XIV) for the accounting policy. tax effect of the difference between the tax base of the defined asset BRAND, or liability and its carrying amount and the recognized tax losses C AT E G O R Y & Deferred tax assets and liabilities refer, among other things, to the carried forward. PRODUCT DEMovements of deferred tax assets and liabilities per category are specified as follows: V ELO PM ENT Tax losses Property Provisions carried plant & Intangible (incl. Other assets C L O E T TA’ S SEKm forward equipment assets pensions) and liabilities Total MAIN 1 January 2018 100 –103 –662 34 –52 –683 Profit and loss account (charge)/credit for the –40 –5 4 0 –64 –105 MARKETS year Adjustments recognized in the period for tax –19 1 27 0 0 9 of prior periods Effect of rate changes –1 7 53 –2 0 57 S U P P LY Exchange differences/ Other 4 –3 –23 9 –3 –16 CHAIN 31 December 2018 44 –103 –601 41 –119 –738 Initial adoption of IFRS 16 – –50 – – 50 – E M P L OY E E S 1 January 2019 44 –153 –601 41 –69 –738 Profit and loss account (charge)/credit for the –17 11 –13 –3 –20 –42 year Adjustments recognized in the period for tax –5 –1 0 0 0 –6 of prior periods Effect of rate changes –2 –1 –10 0 0 –13 Exchange differences/ Other 1 –2 –8 17 –3 5 SHARE AND 31 December 2019 21 –146 –632 55 –92 –794 SHAREHOLDERS The composition of deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differFINANCIAL PER FORDeferred tax assets and liabilities are broken down as follows: ences and tax losses carried forward is as follows: 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 MANCE SEKm 2019 2018 RecogNot recRecogNot recDeferred tax assets 9 16 SEKm nized ognized nized ognized Deferred tax liabilities –803 –754 Deductible 115 – 107 – RISKS Total –794 –738 temporary differences Deferred tax assets are expected to be realized as follows: Tax losses 21 28 45 51 carried forward 31 Dec 31 Dec C O R P O R AT E Total 136 28 152 51 SEKm 2019 2018 Deferred tax asset to be realized 8 14 In the countries where Cloetta has tax losses carried forward these GOVER NANCE after more than 12 months S TAT E M E N T Deferred tax asset to be realized 1 2 may be carried forward indefinitely. within 12 months Total 9 16 FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 112 F inancial reports Deferred tax liabilities The deferred tax liability is recognized to account for the taxable Note 15 Inventories temporary differences between the tax bases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, work in progress, inventories, receivSee Note 1 (XVIII) for the accounting policy. ables and provisions and their carrying amounts. Inventories for own use and resale 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Deferred tax liability to be recovered 793 760 Raw materials and consumables 282 250 after more than 12 months Work in progress 69 58 Deferred tax liability to be recovered 10 –6 Finished goods and goods for resale 537 457 within 12 months Total 888 765 Total 803 754 Movements in the provision for obsolete inventory are as follows: Current income tax SEKm 2019 2018 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2019 2018 At 1 January 20 12 Current income tax assets 6 6 Provision for impairment of inventories –1 6 Current income tax liabilities –44 –13 Inventories written off during the year as – –2 obsolete Total –38 –7 Unused amounts reversed –1 –3 Acquisitions through business combinations – 6 Note 1 See also Note 30 for further details regarding accounting estimates Exchange differences 1 1 Note 2 and judgments in respect of the ongoing tax audits. At 31 December 19 20 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 Note 14 Non-current financial assets Note 16 Trade and other receivables Note 6 Note 7 See Notes 1 (XV) and (XVI) for the accounting policy. Note 8 See Notes 1 (XV) for the accounting policy. Note 9 Note 10 31 Dec 31 Dec Note 11 SEKm 2019 2018 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2019 2018 Note 12 Deposits 2 1 Note 13 Trade debtors 826 746 Funded pension schemes in – 2 Note 14 a net asset position Loss allowances for trade receivables –3 –1 Note 15 Other financial assets 5 8 Trade receivables – net 823 745 Note 16 Total 7 11 Note 17 Other receivables 47 47 Note 18 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 58 46 The fair values of non-current financial assets approximate their Note 19 Total 928 838 carrying amounts. Note 20 None of the different classes of non-current financial assets Note 21 Note 22 contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the Movements in the loss allowance for trade receivables are as follows: Note 23 reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned Note 24 above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. SEKm 2019 2018 Note 25 See Note 23 for further details on the funded pension schemes At 1 January 1 2 Note 26 in a net asset position. Provision for impairment of trade 3 1 Note 27 receivables Note 28 Trade receivables written off during the year 0 –1 as uncollectible Note 29 Unused amounts reversed – 0 Note 30 Exchange differences –1 –1 Note 31 Note 32 At 31 December 3 1 Cloetta Denmark ApS entered into a receivable purchase agreement with Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken for one Danish customer. As a result per year-end, Cloetta Denmark ApS received an amount of DKK 0m (5), equivalent to SEK 0m (6) in advance before the due date. Cloetta Denmark ApS pays a discount fee for the early receipt based on 3M CIBOR with a zero-floor clause. The individual trade receivables for which provisions were made relate to uncollectible receivables that are not covered by credit insurance. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 113 WORDS The age analysis of the trade receivables including loss allowances is as follows: FROM THE 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 PRESIDENT Gross carryLoss Net carrying Gross carryLoss Net carrying SEKm ing amount allowance amount ing amount allowance amount Current (not past due) 694 – 694 614 – 614 GOALS Up to 60 days past due 105 – 105 117 0 117 AND 60 to 90 days past due 6 – 6 6 0 6 Over 90 days past due 21 –3 18 9 –1 8 S T R AT E G I E S Total 826 –3 823 746 –1 745 THE CONFECTIONERY The other receivables and prepaid expenses and accrued income do The carrying amounts of trade receivables are denominated in the not contain impaired assets. following currencies: MARKET As of 31 December 2019, trade receivables of SEK 132m (132) 31 Dec 31 Dec were past due but not impaired. These relate to a number of customSEKm 2019 2018 BRAND, ers for whom there is no recent history of default. Euro 287 275 C AT E G O R Y & Loss allowances are made based on individual customer loss asSwedish krona 266 251 PRODUCT DEsessments. Based on historical experience and current expectations Danish krone 132 121 V ELO PM ENT for the future, no material credit losses on other trade receivables are Great Britain pound 91 68 expected. The above table shows the loss allowance recognized based Norwegian krone 30 18 on the individual assessments. Credit losses on other receivables and US dollar 5 3 C L O E T TA’ S accrued income are expected to be immaterial. Other currencies 12 9 MAIN The carrying amounts are assumed to approximate the fair Total 823 745 MARKETS values of trade receivables and other receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount The breakdown of prepaid expenses and accrued income is as follows: of each class of receivable mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. 31 Dec 31 Dec S U P P LY SEKm 2019 2018 CHAIN Prepaid IT expenses 10 9 Prepaid rent, insurance and lease charges 8 9 Prepaid personnel-related expenses 3 2 E M P L OY E E S Prepaid marketing expenses 1 1 Prepayments on inventory 5 7 Prepaid deposits 5 3 Other prepaid expenses 20 8 Other accrued income 6 7 Total 58 46 SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS Note 17 Cash and cash equivalents FINANCIAL See Notes 1 (XX) and (XXI) for the accounting policy. Cash Pool agreement with Nordea Bank AB (publ) was terminated PER FORon 13 November 2019. The item cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated cash flow stateMANCE The Global Cash Pool agreement, the NGA and the MZBCP ment and consolidated balance sheet consists of the following: (together “Cash Pools”) enable Cloetta AB (publ) and its subsidiaries 31 Dec 31 Dec to use the funds available as deposited in the bank in one or more SEKm 2019 2018 currencies for the purpose of efficient liquidity management and Cash and cash equivalents 579 551 daily payments in the ordinary course of business. The Cash Pools RISKS Total 579 551 provide the possibility to make withdrawals from accounts held by the bank in different currencies and in different countries without the necessary funds being available in the respective currency, provided C O R P O R AT E All cash and cash equivalents are available on demand. The multicurrency functionality with credit facility for global that the corresponding funds are available considering the balances cash pool (Global Cash Pool agreement) with Nordea Bank AB (publ) on all accounts in the Cash Pools, and any amounts available for this GOVER NANCE was applicable to the Group as of the date of the acquisition of Candpurpose pursuant to any credit facility and/or intraday revolving S TAT E M E N T yking Holding AB and its subsidiaries. Svenska Handelsbanken AB facility agreed upon separately. The Cash Pools are based on, and (publ) provided the Group with a Notional Group Account (NGA). connect accounts in, local account structures in different countries in which group companies participate as sub-account holders. The FINANCIAL In 2018 Danske Bank A/S provided the Group with a Multicurrency Zero Balancing Cash Pool (MZBCP). In conjunction with the incluGlobal Cash Pool agreement, the NGA and the MZBCP are not REPORTS sion of nearly all group companies in the MZBCP in 2019, the Global connected to each other. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 114 F inancial reports The following table shows the carrying amounts of recognized offsetting of financial assets and liabilities relating to the Notional Group Account: Related financial instruments that are not offset Negative cash Gross amounts balances in cash Net amount Cash balances Other loans 2019 of financial pools offset by posipresented in the outside from credit SEKm instruments tive cash balances balance sheet cash pools institutions Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 3,229 –2,693 536 43 – 579 Total assets 3,229 –2,693 536 43 – 579 Loans from credit institutions 2,693 –2,693 – – 2,106 2,106 Total liabilities 2,693 –2,693 – – 2,106 2,106 Related financial instruments that are not offset Negative cash Gross amounts balances in cash Net amount Cash balances Other loans 2018 of financial pools offset by posipresented in the outside from credit SEKm instruments tive cash balances balance sheet cash pools institutions Net amount Cash and cash equivalents 1,093 –655 438 113 – 551 Total assets 1,093 –655 438 113 – 551 Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 Loans from credit institutions 655 –655 – – 2,078 2,078 Note 4 Total liabilities 655 –655 – – 2,078 2,078 Note 5 Note 6 After the reporting date, the following dividend was proposed by the Note 7 Note 18 Equity Board of Directors. The dividend has not been recognized as a liability Note 8 in the balance sheet Note 9 See Notes 1 (XXII) and (XXV) for the accounting policy. SEKm 2019 2018 Note 10 Note 11 Dividend per share, SEK 1.00 1.00 Capital management Total dividend, SEKm 289 289 Note 12 The Board’s financial objective is to maintain a strong financial poNote 13 sition that contributes to maintaining investor, creditor and market Note 14 The Board of Directors proposes that the total earnings in the Parent confidence and to providing a platform for ongoing development of Note 15 Company at the disposal of the AGM amounting to SEK 1,764m the business. Capital consists of total equity. The Board of Directors Note 16 (2,015) are to be distributed to the shareholders in the amount of Note 17 proposes the dividend to the shareholders. SEK 289m (289) and to be carried forward to new account in the Note 18 The company’s long-term intention is a dividend pay-out of amount of SEK 1,475m (1,726). Note 19 between 40 and 60 per cent of profit after tax. Both in 2019 and 2018, Note 20 the ambition was to continue using future cash flows to repay debt, to Group equity Note 21 pay dividends and to maximize financial flexibility for complementaShare capital Note 22 ry acquisitions. The number of shares authorized, issued and fully paid up at 31 DeNote 23 The Group’s objective when managing capital is to safeguard cember 2019 was 288,619,299 (288,619,299). The number of shares Note 24 the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide consists of 5,735,249 (5,735,249) class A shares and 282,884,050 Note 25 returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, and to (282,884,050) class B shares. All shares grant equal entitlement to Note 26 maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. participate in the company’s assets and profits. The quota value (par Note 27 The Group monitors capital on the basis of the net debt/EBITDA ravalue) of the share is SEK 5.00. Should the company issue new shares Note 28 tio (leverage). This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA, of class A and class B through a cash or set-off issue, holders of class Note 29 adjusted for items affecting comparability. The Group has defined a Note 30 A and class B shares have the right to subscribe for new shares of the long-term leverage target of 2.5x. The net debt/EBITDA ratio at 31 Note 31 same class in proportion to the number of shares already held on the December 2019 was 2.2x (2.3). Note 32 record date. If the issue includes only class B shares, all holders of class A and class B shares have the right to subscribe for new class Dividend per share The Annual General Meeting (AGM) approved the following dividend on B shares in proportion to the number of shares already held on the 4 April 2019 and 16 April 2018 record date. The corresponding rules of apportionment are applied in the event of a bonus issue or issue of convertibles and subscription 2019 2018 warrants. The transference of a class A share to a person who is not Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 1.00 0.75 previously a holder of class A shares in the company is subject to a Special dividend per share, SEK – 0.75 pre-emption procedure, except when the transfer is made through Total dividend, SEKm 289 433 division of joint property, inheritance, testament or gift to the person Ordinary dividend as a percentage of profit who is the closest heir to the bequeather. See page 60 for further for the previous year, excluding the impact of impairment loss 60 53 details. Payment date April 2019 April 2018 Neither Cloetta AB (publ) nor any of its subsidiaries has held any shares in Cloetta during the year. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 115 WORDS Foreign currency translation reserve Reserves consist of all exchange gains and losses arising on transNote 19 Earnings per share FROM THE lation of the financial statements of foreign operations that present PRESIDENT their financial statements in a currency other than that used by the Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the Group. This includes foreign currency differences on monetary items year attributable to owners of the Parent Company by the weighted that are a receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, for which average number of shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share are GOALS settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to owners AND future. of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of shares S T R AT E G I E S outstanding adjusted for the dilutive effect of potential shares. Retained earnings THE CONThe calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on Retained earnings comprise the sum of profit for the year and rethe following profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and tained earnings from previous years. FECTIONERY the weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding: MARKET 2019 2018 Changes in equity For disclosures about changes in equity in the Group, see the consoliProfit for the year, attributable to ordinary shareholders (in SEKm) dated statements of changes in equity on page 94. (basic and diluted) 498 483 BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & Hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation Number of issued ordinary shares PRODUCT DE(Net investment hedge) at 1 January 288,619,299 288,619,299 V ELO PM ENT The Group applies hedge accounting for the investment in tradeEffect of forward contract to repurchase own shares –2,040,904 –2,126,886 marks in Cloetta Ireland Ltd., Cloetta Suomi Oy, Cloetta Holland B.V. and Cloetta Slovakia s.r.o. See Note 1 (XVI) for further details on Weighted average number C L O E T TA’ S of ordinary shares during the year the applied hedge accounting. before dilution 286,578,395 286,492,413 MAIN MARKETS Share-based payments Effect of share-based payments 145,654 157,657 See Note 23 for further details about share-based payments. Weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year after dilution 286,724,049 286,650,070 S U P P LY CHAIN Basic earnings per share, SEK 1.74 1.69 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 1.74 1.68 E M P L OY E E S Cloetta has entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares in order to fulfil its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants in the long-term share-based incentive plan. See Note 21 for a table that presents movements in the contracts as of 1 January 2018. SHARE AND SHARENote 20 Borrowings HOLDERS See Notes 1 (XXVI) and (XXVII) for accounting policies. FINANCIAL 31 Dec 2019 Remaining Remaining Remaining Remaining PER FORSEKm term < 1 year term 1–2 years term 2–5 years term > 5 years Total MANCE Loans from credit institutions 1,306 800 – – 2,106 Capitalized transaction costs 0 –1 – – –1 Commercial papers 499 – – – 499 RISKS Accrued interest 1 – – – 1 Lease liabilities 64 52 83 5 204 Total 1,870 851 83 5 2,809 C O R P O R AT E 31 Dec 2018 Remaining Remaining Remaining Remaining GOVER NANCE SEKm term < 1 year term 1–2 years term 2–5 years term > 5 years Total Loans from credit institutions – 1,278 800 – 2,078 S TAT E M E N T Capitalized transaction costs –1 –1 –1 – –3 Commercial papers 500 – – – 500 FINANCIAL Accrued interest 1 – – – 1 Total 500 1,277 799 – 2,576 REPORTS Cloetta has an extension option for the short-term loans from credit institutions of SEK 1,306m for another two years. See Note 26 for the Group’s contractually agreed undiscounted cash flows payable under financial liabilities, including interest payments. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 116 F inancial reports The following table shows the reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities: Long-term Short-term SEKm borrowings borrowings Total Balance at 1 January 2018 1,715 999 2,714 Changes from financing cash flows Proceeds from loans – 163 163 Transaction costs paid –4 – –4 Repayment of loans –519 –360 –879 Proceeds from commercial papers – 999 999 Repayment of commercial papers – –500 –500 Total changes from financing cash flows –523 302 –221 Other changes Amortization of capitalized transaction costs 5 3 8 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings 23 1 24 Interest paid –23 –1 –24 Reclassification between long-term and short-term borrowings 800 –800 – Exchange differences on borrowings 78 –4 74 Total other changes 883 –801 82 Balance at 31 December 2018 2,076 500 2,576 Note 1 Changes from financing cash flows Note 2 Repayment of lease liabilities –67 –7 –74 Note 3 Proceeds from commercial papers – 1,557 1,557 Note 4 Repayment of commercial papers – –1,558 –1,558 Note 5 Total changes from financing cash flows –67 –8 –75 Note 6 Note 7 Other changes Note 8 Initial application of IFRS 16 158 71 229 Note 9 Additions to lease liabilities 49 – 49 Note 10 Amortization of capitalized transaction costs 1 1 2 Note 11 Note 12 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings 7 20 27 Note 13 Interest paid –7 –20 –27 Note 14 Reclassification between long-term and short-term borrowings –1,278 1,278 – Note 15 Exchange differences on borrowings 0 28 28 Note 16 Total other changes –1,070 1,378 308 Note 17 Balance at 31 December 2019 939 1,870 2,809 Note 18 Note 19 Note 20 Note 21 The carrying amounts and fair value of short-term Loans from credit institutions and long-term borrowings are as follows: Note 22 On 22 July 2016, Cloetta entered into a term and revolving faciliNote 23 Fair value Carrying amount ties agreement with a group of four banks, Danske Bank A/S, DNB Note 24 Sweden AB, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) and Svenska 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Note 25 SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 Handelsbanken AB (publ), in SEK and EUR, amounting in total Note 26 to the equivalent of SEK 3,700m. The term and revolving facilities Loans from credit 2,106 2,078 2,106 2,078 Note 27 institutions agreement is unsecured in nature. Note 28 Commercial 499 500 499 500 In June 2018, Cloetta entered into an amendment and restateNote 29 papers ment of the term and revolving facilities agreement, in combination Note 30 Lease liabilities 204 – 204 – with the launch of a commercial paper program. The amendments to Note 31 Total 2,809 2,578 2,809 2,578 the term and revolving facilities agreement comprised a EUR 50m Note 32 reduction (equivalent to SEK 519m) in the multicurrency loan The fair value of loans from credit institutions is equal to their carand a SEK 200m reduction in the single-currency term loan. The rying amount, as the impact of discounting is not significant, and the amendment included an extension of the tenure from three to four credit risk has not changed since the loan agreement was signed. years with the possibility of an extension for up to a further two years The Group’s loans from credit institutions are exposed to interfor the multicurrency loan, an extension of the tenure from one to est rate changes and changes in the applicable margin on a quarterly five years for the single-currency term loan, and an extension of the basis. The commercial papers are issued at fixed interest rates, based tenure under the multicurrency credit revolving loan from five to six on the applicable market prices at issue date. years. The amendment and restatement of the term and revolving Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased facilities agreement in combination with the launch of commercial assets recognized in the financial statements revert to the lessor in papers led to lower interest margins, which has a favourable impact the event of default. on the net financial items of the Group. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 117 WORDS The Group credit facility at reporting date relates to: FROM THE Outstanding amount Interest percentage Applicable margin PRESIDENT SEKm 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Multicurrency term loan of 1,306 1,278 Variable EURIBOR Variable EURIBOR 0.80% 0.80% nominal EUR 125m (125) + fixed + fixed GOALS applicable margin, applicable margin, with zero-floor with zero-floor AND S T R AT E G I E S Single-currency term loan of 800 800 Variable STIBOR Variable STIBOR 0.90% 0.90% nominal SEK 800m (800) + fixed + fixed applicable margin, applicable margin, with zero-floor with zero-floor Commercial papers of nominal 499 500 Fixed margin per Fixed margin per 0.43% 0.22% THE CONSEK 1,000m (1,000) issued paper issued paper FECTIONERY Multicurrency credit revolving loan – – Variable IBOR + Variable IBOR + 1.00% 1.00% MARKET of EUR 110m (105) fixed fixed applicable margin, applicable margin, with zero-floor with zero-floor Credit revolving loan of – – Variable EURIBOR Variable EURIBOR 0.70% 1.00% BRAND, EUR 10m (15) + fixed applicable + fixed margin, with a floor applicable margin, C AT E G O R Y & of 0.20% with zero-floor PRODUCT DETotal Group credit facility 2,605 2,578 V ELO PM ENT Capitalized transaction costs –1 –3 C L O E T TA’ S Lease liabilities 204 – MAIN Accrued interest 1 1 MARKETS Total Borrowings 2,809 2,576 At 31 December 2019, the Group had an unutilized credit facility of SEK 1,254m (1,227). 35 per cent (35) of the fixed applicable margin on the unutilized amounts of the credit revolving loans is paid as a commitment fee. S U P P LY All borrowings are denominated in euros, with the exception of the single-currency term loan of SEK 800m (800), the commercial papers CHAIN of SEK 499m (500) and part of the lease liabilities for an amount corresponding to SEK 108m (0). The effective interest rate for the loans from credit institutions and the senior secured notes was 0.74 per cent (0.86). E M P L OY E E S Forward contracts to repurchase own shares Note 21 Derivative financial instruments Following the introduction of share-based long-term incentive plans, Cloetta entered into forward contracts in order to repurchase own See Note 1 (XVII) for the accounting policy. shares to fulfil its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants in its share-based long-term incentive plans. The forward SHARE AND 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 contracts to repurchase own shares are measured at cost. SHARESEKm Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities HOLDERS Non-current Interest rate – 3 – 3 swaps FINANCIAL Total – 3 – 3 PER FORnon-current MANCE Current Forward contract – 65 – 59 to repurchase own shares RISKS Interest rate – 3 – 2 swaps Forward – – 1 – foreign currency contracts Total current – 68 1 61 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Total – 71 1 64 S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 118 F inancial reports The following table shows the movements in contracts since 1 January 2018 Number of shares Date Contract 1 Contract 2 Contract 3 Contract 4 Balance at 1 Jan 2018 430,000 1,892,562 – – Shares granted to participants LTI'15 (settlement of 29 May 2018 – –338,482 – – forward contract to repurchase own shares) Roll-forward to new forward contract to repurchase 29 May 2018 –430,000 –1,554,080 1,984,080 – own shares New forward contract to repurchase own shares 29 May 2018 – – 7,826 – Balance at 31 Dec 2018 – – 1,991,906 – Shares granted to participants LTI'16 (settlement of 26 April 2019 – – –109,369 – forward contract to repurchase own shares) Roll-forward to new forward contract to repurchase 11 June 2019 – – –1,882,537 1,882,537 own shares New forward contract to repurchase own shares 11 June 2019 – – – 198,346 Balance at 31 Dec 2019 – – – 2,080,883 Price, SEK 26.4000 30.9732 29.3886 31.2385 See Note 23 for more details about the share-based long-term incentive plan. Interest rate swaps Note 1 The Group has entered into several interest rate swap contracts to partially cover the interest rate risk on the loans denominated in both Note 2 SEK and EUR. Note 3 Note 4 The following table shows the combined notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swaps Note 5 Notional principal Fixed interest Note 6 amounts currency rates Duration Note 7 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec Note 8 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note 9 STIBOR Interest rate swaps SEKm 800 800 0.4630% 0.4630% Q1 2020 – Q4 2021 Q1 2019 – Q4 2021 Note 10 EURIBOR Interest rate swaps EURm 50 50 0.1560% 0.1560% Q1 2020 – Q2 2020 Q1 2019 – Q2 2020 Note 11 EURIBOR Interest rate swaps EURm – 25 – 0.1560% – Q1 2019 – Q4 2019 Note 12 EURIBOR Interest rate swaps EURm 35 35 0.3375% 0.3375% Q3 2020 – Q3 2022 Q3 2020 – Q3 2022 Note 13 Note 14 All interest rate swaps include zero-floors on the floating leg. Note 15 Note 16 Note 17 Foreign currency exchange contracts Note 18 The Group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the currency risk for purchases in US dollar (USD) with a maturity Note 19 of less than one year from the reporting date. Note 20 The following table shows the notional principal amounts, weighted average exchange rates and remaining periods Note 21 Note 22 Notional principal Weighted average Note 23 amounts exchange rates Expiry date Note 24 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note 25 Note 26 SEK – USD – USD 4.0m – 8.7103 – 2019 Note 27 Note 28 All interest rate swaps include zero-floors on the floating leg. Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 119 WORDS For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions Note 22 Contingent considerations to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a FROM THE mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further PRESIDENT See Note 1 (XXIV) for the accounting policy. payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The Group has a number of defined benefit pension plans in SweOn 28 April 2017 a contingent earn-out consideration arising from den, the Netherlands, Belgium, Finland, Germany and Norway that GOALS the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries was refer to pension and other long-term benefit schemes. AND issued to the former bondholders of Candyking Holding AB in exFor one defined benefit pension plan, the Group accounts as S T R AT E G I E S change for corporate bonds in Candyking Holding AB. The continthough this were a defined contribution scheme since sufficient inforgent earn-out consideration was initially recognized in an amount mation is not available to enable the Group to account for the plan as of SEK 128m. The remeasurement movements recognized in the a defined benefit plan. Cloetta complies with UFR 10 for reporting THE CONprofit and loss account in 2018 were the result of remeasurements of plans with multiple employers. Sufficient information is not available, FECTIONERY the sales volume performance of the combined pick & mix business since asset administration of the fund is not designed to allocate the in confectionery and natural snacks in the Nordic countries, the UK total assets of the fund to the participating companies. In the event of MARKET and Poland during 2018. The final earn-out consideration amounted a deficit in this pension fund, the Group has no obligation to provide to SEK 146m and was settled in 2019. On 31 December 2018 the confurther contributions other than higher future contributions. BRAND, tingent earn-out consideration was presented as part of the current Monthly premiums are average premiums expressed as a perC AT E G O R Y & liabilities. See Note 25. centage of the pension calculations basis and should, as a minimum, PRODUCT DEcover the cost of the fund. The minimum pension premium is deterMovements in contingent considerations are specified as follows: V ELO PM ENT mined in accordance with the actuarial and business note of the fund. SEKm 2019 2018 In the event of liquidation of the fund, an amount that is sufficient to cover defined benefits will be secured. In the event of a deficit in C L O E T TA’ S At 1 January 142 138 Remeasurements recognized the fund at the moment of liquidation, the defined benefits will be MAIN in profit and loss proportionally reduced taking into consideration Article 134 of the MARKETS – ( Un)realized remeasurement on – –21 Dutch Pension Act. Contributions to the plan for the next annual contingent considerations recognized in year are expected to amount to SEK 37m (35). These are split into general and administrative expenses employer contributions of SEK 25m (23) and employee contributions – U nrealized interest on contingent 4 25 considerations recognized in other of SEK 12m (12). At year-end 2019, the coverage of the pension fund S U P P LY CHAIN financial expenses was 106.6 per cent (112.5). Settlements – Settlements via balance sheet –146 – At 31 December 2019, the main defined benefit plans in At 31 December – 142 the Group were: E M P L OY E E S Sweden ITP2 plan: of which remaining term < 1 year – 142 The ITP2 plan covers employees born before 1979. Benefits provided of which remaining term 1–5 years – – in the old defined benefit plan include a final pay-based retirement Fair value – 142 pension. This plan is an unfunded defined benefit plan. The ITP plan benefit formula provides pension benefits as a percentage of salary. Benefits are reduced proportionally if the expected SHARE AND years of service within the plan, are less than 30 years, irrespective SHAREPensions and other long-term of employer. ITP plan benefits vested with former employers are Note 23 HOLDERS employee benefits indexed according to the consumer price index. See Notes 1 (VI) and (XXV) for the accounting policy. Finland Leaf/Merijal plan: FINANCIAL This plan is an insured voluntary final salary pension plan. It was PER FORGroup companies use various post-employment schemes, including established on 31 December 2005 when the liabilities and assets MANCE both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. of Merijal Pension Foundation and Leaf Pension Foundation were A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the transferred to Pohjola Life Insurance Company. Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions, even Norway if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the The Norwegian subsidiary has one plan, which is insured in a life RISKS benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. insurance company. This funded plan, together with the national Defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an pension scheme, provides an old-age pension of a maximum of 66 per employee will receive upon retirement, usually dependent on one or cent of final salary. The plan includes a widow(er)’s pension equal to more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. 60 per cent of the old-age pension and children’s pension equal to 50 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE The defined benefit schemes in industry sector pension funds, per cent of the old-age pension. Members who become disabled will which are held by pension funds that are not able to provide compareceive a disability pension linked to the old-age pension they would ny-specific or reliable information, are accounted for as though they have received with their present salary. S TAT E M E N T were defined contribution schemes. In the event of a deficit in these pension funds, the company has no obligation to provide supplementary contributions, other than higher future contributions. FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 120 F inancial reports The total pensions and other long-term employee benefits The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are determined as follows: are determined as follows: 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Funded pension schemes – 2 Funded pension schemes in a net asset – 2 in a net asset position position Asset in the balance sheet – 2 Obligations for: Pension benefits –499 –419 Present value of funded obligations 87 77 Other long-term employee benefits (for Fair value of plan assets –69 –67 jubilee payments) ('OLEB') 0 0 Deficit of funded plans 18 10 Total –499 –417 Present value of unfunded obligations 481 407 Liability in the balance sheet 499 417 Movements in the combined net defined benefit obligations and other long-term employee benefits over the year are as follows: Present value Fair value of SEKm of obligation plan assets Total 1 January 2018 437 –66 371 Current Service cost 7 – 7 Interest expense/(income) 11 –1 10 Note 1 Total amount recognized in profit or loss 18 –1 17 Note 2 Remeasurements: Note 3 – Losses from change in demographic assumptions 1 – 1 Note 4 – Losses from change in financial assumptions 38 – 38 Note 5 Note 6 – Experience (gains)/losses 2 – 2 Note 7 Total remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income 41 – 41 Note 8 Exchange differences 4 –1 3 Note 9 Contributions: Note 10 – Employers – –15 –15 Note 11 Payments from plans: Note 12 – Benefit payments –16 16 – Note 13 31 December 2018 484 –67 417 Note 14 Note 15 Current Service cost 7 – 7 Note 16 Interest expense/(income) 12 –1 11 Note 17 Note 18 Total amount recognized in profit or loss 19 –1 18 Note 19 Remeasurements: Note 20 – Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense/(income) – –2 –2 Note 21 – Losses from change in financial assumptions 79 – 79 Note 22 – Experience (gains)/losses 3 – 3 Note 23 Total remeasurements recognized in other comprehensive income 82 –2 80 Note 24 Exchange differences 1 –1 0 Note 25 Contributions: Note 26 – Employers – –16 –16 Note 27 – Plan participants 0 0 – Note 28 Payments from plans: Note 29 – Benefit payments –18 18 – Note 30 31 December 2019 568 –69 499 Note 31 Note 32 The Group expects to pay SEK 16m (16) in contributions to its defined benefit plans in 2020. The defined benefit obligation and plan assets are composed by country as follows: Present value of Fair value of Defined benefit obligation plan assets obligation 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sweden 477 402 –14 –15 463 387 Norway 16 11 –15 –13 1 –2 Finland 34 34 –28 –27 6 7 Other countries 41 37 –12 –12 29 25 Total 568 484 –69 –67 499 417 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 121 WORDS The significant actuarial assumptions are as follows: These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring at the age of 67 for men in Norway, at the age FROM THE 31 Dec 31 Dec of 62 for women in Norway and at the age of 65 in other countries Weighted average percentage 2019 2018 PRESIDENT Discount rate 1.45 2.34 2019 2018 Expected rate of future salary increases 1.75 1.93 GOALS Expected rate of future increase 2.15 2.29 Years Sweden Others Sweden Others for benefits in payment Retiring at AND Expected long-term inflation rate 1.64 1.85 S T R AT E G I E S the end of the reporting period: – Male 22 21 22 21 Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial THE CON– Female 25 24 25 24 advice in accordance with published statistics and experience in each Retiring 20 years territory. after the end of FECTIONERY the reporting period MARKET – Male 43 36 43 36 – Female 45 41 45 41 BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & At 31 December 2019 the weighted average duration of the defined PRODUCT DEbenefit obligation was 19.06 years (20.11 years). V ELO PM ENT The sensitivity of the combined net defined benefit obligations and other long-term employee benefits to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is as follows: C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Impact on defined benefit obligation MARKETS 2019 2018 Change in Increase in Decrease in Increase in Decrease in % assumptions assumptions assumptions assumptions assumptions S U P P LY Discount rate 1%-point –18% 24% –18% 23% CHAIN Salary growth rate 1%-point 6% –5% 5% –5% Pension growth rate 1%-point 1% –1% 16% –15% E M P L OY E E S Increase by Decrease by Increase by Decrease by 1 year in 1 year in 1 year in 1 year in % assumption assumption assumption assumption Life expectancy 4.37% –4.98% 4.04% –4.64% SHARE AND The sensitivity analyses above are based on a change in one assumpShare-based payments tion while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this Share-based long-term incentive plan SHAREis unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be The AGM approved the Board’s proposals for a share-based longHOLDERS correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit term incentive plan to align the interests of the shareholders on the obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method has one hand, and the Group Management Team and other key employbeen applied as when calculating the pension liability recognized in ees on the other hand in order to ensure maximum long-term value FINANCIAL the statement of financial position. creation. PER FORPlan assets for both 2018 and 2019 are 100 per cent comprised of To participate in the plan, a personal shareholding in Cloetta is MANCE insurance contracts. required. Following a three-year vesting period, the participants will be allocated class B shares in Cloetta free of charge, provided that The expected maturity analysis for undiscounted combined net defined certain conditions are fulfilled. benefit obligations and other long-term employee benefits is as follows: To be eligible for so-called matching share rights entitling the 31 Dec 31 Dec participant to class B shares in Cloetta, continued employment with RISKS SEKm 2019 2018 Cloetta is required and the personal shareholding in Cloetta must Less than 3 years 0 0 be continuously maintained. For each invested share one matching share will be granted if the above requirements are fulfilled. For the C O R P O R AT E Between 3–7 years – 3 Between 7–15 years 107 95 long-term incentive plan for 2019, the matching shares are replaced Over 15 years 461 386 by series A performance shares, that are conditional on Cloetta’s GOVER NANCE average EBIT over the vesting period. S TAT E M E N T Total 568 484 In addition, allocation of class B shares on the basis of perforTotal pension costs amounting to SEK 18m (17) are included in costs mance share rights (series B) requires the attainment of two perforFINANCIAL of goods sold, selling expenses, general and administrative expenses mance targets, one of which is related to Cloetta’s EBIT and the other and financial income and expenses, in the profit and loss account. to Cloetta’s net sales value in the respective vesting periods. The share-based long-term incentive plans of 2015 and 2016 were vested REPORTS in 2018 and 2019, respectively. With respect to the share-based long-term incentive plan of 2017, the target levels set by the Board for the two performance targets S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 122 F inancial reports were not met. The performance targets were related to growth in Cloetta’s compounded sales value during the period 2017 to 2019 and Note 25 Trade and other payables EBITA level during 2019. As a result, Cloetta will transfer, free of charge, no more than 97,325 shares to participants holding matching See Note 1 (XXVIII) for the accounting policy. share rights and no shares to participants holding performance share rights. 31 Dec 31 Dec Total costs related to the non-vested share-based long-term SEKm 2019 2018 incentive plans are expected to amount to SEK 47m (49) during the Trade payables 492 544 total vesting period. The total costs for the share-based long-term Other taxes and social security expenses 175 160 incentive plans recognized in 2019 are SEK 4m (2). Pension liabilities 8 8 See page 62 for further details on the main characteristics of the Contingent considerations – 142 share-based long-term incentive plans. Other liabilities 33 19 The forward contracts to repurchase own shares amount to Accruals and deferred income 519 469 SEK 65m (59). See Note 21 for further details on the forward conTotal 1,227 1,342 tracts to repurchase own shares. Movements in the number of shares for the share-based long-term The carrying amounts of trade and other payables are considered to incentive plans are as follows: be the same as their fair values, due to their short-term nature. Number of shares in thousands 2019 2018 Accruals and deferred income are specified as follows: At 1 January 1,404 1,617 31 Dec 31 Dec Granted for new plans 1,010 1,024 SEKm 2019 2018 Vested plans –109 –338 Note 1 Accrued personnel-related expenses 200 156 Released –890 –899 Note 2 Accrued customer bonuses and discounts 178 157 Note 3 At 31 December 1,415 1,404 Other accrued expenses Note 4 and deferred income 141 156 Note 5 Total 519 469 Note 6 Note 7 Note 24 Provisions The Group’s defined objective is to cover between 50 and 80 per cent Note 8 of the expected net exposure on purchases in US dollar and British Note 9 See Note 1 (XXIV) for the accounting policy. Pounds if the exposure is bigger than the equivalent of EUR 10m. Note 10 Note 11 Movements in provisions, excluding pension benefits and other long-term employee benefits, are specified as follows: Note 12 Note 13 Re­ Financial risks SEKm organization Other Total Note 26 and financial risk management Note 14 Note 15 1 January 2018 3 5 8 Note 16 Additions 27 – 27 Through its activities, the Group is exposed it to a variety of financial Note 17 Utilizations –4 – –4 risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate Note 18 Unused amounts reversed 0 0 0 risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidiNote 19 Exchange differences 0 1 1 ty risk. The Group’s overall risk management program focuses on the Note 20 31 December 2018 26 6 32 unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential Note 21 Analysis of total provisions adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. Note 22 Non-current 9 Financial risks are managed by the Group treasury departNote 23 Current 23 ment under policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Group Note 24 Total 32 treasury department identifies, evaluates and, if applicable, hedges Note 25 financial risks in close cooperation with the Group’s operating units. Note 26 The Board of Directors provides written principles for overall risk Note 27 Note 28 management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such Re­ as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivaNote 29 SEKm organization Other Total Note 30 tive financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments 1 January 2019 26 6 32 Note 31 and investment of excess liquidity. The primary market and financial Additions 4 – 4 Note 32 risks are described in detail on the next page. Utilizations –21 – –21 Unused amounts reversed –4 –1 –5 Market risk Exchange differences 0 0 0 Currency risk 31 December 2019 5 5 10 The Group is primarily active in the European Union and Norway. Analysis of total provisions The Group’s currency risk mainly relates to positions and future Non-current 5 transactions in euros (EUR), Danish kroner (DKK), Norwegian Current 5 kroner (NOK), US dollars (USD) and British pounds (GBP). Total 10 The Group has major investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. See Note 23 for details about pension benefits and other long-term Based on a risk analysis, the Group’s Boards of Directors has employee benefits. decided to hedge the euro-related currency risk by drawing part of the credit facility in euros. This hedge covers part of the currency risk << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 123 WORDS in euros. Hedge accounting (hedges of net investments in foreign opcurrency term loan of SEK 800m. In relation to fixed interest liabilerations) is applied. This has resulted in a reduction in the volatility ities, it is exposed to market values, which is not a significant risk for FROM THE of net financial items caused by revaluation of monetary assets and the Group. The Group’s objective when managing the interest rate PRESIDENT liabilities as of the date of initial application of hedge accounting. The risk is to have a fixed percentage between 50 and 80 per cent with an Group’s investment in trademarks in Cloetta Ireland Ltd, Cloetta average maturity of 2 to 3.5 years on borrowings that are long-term Suomi Oy, Cloetta Holland B.V. and Cloetta Slovakia s.r.o. is hedged in nature. The Group is in compliance with the defined objectives for GOALS by a net euro-denominated loan (carrying amount: EUR 160m (155)) interest rate risk. AND which mitigates the foreign currency translation risk on these tradeIf the interest rate had been 1 percentage point higher with all S T R AT E G I E S marks. The fair value of the loan was EUR 160m (155). The loan is other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would designated as a net investment hedge. The effectiveness of the hedge have been approximately SEK 6m (5) lower. If the interest rate had is tested and documented on a quarterly basis. The hedge effectivebeen 1 percentage point lower with all other variables held constant, THE CONness at 31 December 2019 was 104 per cent (101). No ineffectiveness profit before tax for the year would have been approximately SEK 2m FECTIONERY has been recognized from the net investment hedge. The effect of the (1) higher. The analysis considers the effects of interest rate swaps net investment hedge in a foreign operation is recognized in other and the impact of negative interest rates. MARKET comprehensive income. At 31 December 2019, the cumulative effect of the net investment hedge in a foreign operation amounted to Credit risk BRAND, SEK –229m (–205), net of tax, and was reported as part of the reThe Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk. C AT E G O R Y & tained earnings within equity. The Group’s customers are subject to a credit policy. Sales are PRODUCT DEThe Group’s defined objective is to cover between 50 and 80 per subject to payment conditions which vary per customer. V ELO PM ENT cent of the expected net exposure on purchases and sales in USD and A loss allowance for trade receivables is established when there GBP if the exposure exceeds the equivalent of EUR 10m. To manage is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all the foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transacamounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. SigC L O E T TA’ S tions and recognized assets and liabilities, the Group uses forward nificant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor MAIN contracts. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization, and default or MARKETS transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are denominated in a delinquency in payments (more than 30 days overdue) are considered currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The Group enindicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the tered into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the currency allowance is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and risk of the USD with a maturity of less than one year from the reportthe present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted by the S U P P LY ing date. See Note 21 for the details of the forward foreign currency original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is CHAIN contracts. The Group is in compliance with the defined objectives for reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount currency risks. of the loss is recognized in the profit and loss account within general In the 2019 financial year, if the Swedish krona had weakened/ and administrative expenses. E M P L OY E E S strengthened by 10 per cent against the euro with all other variaWhen a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against bles held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been the allowance account for trade receivables. approximately SEK 50m (50) lower/higher, as a result of the foreign Credit terms for customers are determined individually in the exchange gains/losses on translation of all euro-denominated different markets. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade trading in Europe and foreign exchange losses/gains on translation of receivables are limited, due to the size and diversity of the Group’s euro-denominated borrowings. customer base. Diversity exists a.o. in the size of customers, country SHARE AND The currency risk attached to the transactions in the other curof origin, size of outstanding receivables and types of customers. SHARErencies is not significant as the amounts involved are not significant A large part of the trade debtors for international markets, Ireland, HOLDERS to the total Group. the UK, Germany and the Netherlands and smaller trade debtors in Finland are insured via credit risk insurances. In addition, receivaInterest rate risk ble balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that FINANCIAL The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on the interest-bearing the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant. The Group’s PER FORnon-current and current liabilities. historical experience of collecting receivables is that credit risk is MANCE The Group is exposed to the consequences of variable interest considered to be low across all markets. rates on the multicurrency term loan of EUR 125m and the singleThe Group uses several banks (range of most used banks varies between AAand A (long-term) and A-1+ and A-2 (short-term)) and has a revolving RISKS facility available Cash balances Credit revolving loan Other loans 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm Rating (S&P) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 C O R P O R AT E Danske Bank A/S Long-term A 519 44 – – –526 –520 Nordea Short-term A-1+ 3 49 – – – – GOVER NANCE Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Long-term AA41 423 – – –526 –520 S TAT E M E N T Tatra Banka Short-term A-2 8 9 – – – – Ulster Bank Ltd. Short-term A-1 5 20 – – – – FINANCIAL KBC Short-term A-1 1 0 – – – – Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB Long-term A+ 0 0 – – –526 –520 REPORTS (publ) DNB Sweden AB Long-term AA– – – – –526 –520 Other banks 1 7 – – – – Total 579 551 – – –2,106 –2,078 S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 124 F inancial reports Liquidity risk with internal balance sheet ratio targets and, if applicable, external Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the regulatory or legal requirements for example, currency restrictions. Group and is aggregated by the Group Treasury department. The The Notional Group Account (NGA) and Multi-currency Zero Group Treasury department monitors the sources and the amounts Balancing Cash Pool (MZBCP) include both the Parent Company of the company’s cash flows, dividend, obligation, loans, actual cash and several operating entities. Surplus cash held by operating entities position and rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements included in the NGA and the MZBCP is available to the Group’s to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs, while mainTreasury department and is used for the Group’s internal and taining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing external financing activities. Surplus cash held by operating entities facilities (Note 20) at all times so that the Group does not breach not included in the NGA and MZBCP is transferred to the Group’s borrowing limits or covenants on any of its borrowing facilities, and Treasury department and is also used for the Group’s internal and the impact such restrictions had or are expected to have on its ability external financing activities. to meet its cash obligations. Such forecasting takes into consideration The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities into the Group’s debt financing plans, covenant compliance, compliance relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. SEKm Term Term Term Term Term Term 31 Dec 2019 < 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years >5 years Total Loans from credit institutions 1,320 806 – – – – 2,126 Commercial papers 500 – – – – – 500 Lease liabilities 64 52 44 25 14 5 204 Note 1 Derivative financial liabilities 70 5 1 – – – 76 Note 2 Trade and other payables, 1,052 – – – – – 1,052 Note 3 excluding other taxes and social security payables Note 4 Note 5 Total 3,006 863 45 25 14 5 3,958 Note 6 Note 7 SEKm Term Term Term Term Term Term Note 8 31 Dec 2018 < 1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years >5 years Total Note 9 Loans from credit institutions 17 1,290 805 – – – 2,112 Note 10 Commercial papers 505 – – – – – 505 Note 11 Lease liabilities 63 4 4 – – – 71 Note 12 Trade and other payables, 1,185 – – – – – 1,185 Note 13 excluding other taxes and social Note 14 security payables Note 15 Total 1,770 1,294 809 – – – 3,873 Note 16 Note 17 Capital risk management unsecured in nature, includes one covenant, relating to the net debt/ Note 18 In addition to the capital management disclosure in Note 18, the EBITDA ratio. The covenant was not affected by the amendment and Note 19 Group’s priority in monitoring capital is to maintain compliance restatement of the term and revolving facilities agreement in June Note 20 with the covenants in the applicable credit facilities agreements. 2018. Throughout 2018 and 2019, the Group was in compliance with Note 21 Cloetta actively monitors these covenants and other ratios on a the covenant requirements. Note 22 quarterly basis. The term and revolving facilities agreement, which is Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 27 Financial instruments – measurement categories and fair values Note 27 Note 28 Share-based long-term incentive plan Fair value measurement Note 29 The AGMs approved the Board’s proposal relating to a share-based The only items recognized at fair value are: Note 30 long-term incentive plan. • The interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts Note 31 Under the share-based long-term incentive plans, the entity categorized at level 2 of the fair value hierarchy in all periods preNote 32 receives services from employees as consideration for equity instrusented, as well as; ments (shares) of the Group. The fair value of the employee services • The contingent earn-out consideration related to the acquisition of received in exchange for the grant of the shares is recognized as an Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries initially categorized at expense. level 3. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares granted: The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities measured at am• including any market performance conditions (for example, an ortized cost are approximately equal to their carrying amounts, with entity’s share price); and the exception of the forward contract to repurchase own shares which has a fair value of SEK 0m (liability) while the carrying amount is • including the impact of any service and non-market performance SEK 65m (liability). vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining as an employee of the entity over a specified time period). See Note 23 for more information. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 125 WORDS The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy: FROM THE Carrying amount Fair value PRESIDENT Other Financial financial assets at liabilities at GOALS SEKm Mandatorily amortized amortized 31 Dec 2019 at FVTPL cost cost Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total AND Financial assets S T R AT E G I E S • Trade and other receivables, – excluding other taxes and social security receivables THE CONand prepaid expenses and accrued income 832 – 832 FECTIONERY • Cash and cash equivalents – 579 – 579 MARKET Total assets – 1,411 – 1,411 – – – – BRAND, Financial liabilities C AT E G O R Y & • Loans from – credit institutions – 2,106 2,106 PRODUCT DE• Commercial papers – – 499 499 V ELO PM ENT • Forward contract to – repurchase own shares – 65 65 – 0 – 0 • Interest rate swaps 6 – – 6 – 6 – 6 C L O E T TA’ S • Lease liabilities – – 204 204 MAIN • Trade and other payables, – MARKETS excluding other taxes and social security payables and excluding contingent consideration – 1,052 1,052 Total liabilities 6 – 3,926 3,932 – 6 – 6 S U P P LY CHAIN Carrying amount Fair value Other E M P L OY E E S Financial financial assets at liabilities at SEKm Mandatorily amortized amortized 31 Dec 2018 at FVTPL cost cost Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets • Forward foreign currency contracts 1 – – 1 – 1 – 1 SHARE AND • Trade and other receivables, excluding other taxes and SHAREHOLDERS social security receivables and prepaid expenses and accrued income – 756 – 756 • Cash and cash equivalents – 551 – 551 FINANCIAL Total assets 1 1,307 – 1,308 – 1 – 1 PER FORFinancial liabilities MANCE • Loans from credit institutions – – 2,078 2,078 • Commercial papers – – 500 500 RISKS • Forward contract to repurchase own shares – – 59 59 – 11 – 11 • Interest rate swaps 5 – – 5 – 5 – 5 • Trade and other payables, excluding other taxes and social security payables C O R P O R AT E and excluding contingent GOVER NANCE consideration – – 1,040 1,040 • Contingent consideration 142 – – 142 – – 142 142 Total liabilities 3,824 158 S TAT E M E N T 147 – 3,677 – 16 142 The assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 December 2019 On 28 April 2017, the contingent earn-out consideration arising and 31 December 2018 respectively are reflected in ‘derivative finanfrom the acquisition of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiarFINANCIAL REPORTS cial instruments’ and ‘other current liabilities. There are no financial ies was recognized in an amount of SEK 128m. The final earn-out instruments categorized at level 3 of the fair value hierarchy other consideration amounted to SEK 146m and was settled in 2019. No than the contingent earn-out consideration related to the acquisition transfers between fair value hierarchy levels have occurred during of Candyking Holding AB and its subsidiaries. See Note 22 for movethe financial year or the prior financial year. ments in the contingent earn-out consideration. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 126 F inancial reports The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in The valuation techniques and inputs used to value financial instruan active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is ments are: determined using valuation techniques. These valuation techniques • Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for similar instruments; maximize the use of observable market data where it is available and • The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates. If all significant value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield inputs required to determine the fair value of an instrument are obcurves; servable, the instrument is included in level 2. The valuation of these instruments is based on quoted market prices (price-component), but • The fair value of forward foreign currency contracts is calculated the underlying contract amounts (quantity-component) are based on using the difference between the exchange rate on the balance sheet date with the contractually agreed upon exchange rate; the specific requirements of the Group. These instruments are therefore included at level 2. The fair value measurement of the contingent • Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, are used to consideration requires use of significant unobservable inputs and was determine fair value for the remaining financial instruments. thereby initially categorized at level 3. The contingent considerations are measured at fair value using the expected financial performance. The valuation techniques used in measuring Level 2 and Level 3 fair values, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used, are specified as follows: Inter-relationship between Significant significant unobservable inputs Type Valuation technique unobservable inputs and fair value measurement Contingent considerations – C ontingent earn-out The fair value of the contingent earn-out conTotal sold volume of pick & mix The estimated fair value would considerations sideration is calculated based on the pick & in confectionery and natural increase (decrease) if: Note 1 mix sold volume for 2018 of the Cloetta Group snacks in the Nordic countries, – Total sold volume of pick & mix Note 2 in comparison with the sold volume target the UK and Poland during 2018. in confectionery and natural Note 3 and the minimum sold volume as defined in snacks in the Nordic countries, the purchase agreement between Cloetta the UK and Poland during 2018 Note 4 and the previous shareholder and the agent were higher (lower). Note 5 of the bondholders. The expected payment is discounted using the cost of equity. Note 6 Note 7 Derivative financial Note 8 instruments Note 9 – Interest rate swaps The valuation of the interest rate swaps is calNot applicable Not applicable Note 10 culated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows based on observable yield Note 11 curves. Note 12 Note 13 – Forward foreign currency The valuation of the forward foreign currency Not applicable Not applicable contracts contract is calculated as the difference beNote 14 tween future cash flows in foreign currencies Note 15 converted at the spot rate at reporting date Note 16 and the future cash flows in foreign currencies converted at the contractual agreed upon Note 17 exchange rates. Note 18 – Forward contracts to The valuation of the forward contract to Not applicable Not applicable Note 19 repurchase own shares repurchase own shares is calculated as the Note 20 agreed upon price for repurchasing own Note 21 shares multiplied by the number of shares to Note 22 be repurchased on the maturity date of the contract. Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 See Note 22 for the effect of the measurements regarding contingent consideration liabilities in the profit and loss account or other Note 26 comprehensive income and for movements in contingent consideration liabilities. Note 27 Note 28 Note 28 Related-party transactions Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 All group companies mentioned in Note P8 are considered to be reNote 6. The Group has no receivables on the Board of Directors, Note 32 lated parties. Transactions between group companies are eliminated Group Management Team and key employees. In 2018 and 2019 upon consolidation. share-based long-term incentive plans were approved by the AGM. In the context of this financial report, and aside from the subsidTotal costs excluding social security charges related to the shareiaries of Cloetta AB (publ), the Board of Directors, Group Managebased long-term incentive plans that were recognized amount to ment Team and key employees that have significant influence over the SEK 3m (2), of which SEK 4m (0) is related to the Group ManageGroup and AB Malfors Promotor and its subsidiaries are regarded ment Team. The higher costs for the Group Management team comas related parties. In 2018 and 2019 no transactions, other than divpared to the total costs are mainly related to key employees leaving idend payments, occurred between Cloetta AB (publ) including its Cloetta before the vesting date of the plans. subsidiaries and AB Malfors Promotor including its subsidiaries. Other liabilities to the Group Management Team and key employees consist of customary personnel-related liabilities. No other Transactions with Board of Directors, transactions other than dividend payment and employee and Board Group Management Team and key employees remuneration occurred between Cloetta AB (publ) including its For information about salaries and remuneration of the Board of subsidiaries and the Board of Directors, Group Management Team Directors and Group Management Team, see pages 82–83 and and key employees. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 127 WORDS Note 29 Leases FROM THE PRESIDENT See Note 1 (XXIX) for the accounting policy. Recognized expenses for leases amount to: GOALS 31 Dec AND SEKm 2018 S T R AT E G I E S Recognized expenses for operating leases under IAS 17 amounted to: THE CONLease payments 106 Future annual payment obligations for leased assets in the FECTIONERY Group are broken down as follows: MARKET Within one year 80 Between one and five years 114 More than 5 years 8 BRAND, Total 202 C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT SEKm 2019 2018 Recognized in: Recognized expenses for leases C L O E T TA’ S under IFRS 16 amount to: Interest expense –3 – net financial items, in the profit and loss account MAIN Expense relating to short-term leases, –9 – cost of goods sold, selling expenses and general and administrative MARKETS where no right-of-use asset has been expenses, in the profit and loss account recognized Expense relating to leases of low-value 0 – cost of goods sold, selling expenses and general and administrative assets that are not short-term leases expenses, in the profit and loss account S U P P LY Expense relating to variable lease payments –13 – cost of goods sold, selling expenses and general and administrative not included in lease liabilities expenses, in the profit and loss account CHAIN Total cash outflow for leases –75 – cash flow from operating activities and financing activities, in the cash flow statement E M P L OY E E S The reconciliation of the operating lease commitments at The leases that have been recorded on Cloetta’s balance sheet as 31 December 2018 to the opening lease liability on 1 January 2019 is a result of IFRS 16 are categorized in land and buildings (offices and as follows, using a weighted average incremental borrowing rate at warehouses), transport (cars, forklifts and trucks) and other equipinitial application date of 1.49%: ment (e.g. IT, machinery, equipment, printers and coffee machines). Cloetta makes use of the exemptions under IFRS 16 for shortSHARE AND term leases and leases of low-value assets, except for any leases of SEKm vehicles with a remaining lease term at implementation date of less SHAREOperating lease commitments disclosed 202 at 31 December 2018 than 12 months. HOLDERS For a number of lease arrangements Cloetta cannot reliably sepDiscounting impact using the IBR –7 at the date of initial application arate the lease and non-lease elements. For these lease arrangements Discounted operating lease commitments 195 the non-lease elements have been included in the calculation of the FINANCIAL at 31 December 2018 right-of-use asset. PER FORShort-term, low-value and variable leases –34 Several lease arrangements contain extension or termination MANCE not recognized as a liability options. Insofar as Cloetta is reasonably certain of exercising the exContracts reassessed as lease contracts 45 tension option or not exercising the termination option, these options Adjustments as a result of different treatment of exten19 have been reflected in the measurement of the lease liabilities. sion and termination options RISKS Other adjustments 4 Lease liability recognized as at 1 January 2019 229 C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 128 F inancial reports Some of Cloetta’s key figures have been impacted as a consequence of SEKm 2019 the application of IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ as per 1 January 2019. The key figures which are affected are indicatively adjusted for Return on capital employed the IFRS 16 impact in the overview below. Return on capital employed (Rolling 12 months), % 10.0 Adjustment for: Right-of-use assets, % 0.1 31 Dec SEKm 2019 Return on capital employed (Rolling 12 months) 10.1 excluding IFRS 16 impact1, % Net debt Net debt 2,302 Capital expenditure Adjustment for: IFRS 16 Lease liabilities –204 Capital expenditure 235 Net debt excluding IFRS 16 impact 2,098 Adjustment for: additions right-of-use assets –49 Capital expenditure excluding IFRS 16 impact 186 Capital employed Capital employed 7,576 Equity/assets ratio Adjustment for: Right-of-use assets –203 Equity/assets ratio, % 43.4 Capital employed excluding IFRS 16 impact 7,373 Adjustment for: Right-of-use assets, % 1.0 Equity/asset ratio excluding IFRS 16 impact, % 44.4 SEKm 2019 Net debt/equity ratio Depreciation Net debt/equity ratio, % 54.8 Depreciation –290 Adjustment for: IFRS 16 Lease liabilities, % –4.8 Adjustment for: Depreciation right-of-use assets 76 Net debt/equity ratio excluding IFRS 16 impact, % 50.0 Note 1 Depreciation excluding IFRS 16 impact –214 Note 2 Note 3 Cash flow from operating activities Operating profit, adjusted Note 4 Cash flow from operating activities 724 Operating profit, adjusted 743 Note 5 Adjustment for: Repayments of lease liabilities –75 Adjustment for: Interest on lease liabilities –3 Note 6 Cash flow from operating activities 649 Operating profit, adjusted excluding IFRS 16 impact 740 excluding IFRS 16 impact Note 7 Note 8 Note 9 Operating profit margin, adjusted, % Cash flow from financing activities Note 10 Operating profit margin, adjusted,% 11.4 Cash flow from financing activities –362 Note 11 Adjustment for: Interest on lease liabilities, % –0.0 Adjustment for: Repayments of lease liabilities 75 Note 12 Operating profit margin, 11.4 Cash flow from financing activities –287 adjusted excluding IFRS 16 impact, % excluding IFRS 16 impact Note 13 Note 14 Note 15 Operating profit (EBIT) Free cash flow Note 16 Operating profit (EBIT) 727 Free cash flow 538 Note 17 Adjustment for: Interest on lease liabilities –3 Adjustment for: Repayments of lease liabilities –75 Note 18 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding IFRS 16 impact 724 Free cash flow excluding IFRS 16 impact 463 Note 19 Note 20 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), % Free cash flow yield Note 21 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin),% 11.2 Free cash flow yield (Rolling 12 months), % 5.9 Note 22 Adjustment for: Interest on lease liabilities, % 0.0 Adjustment for: Repayments of lease liabilities –0.9 Note 23 (Rolling 12 months), %1 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin) 11.2 Note 24 excluding IFRS 16 impact, % Free cash flow yield (Rolling 12 months) 5.0 Note 25 excluding IFRS 16 impact, % Note 26 EBITDA, adjusted Note 27 Cash flow from operating activities per share EBITDA, adjusted 1,046 Note 28 Adjustment for: Depreciation right-of-use assets and –79 Cash flow from operating activities per share 2.5 Note 29 interest on lease liabilities Adjustment for: Repayments of lease liabilities –0.3 Note 30 EBITDA, adjusted excluding IFRS 16 impact 967 Cash flow from operating activities per share 2.2 Note 31 excluding IFRS 16 impact Note 32 EBITDA 1) Pro-forma annualized. EBITDA 1,030 Adjustment for: Depreciation right-of-use assets and –79 See Note 12 for further details on right-of-use assets and Note 26 for interest on lease liabilities further details on lease liabilities. EBITDA excluding IFRS 16 impact 951 Net debt/EBITDA Net debt excluding IFRS 16 impact 2,098 EBITDA, adjusted excluding IFRS 16 impact 1 967 (Rolling 12 months) Net debt/EBITDA excluding IFRS 16 impact1, x 2.2 (Rolling 12 months) << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 129 WORDS cost, actuarial assumptions are made about demographic variables Critical accounting estimates (such as mortality) and financial variables (such as future increases FROM THE Note 30 and judgements in salaries). Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant PRESIDENT impact on the projected benefit obligations, funding requirements In preparing the financial statements, the Group Management Team and periodic costs incurred. It should be noted that when discount makes estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts rates decline or rates of future salary increase, the pension benefit GOALS of assets and liabilities, net sales and expenses, and disclosures of obligations will increase. For details about the key assumptions and AND contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies, see Note 23. The carrying amount at the end of the reporting estimates and assumptions that are associated with a significant risk S T R AT E G I E S period was SEK 499m (419). of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year, as well as critical judgments Revenue recognition THE CONin applying the Group’s accounting policies are discussed below. The Revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of the goods accounting estimates and judgments are believed to be reasonable FECTIONERY or services. Determining the timing of the transfer of control – at a under the circumstances. point in time or over time – and amounts allocated to performance MARKET The Group Management Team and audit committee have obligations requires judgement. For merchandising services, revenue discussed the development, selection and disclosures regarding the is recognized in the amount to which Cloetta has a right to invoice. BRAND, Group’s critical accounting principles and estimates. The estimates Since delivery of goods and merchandising services normally takes C AT E G O R Y & and judgments made in the application of the Group’s accounting place weekly, this output method best reflects that the measure of PRODUCT DEpolicies are described below. progress of the merchandising service as a performance obligation is V ELO PM ENT satisfied at the same time as the goods are delivered. Impairment testing of intangible assets For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are allocated to CGUs Leases C L O E T TA’ S when it is not possible to assess impairment on an individual asset The Group applies judgment to determine the lease term for some MAIN basis. The recoverable amount of an asset is compared to the carrying lease contracts, in which it is a lessee, that include renewal options. MARKETS amount to determine if an asset is impaired. An asset’s recoverable The assessment of whether the Group is reasonably certain of exeramount is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less cost of cising such options impacts the lease term, which significantly affects disposal. The value in use is the present value of the future cash flows the amounts of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets recognized. to be generated by an asset from its continuing use in the business. S U P P LY Using management’s best estimates in determination of the terCHAIN minal growth rates, pre-tax discount rates and future cash flows, the estimated recoverable amounts of the group of CGUs in Scandinavia Note 31 Changes in accounting policies and Middle and the CGUs in Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands E M P L OY E E S exceed the carrying amounts. New and amended standards The carrying amount of the intangible assets at the end of the and interpretations adopted by the Group reporting period was SEK 5,684m (5,626). A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January Accounting for income taxes 2019. None of these have a material impact on the consolidated As part of the process of preparing the financial statements, the financial statements of the Group, with the exception of IFRS 16 as SHARE AND Group is required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdicset out below. SHAREtions in which the Group operates. There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain HOLDERS IFRS 16, ‘Leases’, was issued in January 2016 and supersedes IAS 17 during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognizes liabilLeases. It results in almost all leases being recognized on the balance ities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases has FINANCIAL additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these been removed. Under the new standard, an asset (the right to use the matters differs from the amounts that were initially recorded, such leased item) and a lease liability to pay rentals are recognized. The PER FORdifferences impact the current and deferred income tax assets and only exceptions are short-term and low-value leases. The standard MANCE liabilities in the period in which such determination is made. is mandatory for financial years commencing on or after 1 January Temporary differences between tax and financial reporting 2019. The standard affects the accounting for the Group’s operating give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in leases. Cloetta decided to opt for the modified retrospective transiRISKS the balance sheet. The Group must also assess the likelihood that tion approach in which the right-of-use asset equals the lease liability deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. per the transition date. For the calculation of the lease liability per 1 A deferred tax asset is not recognized if, and to the extent that it is January 2019 the discount rates as at 1 January 2019 were used. The probable that, all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be leases that have been recorded on Cloetta’s balance sheet as a result realized. of IFRS 16 are categorized in land and buildings (offices and wareC O R P O R AT E houses), transport (cars, forklifts and trucks) and other equipment GOVER NANCE Accounting for pensions (e.g. IT, machinery, equipment, printers and coffee machines). and other post-employment benefits The Group has assessed the estimated impact that initial S TAT E M E N T Pension benefits represent obligations that will be settled in the application of IFRS 16 has on its consolidated financial statement, future and require assumptions to project the benefit obligations as described below. Until 31 December 2018, the Group recognized and fair values of plan assets. Post-employment benefit accounting lease expenses on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, and FINANCIAL is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the recognized assets and liabilities only to the extent that there was a employee’s expected service period, based on the terms of the plans timing difference between actual lease payments and the expenses REPORTS and the investment and funding decisions made by the Group. For recognized. On 1 January 2019 the Group recognized an additional calculation of the present value of the pension obligation and the net lease liability of SEK 229m, and a right-of-use asset of SEK 229m. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 130 F inancial reports The impact for 2019 is an improvement in EBITDA of SEK 79m, an New standards and amendments increase in depreciation costs of SEK 76m and increased financial to standards not yet adopted expenses of SEK 3m. There is no significant impact for leases in A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interwhich Cloetta is a lessor. pretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January The new accounting policies for leases are disclosed in Note 1. 2019, which have not been applied in preparing these consolidated In applying IFRS 16 for the first time, the Group has used the financial statements. None of these are expected to have a material following practical expedients permitted by the standard: impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. • Relying on previous assessments of whether leases are onerous as There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not an alternative to performing an impairment review. There were no yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on the Group. onerous contracts as at 1 January 2019. • Accounting for operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 January 2019 as short-term leases. Note 32 Events after the balance sheet date • Excluding initial direct costs for the measurement of the right-ofuse asset at the date of initial application. After the end of the reporting period, no significant events have taken • Using hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract place that could affect the company’s operations. contains options to extend or terminate the lease. Note 1 Note 2 Note 3 Note 4 Note 5 Note 6 Note 7 Note 8 Note 9 Note 10 Note 11 Note 12 Note 13 Note 14 Note 15 Note 16 Note 17 Note 18 Note 19 Note 20 Note 21 Note 22 Note 23 Note 24 Note 25 Note 26 Note 27 Note 28 Note 29 Note 30 Note 31 Note 32 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 131 WORDS Parent Company financial statements FROM THE PRESIDENT and notes GOALS AND Parent Company S T R AT E G I E S profit and loss account THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET SEKm Note 2019 2018 BRAND, Net sales P2 83 84 C AT E G O R Y & Gross profit 83 84 PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT General and administrative expenses P3, P4 –105 –93 Operating loss –22 –9 C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Exchange differences on borrowings and cash P5 7 4 Other financial income P5 75 24 MARKETS Other financial expenses P5 –23 –17 Net financial items 59 11 S U P P LY Profit before tax 37 2 CHAIN Income tax P6 –5 –2 Profit for the year 32 0 E M P L OY E E S Profit for the year corresponds to comprehensive income for the year. Primary activities Cloetta AB’s primary activities include head office functions such as group-wide management and administration. SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 132 F inancial reports Parent Company balance sheet SEKm Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 ASSETS Non-current financial assets Deferred tax asset P7 6 6 Shareholdings in group companies P8 4,884 4,884 Receivables from group companies P15 471 476 Total non-current financial assets 5,361 5,366 Current assets Receivables from group companies P15 97 38 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2 – Cash and bank P9 0 0 Total current assets 99 38 Total assets 5,460 5,404 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 1,443 1,443 Share premium 2,713 2,713 Retained earnings including profit for the year –952 –698 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company P10 3,204 3,458 Non-current liabilities Borrowings P11 799 798 Payables to group companies P15 136 135 Derivative financial instruments P12 2 3 Provisions 1 1 Total non-current liabilities 938 937 Current liabilities Payables to group companies P15 775 487 Borrowings P11 499 500 Trade payables 2 1 Other current liabilities 12 11 Derivative financial instruments P12 2 1 Accrued expenses and deferred income P13 21 9 Current income tax liabilities P7 7 – Total current liabilities 1,318 1,009 Total equity and liabilities 5,460 5,404 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 133 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND Parent Company S T R AT E G I E S statement of changes in equity THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET Share premium Retained SEKm Share capital reserve earnings Total equity BRAND, Balance at 1 January 2018 1,443 2,713 –267 C AT E G O R Y & 3,889 PRODUCT DEComprehensive income Profit for the year – – 0 0 V ELO PM ENT Total comprehensive income for 2018 – – 0 0 C L O E T TA’ S Transactions with owners MAIN Share-based payments – – 2 2 MARKETS Dividends – – –433 –433 Total transactions with owners – – –431 –431 S U P P LY Balance at 31 December 2018 1,443 2,713 –698 3,458 CHAIN Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – 32 32 E M P L OY E E S Total comprehensive income for 2019 – – 32 32 Transactions with owners Share-based payments – – 3 3 Dividend – – –289 –289 Total transactions with owners – – –286 –286 SHARE AND SHAREBalance at 31 December 2019 1,443 2,713 –952 3,204 HOLDERS Profit for the year corresponds to comprehensive income for the year. Total equity is attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 134 F inancial reports Parent Company cash flow statement SEKm Note 2019 2018 Operating loss –22 –9 Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses – –1 Interest paid –15 –10 Income tax paid –1 –1 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital –38 –21 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in operating receivables –7 27 Change in operating liabilities 342 130 Cash flow from operating activities 297 136 Cash flow from operating and investing activities 297 136 Financing activities Repayment of interest-bearing borrowings –1,558 –700 Proceeds from borrowings (net of transaction cost) 1,557 1,000 Other – 1 Dividends to shareholders –289 –433 Cash flow from financing activities –290 –132 Cash flow for the year 7 4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year P9 0 0 Cash flow for the year 7 4 Exchange difference –7 –4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year P9 0 0 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 135 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND Notes to the Parent Company S T R AT E G I E S financial statements THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, Dividends C AT E G O R Y & Accounting and valuation policies of Note P1 Anticipated dividends from group companies are recognized in PRODUCT DEthe Parent Company cases where the Parent Company has full control over the size of the V ELO PM ENT dividend and has decided on the size of the dividend before the Parent The annual financial statements of the Parent Company are presentCompany publishes its financial reports. ed in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) C L O E T TA’ S Dividends received from group companies are recognized in the and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation profit and loss account. MAIN RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities. The statements issued by the MARKETS Board with respect to listed companies are also applied. RFR 2 states Employee benefits that in the report for the legal entity, the Parent Company shall apply Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans also include the all EU-endorsed IFRSs and statements as far as possible, within return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and with respect to the S U P P LY ceiling, if any, excluding interest. Remeasurements are recognized in connection between accounting and taxation. This recommendation the profit and loss account when incurred. Salary increases are not CHAIN defines the exceptions and additional disclosures compared to IFRS. taken into account in the calculation of the defined benefit obligation, These financial statements include the financial statements of the and the applied discount rate is established by the Swedish Financial Parent Company covering the period from 1 January to 31 December Supervisory Authority. All other expenses related to defined benefit E M P L OY E E S 2019. plans are recognized in the general and administrative expenses in the profit and loss account when incurred. Changed accounting standards Neither revised IFRSs, nor revised RFR 2 (January 2018) effecFinancial guarantees tive from 1 January 2019 have entailed any practical change in the For reporting of financial guarantee contracts on behalf of group accounting standards for the Parent Company. SHARE AND companies, the Parent Company applies a voluntary exemption that is permitted by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. The SHAREDifferences between the accounting policies of the voluntary exemption refers to financial guarantees issued on behalf HOLDERS Group and the Parent Company of group companies. The Parent Company recognizes financial guarThe differences between the accounting principles applied by the antee contracts as provisions in the balance sheet when it is probable Group and the Parent Company are described below. that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. FINANCIAL The costs are recognized in the general and administrative expenses PER FORClassification and presentation in the profit and loss account. MANCE The profit and loss account and balance sheet of the Parent Company are presented in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The differences compared to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, refer mainly to financial income and expenses, equity and the Note P2 Breakdown of income presentation of provisions as a separate item in the balance sheet. RISKS The net sales of SEK 83m (84) refer to intra-group services. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are expensed when incurred and recognized in the The breakdown of net sales by market is as follows: other financial expenses in the profit and loss account. C O R P O R AT E SEKm 2019 2018 Sweden 36 44 GOVER NANCE Group contributions S TAT E M E N T The Netherlands 13 11 Group contributions received are recognized in other financial Finland 5 7 income in the profit and loss account. Group contributions paid to Other 29 22 group companies are reported by the Parent Company as an investment in shareholdings in group companies in the balance sheet. Total 83 84 FINANCIAL REPORTS Shareholdings in group companies Shareholdings in group companies are accounted for at acquisition costs. The transaction costs are included in the carrying amount of shareholdings in group companies. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 136 F inancial reports Note P3 Personnel expenses Note P5 Net financial items and number of employees SEKm 2019 2018 SEKm 2019 2018 Exchange differences on borrowings 7 4 Salaries and remuneration and cash Group Management Team – Sweden 21 17 Group contributions 68 14 Of which, short-term variable compensation Interest income, group companies 7 10 – Sweden 8 2 Unrealized gains on single currency interest – – Total salaries and remuneration 21 17 rate swaps Interest income on financial liabilities meas– – ured at amortized cost Pension costs Salaries and remuneration Other financial income 75 24 – Defined contribution plans 4 3 – Defined benefit plans 0 0 Interest expenses, third-party borrowings –10 –9 Total pension costs 4 3 Interest expenses, group companies –7 –1 Unrealized losses on single currency interest –4 –3 Social security expenses, all employees 9 6 rate swaps Total pension costs and social security 13 9 Realized losses on single currency interest –3 –3 expenses rate swaps Total personnel expenses 34 26 Other interest expenses 1 –1 Other financial expenses –23 –17 Note P1 Note P2 See pages 82–83 for details on remuneration of the Group ManageNet financial items 59 11 Note P3 ment Team. Note P4 The company expenses the pension obligation related to the Note P5 defined benefit pension plans, which are secured through credit Note P6 insurance with, and administered by, Försäkringsbolaget PRI PenNote P6 Income taxes Note P7 sionsgaranti, Mutual in the administrative expenses in the profit and Note P8 loss account. SEKm 2019 2018 Note P9 The average number of employees is 4 (4), of which zero (0) are Note P10 women. All employees are employed in Sweden. Current income tax –5 –2 Note P11 Deferred income tax 0 0 Note P12 The specification of gender distribution in the Board of Directors and Total –5 –2 Note P13 Group Management Team is as follows: The year’s income tax expense corresponds 17.9 84.8 Note P14 to an effective tax rate of, % % 2019 2018 Note P15 Percentage of women Board of Directors 43 43 SEKm 2019 2018 Group Management Team 17 13 The difference between the effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate in Sweden is attributable to the following items: Taxable profit from ordinary activities 37 2 Note P4 Audit fees Tax calculated at applicable tax rate for the –8 0 Parent Company 2019 2018 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1 –1 SEKm PwC KPMG Adjustments recognized in the period for tax 1 – for prior periods Fee for auditing services 2 3 Other 1 –1 Income tax –5 –2 Fee for other services – Tax advice – – – Audit-related advice – – Reported effective tax rate, % 17.9 84.8 – Other 0 0 Tax rate in Sweden, % 21.4 22.0 Total other services 0 0 Total audit fees 2 3 Note P7 Deferred and current income tax For the financial year 2019 PwC was elected as auditor of the Group and for the financial year 2018 KPMG was elected as the auditor of Deferred tax assets and liabilities refer to the tax effect of the difthe Group. ference between the tax base of the defined asset or liability and its Auditing services refer to the auditing of the Parent Company’s carrying amount as recognized in the financial statements. Deferred statutory financial statements, the Parent Company’s administration tax for the period was SEK 6m (6) and is considered to be realized by the Board of Directors and the President and CEO and the audit of after more than 12 months. The recognized deferred taxes comprise remuneration of Group Management. deductible temporary differences of SEK 6m (6) and unutilized tax losses carried forward of SEK 0m (0). There are no unrecognized deferred taxes. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 137 WORDS Note P8 Shareholdings in group companies FROM THE PRESIDENT Cloetta AB (publ) GOALS AND Cloetta Cloetta Development Cloetta S T R AT E G I E S Sverige AB Holland BV AB THE CONCloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta Cloetta FECTIONERY Ireland Deutschland Finance USA Holland BV Holland BV Middle East MARKET Nutisal AB Slovakia sro Suomi Oy België NV Holding Ltd GmbH Holland BV Inc.** Italian branch Singapore branch DMCC BRAND, Candyking Candyking Cloetta UK Cloetta Cloetta C AT E G O R Y & Poland Danmark Sverige AB Sp. z o.o. Ltd ApS Ireland Ltd PRODUCT DE* F TF Sweets USA Inc.: As of 8 February 2017 FTF Sweets USA Ltd is dissolved – V ELO PM ENT the 3 years unwinding period ended 8 February 2020. ** C  loetta USA Inc.: As of 23 May 2017 Cloetta USA Ltd is dissolved – Cloetta UK Candymix the 3 years unwinding period ends 23 May 2020. C L O E T TA’ S FTF Sweets Cloetta Pickalot AB Dormant Ireland *** C loetta UK Dormant Ltd. and Candymix Ireland Ltd. are in the process of being struck USA Inc.* Norge AS Ltd*** Ltd*** off per 1 May 2019. MAIN MARKETS % of capital Carrying amount SEKm Corp. ID no. Domicile 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cloetta Holland B.V. 34221053 Amsterdam, the Netherlands 100 100 4,087 4,087 S U P P LY CHAIN Cloetta België N.V. 0404183756 Turnhout, Belgium 100 100 – – Cloetta Suomi Oy4 1933121-3 Turku, Finland 100 100 – – Candyking Finland Oy4 0732591-6 Helsinki, Finland – – – – Karikkikatu Oy4 0723577-7 Turku, Finland – – – – E M P L OY E E S Cloetta Danmark ApS 4 28106866 Brøndby, Denmark 100 100 – – Candyking Danmark A/S 4 27720390 Randers, Denmark – – – – Cloetta Norge AS 4 987943033 Høvik, Norway 100 100 – – Candyking Norge AS 4 979 514 743 Oslo, Norway – – – – Cloetta Deutschland GmbH HRB 9561 Bocholt, Germany 100 100 – – Cloetta USA Inc. 2 EIN 46-2706408 Wilmington, United States – – – – SHARE AND Cloetta Finance Holland B.V. 20078943 Amsterdam, the Netherlands 100 100 – – SHARECloetta Slovakia s.r.o. 35 962 488 Bratislava, Slovakia 100 100 – – HOLDERS Cloetta Nutisal AB 556706-9264 Helsingborg, Sweden 100 100 – – Cloetta Ireland Holding Ltd. 544426 Dublin, Ireland 100 100 – – Cloetta Ireland Ltd. 285910 Dublin, Ireland 100 100 – – FINANCIAL Candymix Ireland Ltd. 494493 Dublin, Ireland 100 100 – – Cloetta Middle East DMCC 5 DMCC156985 Dubai, United Arab Emirates 100 – – – PER FORCloetta Sverige AB 8 556674-9155 Malmö, Sweden 100 100 795 795 MANCE E out instrument AB 8 559094-9748 Linköping, Sweden 100 100 – – Candyking Sverige AB 3 556319-6780 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – Pickalot AB 556730-1857 Stockholm, Sweden 100 100 – – RISKS Lilla Fiket AB 3 559016-4181 Stockholm, Sweden – – – – Cloetta UK Ltd. 6 01726257 Hampshire, United Kingdom 100 100 – – Cloetta UK Dormant Ltd. 6 06775890 Heysham, United Kingdom 100 100 – – FTF Sweets USA Inc.1 211476123 Newark, United States – – – – Candyking Poland Sp. z o.o.7 0000347591 Warsaw, Poland 100 100 – – C O R P O R AT E Cloetta Development AB 556377-3182 Linköping, Sweden 100 100 2 2 GOVER NANCE Total 4,884 4,884 S TAT E M E N T 1) On 8 February 2017 FTF Sweets USA Inc. was dissolved. The three-year unwinding period ended on 8 February 2020. 2) On 23 May 2017 Cloetta USA Inc. was dissolved. The three-year unwinding period ends on 23 May 2020. 3) On 1 March 2018 Lilla Fiket AB was merged into Candyking Sverige AB. 4) O  n 1 May 2018 Candyking Finland Oy and Karkkikatu Oy were merged into Cloetta Suomi Oy, Candyking Danmark A/S was merged into Cloetta Danmark FINANCIAL ApS and Candyking Norge AS was merged into Cloetta Norge AS. REPORTS 5) On 10 February 2019 Cloetta Middle East DMCC was incorporated. 6) On 1 May 2019 Cloetta UK Ltd was renamed to Cloetta UK Dormant Ltd and Candyking UK Ltd was renamed to Cloetta UK Ltd. 7) On 13 February 2020 Cloetta Poland Sp. z o.o. was liquidated. 8) On 23 December 2019 E Out Instrument AB was merged into Cloetta Sverige AB. See Note 1 for disclosures on changes in Group structure. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 138 F inancial reports Note P9 Cash and cash equivalents Note P11 Borrowings A Multicurrency Zero Balancing Cash Pool (MZBCP) is in place, The Parent Company’s borrowings consist of loans from credit instiwhich is held by Cloetta Holland B.V. As a result, only the cash at tutions for a net amount of SEK 799m (798) and commercial papers bank accounts outside the MZBCP is presented for Cloetta AB of SEK 499m (500). (publ). See Note 17 for further details. The following table shows the reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities Long-term Short-term SEKm borrowings borrowings Total Note P10 Equity Balance at 1 January 2018 – 999 999 Changes from Share capital financing cash flows See Note 19 for a description of the share capital of the Parent Proceeds from – 999 999 commercial papers Company. Repayment of – –500 –500 commercial papers Non-restricted equity Repayment of loans – –200 –200 Retained earnings Other changes from Retained earnings comprise the sum of profit for the year and financing cash flows –3 1 –2 retained earnings from previous years. Retained earnings including Total changes from –3 300 297 the share premium reserve represent the amount of non-restricted financing cash flows Note P1 equity available for distribution to the shareholders. Note P2 Other changes Note P3 Dividend Reclassification between 799 –799 – long-term and short-term Note P4 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 4 April 2019 and 16 April borrowings Note P5 2018 approved the following dividend: Amortization of capitalized 1 – 1 Note P6 transaction costs Note P7 Interest expenses, 8 1 9 2019 2018 Note P8 third-party borrowings Note P9 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 1.0 0.75 Interest paid –7 –1 –8 Note P10 Special dividend per share, SEK – 0.75 Total other changes 801 –799 2 Note P11 Total dividend, SEKm 289 433 Note P12 Ordinary dividend as a percentage of profit for the previous year, excluding the impact Balance at 798 500 1,298 Note P13 of impairment loss 60 54 31 December 2018 Note P14 Payment date April 2019 April 2018 Changes from Note P15 financing cash flows Proceeds from – 1,557 1,557 After the reporting date, the following dividend was proposed by the commercial papers Board of Directors. The dividend has not been recognized as liability in Repayment of – –1,558 –1,558 the balance sheet commercial papers SEKm 2019 2018 Repayment of loans – – – Other changes from – – – Dividend per share, SEK 1.00 1.00 financing cash flows Total dividend, SEKm 289 289 Total changes from – –1 –1 financing cash flows The Board of Directors proposes that the total earnings in the Parent Company at the disposal of the AGM of SEK 1,764m (2,015) are to Other changes be distributed as follows: SEK 289m (289) to be distributed to the Amortization of capitalized 1 – 1 transaction costs shareholders and SEK 1,475m (1,726) to be carried forward to new Interest expenses, 8 2 10 account. third-party borrowings Interest paid –8 –2 –10 Total other changes 1 0 1 Balance at 799 499 1,298 31 December 2019 See Note 20 for the disclosure of the borrowings. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 139 WORDS Note P12 Derivative financial instruments Note P15 Related-party transactions FROM THE PRESIDENT The derivative financial instruments comprise single currency interThe Parent Company’s holdings of shares and participations in subest rate swap liabilities amounting to SEK 4m (4) of which SEK 2m sidiaries are specified in Note P8. (3) is non-current in nature. GOALS Receivables from and liabilities to subsidiaries are broken down as follows: AND S T R AT E G I E S 31 Dec 31 Dec Note P13 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEKm 2019 2018 THE CONNon-current interest-bearing receivables 471 476 Accrued expenses and deferred income amount to SEK 21m (9), of Current interest-free receivables 97 38 which SEK 13m (3) is related to accrued personnel-related expenses Non-current interest-bearing payables –136 –135 FECTIONERY and SEK 8m (6) to other accrued expenses and deferred income. Current interest-bearing payables –758 –476 MARKET Current interest-free payables –17 –11 Total –343 –108 BRAND, Note P14 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities C AT E G O R Y & For the Parent Company, SEK 83m (84), equal to 100 per cent (100) PRODUCT DEof the year’s net sales, and SEK 57m (48), equal to 54 per cent (52) of V ELO PM ENT 31 Dec 31 Dec the year’s purchases, refer to group companies in the Cloetta Group. SEKm 2019 2018 The prices of goods and services sold to and purchased from related Contingent liabilities parties are set on market-based terms. C L O E T TA’ S Guarantees on behalf of group companies 834 801 At 31 December 2019 the Parent Company’s receivables from MAIN Guarantee for loans from credit institutions 1,306 1,278 group companies amounted to SEK 568m (514) and liabilities to MARKETS for group companies subsidiaries amounted to SEK 911m (622). Transactions with related Total 2,140 2,079 parties are priced on market-based terms. Total costs excluding social security charges related to the share-based long-term incentive The company issued a parent company guarantee pursuant to Article plan amounted to SEK 1m (2), of which SEK 1m (0) is related to the S U P P LY 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in respect of Cloetta Holland Group Management Team. CHAIN B.V. and Cloetta Finance Holland B.V. This means that Cloetta AB The Parent Company has no past experience of credit losses declares and accepts, under reservation of legal repeal of the declaon receivables from group companies and future credit losses are ration, joint and several liability for the debts resulting from legal expected to be immaterial. E M P L OY E E S acts of Cloetta Holland B.V. and Cloetta Finance Holland B.V. As the probability of a settlement is remote, an estimate of the financial effect is not practical to calculate. The term and revolving facilities agreement is unsecured in nature. SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 140 F inancial reports Proposed appropriation of earnings The Board of Directors proposes that dividends be paid in a total amount of SEK 288,619,299 equal to SEK 1.00 per share. The Board of Directors proposes that the earnings be disposed of as follows: Earnings in the Parent Company at the diposal The earnings are to be disposed as follows: 2019 of the Annual General Meeting 2019 To be distributed to the shareholders SEK 288,619,299 Share premium reserve SEK 2,711,620,366 To be carried forward to new account SEK 1,475,606,867 Retained earnings SEK –979,881,112 Total SEK 1,764,226,166 Profit for the year SEK 32,486,912 Total SEK 1,764,226,166 The number of shares at 31 December 2019 was 288,619,299. The Board of Directors and the President and CEO give their assurance that the consolidated financial statements and annual report have been prepared in accordance with Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002, on the Application of International Accounting Standards and Generally Accepted Accounting Standards, and give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of operations of the Group and the Parent Company. The administration report for the Group and the Parent Company gives a true and fair view of the business activities, financial position and results of operations of the Group and the Parent Company, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the Group companies are exposed. The statutory Sustainability Report, comprising those areas in the Cloetta AB (publ) annual report with content specified on the inside of the front cover, has been approved for publication by the Board of Directors. Stockholm, 10 March 2020 Lilian Fossum Biner Chairman Lottie Knutson Patrick Bergander Alan McLean Raleigh Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Mikael Svenfelt Camilla Svenfelt Mikael Aru Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Lena Grönedal Mikael Ström Employee Board member Employee Board member Henri de Sauvage-Nolting President and CEO Our audit report was issued on 10 March 2020. Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Erik Bergh Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Partner in charge The profit and loss accounts and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company are subject to approval by the AGM on 2 April 2020. The information in this report is subject to the disclosure requirements of Cloetta AB (publ) under the provisions in the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted to the media for publication on 12 March 2020, at 08:00 CET. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 141 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Auditor’s report GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S Unofficial translation THE CONTo the general meeting of the shareholders of Cloetta AB (publ), FECTIONERY corporate identity number 556308-8144 MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT Report on the annual accounts We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient C L O E T TA’ S and consolidated accounts and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. MAIN Opinions MARKETS We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Other matter Cloetta AB (publ) for the year 2019 except for the corporate governThe audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for year ance statement on pages 76–89. The annual accounts and consolidat2018 was performed by another auditor who submitted an auditor´s ed accounts of the company are included on pages 1–4 and 64–140 in report dated 12 March 2019, with unmodified opinions in the Report S U P P LY this document. on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. CHAIN In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all Our audit approach material respects, the financial position of parent company and the Overview E M P L OY E E S group as of 31 December 2019 and its financial performance and cash Audit scope flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance the risks of material misstatement in the consolidated financial with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material statements. In particular, we considered where management made respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2019 subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accountand their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended ing estimates that involved making assumptions and considering SHARE AND in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we SHARE(IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, HOLDERS opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages including among other matters consideration of whether there was 76–89. The statutory administration report is consistent with the evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. to fraud. FINANCIAL We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholdWe tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient PER FORers adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, MANCE company and the group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolthe accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the idated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional regroup operates. port that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. Materiality RISKS The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materialBasis for Opinions ity. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstateon Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in ments may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further deif individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to scribed in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional consolidated financial statements. S TAT E M E N T ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as FINANCIAL prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerREPORTS Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, where ations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect the EU. of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 142 F inancial reports Key audit matters matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesour opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Impairment test for intangible assets In our audit, we have evaluated the calculation model applied by Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life repmanagement and tested the mathematical accuracy. This implies resent a significant part of the Balance Sheet of Cloetta and amount that we have reconciled and critically tested essential variables to SEK 5,540m (5,460) as of 31 December 2019. The group annually against budget and the long-term plan for the group and in some performs an impairment assessment of the assets based on a calcases towards external data. Furthermore we have performed a culation of the discounted cash flow for the cash generating unit in retrospective review of the prior period estimate by comparing it which goodwill and other intangible assets are reported, as required to actual current period results. We have tested the sensitivity in by IFRS. Impairment tests are, by their nature, based on a high the group’s analysis for key variables in order to assess the risk for level of judgments and assumptions regarding future cash flows. impairment. We have also assessed the disclosures included in the Information is provided in Notes 11 and 30 as to how the group’s financial statements. management has undertaken its assessments, and also provides information on important assumptions. Key variables in the test are growth rate and discount factor (cost of capital). It is also presented that no impairment requirement has been identified based on the assumptions undertaken. Other Information than the annual accounts Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the compaand consolidated accounts ny, to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. This document also contains other information than the annual The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 5–63 and Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things 141–161. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are oversee the company’s financial reporting process. responsible for this other information. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Auditor’s responsibility does not cover this other information and we do not express any form Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a identified above and consider whether the information is materially high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered appears to be materially misstated. material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informabasis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the anthis regard. nual accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors This description is part of the auditor´s report. and the Managing Director The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible Report on other legal and regulatory requirements for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordaccounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of Diance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and rector’s and the Managing Director of Cloetta AB (publ) for the year the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misthe profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statement, whether due to fraud or error. statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, the Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the the financial year. assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going Basis for Opinions concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditconcern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of ing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 143 WORDS are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to FROM THE with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherassess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in PRESIDENT wise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these accordance with the Companies Act. requirements. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally GOALS and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or AND omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the S T R AT E G I E S Responsibilities of the Board of Directors proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in and the Managing Director accordance with the Companies Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriA further description of our responsibility for the audit of the THE CONations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, administration is available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: FECTIONERY this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is considering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s part of the auditor’s report. MARKET type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’ equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity The auditor’s examination BRAND, and position in general. of the corporate governance statement C AT E G O R Y & The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organiThe Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that the corporate PRODUCT DEzation and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes governance statement on pages 76–89 has been prepared in accordV ELO PM ENT among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the ance with the Annual Accounts Act. group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company´s organizaOur examination of the corporate governance statement is tion is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The C L O E T TA’ S company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This MAIN manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing adminismeans that our examination of the corporate governance statement MARKETS tration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instrucis different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in tions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examinathe management of assets in a reassuring manner. tion has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. S U P P LY A corporate governance statement has been prepared. DiscloCHAIN Auditor’s responsibility sures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of E M P L OY E E S to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material with the Annual Accounts Act. respect: Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, 113 97 Stockholm, was • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can appointed auditor of Cloetta AB (publ) by the general meeting of the give rise to liability to the company, or shareholders on the 4 April 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since the 4 April 2019. SHARE AND • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORStockholm 10 March 2020 MANCE Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB RISKS Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Erik Bergh Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Partner in charge C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 144 F inancial reports Ten-year overview SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Profit and loss account in summary Net sales 6,493 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 Cost of goods sold –4,112 –3,934 –3,678 –3,084 –3,463 –3,325 –3,081 –3,157 –2,911 –3,058 Gross profit 2,381 2,284 2,106 2,023 2,211 1,988 1,812 1,702 1,747 1,961 Other operating income – 4 6 – 0 5 12 13 1 16 Selling expenses –1,011 –1,025 –972 –806 –949 –892 –850 –888 –915 –992 General and administrative expenses –643 –603 –613 –582 –591 –524 –556 –702 –473 –471 Operating profit/loss 727 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 Exchange differences cash and cash –19 –16 –17 –8 –1 –11 –12 20 –12 –13 equivalents in foreign currencies Other financial income 2 5 7 17 6 4 24 5 11 5 Other financial expenses –62 –87 –74 –175 –183 –232 –220 –290 –599 –634 Net financial items –79 –98 –84 –166 –178 –239 –208 –265 –600 –642 Profit/loss before tax 648 562 443 469 493 338 210 –140 –240 –128 Income tax expense –150 –79 –206 –122 –107 –96 54 67 172 –211 Profit/loss for the period 498 483 237 347 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 for continuing operations Result after tax from – – –334 –538 – – – – – – discontinued operations Net profit/loss for the period 498 483 –97 –191 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 Profit for the period attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company Continuing operations 498 483 237 347 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 Discontinued operation – – –334 –538 – – – – – – Total 498 483 –97 –191 386 242 264 –73 –68 –339 << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 145 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Balance sheet in summary Intangible assets 5,684 5,626 5,490 5,354 5,948 5,882 5,252 5,099 4,811 4,822 THE CONFECTIONERY Property, plant and equipment 1,559 1,354 1,338 1,700 1,698 1,667 1,660 1,611 1,318 1,333 Deferred tax asset 9 16 20 54 64 84 73 473 447 207 Other financial assets 7 11 11 13 27 105 91 88 261 147 MARKET Total non-current assets 7,259 7,007 6,859 7,121 7,737 7,738 7,076 7,271 6,837 6,509 BRAND, Inventories 888 765 745 780 786 853 798 773 640 566 C AT E G O R Y & Trade and other receivables 928 838 881 988 975 1,121 933 951 1,051 1,198 PRODUCT DECurrent income tax assets 6 6 8 36 3 3 0 4 2 1 V ELO PM ENT Derivative financial instruments – 1 0 4 1 2 – – – – Cash and cash equivalents 579 551 759 298 246 229 167 306 97 220 C L O E T TA’ S Total current assets 2,401 2,161 2,393 2,106 2,011 2,208 1,898 2,034 1,790 1,985 MAIN Assets held for sale – – – 9 11 16 15 35 15 – MARKETS TOTAL ASSETS 9,660 9,168 9,252 9,236 9,759 9,962 8,989 9,340 8,642 8,494 Equity 4,197 3,968 3,818 4,199 4,344 4,048 3,747 3,326 –385 –1,117 S U P P LY Long-term borrowings 939 2,076 1,715 2,666 2,612 2,993 3,096 2,516 6,077 6,826 CHAIN Deferred tax liability 803 754 703 586 621 483 397 824 728 714 Derivative financial instruments 3 3 2 12 44 56 21 3 0 0 Other non-current liabilities – – 138 – 43 147 2 – – – E M P L OY E E S Provisions for pensions and 499 419 374 396 378 505 360 452 250 222 other long-term employee benefits Provisions 5 9 5 22 10 16 7 11 24 29 Total non-current liabilities 2,249 3,261 2,937 3,682 3,708 4,200 3,883 3,806 7,079 7,791 Short-term borrowings 1,870 500 999 2 344 423 212 747 747 642 SHARE AND SHAREDerivative financial instruments 68 61 71 54 35 16 2 21 0 0 Trade and other payables 1,227 1,342 1,394 1,196 1,216 1,152 967 1,264 1,038 975 HOLDERS Provisions 5 23 3 64 57 65 79 79 60 78 Current income tax liabilities 44 13 30 39 55 58 99 97 103 125 Total current liabilities 3,214 1,939 2,497 1,355 1,707 1,714 1,359 2,208 1,948 1,820 FINANCIAL Total equity and liabilities 9,660 9,168 9,252 9,236 9,759 9,962 8,989 9,340 8,642 8,494 PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 146 F inancial reports Key ratios SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 20111 20101 Profit Net sales 6,493 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 Net sales, change % 4.4 7.5 13.3 n/a 6.8 8.6 0.7 4.3 n/a n/a Organic net sales, change, % 2.3 –2.8 –1.2 n/a 1.5 1.0 –1.0 –4.1 n/a n/a Gross margin, % 36.7 36.7 36.4 39.6 39.0 37.4 37.0 35.0 37.5 39.1 Depreciation –290 –218 –218 –206 –227 –198 –175 –167 –115 –125 Amortization –11 –12 –11 –5 –4 –3 –2 –1 –8 –18 Impairment loss other non-current –2 – –9 –2 – – – – – – assets Operating profit (EBIT), adjusted 743 677 604 695 690 632 585 432 565 686 Operating profit margin (EBIT margin), 11.4 10.9 10.4 13.6 12.2 11.9 12.0 8.9 12.1 13.7 adjusted % Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 727 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 Operating profit/loss margin (EBIT 11.2 10.6 9.1 12.4 11.8 10.9 8.5 2.6 7.8 10.3 margin), % EBITDA, adjusted 1,046 907 833 906 921 833 762 600 688 829 EBITDA 1,030 890 765 848 902 778 595 293 483 657 Profit margin, % 10.0 9.0 7.7 9.2 8.7 6.4 4.3 –2.9 –5.1 –3.3 Financial position Working capital 589 402 232 572 628 819 763 458 586 649 Capital expenditure 235 184 157 170 161 186 211 269 224 97 Net debt 2,302 2,091 2,035 2,443 2,818 3,308 3,230 3,056 2,827 3,070 Capital employed 7,576 7,027 6,979 7,329 7,756 8,041 7,438 7,066 6,682 6,575 Return on capital employed, % 2 10.0 9.5 8.2 11.1 8.6 7.5 6.1 1.9 5.7 n/a Equity/assets ratio, % 43.4 43.3 41.3 45.5 44.5 40.6 41.7 35.6 –4.5 –13.2 Net debt/equity ratio, % 54.8 52.7 53.3 58.2 64.9 81.7 86.2 91.9 –734.3 –274.8 Return on equity, % 11.9 12.2 6.2 –4.5 8.9 6.0 7.0 –2.2 n/a n/a Equity per share, SEK 14.5 13.7 13.2 14.5 15.1 14.0 13.0 11.5 n/a n/a Net debt/EBITDA, x 2.2 2.3 2.4 2.4 3.0 4.0 4.2 4.9 n/a n/a Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 724 628 712 889 927 500 131 330 492 379 Cash flow from investing activities –330 –184 –22 –322 –367 –369 –202 –1,506 –335 –83 Cash flow after investments 394 444 690 567 560 131 –71 –1,176 157 296 Free cash flow 538 444 555 719 766 318 –80 61 268 n/a Free cash flow yield, % 5.9 6.3 6.5 8.7 9.5 4.9 –1.4 1.6 7.0 n/a Cash flow from operating activities per 2.5 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.2 1.7 0.5 1.1 n/a n/a share, SEK 1) T he key figures per share for the years 2010–2011 are not representative for the current group due to to a completely different equity structure before the merger between Cloetta and Leaf. 2) Return on capital employed for 2016 was calculated pro-forma for continuing operations. 3) Average number of employees is presented for continuing operations in 2017. Employee numbers in 2019 have been updated following the implementation of a new company-wide HR system. Comparative figures have not been restated. 4) C loetta entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares to fulfill its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants of its long-term sharebased incentive plan. The table in Note 23 presents the movements in the contracts since 1 January 2017. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 147 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 20111 20101 Employees Average number of employees 3 2,629 2,458 2,467 2,115 2,583 2,533 2,472 2,579 2,192 2,275 THE CONShare data1 FECTIONERY MARKET Earnings per share, SEK Basic 4 1.74 1.69 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 n/a n/a Diluted 4 1.74 1.68 –0.34 –0.67 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 n/a n/a BRAND, Earnings per share from continuing C AT E G O R Y & operations, SEK PRODUCT DEBasic 4 1.74 1.69 0.83 1.21 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 n/a n/a V ELO PM ENT Diluted 4 1.74 1.68 0.83 1.21 1.35 0.84 0.92 –0.26 n/a n/a Earnings per share from discontinued C L O E T TA’ S operation, SEK MAIN Basic4 – – –1.17 –1.88 – – – – – – MARKETS Diluted 4 – – –1.17 –1.88 – – – – – – Ordinary dividend per share, proposed, 1.00 1.00 0.75 0.75 0.50 – – – – – SEK S U P P LY Special dividend per share, SEK – – 0.75 – – – – – – – CHAIN Number of shares at end of period 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 262,137,526 n/a Average number of shares (basic)4 286,578,395 286,492,413 286,320,464 286,193,024 286,290,840 286,987,990 288,010,947 276,132,021 262,137,526 n/a Average number of shares (diluted)4 286,724,049 286,650,070 286,492,178 286,447,465 286,561,607 287,092,780 288,026,408 276,132,021 262,137,526 n/a E M P L OY E E S Share-price at year-end, SEK 31.7 24.3 29.7 28.7 28.0 22.6 19.4 13.5 14.5 16.6 Exchange Rates EUR, average 10.5815 10.2543 9.6362 9.4700 9.3445 9.1051 8.6513 8.6958 9.0228 9.5261 EUR, end of period 10.4468 10.2274 9.8210 9.5804 9.1679 9.3829 8.8630 8.5750 8.9100 8.9700 NOK, average 1.0748 1.0672 1.0324 1.0200 1.0432 1.0882 1.1071 1.1643 1.1577 1.1905 SHARE AND NOK, end of period 1.0591 1.0294 0.9997 1.0548 0.9563 1.0439 1.0592 1.1667 1.1467 1.1493 SHAREGBP, average 12.0732 11.5917 10.9909 11.5480 12.8736 11.3118 10.1987 10.7429 10.4057 11.1030 GBP, end of period 12.2788 11.3992 11.0684 11.1673 12.4835 12.0340 10.6501 10.5215 10.6668 10.4109 HOLDERS DKK, average 1.4173 1.3760 1.2956 1.2721 1.2529 1.2215 1.1601 1.1682 1.2112 1.2794 DKK, end of period 1.3982 1.3698 1.3192 1.2888 1.2287 1.2604 1.1882 1.1495 1.1987 1.2035 FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS 1) T he key figures per share for the years 2010 2011 are not representative for the current group due to to a completely different equity structure before the C O R P O R AT E merger between Cloetta and Leaf. 2) Return on capital employed for 2016 was calculated pro-forma for continuing operations. GOVER NANCE 3) Average number of employees is presented for continuing operations in 2017. Employee numbers in 2019 have been updated following the implementation of a new company-wide HR system. Comparative figures have not been restated. S TAT E M E N T 4) C loetta entered into forward contracts to repurchase own shares to fulfill its future obligation to deliver the shares to the participants of its long-term sharebased incentive plan. The table in Note 23 presents the movements in the contracts since 1 January 2017. FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 148 F inancial reports Reconciliation of alternative performance measures SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 20111 2010 Items affecting comparability Acquisitions, integration and restructurings –13 –38 –62 –43 –47 –85 –167 n/a n/a n/a of which: impairment loss other non-current assets – – –9 –2 – – – n/a n/a n/a Remeasurements of contingent considerations – 21 5 –17 33 27 – n/a n/a n/a Remeasurements of assets held for sale – – – – –5 – – n/a n/a n/a Other items affecting comparability –3 0 –20 – – 3 – n/a n/a n/a Items affecting comparability* –16 –17 –77 –60 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 * C orresponding line in the condensed consolidated profit and loss account: Net Sales – 0 – – –4 – – n/a n/a n/a Cost of goods sold 2 3 –39 –15 –22 –51 –121 n/a n/a n/a Other operating income – 4 4 – – 3 12 n/a n/a n/a Selling expenses –6 –1 –6 – –12 –7 –4 n/a n/a n/a General and administrative expenses –12 –23 –36 –45 19 – –54 – – – Total –16 –17 –77 –60 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 Operating profit, adjusted1 Operating profit 727 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 Minus: Items affecting comparability –16 –17 –77 –60 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 Operating profit, adjusted 743 677 604 695 690 632 585 432 565 686 Net sales 6,493 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 Operating profit margin, adjusted, % 11.4 10.9 10.4 13.6 12.2 11.9 12.0 8.9 12.1 13.7 EBITDA, adjusted 1 Operating profit 727 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 Minus: Depreciation –290 –218 –218 –206 –227 –198 –175 –167 –115 –125 Minus: Amortization –11 –12 –11 –5 –4 –3 –2 –1 –8 –18 Minus: Impairment loss other non-current assets –2 – –9 –2 – – – – – – EBITDA 1,030 890 765 848 902 778 595 293 483 657 Minus: Items affecting comparability (excl. impairment loss goodwill and trademarks and other non-current assets) –16 –17 –68 –58 –19 –55 –167 –307 –205 –172 EBITDA, adjusted 1,046 907 833 906 921 833 762 600 688 829 Capital employed1,2 Total assets 9,660 9,168 9,252 9,236 9,759 9,962 8,989 9,340 8,642 8,494 Minus: Deferred tax liability 803 754 703 586 621 483 397 824 728 714 Minus: Other non-current liabilities – – 138 – 43 147 2 – – – Minus: Non-current provisions 5 9 5 22 10 16 7 11 24 29 Minus: Current provisions 5 23 3 64 57 65 79 79 60 78 Minus: Trade and other payables 1,227 1,342 1,394 1,196 1,216 1,152 967 1,264 1,038 975 Minus: Current income tax liabilities 44 13 30 39 55 58 99 97 103 125 Plus: Interest-bearing other current liabilities – – – – –1 – – 1 –7 2 Capital employed 7,576 7,027 6,979 7,329 7,756 8,041 7,438 7,066 6,682 6,575 Capital employed comparative period previous year 7,027 6,979 5,966 7,756 8,041 7,438 7,066 6,682 6,575 7,543 Average capital employed 7,302 7,003 6,473 7,543 7,899 7,740 7,252 6,874 6,629 7,059 1) The key figure has been affected by IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ as of 1 January 2019. Comparative figures are not restated. 2) Return on capital employed for 2017 has been calculated pro-forma for continuing operations. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 F inancial reports 149 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S SEKm 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 20111 2010 Return on capital employed 1,2 Operating profit (rolling 12 months) 727 660 527 635 671 577 418 125 360 514 THE CONFinancial income (rolling 12 months) 2 5 7 17 6 4 24 5 11 5 Operating profit plus financial income FECTIONERY (rolling 12 months) 729 665 534 652 677 581 442 130 371 519 MARKET Average capital employed 7,302 7,003 6,473 5,879 7,899 7,740 7,252 6,874 6,629 7,059 Return on capital employed, % 10.0 9.5 8.2 11.1 8.6 7.5 6.1 1.9 5.6 7.4 BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & Free cash flow yield1 PRODUCT DECash flow from operating activities (Rolling 12 months) 724 628 712 889 927 500 131 330 492 n/a V ELO PM ENT Cash flows from investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (Rolling 12 months) –186 –184 –157 –170 –161 –182 –211 –269 –224 n/a C L O E T TA’ S MAIN Free cash flow (Rolling 12 months) 538 444 555 719 766 318 –80 61 268 n/a Number of shares MARKETS 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 288,619,299 262,137,526 n/a Free cash flow per share (Rolling 12 months), SEK 1.86 1.54 1.92 2.49 2.65 1.10 –0.28 0.21 1.02 n/a Market price per share, SEK 31.70 24.30 29.70 28.70 28.00 22.60 19.40 13.45 14.50 n/a Free cash flow yield S U P P LY (Rolling 12 months), % 5.9 6.3 6.5 8.7 9.5 4.9 –1.4 1.6 7.0 n/a CHAIN Changes in net sales Net sales 6,493 6,218 5,784 5,107 5,674 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 E M P L OY E E S Net sales comparative period previous year 6,218 5,784 5,107 n/a 5,313 4,893 4,859 4,658 5,019 5,486 Net sales, change 275 434 677 n/a 361 420 34 201 –361 –467 Minus: Structural changes 0 375 708 n/a 208 213 n/a n/a n/a n/a Minus: Changes in exchange rates 129 217 30 n/a 77 158 n/a n/a n/a n/a SHARE AND Organic growth 146 –158 –61 n/a 76 49 n/a n/a n/a n/a SHAREStructural changes, % – 6.5 13.9 n/a 3.9 4.4 n/a n/a n/a n/a HOLDERS Organic growth, % 2.3 –2.8 –1.2 n/a 1.4 1.0 –1.0 –4.1 n/a n/a 1) The key figure has been affected by IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ as of 1 January 2019. Comparative figures are not restated. FINANCIAL 2) Return on capital employed for 2017 has been calculated pro-forma for continuing operations. PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 150 S ustainability Sustainability governance Cloetta’s overall sustainability goal is to help create the conditions for long-term value creation. For Cloetta, this means managing risks and making the most of opportunities, taking responsibility for the company’s impact on people and the environment, fulfilling external expectations and growing as a company. Code of Conduct and basis policy. The policy applies to all parties that six other business function leaders and the Cloetta’s business activities and sustainabilrepresent Cloetta (including temporary Director of Sustainability. The Sustainity work are based on its Code of Conduct. staff, sub-contractors’ staff and sales agents) ability board is responsible for Cloetta’s The Code of Conduct includes principles and covers all business activities and relasustainability strategy, as well as reporting and guidelines on how Cloetta’s employees tionships of the company in all markets. The and controlling non-financial risks. Three should uphold the company values and anti-corruption policy describes the Group’s cross-functional work groups report to the behave towards each other and external control principles and provides information Sustainability board and are responsible for stakeholders. Further, the Code of Conduct about deviation reporting and penalties for defining implementation plans, proposing contains commitments regarding human non-compliance. targets and providing feedback on particurights, business ethics and anti-corruption, The risk of corruption is not deemed to be lar matters, as well as identifying risks. In the company’s assets, data security and significant, but is being monitored (see page addition, the company’s different business environmental responsibility. 152), primarily due to Cloetta’s extensive function leaders are responsible for the Cloetta’s Code of Conduct is primarily supply chain and rapid societal changes in implementation of the sustainability agenda. based on the UN’s Global Compact. The Cloetta’s markets. Environmental and occupational health and Code of Conduct was updated in 2019 and safety managers are in place at all Cloetta’s the new version will be launched in 2020. Organization factories. The Board of Directors and President and Anti-corruption policy CEO are ultimately responsible for Cloetta’s Whistleblower service Cloetta uses a number of policies that are sustainability-related efforts and results. A Cloetta’s whistleblower service gives all based on the Code of Conduct, one of which Sustainability board has been in place since Cloetta employees the opportunity to is the anti-corruption and anti-bribery 2018 consisting of the President and CEO, anonymously report serious misconduct and r me org Union o nsu ations aniz C niz atio Cloetta’s stakeholders org a n s nts Cloetta’s primary stakeholders are customers, consumers, yee s Sup pli try s me plo er us tion employees, shareholders, suppliers and society. These Go E m s Ind niza groups are a necessary prerequisite for Cloetta’s longve ga rn or term profitability. o m ers Consumers Cloetta has an open and ongoing dialogue, in particular with primary stakeholders, based on each group’s ls/ Non-p Schoo s organiz rofit expectations and requirements. Representatives of the C u st itie univers primary stakeholders regularly contribute to Cloetta’s ations materiality analysis. Read more on pages 14–16. Lo s al c er co d mm ol eh M unity S har m e ol ng ed c kh ha ia o x c St k e Banks/ o c financial st players << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S ustainability 151 WORDS deviations from Cloetta’s Code of Conduct Sustainability agenda and continuous improvement. Cloetta’s and business ethics principles. All reports Responsibility and limitations foremost direct environmental impact arises FROM THE are treated confidentially. Personal data To increase Cloetta’s positive footprint and through energy and water consumption, and PRESIDENT concerning breaches of law are handled only reduce the negative impact, an understandwaste and wastewater. by key persons or individuals in management ing is needed of where impact occurs and positions. where a difference can be made in the value About Cloetta’s sustainability GOALS During the year, one case was received chain. Cloetta’s responsibility extends bereport AND that was not deemed to be relevant. The yond its own operations and the company’s Cloetta’s sustainability report is issued S T R AT E G I E S matter was responded to locally. No cases of ability to influence partners and others in by the Board of Directors and created in corrupt behavior were reported or discovthe different parts of the value chain varies. accordance with the Global Reporting Iniered. By taking a value chain perspective, Cloetta tiative (GRI) standards, core level. The susTHE CONcan identify opportunities and risks, and tainability report covers the entire business FECTIONERY Sustainability and define investments and reporting as well as operations of the company, unless otherwise business strategy how Cloetta can create value. stated. The content has been established MARKET By further integrating sustainability into the based on Cloetta’s materiality analysis, company’s business strategy and processes, Commitments which is described on pages 14–16. The GRI BRAND, Cloetta is preparing for long-term relevance From raw materials to cherished brands Index on pages 153–154 provides references C AT E G O R Y & and profitability. Cloetta’s sustainability work covers the to where different information is available. PRODUCT DECloetta’s sustainability work supports entire value chain, from raw material to The sustainability report also constitutes V ELO PM ENT and is well embedded in the company’s finished product. The company places high Cloetta’s Communication on Progress to the business strategy. demands on its own business operations and UN Global Compact. Driving growth Implementing and commuthose of suppliers. In order to become an The sustainability report has been C L O E T TA’ S nicating sustainability programs for priorapproved supplier, the supplier must undergo assured by PwC; see Auditor’s report on page MAIN itized raw material groups helps to further an approval process and accept Cloetta’s 155. The latest sustainability report was isMARKETS strengthen our brands among customers and general supplier requirements. sued on 13 March 2019. If you have questions consumers. UTZ certified cocoa is one such about Cloetta’s sustainability report, contact example. Product content Cloetta is subject to a numus via sustainability@cloetta.com. Financing growth Efforts to reduce Cloetta’s ber of laws and regulations concerning food S U P P LY environmental impact often go hand in hand safety and quality. However, the company Gathering data CHAIN with lower costs. As an example, when the takes its responsibility further and aims to Data concerning energy consumption, quanfactories reduce energy consumption and be a forerunner in developing the content of tity of waste, wastewater and COD (chemical waste volumes this contributes to greater its products. For example, the NAFNAC oxygen demand) is gathered through direct E M P L OY E E S cost-efficiency. program (No Artificial Flavorings, measurements as well as through specificaEnabling growth Cloetta enables growth No Artificial Colors) is aimed at offering a tions from suppliers that provide heat and by creating an attractive workplace and a portfolio of products that contain no artifielectricity and also handle waste managehigh-performing organization. Employcial flavorings or colorants. ment. Data is reported monthly from the ees are offered attractive opportunities to factories and consolidated at a Group level. grow as well as competitive remuneration. Environmental impact Cloetta works sysCloetta uses the global Greenhouse Gas SHARE AND Cloetta’s inspiring corporate culture and tematically to minimize the environmental Protocol for calculating the majority of SHAREclear corporate identity also enable growth. impact of its operations. Efforts are aimed at the company’s carbon dioxide emissions. HOLDERS complying with applicable laws and rules Conversion factors used are provided by the suppliers. Personnel-related data comes from FINANCIAL Strategic components Cloetta’s HR system. Work-related incidents PER FORand accidents are reported and followed up MANCE • Overall strategy by each unit within the Group. Information • Operational policy is aggregated at a Group level. Policy and prioritized areas • Code of conduct • Sustainability commitment • Responsible marketing RISKS • Overall financial targets Goals and KPIs • Goals and KPIs for each part of Cloetta’s C O R P O R AT E sustainability commitment Data • See entire annual and sustainability report • Perfect Factory for efficient manufacturing GOVER NANCE • IFRS for financial reporting S TAT E M E N T • Cloetta’s leadership platform Management systems, programs • BRC for food safety and certifications FINANCIAL • ISO 14001 for the environment • UTZ for cocoa and chocolate • RSPO for palm oil REPORTS • UN Global Compact External statutes or initiatives • Relevant ILO conventions • EWC (European Works Council) S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 152 S ustainability Materiality analysis Fulfil Prioritize Very important • Monitor health-related issues surrounding artificial ingredients • Responsible sourcing and social, environmental and economic challenges in places where prioritized raw materials are grown Importance for Cloetta’s stakeholders • Legal and regulatory compliance and produced • Environmental impact from Cloetta’s operations • Employee health and safety and well-being • Sugar-free alternatives Administrate Monitor and supervise • Charity • Anti-corruption • Local community engagement • Social, environmental and economic challenges in places • Responsible tax management where other raw materials are grown and produced • Responsible marketing • Diversity Important High Very high Cloetta’s impact on the external environment Stakeholders’ key sustainability issues Stakeholder Key issues – sustainability Communication and cooperation • Clear declaration of contents • With consumers via annual surveys and via websites and social media • Eco-friendly packages • With customers through in-person customer and sales meetings three times per Customers and • Responsibility for the environment and year, and via customer surveys and collaborative initiatives for eco-friendly transconsumers workplace conditions portation • Business ethics • Efficient transportation to the retail trade • Good workplace conditions with opportunity • Daily meetings to discuss occupational health and safety in the factories for growth • Annual performance reviews with all employees • Safe workplace environment • Systematic skills development Employees • Preventive healthcare • Up-to-date information provided monthly, e.g. via managers, union representatives • Business ethics and Cloetta’s intranet • Cloetta’s financial position and progress • Employee survey “Great Place to Work” every other year • Long-term, sustainable value growth • Analyst and investor meetings • Business ethics • Interim reports Shareholders and • Annual general meeting investors • Annual report • Cloetta’s website • Ethics and business practices in procure• Annual evaluation of suppliers and sponsorship agreements ment • Development projects Suppliers • Product safety • Collaborative projects for sustainability • Long-term, sustainable growth • Human rights • Responsibility for the environment and • Continuous contact with the local communities/municipalities close to Cloetta’s workplace conditions factories with regard to the local environment Communities • Legal and regulatory compliance • Continuous contact with public authorities in areas related to workplace health and and the public • Positive contribution to societal development safety, environmental and product responsibility • Annual audits by certification bodies for ISO and BRC • Continuous contact with key opinion leaders << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S ustainability 153 WORDS GRI index FROM THE PRESIDENT Organizational Profile (2016) Scope and deviations Page GOALS 102-1 Name of the organization Inside back cover AND 102-2 Primary brands, products and/or services 6–7, 19–33 S T R AT E G I E S 102-3 Location organization’s headquarters 96 102-4 Location of operations 34-40, 46, 57 THE CON102-5 Ownership and legal form 76 102-6 Markets served 34-40 FECTIONERY 102-7 Scale of the organization Inside front cover, MARKET 57, 46–47, 89–91, 93 102-8 Information on employees No significant variations in employee numbers during the year. 54–57, 151 BRAND, 102-9 Supply chain 12, 73 C AT E G O R Y & 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Candyking UK was incorporated into Cloetta UK and PRODUCT DEthe organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain Candyking Ireland was incorporated into Cloetta Ireland V ELO PM ENT 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 48 102-12 External sustainability principles and initiatives that the 14–16, 150–151, 160 C L O E T TA’ S organization supports MAIN 102-13 Memberships of associations and national or international 160 MARKETS advocacy organizations Strategy and Analysis (2016) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2–3 S U P P LY Ethics and Integrity (2016) CHAIN 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms 54, 70, 150–152 Governance (2016) E M P L OY E E S 102-18 The governance structure 76–81, 150–152 Stakeholder Engagement (2016) 102-40 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 150, 152 102-41 The percentage of total employees covered by collective 56 bargaining agreements SHARE AND 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 150 SHARE102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 150, 152 HOLDERS 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 152 stakeholder engagement Reporting profile (2016) FINANCIAL 102-45 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated finanData regarding accidents and CO 2 emissions refers to Cloet137 PER FORcial statements ta’s eight factories. MANCE 102-46 Defining the report content and the topic boundaries 14–16, 150–152 102-47 List of material topics 14–16, 152 102-48 Restatements of information Values concerning scope 1 and scope 2 for 2018, as well as RISKS CO 2e per produced kg for 2016–2017 have been corrected. 102-49 Changes in reporting 151 102-50 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2019 C O R P O R AT E 102-51 Date of most recent previous report 13 March 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle Calendar year GOVER NANCE 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 151 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 151 S TAT E M E N T 102-55 GRI content index 153–154 102-56 External assurance 155 FINANCIAL REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 154 S ustainability Performance indicators EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND HEALTH Working conditions (2016) Scope and deviations Page GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14–16, 54–57 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 54–57, 79, approach 150–152 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79 GRI 405 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakInformation about minority groups is not available. 57, 86–89 Diversity and down of employees by gender and age group Equal opportunity Own Occupational injuries, lost days, and absenteeism Defined as LTIR: number of injuries causing at least 24 hours of 5, 37–38, 53, 55 absenteeism per million hours worked per year. Data refers to incidents and accidents at Cloetta’s eight factories. CONSUMER COMES FIRST Product responsibility (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14–16, 19–22, Management 34–40, 73, approach 150–152 103-2 The management approach and its components 79, 150–152 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79 GRI 416 416-1 Evaluation of products and services with regard to Refers to Cloetta’s customers./All factories are BRC certified. 15, 42 Customer health consumer health and safety and safety Own Consumer complaints/returns Refers to Cloetta’s customers. 44 INCREASED RESOURCE EFFICIENCY Environment (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14–16, 48–49, Management 70, 73 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 48–49, 79, 150–152 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79 GRI 302 302-1 Energy consumption inside the organization Refers to Cloetta’s eight factories. Information not available about 48–49, 151 Energy proportion of renewable/non-renewable energy. Cloetta plans to review how reporting can be enhanced. GRI 305 305-1 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by Energy consumption and CO2 emissions (scope 1 and 2) reported 48–49, 151 Emissions 305-2 weight (Scope 1, Scope 2) include Cloetta’s eight factories. For electricity consumption in the factories in Sweden, Ireland, Belgium and Slovenia, the emissions factor has been set at zero (market-based), as purchased electricity (as certified) comes from renewable sources. GRI 306 306-1 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Includes Cloetta’s eight factories. No detailed information available 48–49, 151 Effluents on treatment method. and Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste, by type and disposal Includes Cloetta’s eight factories. No detailed information available 48–49 method on treatment method. Data not divided into waste and hazardous waste. Cloetta plans to review how reporting can be enhanced. Own Recycling of materials Refers to Cloetta’s eight factories. 48–49 Own Transportation CO2 emissions from transportation (scope 3) includes finished 48–49 products from Cloetta’s eight factories. Reported in CO2 per transported tonne. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING OF RAW MATERIALS Human rights (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14–16, 50–53, 73, Management 150–152 approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 14–16, 19–22, 34–40, 52, 73, 150–152 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79 GRI 414 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Refers to Cloetta’s suppliers 52 Supplier social using human rights criteria assessment Own Results of sustainability programs for prioritized Refers to Cloetta’s suppliers 5, 50–53 raw materials ECONOMIC IMPACT (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4, 14–16, 150–152 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 77–80, 84–85, approach 150–152 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79 GRI 201 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Includes Cloetta and external stakeholders. 13, 150 Economic performance ANTI-CORRUPTION (2016) GRI 103 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 78–79, 150–152 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components 78–79, 84–85 approach 150–152 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 79 GRI 205 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Includes Cloetta’s employees and third parties who act on behalf of 151 Anti-corruption Cloetta. Measured as cases reported to the whistleblower service. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S ustainability 155 WORDS Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on FROM THE PRESIDENT Cloetta’s Sustainability Report and Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S This is a translation of the original report in Swedish To the annual general meeting of Cloetta AB (publ), corporate identity number 556308-8144 THE CONFECTIONERY MARKET BRAND, C AT E G O R Y & PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT Introduction in accordance with FAR’s recommendation RevR 12, the Auditor’s C L O E T TA’ S We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Cloetta AB (publ) Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance MAIN (“Cloetta”) to undertake a limited assurance of Cloetta’s Sustainaengagement and a review according to RevR 12 have a different focus MARKETS bility Report for the year 2019. The company has defined the scope and a considerably smaller scope compared to the focus and scope of of the sustainability report on the inside cover of the annual and an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and sustainability report. The statutory sustainability report is defined generally accepted auditing standards. on page 70. The audit firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on S U P P LY Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system CHAIN Responsibilities of the Board and Management for the of quality control including documented policies and procedures Sustainability Report regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional The Board of Directors and Group Management are responsible standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We are E M P L OY E E S for preparing the Sustainability Report, including the Statutory independent in relation to Cloetta according to generally accepted Sustainability Report, in accordance with applicable criteria and the auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our professional Annual Accounts Act. The criteria are described on page 153 of the ethics responsibility according to these requirements. Sustainability Report, and consist of the parts of the framework for The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement sustainability reports published by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and review according to RevR 12 do not allow us to obtain such assurthat are applicable to the sustainability report, as well as the accountance that we become aware of all significant matters that could have SHARE AND ing and calculation principles that the company has developed. This been identified if an audit was performed. SHAREresponsibility also includes the internal control which is deemed The stated conclusion based on a limited assurance and review in HOLDERS necessary to establish a sustainability report that does not contain accordance with RevR 12, therefore, does not have the security that material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. a stated conclusion based on an audit has. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Group ManFINANCIAL Responsibilities of the Auditor agement as described above. We consider these criteria as suitable for PER FOROur responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and MANCE report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed and to provide an opinion on the statutory sustainability report. Our appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. assignment is limited to the historical information that is presented and thus does not include future-oriented information. Conclusion We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, RISKS with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements Other than Audits or nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance Sustainability Report is not, in all material respects, prepared in engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and Group Management. C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. We have A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. conducted our review regarding the statutory sustainability report S TAT E M E N T Stockholm 10 March 2020 FINANCIAL Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB REPORTS Sofia Götmar-Blomstedt Fredrik Ljungdahl S U S TA I N Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 156 D efinitions and glossary Definitions General All amounts in the tables are presented in SEK millions unless otherwise stated. All amounts in brackets () represent comparative figures for the same period of the prior year, unless otherwise stated. Margins Definition/calculation Purpose Gross margin Net sales less cost of goods sold as a percentage of net Gross margin measures production profitability. sales. Operating profit margin Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net sales. Operating profit margin is used for measuring the opera(EBIT margin) tional profitability. Operating profit margin, Operating profit, adjusted for items affecting comparability, Operating profit margin, adjusted excludes the impact of adjusted as a percentage of net sales. items affecting comparability, enabling a comparison of operational profitability. Profit margin Profit/loss before tax expressed as a percentage of net This metric enables the profitability to be compared sales. across locations where corporate taxes differ. Return Definition/calculation Purpose Free cash flow Sum of the cash flow from operating activities and cash The free cash flow is the cash flow available to all invesflow from investments in property, plant and equipment and tors consisting of shareholders and lenders. intangible assets. Free cash flow yield Free cash flow over the last 12 months divided by the numThis metric is an indicator of the return on investment of ber of shares at the end of the period and subsequently diinvestors in the company. vided by the market price per share at the end of the period. Return on capital Operating profit plus financial income as a percentage of Return on capital employed is used to analyse profitabilemployed average capital employed. The average capital employed ity, based on the amount of capital used. The leverage of is calculated by taking the capital employed per period end the company is the reason that this metric is used next and the capital employed by period end of the comparative to return on equity, because it includes equity, but takes period in the previous year divided by two. into account borrowings and other liabilities as well. Return on equity Profit from continuing operations for the period as a perReturn on equity is used to measure profit generation, centage of total equity. given the resources attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. Capital structure Definition/calculation Purpose Capital employed Total assets less interest-free liabilities (including deferred Capital employed measures the amount of capital used tax). and serves as input for the return on capital employed. Equity/assets ratio Equity at the end of the period as a percentage of total This ratio is an indicator of the company’s leverage used assets. The equity/assets ratio represents the amount of to finance the company. assets on which shareholders have a residual claim. Gross debt Gross current and non-current borrowings, credit overdraft Gross debt represents the total debt obligation of the facilities, lease liabilities, derivative financial instruments and company irrespective of its maturity. interest payable. Net debt Gross debt less cash and cash equivalents. The net debt is used as an indication of the ability to pay off all debts if these became due simultaneously on the day of calculation, using only available cash and cash equivalents. Net debt/EBITDA Net debt at the end of the period divided by the EBITDA, The net debt/EBITDA ratio approximates the company’s adjusted, for the last 12 months, taking into consideration ability to decrease its debt. It represents the number the annualization of EBITDA for acquired or divested of years it would take to pay back debt if net debt and companies. EBITDA were held constant, ignoring the impact from cash flows from interest, tax and capital expenditure. Net debt/equity ratio Net debt at the end of the period divided by equity at the The net debt/equity ratio measures the extent to which end of the period. the company is funded by debt. Because cash and overdraft facilities can be used to pay-off debt at short notice, the leverage takes into account net debt instead of gross debt. Working capital Total inventories and trade and other receivables adjusted Working capital is used to measure the company's abilfor trade and other payables. ity, besides cash and cash equivalents, to meet current operational obligations. Data per share Definition/calculation Purpose Cash flow from operating Cash flow from operating activities in the period divided by The cash flow from operating activities per share activities per share the average number of shares. measures the amount of cash the company generates per share from the revenues it brings irrespective of the capital investments and cash flows related to the financing structure of the company. Earnings per share Profit for the period divided by the average number of The earnings per share measures the amount of net shares adjusted for the effect of forward contracts to repurprofit that is available for payment to shareholders per chase own shares. share. Equity per share Equity at the end of the period divided by number of shares Equity per share measures the net-asset value backing at the end of the period. up each share of the company's equity and determines if a company is increasing shareholder value over time. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 D efinitions and glossary 157 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT GOALS AND Other definitions Definition/calculation Purpose S T R AT E G I E S EBITDA Operating profit before depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is used to measure the cash flow generated from operating activities, eliminating the impact of THE CONfinancing and accounting decisions. EBITDA, adjusted Operating profit, adjusted for items affecting comparability, EBITDA, adjusted increases the comparability of before depreciation and amortization. EBITDA. FECTIONERY Effective tax rate Income tax as a percentage of profit before tax. This metric enables the income tax to be compared MARKET across locations where corporate taxes differ. Items affecting Items affecting comparability are those significant items Items affecting comparability increases the comparabiliBRAND, comparability which are separately disclosed by virtue of their size or ty of the Group’s financial performance. incidence in order to enable a full understanding of the C AT E G O R Y & Group’s financial performance. These include items such as restructurings, impact from acquisitions or divestments. PRODUCT DEV ELO PM ENT Net financial items The total of exchange differences on cash and cash equivaThe net financial items reflects the company’s total costs lents in foreign currencies, other financial income and other of external financing. financial expenses. C L O E T TA’ S Net sales, change Net sales as a percentage of net sales in the comparative Net sales, change reflects the company's realised topperiod of the previous year. line growth over time. MAIN Operating profit (EBIT) Operating profit consists of comprehensive income before This metric enables the profitability to be compared MARKETS net financial items and income tax. across locations where corporate taxes differ, irrespective of the financing structure of the company. Operating profit (EBIT), Operating profit, adjusted for items affecting EBIT, adjusted increases the comparability of EBIT. adjusted compa­rability. S U P P LY Organic growth Net sales, change exluding acquisition-driven growth and Organic growth excludes the impact of changes in group CHAIN changes in exchanges rates. structure and exchange rates, enabling a comparison of net sales growth over time. Structural changes Net sales, change resulting from changes in group structure. Structural changes measure the contribution of changes E M P L OY E E S in group structure to the net sales growth. SHARE AND Glossary SHAREHOLDERS Branded packaged products Products that are mainly sold under brands and are packaged. FINANCIAL Brand extension Totally new products developed under an established brand. PER FORBRC Global Standards for A leading safety and quality certification program. Many European and global retailers will only consider busiFood Safety ness with suppliers that have been certified according to the BRC Global Standard. MANCE Contract manufacturing Manufacturing of external brands, i.e. insourcing production of products from external parties. FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit and Loss RISKS GRI Global Reporting Initiative A network-based organization whose founders include the UN. GRI has pioneered the development of a standard for the structure and content of sustainability reporting. ICC International Chamber of Commerce. ILO International Labour Organization, United Nations agency dealing with labor issues. C O R P O R AT E ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 addresses quality management and ISO 140001 addresses environmental management. Line extension New packaging, sizes and flavors for an established brand. GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T Own brands (EMV) Brands that retail trade customers sell under their own brands. The Perfect Factory The Perfect Factory is Cloetta’s development program aimed at improving engagement, reliability and resource-efficiency within manufacturing. FINANCIAL Polyols Sugar alcohols that resemble sugar and are used as sweeteners. Pick & mix Cloetta’s range of candy and natural snacks that are picked by the consumers themselves. Pick & mix concept Cloetta’s complete concept in pick & mix including products, displays and accompanying store and logistic REPORTS services. UTZ Certified standards for sustainable farming with a number of social and environmental criteria. S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 158 H istory Cloetta’s history filled with legendary brands The Cloetta brothers In 1862 the three Swiss Cloetta brothers, Bernard, Christoffer and Nutin Cloetta, founded the company “Brødrene Cloëtta” for manufacturing chocolate and confectionery in Copenhagen, Denmark. The brothers later moved their manufacturing to Sweden and the company was owned by the Cloetta family until 1917, when the Svenfelt family took over the majority shareholding in Cloetta via the newly formed Svenska Chokladfabriks AB. The Svenfelt family has major ownership interests in Cloetta to this day. 1800s 1900–1910 1920 1930–1940 1950–1960 J Cloetta’s oldest brands 1900–1913, exploiting The roaring twenties The 1930–40s, 1950–60s, an interest date from the 1800s industrialization The confectionery industry launch of strong brands in the USA and cars Venco is launched in 1878 Electrification and railway grows after the war. The Malaco (Malmö Lakrits The chewing gum Jenkki when Gerrit van Voornveld construction accelerate slogan “Choose right – Compani) is founded in (Yankee) is launched in started manufacturing the pace of industrializachoose Cloetta” is created 1934 during the period beFinland in 1951. liquorice and peppermint tion, a critical enabler for in 1921. In the Netherlands, tween the two world wars. Ahlgrens bilar – the pastilles in a steam factory businesses like the Swedthe pastille brand King is Sportlunch (then called world’s best-selling car, in Amsterdam. Liquorice, ish companies Ahlgrens launched in 1922. In 1928 Mellanmål) is launched in is launched in 1953 with peppermint and jujubes and Cloetta, which are Sisu is launched in Finland, 1937. Kexchoklad is introItalian Bugatti as its inspihave long been known for active in industrial proRed Band in the Netherduced in 1938 and Center ration. their cough suppressing duction of confectionery. lands and Tarragona in in 1941. Plopp is launched The double countline Tupla effects. Läkerol is launched in 1909 Sweden. after WWII in 1949. is launched in Finland in and Guldnougat in 1913. 1960. In Sweden, Polly Läkerol is also launched is launched in 1965 and in Denmark in 1910 and Bridgeblandning in 1966. Norway in 1912. Chewits are launched in the United Kingdom in 1965. The first marshmallow Santas are also sold in the 1960s. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 H istory 159 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Strong brands with long traditions GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S THE CONFECTIONERY 1960 MARKET 1941 BRAND, 1976 1984 C AT E G O R Y & 1909 1920 1951 2007 Year PRODUCT DE1934 1937 1965 1981 V ELO PM ENT 1878 1913 1928 1949 1922 ® 1998 C L O E T TA’ S MAIN MARKETS 1938 1953 S U P P LY CHAIN E M P L OY E E S UL 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010– SHARE AND SHARE1970s – 1980s, 1990s – consolidation 2000s – 2010s – Cloetta grows HOLDERS fresh and healthy more chewing gum of the industry new groups formed Cloetta and Leaf are In 1975, the world’s first In 1981 Sportlife is CSM, a Dutch sugar and During the period from merged in 2012. In 2014 chewing gum with xylitol launched as the first food products company, 2000 to 2009, Cloetta is Cloetta acquires Nutisal, FINANCIAL is launched by Jenkki in chewing gum in “blister” acquires Red Band in part of the Cloetta Fazer a leading Swedish comFinland. The Mynthon packaging. In the Nether1986. Leaf acquires Ahlgroup. After the de-mergpany that roasts and sells PER FORpastille is introduced in lands, the country’s first grens (with Läkerol and er in 2009, the independdry roasted nuts. MANCE Finland in 1976. chewing gum with 100 per Ahlgrens bilar) in 1993, ent Cloetta is relisted on In the same year In Sweden, the mixed cent xylitol, Xylifresh, is CSM acquires Malaco NASDAQ OM Stockholm. Cloetta acquires The Jelly candy bag Gott & Blandat launched in 1988. in 1997, Cloetta acquires In 2000 CSM acquires Bean Factory with the is launched in response to Candelia (with Polly and Continental Sweets and main market in the UK. the growing popularity of Bridgeblandning) in 1998 thereby strengthens In 2015 Cloetta RISKS pick & mix. and CSM acquires Leaf its position primarily in acquires Lonka, a Dutch in 1999. Cloetta’s share is France and Belgium, but company that produces listed on the Stockholm also in the Netherlands and sells fudge, soft nouC O R P O R AT E Stock Exchange in 1994. and the UK. In 2001 CSM gat and chocolate. acquires Socalbe in In 2017, Cloetta Italy (with Dietorelle and acquires Candyking and GOVER NANCE Dietor). In 2005 CVC and becomes market leader Nordic Capital acquire in pick & mix. The Italian S TAT E M E N T CSM’s confectionery operations are divested. division and changes its FINANCIAL name to Leaf. REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents 160 M embership of organizations Membership of organizations Cloetta is a member of many organizations to help contribute to better conditions for farmers and Cloetta is a member of a number of sector more sustainable raw material supply: organizations: • Caobisco (Chocolate, Biscuit & Confectionery • Bord Bia (Irish food, drink and horticulture Industries of the EU) develops control and certiindustries) fication systems for cocoa production. • Chokofa (Swedish cocoa, confectionery and • GSA (Global Shea Alliance) works for a sustainbiscuits industries) able and competitive shea industry. • Choprabisco (Belgian chocolate, praline and • RSPO (Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil) confectionery industries) works to increase the quantity of sustainably • DI (Danish chocolate and confectionery produced and consumed palm oil in the world. industries) • UTZ certification for sustainable farming and • ETL (Finnsh food industries) better opportunities for farmers, including through education. • FNLI (Food industries of the Netherlands) • Bonsucro works towards ongoing improve• HSH (Norwegian retail and service companies) ments and sustainability in the sugar industry. • VBZ (Bakery and confectionery industries of Cloetta terminated its membership in 2019. the Netherlands) • World Cocoa Foundation runs programs to increase the incomes of cocoa farmers and • Finally, Cloetta is a member of the UN’s Global promote sustainable cocoa cultivation. Cloetta Compact. terminated its membership in 2019. << B ack to contents Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 S hareholder information 161 WORDS FROM THE PRESIDENT Shareholder information GOALS AND S T R AT E G I E S Shareholder contact Registration Nathalie Redmo Head of IR and Communication, Registration to participate in the AGM must be received by +46 76-696 59 40 nathalie.redmo@cloetta.com or the company no later than Friday, 27 March 2020. THE CONir@cloetta.com Mail: Cloetta AB FECTIONERY “Annual General Meeting” MARKET c/o Euroclear Sweden Box 191 Annual General Meeting SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden BRAND, The Annual General Meeting of Cloetta AB (publ) will be held on Telephone: +46 70 186 52 22 C AT E G O R Y & Thursday, 2 April 2020, at 3:00 p.m., at Stockholm Waterfront Website: www.cloetta.com PRODUCT DECongress Centre in Stockholm. V ELO PM ENT The Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be published on To order the annual report 27 February 2020 and will be posted on www.cloetta.com. The annual report is available in Swedish and English. C L O E T TA’ S The printed annual report can be ordered via the website. MAIN It can also be downloaded from www.cloetta.com. MARKETS Financial calender 2020 S U P P LY CHAIN Annual General Meeting in Stockholm 2 April 2020 E M P L OY E E S JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB 2020 2021 Interim report Q1 Interim report Q2 Interim report Q3 Interim report Q4 24 April 2020 14 July 2020 23 October 2020 28 January 2021 SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL PER FORMANCE RISKS C O R P O R AT E GOVER NANCE S TAT E M E N T Production: Cloetta in collaboration with Addira Photos: Joakim Folke, ARA Creative Agency Printing: åtta45 FINANCIAL Translation: Lisa Cockette, Anything English REPORTS S U S TA I N ABILITY Cloetta A nnual and S ustainabilit y R eport 2019 << B ack to contents Cloetta, founded in 1862, is a leading confectionery company in Northern Europe. In total, Cloetta products are sold in more than 50 countries worldwide. Cloetta owns some of the strongest brands on the market, such as Läkerol, Candyking, Jenkki, Kexchoklad, Malaco, Sportlife and Red Band. Cloetta has eight production units in five countries. Cloetta’s class B shares are traded on Nasdaq Stockholm. Cloetta AB (publ) • Corp. ID no. 556308-8144 • Solna Business Park, Englundavägen 7D, PO Box 6036, SE-171 06 Solna, Sweden. • Tel +46 8-52 72 88 00 • www.cloetta.com
