INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 For the year ended December 31, 2019 Corporate Philosophy In keeping with this corporate philosophy and the Otsuka values of Ryukan-godo (by sweat we recognize the way), Jissho (actualization) and Sozosei (creativity), we strive to do what only Otsuka can do. The Otsuka group supports the lives of people worldwide through a wide range of innovative and creative products including pharmaceuticals, functional beverages, and functional foods. We are dedicated to cultivating a dynamic corporate culture and workplaces that reflect our vision as a healthcare company, to finding ways to live in harmony with local communities and the natural environment, and to contributing to richer and healthier lives. What only Otsuka can do Otsuka’s Goal To become an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide The Otsuka group aims to be an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide, fulfilling its corporate philosophy in every aspect of its operations. This commitment to improving people’s health worldwide is part of the unchanging value we will continue to provide society. Our operations encompass two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides comprehensive health support from diagnosis to treatment of diseases, and the Nutraceutical Business,* which helps people maintain and improve day-to-day health. * Nutraceuticals = nutrition + pharmaceuticals Essence CONTENTS of Management Providing Value through Our Businesses 2 (Our Corporate Culture) Otsuka’s History of Addressing 4 Social Issues Otsuka’s Strengths 6 Value Creation Process That 7 Ryukan-godo Generates Originality (by sweat we Value Creation Model 8 recognize the way) Materiality 10 The process of discovering Initiatives for Sustainability 12 the core substance of Message from the President 14 something through Message from the CFO 18 hard work and practice Feature 20 Realizing Better Health for People Worldwide through Fluids and Electrolytes Essential to Life —A 40-Year History and the Future of POCARI SWEAT— Business Strategy Section Positioning of the Third Medium-Term 24 Management Plan Jissho Progress of the Third Medium-Term 26 (actualization) Management Plan Looking ahead to the Fourth 32 Self-actualization through Medium-Term Management Plan achievement, completion and the discovery of truth Beyond 2030 36 The Otsuka Group’s CSR 37 (Corporate Social Responsibility) —Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society— Materiality 39 Society Health 40 People 43 Quality in All We Do 46 Environment 50 Sozosei Governance (creativity) Corporate Governance 54 Pursuing that which only Directors and Audit & Supervisory 60 Otsuka is capable Board Members of delivering Messages from the Outside Directors 62 Compliance 64 Tax Compliance 66 Risk Management 67 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 68 Main Data 70 Corporate Information, Global Network 72 Group Structure and Overview of 73 Main Operating Companies Disclosure by the Otsuka Group 74 Shareholder Information 75 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 1 Providing Value through Our Businesses The Otsuka group of companies contributes to people’s health worldwide by creating innovative products in its two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which aims to address unmet medical needs, and the Nutraceutical Business, which seeks to fulfill the yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers. Unmet medical needs From diagnosis to treatment Pharmaceutical Business What only Otsuka can do Yet-to-be-imagined needs Maintaining and improving day-to-day health Nutraceutical Business 2 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Providing value Bringing health to people worldwide Total Healthcare * Physical Mental well-being well-being Social well-being * The state of health, as defined in the constitution of the World Health Organization (WHO) Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 3 Otsuka’s History of Addressing Social Issues Since its founding in 1921 as a chemical raw materials manufacturer, the Otsuka group has worked to address social issues by providing products that help realize healthcare that is aligned with society’s expectations, while responding to the changing times and business environment. The group has continued to grow while contributing to health in the three areas of physical, mental and social well-being. The year 2021 will be the centennial of our founding. Consistent with the aspirations of the company founders, we aim to offer products and services for the coming 100 years and into perpetuity, while helping to address future social needs. 1946 1974 Improving QOL for The evolving cancer patients IV solutions business Futraful Launched by subsidiary Taiho Pharmaceutical as an oral antiIntravenous Solutions cancer agent at a time when such medicine was not widely used anywhere in the world. Unlike conventional anti-cancer agents Otsuka’s intravenous solutions business began in Japan during at the time, Futraful enabled outpatient treatment, making the post-WW II period, when nutrition was a major issue for the hospitalization unnecessary. Since then, Taiho Pharmaceutical nation. Otsuka pushed forward with technological innovations that has launched oral anti-cancer agents UFT, TS-1, and Lonsurf, and met the needs of medical institutions, such as the development of contributed to improved quality of life (QOL) for cancer patients. Japan’s first plastic bottle for intravenous solutions. From the 1970s, using local production, we expanded the business to countries in Asia that were seeking to advance sanitary practices. Changes in the Concept of Health Physical well-being 1980 The importance of hydration 1983 becomes apparent Solving issues relating to irregular POCARI SWEAT eating habits and Inspired by the idea of a drinkable intravenous solution, POCARI unbalanced diets SWEAT was developed as a beverage that could easily replenish fluids and electrolytes (ions) lost through perspiration. R&D Calorie Mate progressed with the target of creating a health drink for everyday Leveraging expertise in high-density liquid diets from our clinical life, and in 1980, POCARI SWEAT was launched in Japan. nutrition business, we created Calorie Mate, which provides nutrition for healthy consumers. It supports healthy eating habits in busy modern lifestyles, and was a pioneer in nutritionally balanced foods in Japan. As the top-selling brand,* it continues to lead the field. * Source: Intage SRI, nutritionally balanced food product market (category: cookies, biscuits, cereals and cakes), January–December 2019 Establishment of Major Group Companies 1921 1950 1961 1964 1974 Otsuka Seiyaku Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Indonesia Kogyobu Taiwan Otsuka (now Otsuka 1955 1963 1973 Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical Otsuka Foods Taiho Pharmaceutical Thai Otsuka Factory) Pharmaceutical 1981 China Otsuka Pharmaceutical 4 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 2014 2002 Combating tuberculosis— an old disease A new option for with a new face antipsychotic medications DELTYBA ABILIFY Tuberculosis is an infectious disease that mankind has long fought to eradicate, and it remains a serious global health issue. As it is Diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) include numerous our duty to persevere where others have not, we have continued disorders. The underlying causes of these diseases have yet to be our research in this area. The culmination of more than 30 years of precisely elucidated, making the research and development of research, DELTYBA was approved as one of the world’s first new treatments extremely challenging. Antipsychotic agent ABILIFY tuberculosis drugs in about half a century. It has now become an was launched by Otsuka Pharmaceutical in the U.S. as the first essential treatment for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. therapeutic agent for the CNS developed through in-house drug discovery. On the basis of its unique characteristics, it has been well received by physicians and patients. Pharmaceutical Business Social well-being 2019 Mental well-being Announcement of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan Nutraceutical Business 1989* Supplementing nutrient deficiencies in food 2014 Solutions to support Nature Made women’s health In modern times, changes in lifestyles or eating habits can cause people to struggle at maintaining balanced diets. Even with EQUELLE careful meal planning, it can be difficult to obtain sufficient EQUELLE supports women’s health and beauty. It contains equol, a amounts of many nutrients. Supplementing meals with Nature metabolite produced when soy isoflavone is fermented by unique Made products enables consumers to take in recommended lactic acid bacteria. Sold as a dietary supplement to support amounts of such nutrients. women’s health, it relieves the symptoms of physical and mental * Acquired Pharmavite of the U.S. in 1989, launched sales in Japan in 1993 changes experienced by women in their 40s and older. 1982 1989 2008 2021 Korea Otsuka Otsuka America Otsuka Holdings 100th Pharmaceutical Otsuka America Pharmaceutical anniversary of 2010 founding 1988 1998 Stock publicly listed on Otsuka Pakistan Otsuka Pharmaceutical Europe Tokyo Stock Exchange 2011 Otsuka Medical Devices Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 5 Otsuka’s Strengths What we can achieve because we are Otsuka People are the source of our strengths. Since Otsuka’s establishment in 1921, employees everywhere have pursued business guided by our enduring corporate philosophy in order to bring health to people worldwide. Through the determination of these employees, we have developed many strengths. The six strengths described below are a representative sample, and more continue to evolve each day. Making the best possible use of these strengths, employees take on new challenges to fulfill our potential, all in order to contribute to better health worldwide. An enduring corporate philosophy and a managerial essence, passed down and A business model centered on total healthcare practiced throughout the group 31countries/regions Contributing to three aspects of health Our corporate philosophy is displayed prominently Physical, mental and in offices in every country where we do business social well-being We engage our employees to think and act creatively without We provide a variety of science-based products and services preconceived notions. We also support their development, so that meet the specific healthcare needs of the times in each that they can embody our unique capabilities and potential. community. We conceive products and services that will contribute We believe that this, as well as engagement with our corporate in 10 or 20 years’ time in the three areas of physical, mental, and philosophy and managerial essence (reflected in our corporate social well-being. culture) has brought us to where we are today, and will build the Otsuka of tomorrow. A global reach incorporating solutions to An unwavering quest for originality social issues through our core business processes In-house drug discovery IV solutions business 15 3 89% 1 overseas companies: percentage: More than 20 Countries/Regions where POCARI SWEAT is available: Development projects for unmet needs: 23 2 Countries/Regions where More than 100 tuberculosis drug DELTYBA is available: We pursue the creativity implicit in our corporate philosophy across our entire value chain, from R&D through marketing. In the We are extending our global reach by addressing social issues (e.g., ongoing challenge to create innovative products and services, we fluid/electrolyte replenishment, infectious diseases) that differ in are always thinking about how to generate the kind of innovation each country/region depending on culture, customs and the times. that defines Otsuka, targeting unmet medical needs as well as the Going forward, we will provide products and services that lead to yet-to-be-imagined needs of consumers. solutions for social issues in many more countries/regions. 1. Ratio of in-house drug discovery projects among late-phase development projects 3. Number of companies engaged in the intravenous solutions business. Many of these 2. As of December 2019; unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on companies also export products to neighboring countries, thereby making a PatientsMap2019JP and PatientsMap2018US, M3 & SSRI meaningful contribution to medical care in those countries. A solid financial foundation and strong earnings An ability to nurture enduring brands power, which drive sustainable growth Top-share products by pharmaceutical category4: 8 in Japan, 3 outside Japan Rating: AA− 6 Business profit margin of Percentage of consumers in Japan who have tried Nutraceutical Business: 12.7% 7 POCARI SWEAT: 88.3 % 5 We have developed our brands through unceasing efforts to We are cultivating a solid financial foundation and strong demonstrate the health value of innovative products born from earnings power whereby nutraceuticals and intravenous solutions creative R&D. Our ability to nurture brands leads to sustainable generate stable earnings and act as a base, while therapeutic growth and enhanced corporate value, enabling us to take on the agents, which are a driver of growth, fund ongoing investment challenge of finding original approaches to new healthcare needs. in creative new areas befitting Otsuka. This will form the basis for 4. Copyright © 2020 IQVIA. Created based on annual category totals for the past 10 sustained investment in areas that create new value in the face of years, including IQVIA MIDAS 2009 to 2019 and Otsuka research. Categories defined a changing business environment. by Otsuka. Reprinted with permission. 6. Rating and Investment Information, Inc. 5. November 2019 survey in Japan conducted by Otsuka 7. Average for the previous three years (For reference: Average operating profit margin of S&P Food & Beverage Select Industry Index constituents for the previous three years: 8.5%) 6 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Value Creation Process That Generates Originality Taking on the challenge of doing what only Otsuka can do At the heart of the Otsuka group’s value creation process is an approach that is always looking to the future in order to anticipate the various needs of healthcare aligned with society’s expectations. We try to anticipate the diversifying needs that arise from the changing times, environment, and ways that people think about health. Then, leveraging our group strength of unique, wide-ranging businesses, and our people, who have extensive knowledge and experience, we construct hypotheses and combine new technologies and scientific developments with existing ones to create new value. While working to resolve social issues we maximize the value we create (products and services). In that process, we capture new needs that emerge, which we harness in turn to create more new value. Sustainable growth of the Otsuka group through this value creation process leads to steady enhancement of corporate value, while also making it possible for us to continue applying our original approach to the challenge of new healthcare needs. New value creation Future health issues, anticipated medical needs Health maintenance in the fourth industrial revolution Chemicals Signs of Self-medication Derivation unwellness Niche Big data IoT 5G Chain of creativity Clinical Chemicals Synergy nutrition AI Robotics OTC Created value Value creation Diversifying needs Pharma(products and services) ceuticals NutraChemicals ceuticals CosOTC medics* New concepts and hypotheses arising from wide-ranging Consumer Clinical nutrition businesses and human resources with DiagMedical extensive knowledge nostics devices and experience New technological and * Cosmedics = cosmetics + medicine scientific developments + Wealth of technological New concepts and and scientific assets hypotheses Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 7 Value Creation Model Realizing a Sus Otsuka’s Strengths ▲ ■ Page 6 Business Mediu What we can achieve Manage Progress of the Third Medium-Term Essence of Management Management Plan Page 24 ■▲ (Our Corporate Culture) Ryukan-godo (by sweat we Jis recognize the way) (actual Self-actualiza The process of discovering achievement, the core substance of and the something through of t hard work and practice Management Resources Supporting the Otsuka Group Human Capital Relationship and Manufactured Capital Employees: 47,000* Social Capital Manufacturing sites: 173 Japan: 18,000 Total Group companies: 195 Japan: 53 Outside Japan: 29,000 Japan: 50 Outside Japan: 120 Outside Japan: 145 Locations: 31 countries/regions People, Environment, Corporate Govern Corporate Quality in Social Issues Health People All We Do Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 8 tainable Society Strategy Value Creation Process That Generates Originality ■ ▲ Page 7 m-Term ment Plan What only Otsuka can do Implementation of Sustainability Initiatives Page 12 ■ ▲ sho ization) Sozosei (creativity) tion through completion Pursuing that discovery which only Otsuka is ruth capable of delivering Intellectual Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital Research sites: 49 Total assets: ¥2,581.3 billion Japan: 24 Outside Japan: 25 * Data for 195 companies including Otsuka Holdings and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies (as of December 31, 2019) ance, Compliance, Risk Management Philosophy Resource Climate Water Recycling and Governance Change Conservation Conservation Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 9 Materiality In 2019, the Otsuka group determined material issues based on their importance to society and to the group’s businesses. Process for Determining Material Issues To determine the Otsuka group’s material issues, we first compiled a list of social issues, referencing a range of international guidelines and frameworks, including ISO 26000, GRI, and the U.N. SDGs. We narrowed down the list of issues by evaluating them in terms of their importance, taking into account our ability to contribute to a solution, their impact on business, and our strengths. Issues were then discussed by the CSR Promotion Committee1 and approved at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting. As a result, the material issues of the Otsuka group were determined to be: Society (Health, People, Quality in All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation), and Governance. 1. The CSR Promotion Committee promotes CSR throughout the Otsuka group. The committee’s responsibilities include discussing and deciding on the direction and plans for CSR activities. The Otsuka Holdings director in charge of CSR promotion serves as the committee chair. Committee members comprise regional group managers involved in CSR and the CSR officers of each company. 1 Identification of social issues with reference to respective international guidelines Assessment of social issues that our business activities 2 can contribute to solving and their importance Determination of material issues by the CSR Promotion Committee from 3 the viewpoint of their impact on both society and the Otsuka group 4 Approval at the Otsuka Holdings Board of Directors meeting Map of Social Issues2 High 3.00 Increasing aging issues Nutritional needs Global warming Spread of 2.50 infectious diseases Unmet medical and health needs Importance with regard to sustainability Social change risk 2.00 Unprepared for Consumption and production diversification that impairs sustainability Environmental 1.50 load increase Fragile Reducing freshwater governance system availability Presenteeism3 1.00 0.50 0 0 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 Degree of impact on business activities High 2. Our nine highly important material issues are indicated in bold ▲ ■ Page 12, Initiatives for Sustainability 3. The situation where productivity does not go up due to the poor condition of the mind and body despite coming to work 10 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Materiality Based on the process described on the preceding page, the material issues of the Otsuka group were determined to be: Society (Health, People, Quality in All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation), and Governance. Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs • Unmet medical and • Contribute to unmet needs • Promotion of R&D for unmet health needs solutions needs • Spread of infectious • Eradication of tuberculosis • R&D of antituberculosis drugs diseases • Creation of a system for the and improvement of drug realization of a healthful life access • Nutritional needs Health Healthy life extension • Support and awareness • Increasing aging issues • activities for people’s health maintenance/improvement mainly on exercise and nutrition etc. • Promotion of problem solving by strengthening partnerships • Presenteeism3 • Creation of a corporate • Human resource development Society culture that stimulates • Unprepared for • Diversity promotion (Healthier People diversification creativity Society) • Enhance employee • Health management engagement • Consumption and • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and production that • Pursuing sustainability at all product design impairs sustainability levels of the value chain • Thorough quality control and • Establishing a quality stable supply Quality assurance system for safety • Responsible promotional and security activities and information in All We Do provision • Deepening communication with stakeholders • Promotion of “customercentric management” Climate • Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction • Reduce CO2 emissions in CO2 emissions compared throughout the value chain Change to FY 2017 • Environmental load • FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction • Reduce environmental increase in simple incineration and impact by improving Resource landfill compared to FY 2019 resource efficiency Environment Recycling • FY 2030 Goal: 50% or higher • Promotion of business activities (Healthier and content of recycled and aimed at a sustainable state in Planet) Conservation plant-based materials in our both society and the earth PET bottles • Reducing freshwater • FY 2030 Goal: Improvement • Understanding water resources Water availability of water use efficiency by risk Conservation 15% compared to FY 2017 • Management and effective use of water resources • Fragile governance • Long-term improvement of • Strengthening corporate system corporate value governance Governance • Social change risk • Thorough compliance • Risk identification, evaluation and management Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 11 Initiatives for Sustainability From among the 12 social issues we determined to be the Otsuka group’s materialities, we selected 9 that we currently regard as highly important, and set goals related to them for fiscal 2023. Materiality Social Issues Our Goals • Unmet medical and health needs • Contribute to unmet needs solutions • Spread of infectious diseases • Eradication of tuberculosis Health • Nutritional needs • Creation of a system for the realization of a healthful life Society ■▲ Page 40 • Unprepared for diversification • Creation of a corporate culture that stimulates creativity People • Enhance employee engagement • Consumption and production that • Pursue sustainability at all levels of the impairs sustainability value chain Quality in All We Do • Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: Climate 30% reduction in CO2 emissions compared Change to FY 2017 • Environmental load increase • FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction in simple incineration and Environment Resource landfill compared to FY 2019 ■▲ Page 50 Recycling and Conservation • FY 2030 Goal: 50% or higher content of recycled and plant-based materials in our PET bottles • Reducing freshwater availability • FY 2030 Goal: Water Improvement of water use efficiency by 15% Conservation compared to FY 2017 • Social change risk • Long-term improvement of corporate value Governance ■▲ Page 54 1. Unmet needs areas defined by Otsuka based on PatientsMap2019JP, PatientsMap2018US, M3 & SSRI 2. Otsuka Advanced Training for Healthy Aging Supporters: A program that supports pharmacies as health information hubs with strong connections to local communities 3. CSR procurement self-assessment questionnaire 4. Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas: A water risk mapping tool developed by the World Resources Institute 12 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 FY 2023 Goals FY 2019 Progress • Promotion of R&D for unmet needs • Maintained ratio of R&D expenses to revenue in Pharmaceutical Business of at • In areas with unmet needs1 least 20% for three consecutive years • New development projects: ■▲ Page 68, Financial and Non-Financial Highlights 10 or more • In areas with unmet needs1 • Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: • New development projects: 1 • Late-phase development projects advancing to the next phase: 6 30 or more ■▲ Page 24, Business Strategy Section • Provide DELTYBA (generic name: delamanid) for a cumulative total of • Provided DELTYBA for approximately 20,000 cases 60,000 cases • Expanded countries/regions where DELTYBA is available to over 100 • Supply DELTYBA for pediatric patients • U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) launched a large-scale clinical trial to • Launch clinical trial for new treatment regimen confirm the preventive efficacy of delamanid for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis • Increase access to DELTYBA by collaborating with partners • Continued participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) • Create new systems and reinforce existing systems for realizing • Executed cooperation agreements with all 47 prefectures and promoted healthy lifestyles collaboration in health and other fields • Create new concepts and products keeping an eye on changes in • Continued to hold Women’s Health Seminar Page 31, Women’s Health ■▲ environments • Continued providing dietary education app SketchCook and Nature Made • Challenge new categories and new areas Supplement Check • 30th anniversary of the Otsuka Health Comic Library • Cumulative total OATHAS2 registrants: Approximately 18,000 • Established new company in the health drink business in Myanmar • Further instill the corporate culture and philosophy • Cumulative total participants in executive human resource development • Build systems for ongoing human resource development aligned with programs of Otsuka Global Academy: 141 changes in society and in the times • Introduced Family Smile Support System and Work Interval System • Further promote and instill diversity as a source of innovation • Cumulative total participants in Health Seminars: 1,050 • Build new systems to maintain more comfortable working environments • Companies implementing SAQ3: 200 • Cumulative total of companies implementing SAQ: 34 • Carry out CSR procurement • Held global production meetings and environmental management information Supplier briefings: Over 30 times/companies (commencing in FY 2021) exchange meetings • Held global product quality meetings • Improved products based on customer feedback • Carried out initiatives to reduce food waste • Introduce renewable energy and raise usage rate of CO2-free electricity • Set group environmental goals • Introduced CO2-free electricity • Obtained Science Based Targets (SBT) Initiative certification (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical) • Strengthen cooperation for reducing simple incineration and landfill • Standardized and tracked global data on waste recycling volume volume • Build an internal group system for improving the usage rate of recycled and plant-based materials • Improve water use efficiency in accordance with water risk, which is • Carried out water risk assessments using Aqueduct4 unevenly distributed by country/region • Conducted water use questionnaires and clarified issues at each production site • Strengthen corporate governance to further raise effectiveness • Introduced restricted stock compensation plan • Build a governance system capable of global business development and • Began full-scale activities by the Global Business Support Department to response to various changes strengthen oversight of overseas subsidiaries • Build a system to strengthen compliance within the group • Carried out activities for directors to raise effectiveness • Board of Directors meeting attendance rate: 100% • Established Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Global Conflict of Interest Policy Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 13 Message from the President The Otsuka group of companies will contribute to society while achieving sustained growth by doing what only Otsuka can do. Tatsuo Higuchi President and Representative Director, CEO Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Under our enduring corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka group of companies creates innovative products that fulfill a universal human desire to be healthy. The core of our management approach is to leverage our strengths and capabilities described on the following pages that enable us to do what only Otsuka can do. In doing so, we are also contributing to, and advancing, a sustainable society. As we stand at a juncture of ever-larger social change, our philosophy serves as a solid foundation, guiding us amidst the trends and tides of the times, and from which we take on new challenges and opportunities. 14 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Q1. What is the Otsuka group’s long-term vision? We create and provide a comprehensive portfolio of companies around the world have mainly taken the products and services that meet the specific healthcare form of philanthropy. needs of the times in each community. Factors that Simultaneously, maintaining and improving health influence these needs include the emergence of new is an integral part of our Nutraceutical Business. Otsuka disease trends, and demographic trends such as aging continues to invest in research that clarifies how people populations and rates of population growth that are can maintain a healthy lifestyle and thereby avoid uneven around the world. Simultaneously, factors illness. A fundamental demand driver for nutraceutical that influence the ability to address these needs products is people’s greater proactivity in managing include the evolution of gene therapies, an area that their heath across their entire lifespans. This includes, Otsuka is investing in; artificial intelligence; and other for example, women who balance professional and technologies. Becoming an indispensable contributor family demands, athletically minded people aiming to to people’s health worldwide requires us to anticipate improve their overall fitness and stamina, and older society’s expectations in 10 and 20 years’ time. people seeking extended quality-of-life benefits. Our What kind of contributions can our Pharmaceutical contribution in nutraceuticals also takes a researchBusiness make? As populations continue to age, based approach. Here the aim is to create products treatments, or better yet, preventions are needed for that offer tangible, health-supportive benefits in diseases such as Alzheimer’s disease and various forms areas such as immune function, quality of sleep, and of cancer. At the same time, infectious diseases such special dietary needs, and even intangible benefits as tuberculosis will become even more pressing global that support individual lifestyles and work styles. Given challenges. At the other extreme, many hereditary, the time required for product development, we must orphan diseases lack any treatments. Otsuka is construct hypotheses that look 10 and 20 years into contributing through research in many of these disease the future, and start developing products now. areas. For COVID-19, contributions by our group Q2. What business risks and opportunities do you see in the long term? Changes in human needs, and in business and managing but not being overwhelmed by risks, is the other landscapes are the largest sources of risk and right approach for Otsuka. opportunity. Risks that our management factors As a total healthcare company, our operations into decision making include macroeconomic and encompass products and services for the diagnosis geopolitical climates; the physical climate, with and treatment of diseases, as well as for the increasingly frequent natural disasters caused in part by maintenance and improvement of health. Medical cost global warming; and demographic changes. In order to inflation due to aging populations and the increasing devise optimal responses or solutions, we must identify sophistication of medical treatment is a serious global root causes. On the opportunity side, this involves issue. As a provider of total healthcare solutions, we evolution of product development and technologies, recognize these developments as responsibilities and expansion of our presence in new regions, and the opportunities. Our diverse portfolio enables us to turn forging of new research and commercial collaborations. risks into opportunities. Focusing our energies on opportunities, while Q3. What does Otsuka need to do to improve corporate value while achieving sustainable growth? In keeping with our corporate philosophy and our longin three categories: Society (Health, People, Quality in standing ESG-informed commitment to contributing to All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource human health, we set forth our CSR Mission when we Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation), announced the Third Medium-Term Management Plan and Governance. Within each category, we carry out in May 2019. The CSR Mission defines material issues initiatives under related themes. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 15 For Society, we focus on human resources. In order subsequent pollution, we issued the Otsuka Group to achieve sustainable growth, continuous improvement Plastic Policy, which defines goals for achievement by of capabilities as individuals, teams, and organizations 2030, and are undertaking group-wide initiatives. is required in addition to management principles and For Governance, we have built a framework in corporate culture. We recognize employee growth as which four of 13 directors are outside directors, and an important management issue. To that end, Otsuka three of four Audit & Supervisory Board members Holdings launched the executive human resource are outside auditors (as of April 2020). Our outside development programs of the Otsuka Global Academy in directors are: Yukio Matsutani, who has extensive 2016 to foster human resources capable of driving future experience in, and deep insights into, the medical growth. Three programs are offered to group employees. welfare field; Ko Sekiguchi, who has extensive The Senior Leadership Program and Middle Leadership management experience and high-level expertise in Program are designed to nurture management the pharmaceutical industry; Yoshihisa Aoki, who has candidates, while the Global Leadership Program, extensive management experience and deep expertise launched in 2019, is fostering a global managerial in the food industry; and, starting this year, Mayo cadre comprised of employees from around the world. Mita, who is highly knowledgeable regarding finance Each group company is also actively involved in and markets. The diverse experience and expertise of human resource development. For instance, Otsuka these outside directors complements the knowledge Pharmaceutical has operated WING, a voluntary and skills of the nine inside directors, and together leadership study group, since 2009. Participants they form an effective governance body, capable of identify internal and external issues, and work in vigorous discussion. teams to discuss potential solutions before formulating The sheer number of companies in the Otsuka a proposal for consideration. At Taiho Pharmaceutical, group means that effectively managing our subsidiaries “Global One Academy” was established in 2016. in Japan and around the world necessitates a In addition to individual growth, we believe that different approach from a single-purpose company. diversity is vital. The variety of innate qualities that Such management requires oversight with detailed individuals bring to our teams is important to us, and knowledge of each company’s business. We are we actively welcome people of all nationalities, races, also working to solidify the management platform ages, genders, and abilities, in the belief that breaking underpinning our global operations through down barriers to inclusion is the key to sparking standardization and better efficiencies, including innovation and furthering our globalization. expansion of shared services and optimization of For Environment, our initiatives focus on procurement. In addition, we are strengthening sustainability throughout the supply chain. We internal control functions to ensure disciplined have been steadily implementing various measures, management. Enhancing management functions can which in 2019 included the introduction of CO2-free have an impact that amplifies across the organization electricity and co-generation systems. Moreover, in to boost corporate value. response to the pressing issue of plastic usage and Q4. Can you describe the Otsuka group’s value creation model and its contribution to a sustainable society? Guided by our corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people unwavering quest for originality; 4) a global reach creating new products for better health worldwide,” incorporating solutions to social issues with our core and our essence of management—Ryukan-godo, business processes; 5) an ability to nurture enduring Jissho and Sozosei—we seek to demonstrate our brands; and 6) a solid financial foundation and strong unique capabilities and achieve our unique potential, earnings power, which drive sustainable growth. thereby contributing to the realization of a sustainable Also, our value creation process enables Otsuka society and stable growth. to do things that other companies cannot. First, we Six strengths underlie our success: 1) An enduring seek to anticipate emerging needs from the broad corporate philosophy and a managerial essence, consumer and patient populations who use our passed down and practiced throughout the group; products, as well as needs arising from the evolving 2) a business model centered on total healthcare; 3) an environments around the world where we do business. 16 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 We leverage these together with other advantages of our wide-ranging businesses—such as a diverse wealth of technological and scientific assets—to create novel ideas and ultimately new value. In this way, the Otsuka group is able to help society achieve sustainable growth, increase corporate value over the medium to long term, and ultimately make its vision a reality—to become an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide. Q5. What will be essential to Otsuka’s further development? In order to better recognize where we stand and what Companies with a solid philosophical foundation we strive for, we must continually question ourselves from are the strongest in turbulent times. Our ability the perspectives of Strategy, Culture, and Capabilities. to embrace change and continually take on new Strategy is closely tied to our corporate philosophy, challenges is not down to individual leaders acting which guides our thinking because it is the very alone, but to generations of employees who have foundation of our business strategy, and is an been inspired by our founders. expression of our determination to constantly take on Upholding this strategy and culture takes new challenges and generate innovation. formidable Capabilities, and each individual must Culture is best defined by the words of our constantly review what he or she is capable of and founders, Ryukan-godo, Jissho and Sozosei. swiftly address deficiencies. Ryukan-godo Jissho Sozosei The process of discovering the Self-actualization through Pursuing that which only core substance of something achievement, completion Otsuka is capable through hard work and the discovery of delivering and practice of truth Q6. How do you ensure engagement with Otsuka’s philosophy and approach among employees around the world? We believe that an effective way to instill our global brand sales exceeding one billion U.S. dollars philosophy is to share stories of our successes, and in 2019. A concrete example like this inspires a better failures along the way. Stories, in other words, understanding of how Otsuka’s innovation contributes through communication grounded in experience to people’s health. Generating engagement with and fact. Philosophies and approaches cannot be Otsuka’s philosophy and culture through our successes shared properly in the abstract alone; they must be has brought us to where we are today, and will build accompanied by concrete examples. Take, for instance, the Otsuka of tomorrow. the development of Samsca/JINARC1/JYNARQUE,2 Otsuka will celebrate its 100th anniversary in 2021. the first-in-the world therapy for ADPKD.3 It took This is an ideal opportunity for group companies in more than ten years to conduct phase III trials Japan and around the world to deepen employee in the U.S., but it has since grown into our next understanding of Otsuka’s philosophy and approach as blockbuster product following ABILIFY, with overall we prepare to embark on another century of success. 1. Brand name for ADPKD treatment in multiple regions outside Japan 2. Brand name for ADPKD treatment in the U.S. 3. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 17 Message from the CFO Targeting sustainable growth and increased corporate value, we will enhance our cash flow generation and capital efficiency through optimal resource allocation. Yuko Makino Executive Director, CFO Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Business Management with a Corporate-wide We are applying ROIC to maximize investment efficiency, Awareness of Capital Cost with a group-wide target of at least 1.0% above the cost of The Third Medium-Term Management Plan is positioned as a capital (5.5%). On the other hand, contributing to society period for adopting business management with a corporatethrough ongoing innovation is important to us, so if investments wide awareness of capital cost under a strategy of maximizing that include a certain amount of risk are aligned with the group’s existing business value and creating new value. We will corporate philosophy or are conducive to sustainable growth, promote this approach throughout the group as we target then we will continue to take on these challenges. sustainable growth. To implement this stance, we believe a comprehensive While we already consider cost of capital in deciding on group-wide financial framework is essential. It must be based individual investments or recognizing impairment losses, we on steady cash flow generation from existing assets, and other included “business management with a corporate-wide measures that include issuing bonds and commercial paper or awareness of capital cost” in the Third Medium-Term borrowing from financial institutions when necessary. Management Plan so as to instill a broad awareness of cost of capital throughout the group, not just as it relates to individual investments. This will lead to sustainable, more effective cash flow generation and Invested Capital (Operating Approach) greater investment efficiency. Under the Second Medium-Term Operating liabilities Management Plan, we pursued a policy of (Working capital, etc.) Invested Capital active strategic investment using revenues (Financing Approach) from growing global sales of ABILIFY, and Operating assets (Working capital, Financing Creditors succeeded in diversifying our revenue fixed assets, etc.) Interest-bearing debt structure. Furthermore, given that looming (Borrowings, bonds) Cost of debt patent expirations were a major management (Interest payments) issue, we executed this diversification with a focus on restructuring our revenue base from Investments Investors Shareholders’ equity the perspective of our income statement. Non-operating assets Our plan is to further strengthen Cost of equity (Expected returns) investment as a driver for medium-to-longterm growth during the period of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan and beyond. Returns in excess of Optimal capital structure cost of capital This will require us to not only look at revenues in the income statement, but to adopt a more pronounced group-wide focus Increased medium-to-long-term corporate value on balance sheet management. 18 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Maximizing Existing Business Value and Creating New Value Returns in excess of cost of capital Consider both growth potential (future earning power) and capital efficiency • Improve ROIC in the medium to Improving quality of profit ROIC1 WACC2 Reinvestment long term Cash flow generation Cash flow allocation Carry out disciplined growth investments that consider cost of Secure cash returns in excess of cost of capital capital and secure funds for shareholder returns • Achieve organic growth of • Make investments that have mainstay pharmaceutical, Business Growth synergy with existing management nutraceutical products and profit Operating investments assets to generate greater value brands (CAGR of 10% or more) cash flows Reinvestment • Create new value • Improve working capital CCC 3 Capital efficiency • Increase investment efficiency expenditure • Divest idle assets Reduction in non-operating assets • Maintain a basic policy of stable Dividends Shareholder dividends returns • Provide additional shareholder • Take debt capacity into account Debt financing Share buybacks returns depending on profit growth 1. Return on invested capital 2. Weighted average cost of capital 3. Cash conversion cycle Optimal capital structure Control invested capital with consideration for financial soundness • Financial leverage appropriate for Debt capacity maintaining AA− rating A Financial Framework Conducive to Improving Capital Structure Optimization Policy Medium-to-Long-Term Corporate Value When considering the optimal capital structure, as the basis we Securing Cash Returns in Excess of Cost of Capital use the debt capacity level needed to maintain our current AA− Achieving true improvement in corporate value means more rating, taking into account factors such as the required level of than simply generating profit; we must enhance free cash flow shareholders’ equity given our credit rating and business risks, generation. We will therefore focus more strongly on improving as well as the rate of return expected by investors. our profit structure. At the same time, we will appropriately control the scale of We will secure operating cash flows through organic invested capital in accordance with our debt capacity, and business growth, reinvest in growth areas and distribute returns maintain financial discipline in our growth investments. to shareholders, while maintaining an appropriate level of financial leverage. Furthermore, we will establish a framework Tax Policy that achieves returns from reinvested capital in excess of the As a multinational enterprise, the Otsuka group recognizes cost of capital, which will drive profit growth, and in turn that the appropriate payment of taxes in adherence with enable us to make further growth investments and enhance applicable laws and regulations in each country and region shareholder returns. contributes to local economies. Among increased calls for tax transparency worldwide, we are committed to making Cash Flow Allocation Policy improvements in this regard. In accordance with the Otsuka We will balance the allocation of cash flows between Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the Otsuka group works prioritizing growth investments aimed at generating ongoing to ensure appropriate payment of taxes under a principle of increases in medium-to-long-term returns in excess of cost of compliance that is shared by all employees, including those at capital, and delivering stable shareholder returns. departments outside the purview of the CFO. For growth investments, we will consider investments that have Moreover, we strive to build constructive relationships synergy with existing management assets to generate greater value. with relevant tax authorities by maintaining and providing In the Pharmaceutical Business, our main investments will be reliable data. aimed at enhancing our products and pipeline in the psychiatry In accordance with its tax compliance policy (see page 66), and neurology, oncology, and cardiovascular and renal areas. the Otsuka group will implement effective management, In the Nutraceutical Business, we will actively invest in new strengthen governance, build constructive and positive businesses that meet society’s future needs. relationships with respective tax authorities and fulfill its tax Our basic policy for shareholder returns is to maintain obligations in all countries and regions. stable dividends. While emphasizing the continuity and stability of dividends, we will consider additional shareholder returns depending on profit growth, applying a comprehensive approach by securing sufficient cash returns, to pursue growth investments, a solid financial standing and the optimal capital structure. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 19 Feature: Realizing Better Health Worldwide Fluids and Electrolytes Essential to —A 40-Year History and the Future of POCARI SWEAT— History Raising Awareness of Heat Disorders and the Importance of Replenishing Fluids and Electrolytes Founded as a chemical raw material manufacturer electrolyte replenishment in various aspects of life. in 1921, the Otsuka group launched its intravenous This brings us to the present day. The pathology of heat solutions business in 1946. Leveraging expertise cultivated disorders, which was not well known in those early days, in the intravenous solutions business, we developed and the concept of supplying electrolytes together with POCARI SWEAT as a beverage that replenishes the body’s fluids as a countermeasure, are now widely understood and fluids and electrolytes, which are important for maintaining recognized throughout society. POCARI SWEAT has become and improving day-to-day physical health. Later, in 1992, a popular staple in all kinds of situations where people we participated in the Japan Amateur Sports Association sweat, including sports, commuting, outdoor work, and (now Japan Sport Association (JSPO)) Study Group for after a bath or waking up. Today, we continue to promote Prevention of Heat Disorders in Sports Activities, and began awareness of the importance of replenishing fluids and full-fledged activities to raise awareness of heat disorders electrolytes in various contexts, including children’s sports and their prevention. Since then, we have used scientific activities, occupational safety and hygiene, and hydration evidence to raise awareness of the importance of fluid and for the elderly. 1980 1982 1987 1993 1998 Launched in First overseas Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Japan market entry units sold: units sold: units sold: 3 billion1 10 billion1 20 billion1 1. One unit equals 340 ml; units sold includes overseas sales 1992 Began cooperation with Japan Amateur Sports 2007 Began cosponsoring production Association2 Study Group for of a guidebook on heat Prevention of Heat Disorders disorder prevention, based on in Sports Activities the Guidelines for Prevention of 2. Now Japan Sport Association (JSPO) Heat Disorders in Everyday Life (Ver. 1) published by the Japan 1993 Society of Biometeorology Began cosponsoring JSPO heat disorder prevention POCARI SWEAT is a health beverage that awareness activities and easily replenishes the body with fluids cosponsored production of A and electrolytes lost due to perspiration. Guidebook for the Prevention When people sweat to regulate their of Heat Disorder in Sports Activities (First Edition) body temperature, they lose electrolytes along with fluids. Just drinking water may upset the balance between fluids and electrolytes, which can negatively affect physical condition and performance. Proper hydration is necessary. As a beverage that 2007 Conducted lectures on is similar to fluids already present in the hydration for 500,000 human body, POCARI SWEAT enables members of junior sports clubs efficient fluid replenishment. nationwide as part of the Sports Activities Campaign 20 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 through Life 2008 2020 Cumulative units sold: 40 th anniversary 30 billion1 Supplying quality fluids and electrolytes to people all around the world 2016 Received Best Communicator and Top Runner Award at 2012 the Heatstroke Prevention Co-sponsored production of Communication Project the Heat Disorders Prevention Hitosuzumi Awards 2016 website (NPO Weather Caster Network) 2017 2012 Participated in the reprinting of Began Live On Seminar as a the Ministry of the Environment’s lecture for industrial physicians Environmental Health Manual 2010 and public health nurses, nurses, on Heat Disorders Commenced activities at nutritionists, and health and public and other health safety staff working at business centers across Japan to raise offices in Japan heat disorder awareness among seniors Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 21 Present Why POCARI SWEAT Continues to Create New Value Situations in which the body becomes dehydrated are various, and are not limited to any particular time or place. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s marketing of POCARI SWEAT includes activities to raise awareness of the importance of hydration in more than 20 countries/regions around the world. POCARI SWEAT continues to create new value—meeting the challenge of changes in the environment and people’s values, and social diversification. This is because POCARI SWEAT continues to be closely intertwined with people’s lives, and to uncover and address underlying issues. As a science-based solution for universal needs, it generates value that leads to better health and better lifestyles. Sales countries/regions Production countries/regions More than 20 6 sites Replenishing fluids and electrolytes lost through perspiration around the world Two years after its launch in Japan, POCARI SWEAT made its overseas debut in 1982. At present, it is sold in more than 20 countries/regions. 22 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Future The World POCARI SWEAT Aims to Create Global warming is having a major worldwide impact on climate and the natural environment, as well as people’s lives. Should global warming continue, as many as 1.2 billion people could be at risk of heat disorders every year by the year 2100. Also, it is estimated that due to the expansion of habitats conducive to the propagation of organisms that carry tropical diseases, including Zika fever and dengue fever, the number of people at risk of infection could increase by 383–725 million by 2050.* Meanwhile, the importance of and proper methods for fluid and electrolyte replenishment as “first aid” for heat disorders and tropical disease infection have not yet become globally recognized. We explore and identify underlying issues in each country, consider solutions, convey the scientific grounds and encourage consumers to try POCARI SWEAT. Through simple measures such as these, we contribute to the health of people worldwide. Fluids and electrolytes are essential to life. Our vision is to use our enduring spirit of inquiry and our ability to flexibly address the needs of a diversifying society to make POCARI SWEAT a health beverage like no other. Around the world, there are many people who have difficulty maintaining their health because they lack access to a quality source of hydration. POCARI SWEAT aims to change the world by being an industry leader and contributing to solving social issues. * Daniel Li et al., Environ Res Lett 2020 Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute gathers various kinds of evidence through clinical trials on the replenishment of fluids and electrolytes under various conditions. In 2018, leveraging our expertise from research into heat disorders, we launched POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY. We developed this product using proprietary technology for creating a formulation that freezes in the form of ice slurry (in which solid particles are dispersed in a liquid), which is known for its high cooling properties. This “drinkable ice” efficiently cools the body from its core, and offers people a new option for combating heat disorders when active in hot environments. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Ion Supply Drink Research Lab ▲ https://www.otsuka.co.jp/en/nutraceutical/about/rehydration/researchlab/ Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 23 Business Strategy Section Positioning of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan Advance in the Global Market as a Unique Total Healthcare Company —Five-Year Growth Phase (2019–2023)— Existing Business Value Maximization and New Value Creation Performance Target: Business Profit CAGR of 10% or More • Organic growth of mainstay products and brands in Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Businesses • Actively invest in R&D to continue creating new drugs that will drive revenue during and beyond the next medium-term management plan Business Strategy: Existing Business Value Maximization and New Value Creation Strategic initiatives for mainstay products and brands to accelerate growth • Strengthen strategic initiatives for growth drivers—4 Global Products in the Pharmaceutical Business; 3 Major Brands and 3 Nurture Brands in the Nutraceutical Business Initiatives for next-generation businesses and products • Launch and nurture new drivers for sustainable growth in Pharmaceutical and Nutraceutical Businesses Business profit CAGR: 10% or more Revenue and business profit before R&D expenses: All-time highs Third Medium-Term Management Plan Targets ROE: 8.0% or higher R&D ratio in the Pharmaceutical Business: 20% or higher (versus revenue) Social Issues Relating to Strategies, and KPIs Social Issue Strategic Theme KPIs in the Third Medium-Term Management Plan Existing Business Value Revenue from 4 Global Products: Increase by ¥200 billion Maximization Revenue from New Products: Increase by ¥90 billion Address unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology area Projects to be filed for regulatory approval Challenge New Frontiers: • REXULTI and AVP-786: Agitation associated with dementia Do what only Otsuka can do of the Alzheimer’s type • REXULTI: PTSD • centanafadine: ADHD Pharmaceutical Unmet medical and • fremanezumab: Migraine Business health needs Create first-in-class products in the oncology area Projects to be filed for regulatory approval • TAS-116: Gastrointestinal stromal tumor • TBI-1301: Synovial sarcoma Generate Innovation From • TAS-120: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma Creative and Diverse Research Platforms Create first-in-class products in the cardiovascular and renal area Projects to be filed for regulatory approval • vadadustat: Renal anemia • Ultrasound-based renal denervation system: Refractory hypertension Revenue from 3 Major Brands: Increase by ¥40 billion Challenge New Categories Revenue from 3 Nurture Brands: Increase by ¥40 billion Nutraceutical and New Areas POCARI SWEAT overseas revenue CAGR: 9.4% Nutritional needs Business Daiya Foods revenue CAGR: 25% Continuous High Profit Fiscal 2023 business profit margin of Nutraceutical Business: Structure 14.4% 24 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Linking Investments and Results Across our entire value chain, we are investing in anticipation of changes and issues five to ten years in the future, and working to steadily generate results from those investments. A. 4 Global Products driving the group’s growth To maximize the value of our 4 Global Products—ABILIFY MAINTENA, REXULTI, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE, and Lonsurf— we continued to invest for growth, including signing a joint development and sales agreement with Lundbeck for ABILIFY MAINTENA and REXULTI, establishing an in-house development and sales system in the U.S. oncology business, and signing a European licensing contract with Servier for Lonsurf. As a result, these products are now driving the group’s growth. B. Accelerating collaborations among Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Astex Pharmaceuticals We are sharing proprietary cutting-edge technologies cultivated by each operating company. C. Diversification of drug discovery modalities With a focus on generating innovation from creative and diverse research platforms, we plan to diversify drug discovery modalities and strengthen our in-house drug discovery platforms mainly by collaborating with and acquiring organizations with innovative and highly original drug discovery technologies. Second Medium-Term Management Plan Third Medium-Term Management Plan Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan Beyond 2014–2018 2019–2023 2024–2028 Aim to become a top-class player in Expand into new core the psychiatry and neurology area therapeutic areas in the cardiovascular Plan to launch a treatment for agitation and renal area Plan to launch fremanezumab, a treatment for migraines Accelerate global Plan to launch centanafadine, a treatment for ADHD development in the oncology area Plan to launch ultrasound-based renal denervation system Launched ABILIFY MAINTENA and REXULTI in Japan, the U.S. and Diversification of drug discovery modalities — C Europe—A Accelerating collaborations among Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Taiho Pharmaceutical and Astex Pharmaceuticals — B Launched JYNARQUE in the U.S. Nutraceutical Business: and JINARC in Europe Added indications for Samsca in Grow revenue to Japan—A ¥500 billion or more, Achieve business profit Launched Lonsurf in Japan, margin of 10% or higher the U.S. and Europe—A First Medium-Term Second Medium-Term Third Medium-Term Management Plan Management Plan Management Plan Generating innovation from creative and diverse research platforms Research • Acquired Astex Pharmaceuticals—B, C • Acquired Visterra, including rights to its antibody platform technology • Established Taiho Innovations • Acquired Tsukuba Research Institute from and kidney disease-related pipeline—C • Executed a joint research agreement with PhoreMost—C Banyu Pharmaceutical (now MSD)—B, C • Established Taiho Ventures • Executed a comprehensive cooperation agreement with the Japan Kidney Association for ADPKD and a business agreement for the commercialization of basic research in the field of renal science • Acquired Avanir Pharmaceuticals Pave the way for investment activities • Acquired Neurovance, including rights to centanafadine • Licensed in fremanezumab from Teva Pharmaceutical Industries (Japan) Taking on challenges in new areas Development • Executed a global alliance agreement • Executed a joint development and sales agreement for vadadustat with • Executed a development and commercialization agreement with with Lundbeck in the CNS area (ABILIFY Akebia Therapeutics Click for a digital treatment app MAINTENA and REXULTI)—A • Acquired Veryan Medical • Acquired development and marketing rights for AB122 in Asia • Established Taiho Oncology and a clinical • Acquired ReCor Medical from Arcus development and marketing structure in • Acquired development and marketing rights in Asia for an adenosine • Established strategic collaboration in the oncology area with the U.S.—A receptor antagonist from Arcus Biosciences Taiho Pharmaceutical, Astex Pharmaceuticals and MSD—B • Executed a joint development and exclusive sales agreement with Takara Bio for gene-modified T cell therapy—C Strengthening infrastructure for group collaborations • Executed a license agreement for development and commercialization in the oncology area with Servier for Lonsurf in Europe and other regions—A • Transfer of North American marketing rights for Astex products • Executed a co-promotion agreement with MSD for KEYTRUDA (Japan)* to Taiho Oncology—B • Acquired Jasmine Strengthening products and pipeline for business Sales • Acquired Nutrition & Santé SAS (N&S) • Acquired FoodState and entered the natural food-based supplement operations in Japan business • Acquired BIOCENTURY • Started co-promotion of LCZ696 in Japan • Acquired BC BIO Taking on challenges in new regions • Acquired Daiya Foods • Established a new health beverage subsidiary in Myanmar • Established a new health beverage subsidiary in Mexico Production • Established a new factory for POCARI SWEAT in China Established the Tokushima Mima Factory, a new pharmaceutical • Established a new factory for N&S gluten-free products • Completed a new production base for manufacturing facility Nature Made in the U.S. * Agreement terminated in 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 25 Progress of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan Overview of Fiscal 2019 In fiscal 2019, the first year of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we steadily executed priority measures aimed at maximizing existing business value. As a result, revenue was 1,396.2 billion yen, an increase of 8.1% from the previous year, indicating solid growth. Furthermore, business profit was 187.2 billion yen, a substantial increase of 54.8% from the previous year, outperforming the Third Medium-Term Management Plan forecast for the year. (¥ billion) Third Medium-Term Management Plan Progress to date Announced May 2019 CAGR 2018A 2019A 2020E 2021E 2023E 2018–2023 Revenue 1,292.0 1,396.2 1,445.0 1,500.0 1,700.0 5.6% Business profit before 313.8 403.0 415.0 390.0 460.0 7.9% R&D expenses R&D expenses 192.9 215.8 220.0 230.0 260.0 6.1% Business profit 120.9 187.2 195.0 160.0 200.0 10.6% ROE 4.7% 7.3% 8.0% 6.0% or higher 8.0% or higher — Pharmaceutical Business Revenue Plan for the 4 Global Products and New Products The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls on us to (¥ billion) 4 Global Products New Products maximize existing business value and create new value, to 1,000 challenge new frontiers by doing what only Otsuka can do, 2018A 2023E 800 +¥290 billion and to generate innovation from creative and diverse research ¥570 platforms. We will take advantage of this strategic framework 600 billion to position our 4 Global Products—ABILIFY MAINTENA, 400 Approx. REXULTI, Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE and Lonsurf—as growth ¥280 billion drivers. We will further accelerate growth, targeting 200 billion 200 yen in revenue, an increase of 90 billion yen, on the back of 0 New Products scheduled to be launched during the current 2018A 2019A 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E Medium-Term Management Plan. Third Medium-Term Management Plan Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan Progress of 4 Global Products (¥ billion) Fiscal 2019 Achievement Fiscal 2020 Year-on-year The 4 Global Products made smooth progress revenue rate revenue plan overseas, expanding regions and adding indications. ABILIFY MAINTENA 101.8 +15.7% 102% 110.5 Revenue in fiscal 2019 rose 34.9% from the REXULTI 89.8 +29.3% 101% 106.0 previous year, outperforming plan targets and Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE 149.1 +65.1% 102% 160.5 making a considerable contribution to growth in Lonsurf 34.5 +13.6% 101% 38.0 consolidated performance. Total 375.1 +34.9% 102% 415.0 ABILIFY MAINTENA aripiprazole | Antipsychotic long-acting injectable Atypical Antipsychotic Long-Acting Injectables Market As a global treatment for schizophrenia, there is increased (US$ million) (%) 2015 – 2019 5,000 20 awareness of this drug’s efficacy claims and convenient CAGR: 18% 18.2 dosage formulation. Following U.S. approval in 2017 for an 4,000 14.7 15 additional indication for the treatment of bipolar I disorder, 12.8 prescriptions are increasing. In September 2019, we also 3,000 11.9 Target 10 filed for an additional indication for bipolar disorder in 2,000 7.4 market share: 30% Japan. 5 The global market for atypical antipsychotic long-acting 1,000 injectables continues to grow as they can address the issue 0 0 of medication adherence in schizophrenia and bipolar 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 disorder. We will continue to contribute to patients around U.S. (left) Others (left) ABILIFY MAINTENA global share (right) the world and aim to achieve a 30% global market share for Source: Otsuka, Lundbeck, Johnson & Johnson, and Alkermes reports ABILIFY MAINTENA. 26 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 REXULTI brexpiprazole | Atypical antipsychotic Marketed as an adjuvant treatment for major depressive disorder and as a treatment for schizophrenia in the U.S., this drug is highly evaluated for its efficacy and safety as a new treatment option for both diseases. In Japan, where the drug is marketed as a treatment for schizophrenia, prescriptions have grown significantly following the lifting of restrictions on maximum prescription period in May 2019. In Europe, sales began from April 2019. At present, several clinical trials are under way with the aim of further contributing to treating unmet needs in the psychiatry and neurology area. Samsca/JINARC/JYNARQUE Global Use as an ADPKD Treatment tolvaptan | V2-receptor antagonist Samsca is highly evaluated in various guidelines in Japan, and prescriptions are increasing for the treatment of cardiac edema and hepatic edema. Prescriptions for the treatment of the intractable disease ADPKD are increasing Launched in Contributed to due to the promotion of proper use guidelines and approx. 20 approx. 4,800 patients countries disease awareness activities. In May 2018, JYNARQUE was launched in the U.S. as Contributed to approx. 5,800 patients a treatment for ADPKD. Efforts to raise disease awareness and make clinical trial data available have helped spread recognition of both the disease and the drug, resulting in Estimated number of ADPKD patients a steady increase in prescriptions. In Europe also, JINARC U.S.: 140,000, Europe: 205,000, Japan: 31,000 is sold in approx. 20 countries and the number of patients (As of March 31, 2020, in-house survey) receiving treatment through the drug is on the increase. Lonsurf trifluridine/tipiracil | Anti-cancer agent Lonsurf is growing as a treatment option for advanced colorectal cancer with the help of enhanced promotion activities. Lonsurf has also received marketing authorization for the additional indication of previously treated metastatic gastric cancer in the U.S. (February 2019), Japan (August 2019), and Europe (September 2019). Further clinical studies are currently ongoing or being planned with business partners and academia to maximize the value of Lonsurf. Treatment line Regimen Country/Region Development status Study in combination with bevacizumab for patients who are not Colorectal First-line Europe Phase III candidates for intensive therapy (SOLSTICE study)* cancer Second-line Study in combination with bevacizumab (Specified Clinical Study) Japan Phase II/III Second-line/ Gastric cancer Study in combination with ramucirumab Japan Phase II Third-line * Trial sponsored by Servier (As of March 31, 2020) Initiatives to Maximize the Value of Global Products In 2019, our North American prescription Pharmaceutical Business contributed to an impressive start of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan. We continued to see strong revenue growth across our CNS and nephrology franchises. Established products like REXULTI, ABILIFY MAINTENA, and our newest, JYNARQUE, continued to perform well and exceeded sales forecasts. This not only speaks to the efficacy and clinical value that these products are bringing to Kabir Nath patients and healthcare professionals, but it is also a direct result of the hard work and President and CEO, Otsuka dedication of Otsuka people across the organization. North America The whole leadership team of the North American Pharmaceutical Business is committed to Pharmaceutical Business maximizing the value of our entire portfolio of global products. Concurrently, we seek out new business opportunities to drive future growth and ensure that we continue to operate from a position of strength and innovation. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 27 Nutraceutical Business Revenue Plan for 3 Major Brands and 3 Nurture Brands (¥ billion) 3 Major Brands 3 Nurture Brands The Third Medium-Term Management Plan calls for revenue 600 2018A 2023E growth of 40 billion yen in the 3 Major Brands—POCARI +¥80 billion SWEAT, Nature Made, and N&S—and 40 billion yen in the ¥310 400 3 Nurture Brands—BODYMAINTÉ, EQUELLE and Daiya. Approx. billion ¥230 Furthermore, we are working to maintain a high-profit billion structure capable of a sustained business profit margin of 200 10% or higher by creating new product concepts in anticipation of changes in business and other landscapes 0 and by expanding into new categories and new regions. 2018A 2019A 2020E 2021E 2022E 2023E 2024E 2025E 2026E 2027E 2028E Third Medium-Term Management Plan Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan Business Profit Plan Third Medium-Term Management Plan (¥ billion) Business profit (left) 65.0 60 Business profit margin New Products Global Operations New Businesses 50.0 43.0 42.9 Business profit margin: 40 Maintain at 10% or higher 14.4% 12.7% 12.8% 12.7% Build a resilient business foundation 3 Nurture Brands 20 Second Medium-Term Management Plan 3 Major Brands Review management assets that 0 underpin the value chain 2018A 2019A 2021E 2023E Progress of 3 Major Brands POCARI SWEAT Overseas, mainly in Asia, sales volume for POCARI SWEAT, Furthermore, given higher levels of health consciousness, a beverage for replenishing fluids and electrolytes, is we are strengthening our global sales structure to expand increasing due to awareness activities tailored to the into new regions where we expect growth in demand for characteristics and needs of each region. The CAGR of the health beverages. Asia-Pacific sports beverage market was 4.9% for the In the future, we aim to grow POCARI SWEAT into a period 2015 to 2019. We intend to outpace recent market 100-billion-yen brand by further enhancing brand strength growth, forecasting a CAGR of 9.4% in overseas revenue through original marketing that thoroughly communicates for POCARI SWEAT during the period of the Third Mediumthe product concept. Term Management Plan. Sports Beverage Market (Asia-Pacific*) (US$ million) POCARI SWEAT 5,000 Sports beverage market CAGR (2015–2019) overseas revenue plan 4.9% 2,500 CAGR (2018–2023) 0 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020E 2022E 9.4% China Indonesia Thailand Philippines Vietnam Hong Kong Myanmar Other Euromonitor International of the U.K. * Excluding Japan 28 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Nature Made Pharmavite is a leading company in the U.S. supplement Self-medication is increasingly prevalent in the U.S., and industry. Under the Nature Made supplement brand, in recent years, related demand has continued to increase, Pharmavite develops and markets products free from driven by factors that include medical cost inflation. The U.S. flavorings, colorings and preservatives. With a lineup of supplement market continues to grow at a CAGR of 3.7%. high-quality supplements, key items of which have been We aim to turn Nature Made into a 100-billion-yen brand by verified as meeting the strict quality criteria set by the United developing products that incorporate cutting-edge science States Pharmacopeia (USP), Nature Made is the leading and by taking on challenges in new categories. choice of U.S. pharmacists in nine product categories. 1 1 1 U.S. retail 1 Multi2 Leading 3 sales share vitamin sales choice in Japan of U.S. pharmacists No. No. No. 1. Based on total U.S. retail sales aggregate data reported through the Scantrack® service in the supplement vitamin category for the 52-week period ended December 29, 2019. ©2020 Information Resources Inc. 2. INTAGE SRI Health Food Multivitamin Market, cumulative market share by brand for January–December 2019 3. US News & World Report and Pharmacy Times 2019 survey: Product categories: Letter Vitamins (A–E), Coenzyme Q10, Omega-3/Fish Oil, Flax Seed Oil, Herbal Supplements, Mood Health Supplements, Diabetic Multivitamins, Cholesterol Management— Natural, Garlic Supplements Nutrition & Santé (N&S) The organic food market in Europe has grown in recent standard for auditing food manufactures, and conducts years as more health-conscious consumers demand safer production with concern for the environment and a high and more trustworthy foods. Trends such as “free-from” level of quality management. In 2017, N&S built a new foods and alternative products are attracting the attention factory for gluten-free products in France and strengthened of the millennial generation. In fiscal 2019, the European the development of free-from products to meet evolving meat-free food market was worth approximately 1.8 billion consumer needs. U.S. dollars, having grown rapidly over the past five years at a CAGR of 11.9%, while the gluten-free food market was worth around 2.5 billion U.S. dollars after expanding at a CAGR of 12.3%.4 N&S, a health and nutritional food company, provides health foods and other products in more than 40 countries around the world, centered on Europe. At each of its factories, N&S has obtained ISO 14000 and ISO 12000, as well as IFS Food Standard certification, the international 4. Euromonitor International of the U.K. (Retail Value RSP) Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 29 Progress of 3 Nurture Brands BODYMAINTÉ BODYMAINTÉ was commercialized based on research conducted by Otsuka Pharmaceutical on the themes of “intestines and nutrition” and “exercise and nutrition.” Focusing on health management for athletes exposed to risks related to intense training, we developed BODYMAINTÉ Jelly, a conditioning food that has won the support of many athletes and sports trainers. Its main ingredients include lactic acid bacteria B240, a proprietary ingredient, as well as BCAA, arginine and whey protein. In addition, we developed Plant-Derived Lactic Acid Bacteria B240 BODYMAINTÉ Drink, a conditioning beverage containing Lactic acid bacteria B240 is a plant-derived lactic acid bacteria isolated through the fermentation of a type of tea leaf, traditionally lactic acid bacteria B240, to help replenish fluids and consumed in northern Thailand. It was isolated by Sanae Okada, electrolytes that support proper hydration. BODYMAINTÉ Professor Emeritus of Tokyo University of Agriculture* and its efficacy was confirmed by Otsuka Pharmaceutical. Drink expands the value of this product line by supporting * J Gen Appl Microbiol. 1986; 32:57-65 the health management of more consumers. EQUELLE EQUELLE originated from research conducted at Otsuka Female hormone Pharmaceuticals’ Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute, (estrogen) where women’s health is a research theme. EQUELLE, which contains equol, is sold in Japan and the U.S. as a food Equol product that supports women’s health and beauty at a time when aging brings physical and mental changes. In Japan, Equol we have deployed dedicated staff with expert knowledge Equol is an ingredient produced when daidzein, a soybean of women’s health nationwide. With the cooperation of isoflavone, is metabolized by intestinal bacteria. One aspect of physicians, pharmacists and other healthcare professionals Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s many years of soybean research was a focus on the properties of equol. The Saga Nutraceuticals Research we convey the importance of personal care to women who Institute succeeded in isolating the lactococcus 20-92 strain, a lactic acid bacteria that produces equol. We publicize the progress are experiencing physical and mental changes, among other results of a variety of research and continue to be a leader in global activities aimed at maintaining and improving the health of research in this field. women and enhancing quality of life. Daiya Daiya Foods develops, manufactures, and sells high-quality, The U.S. plant-based alternatives market continues to creative plant-based food products such as cheese grow. Daiya Foods is expanding its sales channels and alternatives, yogurt alternatives, dressings, and desserts. Its product lineup, mainly in the area of cheese alternatives, brand, Daiya, is enjoyed not only by vegetarians and people which are a core product. Under the Third Medium-Term with food allergies, but also by the health-conscious Management Plan, we plan to achieve a revenue CAGR millennial generation. of 25%. U.S. Plant-Based Alternative Food Market Others Daiya Foods 14% Revenue Plan CAGR 20191 Milk US$5.0 40% billion Dairy (2018–2023) 2 27% +11% year-on-year Meat 19% 25% 1. PBFA-commissioned data from Nielsen (52 weeks U.S. dollar sales ending December 2019) 2. Ice cream, yogurt, cheese, creamer, butter and dressing 30 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Social Issues Targeted by the Nutraceutical Business Today, pressing social issues include extended healthy life expectancy, declining birthrates, aging populations, and soaring medical costs. The Otsuka group engages in product development and awareness activities aimed at solving a variety of social and health issues. Social Issues Targeted by Otsuka 1. Irregular and Unbalanced Diets While there is seemingly an abundance of food in the a nutritional food for use during sports, when there is no developed world, diversification in daily routines and an time for breakfast or other meals, and during work or study, increase in single-person households contribute to eating and can also be kept as a disaster provision. alone, skipped meals, and unbalanced diets. This can lead * Intage SRI, Nutritionally Balanced Food Product Market (category: cookies, biscuits, to poor physical and mental well-being. The Otsuka group cereals and cakes), January–December 2019 is tackling various social issues related to nutrition by developing nutritional products and implementing dietary education activities. Leveraging expertise in concentrated liquid diets from our clinical nutrition business, we created Calorie Mate, which provides nutrition for general consumers. It supports healthy dietary life in busy modern lifestyles, and is a pioneer in nutritionally balanced foods in Japan. As the top-selling brand,* it continues to lead the field. Compact and with a long shelf life, Calorie Mate is convenient as 2. Women’s Health Women experience mental and physical changes throughout their lives. The effects of rapid hormonal changes are felt by women in their 40s and 50s in particular, which can impact their social life. The Otsuka group has identified women’s health as one of the priority areas of its Nutraceutical Business. We are disseminating information to promote better understanding of physical changes in women and developing related products. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute conducts research on total health maintenance for women in their 40s and older, including research into symptoms of menopause, bone and skin issues, and blood vessel health, and continues to generate evidence on active ingredients. In addition, our experts in women’s health carry out activities across Japan to spread accurate understanding of the mental and physical changes experienced by women and related health issues, as well as solutions to those issues. 3. Environmental Issues Given that global warming is a major social issue, public SOYJOY, SOYSH and SoyCarat. Soybeans directly consumed attention is focused on CO2 emissions from food production by people around the world account for a mere 6% of total as part of realizing a carbon-free society. The plant-based soybean production. Beef is one source of protein, but to foods that Daiya Foods develops, manufactures and sells produce 1 kilogram of beef, it is said to take 10 kilograms have a low carbon footprint, reduce environmental load, of grain, such as soybeans. There is data suggesting that the and are more sustainable. Daiya Foods was founded on the production of soybeans requires one-fiftieth of the water and belief that plant-based living is better for people’s health one-twentieth the amount of energy needed to produce the and better for the planet. Its range of plant-based foods same volume of beef. Based on the concept of “Soylution” resonates with many people and as a category leader it is (soy + solution), Otsuka Pharmaceutical provides solutions evolving into a high-growth company. for both human health and environmental issues through a Soybeans are a part of Japan’s traditional food culture and range of soy products. contain quality dietary proteins, and have been referred to as “the meat of the fields.” Focusing on the high nutritional value and potential of soybeans, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed and commercialized soy-derived nutritional foods under three brands at its in-house research center— Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 31 Looking ahead to the Fourth Medium-Term Management Plan Opportunities and Risks As a total healthcare company, the Otsuka group conducts activities not only related to diagnosis and medication, but also to contribute to maintaining and improving the health of healthy people. Medical cost inflation due to aging populations and the increasing sophistication of medical treatment are a serious issue for Japan and the rest of the world, and in particular pose a risk to the Pharmaceutical Business. However, from the perspective of the Nutraceutical Business, we regard increased awareness of self-medication, prevention and daily health as an opportunity. Pharmaceutical Business • Providing total healthcare solutions, from diagnosis to treatment. • Global operations in the oncology business • Global R&D and marketing assets in the psychiatry and neurology • Management personnel for diversifying businesses area, and the cardiovascular and renal area • Patent expiration of mainstay products • Presence in the oncology area in Japan Strength • Stable profit in the intravenous solutions business Weakness • Advances in science and technology, progress of basic research • Global drug price control policies and promotion of generic drug use related to diseases due to medical cost inflation • Promotion of personalized medicine • Intensifying competition in core areas • Restrictions on sales promotion activities due to stricter regulations Opportunity Threat Nutraceutical Business • Creative products and marketing backed by scientific evidence • Management personnel for diversifying businesses • Ability to nurture brands • Cultural differences regarding raw materials and taste preferences • Overseas businesses that incorporate solutions to social issues with their core business processes • Steady earnings power Strength Weakness • Rising consumer awareness of self-medication, prevention and daily • Sluggish overall beverage market due to unseasonal weather health in tandem with medical cost inflation • Intensification of competition in core areas due to entry of new • Diversification of diet competitors Opportunity Threat Our Approach to Issues In recent years, Taiho Pharmaceutical, a pioneer in oral oncology products in Japan, has been actively promoting further globalization, mainly by establishing its own marketing structure in the U.S. and expanding its sales Page 34 Global operations in networks in other regions. In addition, group companies, including Otsuka Maximizing business value by the oncology business Pharmaceutical, Astex Pharmaceuticals and Taiho Pharmaceutical, are combining group strengths combining their assets to strengthen group-wide global operations, as well as promoting strategic alliances with external partners. Otsuka Holdings plans and implements executive human resource Management personnel development programs, and collaborates with external organizations to train Page 43 for diversifying managers capable of leading the next generation. In addition, individual People businesses group companies are vigorously promoting human resource development. Page 6 What we can achieve because Based on our unique and diverse businesses, we will continue to create we are Otsuka Intensifying competition new value by taking on challenges, applying an original approach that in core areas addresses the health needs of people, always looking to the future. Page 7 Taking on the challenge of doing what only Otsuka can do 32 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Initiatives in the Pharmaceutical Business Psychiatry and Neurology Aiming to become a top-class global player in the psychiatry and neurology area, with a high-potential pipeline and product portfolio Psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, We have a high-potential pipeline and product lineup, and major depressive disorder can develop at any age and and aim to become a top-class global player in this area. affect a person’s social life, career, and studies. Moreover, Aiming to become a concerns are growing about the increasing frequency of top-class global player Alzheimer’s-related dementia as populations worldwide in the psychiatry and neurology area continue to age. These diseases affect not just the patient’s High-potential pipeline quality of life; they also place a strain on family members and product lineup and caregivers, as well as on the healthcare economy. There OPC-XXX , I ) ess LA are still many psychiatric and neurological diseases for sin s ( bu table REXULTI LAI s s centanafadine ion injec ase which satisfactory treatments have yet to be established. lut ise ABILIFY 2-Month LAI So ting cd a c i a tri This is because their causes and mechanisms are not fully fremanezumab g ch lon Psy AVP-786 understood, which makes the discovery of new drugs REXULTI Neurological diseases extremely difficult. The Otsuka group entered the psychiatry Revenues in the psychiatry and and neurology area in the 1970s and has continued to take neurology area (illustrative diagram) on the challenge of new drug discovery with the goal of 2nd MTM Plan 3rd MTM Plan 4th MTM Plan contributing to medical needs. 2014 2019 2024 Agitation Associated with Dementia of the Alzheimer’s Type It is estimated that approximately 3.4 million people* in the U.S. have Alzheimer’s disease, and it is thought that a large number of those patients exhibit some form of behavioral disorder (agitation), such as excessive motor activity, and verbal or physical aggression. This kind of disorder places a burden on patients and caregivers, impacting quality of life. The Otsuka group aims to market the world’s first treatment for agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type. Clinical trials are under way on two drugs with different mechanisms of action, brexpiprazole (REXULTI) and AVP-786. * ©2020 DR/Decision Resources, LLC. All rights reserved. Reproduction, distribution, transmission or publication is prohibited. Reprinted with permission. (As of March 31, 2020) Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region Development status aripiprazole Dopamine partial agonist Bipolar disorder Japan Filed ● (long-acting injectable) Major depressive disorder Japan/Europe/China Phase III Agitation associated with dementia of Japan/U.S./Europe Phase III the Alzheimer’s type brexpiprazole Dopamine partial agonist Phase III Post-traumatic stress disorder U.S. ● Borderline personality disorder U.S. Phase II ● Schizophrenia; long-acting injectable U.S. Phase I Serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine OPC-64005 Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder U.S. Phase II reuptake inhibitor Agitation associated with dementia of U.S./Europe Phase III the Alzheimer’s type NMDA receptor antagonist; serotonin and Negative symptoms of schizophrenia U.S. Phase II/III ● AVP-786 norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor; sigma-1 receptor agonist Traumatic brain injury U.S. Phase II Intermittent explosive disorder U.S. Phase II Norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin centanafadine Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder U.S. Phase III ● reuptake inhibitor TAS-205 PGD synthase inhibitor Duchenne muscular dystrophy Japan Phase II fremanezumab Anti-CGRP antibody Migraine Japan Phase II/III ● OPC-214870 — Epilepsy U.S. Phase I ● ■ Development project in an unmet needs area (defined by Otsuka based on data from PatientsMap) ● Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2019 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 33 Oncology Maximizing business value by combining group strengths Taiho Pharmaceutical engages in drug discovery, leveraging Meanwhile, centering on external collaborations, Otsuka its long-standing proprietary platform focused on biochemical Pharmaceutical is taking on the challenge of establishing modulation, as well as drug discovery based on its research therapies with a focus on the future. This includes creating platform, such as the newly established Cysteinomix and synergies with new modalities, in areas such as genekinase target drug discovery. Furthermore, through its modified T cell therapies and oncolytic virus therapies. collaboration with relation to Astex Pharmaceuticals’ fragmentIndividual group companies are combining their based drug discovery technology, Taiho Pharmaceutical drug discovery technologies and assets to bolster global continues to discover new molecular targeting drugs. operations and enhance business value. Strengths in Drug Discovery at Taiho Pharmaceutical As a specialty pharmaceutical company in the oncology area, Taiho Pharmaceutical is utilizing its proprietary drug discovery platforms and developing highly-effective, novel anti-cancer agents that contribute to the diversification of cancer treatment. In addition to further developing and enhancing our platform technologies for drug discovery, we are accelerating our R&D by complementing our proprietary technologies through collaborations with research organizations both in and outside Japan. Furthermore, through our corporate venture capital, we have built a proprietary network that gives us access to creative and innovative technologies and drug discovery seeds outside the Teruhiro Utsugi Managing Director, company. Through research and development of promising new drugs, Taiho Pharmaceutical will Taiho Pharmaceutical contribute to a society enriched by smiles, and pursue the realization of a sustainable society. Strengths in Drug Discovery at Astex Pharmaceuticals As an established world leader in fragment-based drug discovery, Astex celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2019. In that time we have created a broad portfolio of programs in oncology and CNS and a successful track record of strategic alliances with pharmaceutical collaborators resulting in two approved anti-cancer agents within the last three years. Our innovative culture and collaborative spirit have continued to flourish as part of the Otsuka group as we have established new collaborations and further developed our technology that we hope will result in many new product approvals in the future. Harren Jhoti CEO, Astex Pharmaceuticals (As of March 31, 2020) Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region Development status TAS-118 Anti-metabolite Gastric cancer Japan Phase III Ovarian cancer U.S./Europe Phase II guadecitabine DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Acute myeloid leukemia Japan/U.S./Europe Phase III Myelodysplastic syndromes Japan/U.S./Europe Phase III U.S. Filed ● Myelodysplastic syndromes ASTX727 DNA methyltransferase inhibitor Japan Phase I ● Acute myeloid leukemia Europe Phase III ● ASTX660 IAP inhibitor Solid tumors, lymphomas U.S. Phase II ASTX029 ERK1/2 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S. Phase I/II ASTX295 MDM2 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S. Phase I/II ● Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma Japan Phase I ● OPB-111077 — Hematological cancer U.S. Phase I TAS-114 dUTPase inhibitor Non-small cell lung cancer Japan/U.S./Europe Phase II TAS-115 Multi-kinase inhibitor Prostate cancer Japan Phase II Gastrointestinal stromal tumor Japan Phase III TAS-116 HSP90 inhibitor Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I TAS-117 — Solid tumors Japan Phase I TAS-119 — Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I futibatinib FGFR inhibitor Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma Japan/U.S./Europe Phase II TAS0313 Peptide vaccine Urothelial cancer Japan Phase II ● TAS3681 — Prostate cancer U.S./Europe Phase I TAS0728 — Solid tumors U.S./Europe Phase I/II trabectedin — Ovarian cancer Japan Phase I canerpaturev Oncolytic virus Pancreatic cancer Japan Phase I TBI-1301 NY-ESO-1 siTCR™ gene therapies Synovial sarcoma Japan Phase I/II TBI-1501 CD19 CAR gene therapies Acute lymphoblastic leukemia Japan Phase I/II fosnetupitant NK1 receptor antagonist Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting Japan Phase III ● ■ Development project in an unmet needs area (defined by Otsuka based on data from PatientsMap) ● Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2019 34 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Cardiovascular and Renal System Creating first-in-class products through new drug discovery technologies, and medical devices In the cardiovascular and renal area, in addition to pharmaceutical areas too. We are advancing development strengthening our proprietary drug discovery platforms, we of unique medical devices, drawing on our innovative also plan to actively make growth investments, examples technology and our strengths in drugs and clinical research. of which have included our business alliance with Akebia Examples include a device for ultrasound renal denervation Therapeutics for vadadustat, and the acquisition of treatment and a peripheral artery stent system. We aim Visterra, a company with a renal disease-related pipeline. to create first-in-class products leveraging these new drug We also strive to find solutions to unmet needs in nondiscovery technologies and medical devices. (As of March 31, 2020) Development Pipeline Features Indication Country/Region status Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic tolvaptan V2-receptor antagonist Japan Filed ● hormone secretion OPC-61815 V2-receptor antagonist Cardiac edema Japan Phase III ● vadadustat HIF-prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor Renal anemia U.S./Europe Phase III ● Project that has advanced in or after fiscal 2019 Initiatives in the Nutraceutical Business Our two research institutes of the Nutraceutical Business Pharmaceutical Business. Their goal is to develop and provide investigate themes such as nutrition and exercise from the world with creative products that maintain and improve original viewpoints that utilize expertise honed in our people’s health and are backed by scientific evidence. Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute Since its establishment in 1984 as Japan’s first private research institute for clinical exercise and nutrition, the Saga Nutraceuticals Research Institute has conducted R&D in various fields related to exercise and nutrition, women’s health, and other health issues. In 2014, one of the largest controlled-environment rooms in Japan was completed at the institute, enabling the recreation of hypoxic environments equivalent to those found at up to an altitude of 5,000 meters, which were previously difficult to recreate, as well as high-temperature/high-humidity and low-temperature/lowhumidity conditions. This facility helps advance research into sports nutrition, such as by verifying the effects of fluid and nutritional intake in such environments. Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute The Otsu Nutraceuticals Research Institute was established in 2000 to advance research on intestinal immunity, with a particular focus on the intestines, which play a key role in overall health. One example of the institute’s research is related to enhancing the body’s biological barrier by increasing the secretion of immunoglobulin A (IgA), an antibody that plays a crucial role in mucosal immunity. Exploratory R&D demonstrated that lactic acid bacteria B240 heightens the function of mucosal immunity and lowers the probability of catching the common cold. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 35 Beyond 2030 Envisaging a variety of changes, including an increase in aging populations, rapid climate change, and advances in precision medicine* associated with the spread of preventive medicine and genetic testing, the Otsuka group aims to be an indispensable provider of products and services that meet the healthcare needs of the times. * Therapeutic approaches that achieve greater precision by applying detailed genetic and other information about each patient Pharmaceutical Business Driven by the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating fragment-based drug discovery technology of Astex new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, the unique antibody manufacturing group aims to achieve highly innovative drug discovery to platform technology from Visterra, and the cysteinomix find solutions for unmet medical needs. With this goal in drug discovery platform of Taiho Pharmaceutical, as well as mind, we engage in drug discovery research through building a network with and providing research support to multiple approaches. We will strengthen our proprietary academia and bio-ventures that possess advanced research drug discovery platform to be capable of generating new technologies and drug discovery seeds. strengths and innovation. This will include utilizing the Initiatives for Innovation in Research and Development Areas ● Generate innovation through collaboration and integration of proprietary R&D platforms and technologies in core areas ● Generate results from innovation seeds through various collaborations Promote group-wide research collaborations Collaborations with external institutions * Cancer immunity, Gene therapy, Dementia, cancer-related novel technologies exploration of Alzheimer’s disease new drug targets * Consortium members: Alzheimer’s Research UK, AbbVie, Astex, CRL, Eli Lilly, Eisai, Evotec, MSD, JPNV, and Takeda Nutraceutical Business Awareness of health issues is rising, including issues related challenge of creating new value and expanding into new to aging populations, medical costs, and the spread of categories and regions by combining cutting-edge scientific infectious diseases. Our goal in the Nutraceutical Business is and technological developments with our unique business to support the maintenance and improvement of people’s model. Going forward, we will respond to various healthhealth worldwide, and thereby contribute to longer healthy related social issues by continuing to implement health life expectancy. To this end, we will utilize the expertise we awareness activities that bring those issues to the forefront have cultivated in the Pharmaceutical Business while and offering solutions from each brand. Furthermore, we proposing solutions based on new concepts that address will promote these activities by strengthening collaborations yet-to-emerge needs and social issues. With an eye on with external institutions. changes in the global landscape, we will take on the 36 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 The Otsuka Group’s CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) —Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society— The Otsuka group recognizes CSR is integrated into our businesses and proactively promotes CSR based on its corporate philosophy. Corporate Philosophy Otsuka’s Goal To become an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide Otsuka’s CSR Mission CSR is integrated into our businesses across the Otsuka group of companies, which aims to grow while contributing to the creation of a healthy and sustainable society. We pursue these objectives supported by a comprehensive governance system. Contribution to a Sustainable Society Otsuka’s business activities = Solving social issues = CSR Healthier Society (Society) Healthier Planet (Environment) Health, People, Quality in All We Do Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation Governance Corporate Governance, Compliance, Risk Management Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 37 The Otsuka Group’s Approach to CSR Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society Examples of Our Activities CSR Connected with • Promotion of R&D for unmet needs Health • Support and awareness activities for people’s health Business Activities • R&D of antituberculosis drugs and improvement maintenance/improvement mainly on exercise and (through our of drug access Health nutrition etc. Health businesses) • Promotion of problem solving by strengthening partnerships Health • Sustainable procurement and product design • Deepening communication with stakeholders Quality in All We Do Quality in All We Do Proactive CSR • Thorough quality control and stable supply • Promotion of “Customer-centric management” Quality in All We Do Quality in All We Do • Responsible promotional activities and information provision Quality in All We Do • Activities to explain the importance of hydration • Dietary education app SketchCook Health Page 42 Health Page 42 • SATU HATI (“One Heart”) programs* Health People CSR through Social • Otsuka Health Comic Library Health Page 42 Environment Contribution (together with our businesses) • Human resource development People • Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain Basic CSR • Diversity promotion People Environment • Health management People • Reduce environmental impact by improving Defensive CSR resource efficiency Environment • Promotion of business activities aimed at a sustainable state in both society and the earth Environment • Strengthening corporate governance Governance • Understanding water resource risk Environment • Thorough compliance Governance • Management and effective use of water resources • Risk identification, evaluation and management Environment Governance * To give back to the local community in Indonesia, POCARI SWEAT manufacturer and distributor P.T. Amerta Indah Otsuka has implemented a social action program based on three core pillars: SATU HATI Cerdaskan Bangsa (“One Heart for Education”), SATU HATI Peduli Lingkungan (“One Heart for Environment”), and SATU HATI Sehatkan Bangsa (“One Heart for Health”). Based on our belief that CSR is integrated into our Also, we recognize that “CSR through social contribution” businesses across the Otsuka group, we aim to contribute (which includes donation activities) and “basic CSR” (which to the realization of a sustainable society by solving social includes governance and risk management as the foundation issues through our businesses. Therefore, we are focusing of our business) are indispensable parts of corporate social on “CSR connected with business activities” in pursuing responsibility. We define CSR broadly as responsible efforts sustainable growth and the realization of a healthy and that companies should make to coexist with society and the sustainable society, or in other words, the creation of social environment. We are actively advancing those CSR initiatives. value, including financial value and ESG aspects. Support for the United Nations Global Compact Otsuka Holdings became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2016. While supporting the UNGC’s 10 principles, we also consider the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in contributing to the realization of a sustainable society through our business activities. 38 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Materiality Process for Determining Material Issues Page 10 In 2019, the Otsuka group determined material issues based on their importance to society and to the group’s businesses. These material issues were determined to be: Society (Health, People, Quality in All We Do), Environment (Climate Change, Resource Recycling and Conservation, Water Conservation), and Governance. Materiality Social Issues Our Goals Our Activities Related SDGs • Unmet medical and • Contribute to unmet needs • Promotion of R&D for health needs solutions unmet needs • Spread of infectious • Eradication of tuberculosis • R&D of antituberculosis diseases • Creation of a system for the drugs and improvement of • Nutritional needs realization of a healthful life drug access • Increasing aging issues • Healthy life extension • Support and awareness Health activities for people’s health maintenance/improvement mainly on exercise and nutrition etc. • Promotion of problem solving by strengthening partnerships • Presenteeism • Creation of a corporate culture • Human resource development Society • Unprepared for that stimulates creativity • Diversity promotion (Healthier diversification • Enhance employee engagement • Health management Society) People • Consumption and • Gaining stakeholder trust • Sustainable procurement and production that • Pursuing sustainability at all product design impairs sustainability levels of the value chain • Thorough quality control and • Establishing a quality assurance stable supply system for safety and security • Responsible promotional Quality in activities and information All We Do provision • Deepening communication with stakeholders • Promotion of “customercentric management” • Global warming • FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction in • Reduce CO2 emissions Climate CO2 emissions compared to throughout the value chain Change FY 2017 • Environmental load • FY 2030 Goal: 50% reduction in • Reduce environmental increase simple incineration and landfill impact by improving Resource compared to FY 2019 resource efficiency Environment Recycling • FY 2030 Goal: 50% or higher • Promotion of business activities (Healthier and Conservation content of recycled and plantaimed at a sustainable state in Planet) based materials in our PET both society and the earth bottles • Reducing freshwater • FY 2030 Goal: Improvement of • Understanding water resources Water availability water use efficiency by 15% risk Conservation compared to FY 2017 • Management and effective use of water resources • Fragile governance • Long-term improvement of • Strengthening corporate system corporate value governance Governance • Social change risk • Thorough compliance • Risk identification, evaluation and management Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 39 Society Health Under its corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” the Otsuka group actively implements CSR initiatives based on the recognition that CSR is an integral part of our business. The desire to be healthy is universal. Every day, the Otsuka group carries out activities to prevent and treat diseases and to contribute to the maintenance and improvement of people’s health worldwide. The world continues to face a host of healthcare issues, such as the spread of infectious diseases, inadequate medical care facilities, and lack of effective therapies. In aiming to solve these issues, we constantly ask ourselves if it is something that only Otsuka can do, and work to find solutions for unmet medical needs that the majority of other companies have yet to address. Moreover, issues such as medical cost inflation mean that maintaining and improving health is now an issue that society as a whole, not just individuals, must face head on. In addition to initiatives that raise awareness of health among individuals, the Otsuka group undertakes initiatives for maintaining and improving health in society at large, including through collaboration with local communities. Pharmaceutical Business Page 24, Business Strategy chemotherapy and molecular targeting drugs used to treat The Challenge of Addressing Section specific organs, we are taking on challenges in the new Unmet Medical Needs fields of gene therapy and cell therapy in order to keep pace 1. Psychiatry and Neurology with the shift toward genomic medicine and personalized Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare has defined medicine tailored to the characteristics of the cancer in psychiatric disorders as one of the five major disease areas. each individual patient. Going forward, we will continue to The rising number of patients with such disorders poses a advance our R&D to deliver innovative therapeutic drugs to pressing global issue. However, while the list of psychiatric patients with greater speed. and neurological diseases is long, including schizophrenia, depression, bipolar disorder, and Alzheimer’s-related 3. Infectious Diseases dementia, R&D in this area is challenging. The underlying Tuberculosis is one of the world’s three major infectious causes of these diseases have yet to be precisely elucidated, diseases, the others being AIDS and malaria. It is the single and satisfaction with current treatment methods is low. infectious disease that accounts for the largest number of However, patients and their families are in immediate deaths. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is difficult to treat need of new therapies. Psychiatry and neurology is a key because it is resistant to a number of existing therapeutic focus area in which the Otsuka group has been making drugs, and poses a serious public health hazard. Otsuka’s headway, namely with the development of antipsychotic long period of research and development into a tuberculosis drugs ABILIFY MAINTENA and REXULTI, as well as Selincro, treatment culminated in the 2014 approval of tuberculosis a drug that helps in the reduction of alcohol consumption drug DELTYBA. We are expanding access and bringing in patients with alcohol dependency. We are also taking on DELTYBA to more patients by obtaining regulatory approval the challenge of developing therapeutic drugs for diseases in each country/region, and through programs developed with no effective medicines. by governments and international organizations, the Global Drug Facility launched by the Stop TB Partnership and by 2. Oncology working with alliance partners. As of December 2019, As medical science advances, year by year progress is DELTYBA is available in more than 100 countries/regions. being made in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Furthermore, we are responding to unmet medical needs Nevertheless, there are still many diseases for which by expanding indications for pediatric care and cooperating effective treatments have yet to be found, cancer remaining in a U.S. NIH-led prevention trial for multidrug-resistant to be one of the leading causes of death. The oncology tuberculosis. Moreover, in order to eradicate tuberculosis, area, where there are still many unmet needs, is another there is need of a new therapeutic drug that is effective of the Otsuka group’s key focus areas. This stems from our for all forms of tuberculosis, including multidrug-resistant track record since the 1970s as a pioneer in developing tuberculosis. Given this need, we are advancing R&D for oral anti-cancer agents, which at that time were not widely OPC-167832, a new therapeutic drug to follow DELTYBA. used anywhere in the world. In addition to conventional 40 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Partnerships One example is Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory’s 1. Eradicating Tuberculosis approach to IV solutions, which are defined as basic drugs (a The Global Health Innovative Technology Fund (GHIT Fund) drug with high clinical necessity whose manufacturing and is a public interest incorporated association and international sales will continue to be required without interruption).* public-private partnership involving the Japanese Group companies manufacture IV solutions locally, which government, private corporations, the Bill & Melinda Gates contributes to local communities, such as through the Foundation, the Welcome Trust, and the United Nations supply of products at fair prices and the creation of Development Program (UNDP). It funds drug, vaccine, employment opportunities. diagnostic and other R&D in order to leverage Japan’s high * Vision for the Pharmaceutical Industry 2013, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare level of technology and innovation in the fight against the world’s three major infectious diseases and neglected tropical 2. Expanding Access to Medicine diseases, which mainly affect developing countries. Since There are patients who cannot expect satisfactory outcomes June 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has contributed to the from existing treatments, and also are not eligible to GHIT Fund as an associate partner. participate in clinical trials with critical, life-threatening Also, in line with the goal of eradicating tuberculosis, diseases. Such patients are unable to access investigational we have participated in the planning of the Project to drugs that might be a potential treatment option. Through Accelerate New Treatments for Tuberculosis (PAN-TB its Expanded Access Program, Otsuka group provides collaboration) since February 2020. This world-first global patients that are ineligible to participate in clinical trials with cross-industry collaboration between charitable and nonaccess to investigational drugs based on application by their profit organizations and the drug industry aims to satisfy physician and if they meet pre-specified conditions. the Target Regimen Profiles (TRP) proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) for tuberculosis by speeding up the development of a new pan-TB regimen suitable for all Nutraceutical Business tuberculosis patients. Initiatives for Yet-To-Be-Imagined Needs To be healthy is a desire of people worldwide. Advances 2. Initiatives in Kidney Disease in medical technology and improvements in public health Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) have extended life expectancy globally, but have also given is a hereditary, intractable orphan disease. It involves rise to new health issues. The Otsuka group’s Nutraceutical the progressive development and enlargement of a Business is centered on functional beverages and functional large number of fluid-filled cysts in both kidneys due to foods that support the maintenance and improvement of gene mutations. The kidneys grow to many times their day-to-day health. Our activities enable people worldwide original size, resulting in the gradual deterioration of to live healthy and independent lifestyles. Our contribution kidney function. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has signed a to health is not only helping to treat diseases, but also comprehensive partnership agreement on ADPKD with the helping healthy people stay healthy through nutrition. Japan Kidney Association, and is working to raise awareness Current social issues include extending healthy life about ADPKD and improve the level of medical care. expectancy, responding to decreasing birthrates and aging Otsuka Pharmaceutical has signed a collaborative populations, and controlling medical costs. We have set agreement—also with the Japan Kidney Association—aimed “the essence of life” as a theme for contributing to health. at the practical application of basic research by young Under this theme, we are engaged in product development researchers in the kidney field. We are openly soliciting and information provision activities that are backed by drug discovery research themes from academia through scientific evidence based on applied expertise from the the Kidney Research Initiative-Japan (KRI-J)—a platform for Pharmaceutical Business. collaboration between academia, industry and government established by the Japan Kidney Association. The signing of 1. Health Maintenance and Improvement Initiatives joint research agreements between the research institutions in Coordination with All 47 Prefectures of Japan and Otsuka Pharmaceutical will enable us to carry out The Otsuka group is promoting community-based health research on the selected themes. maintenance and improvement initiatives, as well as disaster prevention and relief activities. As an example, Otsuka Supplying Pharmaceuticals to More Patients Pharmaceutical has concluded health-related partnership 1. Fair Pricing and Improved Healthcare Infrastructure agreements with all 47 prefectures of Japan. We are With the aim of contributing to improved access to cooperating with local governments to find solutions to the pharmaceuticals, the Otsuka group researches, develops health issues of people living in each region, which includes and extends therapeutic drugs and IV solutions that applying our knowledge and expertise on topics such as address unmet medical needs. We also work to provide dietary education, prevention of lifestyle-related diseases, pharmaceuticals at fair prices to support improved prevention of heat disorders, sports promotion, women’s healthcare infrastructure. health and disaster countermeasures. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 41 The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society 2. Raising Awareness of Proper Hydration Our activities are aimed at all generations. For children, Since the launch of POCARI SWEAT, Otsuka Pharmaceutical our app SketchCook helps teach proper dietary habits and has been promoting the importance of hydration in various knowledge of nutrition in a world where such information can contexts. Spurred by the establishment of the Japan be difficult to acquire. Amateur Sports Association (now Japan Sport Association For busy modern adults, (JSPO)) Study Group for Prevention of Heat Disorders in we provide, in Japan, Sports Activities, our cooperation in efforts to prevent heat Nature Made Supplement disorders through awareness activities began in 1992. Since Check, an app that allows then, we have provided information on such themes as users to easily analyze children’s sports activities, occupational safety and hygiene, the nutritional content and hydration for the elderly. Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s of a meal by taking a Dietary education app website includes an information section titled Protect smartphone picture. SketchCook Yourself From Heat Disorders and a section presenting content based on JSPO’s A Guidebook for the Prevention of Group-wide Activities Heat Disorder During Sports Activities (First Edition). Another 1. 30 Years of the Otsuka Health Comic Library initiative is the Heat Disorders Prevention website, which We began publishing was created in collaboration with weather forecasters. the Otsuka Health Through these and other activities, we are further raising Comic Library in awareness of the topic. In addition, Otsuka Pharmaceutical 1989 to promote Factory, which sells OS-1, an oral rehydration solution, sound growth and provides operational support for Oshiete! “Kakure Dassui” development of health Iinkai, an organization that raises awareness of ways to habits among children of the next generation. Produced with prevent and treat dehydration before it becomes critical. editorial supervision from the Japan Medical Association and  Page 20, Feature the Japan Society of School Health, and endorsed by the Japan Pediatric Society, the library seeks to convey basic health 3. Raising Awareness of Women’s Health knowledge to children, covering topics such as the makeup of The Japanese average life expectancy is over 80 years for both the human body and nutrition, in a broad, easy-to-understand men and women. Healthy life expectancy is defined as the manner through the medium of comics. Every year we choose period in which a person can live without being bedridden a different theme and publish a new volume. The comics and without limitation to daily activities due to health issues. are donated* to elementary schools, special needs schools, The difference between average life expectancy and healthy Japanese schools overseas, and public libraries. life expectancy is about 9 years for men and 12 for women Each year’s theme is decided based on requests from in Japan. Therefore, extending healthy life expectancy is a schools and the opinions of organizations involved in school central issue under the Health Japan 21 (the second term) plan health. With the cooperation of experts in various fields, established by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. we are finding ways to deliver factual, accurate health With greater participation in the workforce, women are faced information to children in a fun way. We are also working with the issues of balancing work with childcare, nursing care, to make the comics a more useful part of school health and personal health. The effects of rapid hormonal changes education. Since 2015, together with the Japan Society of are felt by women in their 40s and 50s in particular, which can School Health, we cosponsored lectures by health experts impact their everyday work and private lives. Furthermore, care and usage demonstrations of the library at schools. We are taken during this period may impact their future healthy life continuing to evolve 30 years after the first volume, and expectancy. In response, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has developed deepening our ability to communicate the value of health. a product containing equol, a soy-derived ingredient. It can help * Approx. 23,000 books each year maintain and improve the health of women at a time when they can experience a range of mental and physical changes. Based 2. Disaster Relief and Other Support on expertise obtained during the R&D process, we conduct In light of our obligation as a company that handles items activities to spread accurate understanding of the mental and needed during emergencies, such as IV solutions, therapeutic physical changes experienced by women and related health drugs, foods and beverages, we actively engage in disaster issues, as well as solutions to those issues and evidence for relief activities and disaster victim assistance. the efficacy of equol. A wide range of other information on Our support for measures to counteract COVID-19 is nutrition in relation to women’s health and other topics can be one such example. In Japan, we supplied products such found on the Otsuka Pharmaceutical website. as beverages as well as masks and protective clothing for Page 30, Progress of 3 Nurture Brands medical use. Overseas, we donated group products such 4. Conveying the Importance of Nutrition as beverages and medical products to local healthcare We continue to conduct dietary education activities that facilities and chapters of the Red Cross Society, in addition explain the importance of nutrition, based on expertise to making monetary donations to such organizations. gained through product development of nutritional products. 42 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 People The Otsuka group believes that the active participation of a diverse range of employees in a free and open-minded workplace environment generates innovation and sustainable corporate growth. To this end, we aim to foster a corporate culture that encourages creativity, invest in the development of human resources, and actively promote diversity among our personnel. We have a safe workplace environment and strive for fair hiring, evaluation, and promotion processes that respect human rights. Development of Participants in executive human Employees interviewed by resource development programs of the Human Resources Department Human Resources Otsuka Global Academy: (Otsuka Pharmaceutical): More than 140 More than 1,500 Basic Policy one-year program, selected participants learn about Throughout history, innovation has always been generated the corporate DNA, and acquire leadership, task-setting by people. At the Otsuka group, we strive to attract and problem-solving skills. Recognizing that good input talented personnel, develop their individual abilities on an produces good output, Otsuka Warehouse conducts various ongoing basis, and enable them to fulfill their potential. programs intended to inspire participants to generate This enables us to continuously generate innovation. unique new ideas. Programs offer ambitious employees a variety of opportunities, including the opportunity to attend Approach business school courses, or to go on overseas tours of In addition to medium-to-long-term business investments, cutting-edge technology facilities in order to improve their the development of next-generation executive human IT literacy. resources is essential if we are to constantly achieve creative, The Otsuka group is building an educational framework innovative, and sustained growth in the medium and long that enables each member of its diverse workforce to term, as well as significant growth in corporate value. continue developing and displaying his or her individual In 2016, we launched the Otsuka Global Academy potential and reflects the characteristics of each group (OGA), human resource development program, with the company’s business. aim of early identifying and nurturing talented personnel We have also established an open recruitment system1 that will underpin the development of the next generation. and self-assessment system2 for the purpose of enhancing Executive human resource development programs are the capabilities of employees at each company. produced and run in-house across the Otsuka group, At Otsuka Pharmaceutical, the Human Resources while also aiming to realize effective HR development Department holds individual interviews with every through collaboration with external agencies. The programs employee, and follows up on the issues they raise. emphasize the handing down of corporate culture and Interviews are conducted with more than 1,500 employees seek to identify the kind of candidates required to lead every year. the Otsuka group in the future. As of December 31, 2019, 1. Under this system, the Otsuka group internally discloses requirements of a certain position or job and then fills it from among those who apply. Employees that satisfy a total of 141 employees from across the group had the requirements can apply directly to the company offering the position and be participated in the programs. In April 2020, we launched transferred if expectations of both parties are in agreement. The open recruitment the Global E-learning Platform in cooperation with Harvard system can be utilized by employees working at group companies in Japan, and is aimed at boosting employee capabilities and motivation, as well as invigorating Business School Publishing. Approximately 1,000 Otsuka exchange within the group. group employees in Japan and overseas use this global 2. Under this system, employees can submit opinions and suggestions regarding their current work duties and workplace, as well as career plan aspirations, to the Human platform to improve their business literacy and skills. Resources Department. The self-assessment system is implemented on a once yearly In addition, individual group companies are vigorously cycle, with the goals of further developing employee potential, ensuring assignment to appropriate jobs, and improving the workplace environment. promoting human resource development. For instance, Otsuka Pharmaceutical has operated WING, a voluntary leadership study group, since 2009. Participants identify internal and external issues, and work in teams to discuss potential solutions before formulating a proposal for consideration. Taiho Pharmaceutical established “Global One Academy,” a corporate university, in 2016. In the Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 43 The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society Diversity & Inclusion Female manager ratio:1 Employees taking parental leave (of whom male employees):1 10.3% 513 (210) Basic Policy productivity, and work-life balance. We also regularly hold The Otsuka group actively promotes diversity based on group-wide training on women’s empowerment. In order to the belief that active participation by a wide range of support our diverse employees in pursuing career continuity, employees further advances innovation and globalization. we have enhanced childcare, nursing care, and other Accordingly, as a corporate group constantly in pursuit of systems at each group company and have opened daycare innovation, we are endeavoring to establish a richly diverse centers at three of our business premises (in Tokushima, workplace environment. Osaka, and Tsukuba) to help employees balance childcare and work. Approach Moreover, we are actively conducting diversity promotion Since the 1980s, a time when the concept of diversity initiatives such as group-wide seminars with the theme of had yet to gain wide acceptance, our top management LGBT, with the aim of achieving a more inclusive workplace. has actively promoted diversity in the belief that active As a company developing and supplying anti-cancer contributions from personnel with diverse nationalities, agents, Taiho Pharmaceutical has a team to realize races, ages, genders, disabilities, sexual orientations and “Workplace support for employees with cancer.” This team, other characteristics are essential in creating innovative mainly composed of the Human Resources Department products and ideas that drive corporate growth. and occupational nursing staff, aims to create a workplace The Otsuka group has stated its commitment to promoting where employees with cancer or other diseases can receive diversity in the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics. treatment while continuing to work. Taiho Pharmaceutical Furthermore, in 2017 the group became a signatory to the has been recognized with an Excellence Award from Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), a set of corporate the Tokyo Metropolitan Government for its outstanding principles jointly developed by the United Nations Global initiatives under this support framework that helps cancer Compact (UNGC) and UN Women2 that offers guidance on patients balance treatment and work. how to empower women in the workplace. Furthermore, Otsuka Pharmaceutical established Heartful To demonstrate our commitment as a signatory to the Kawauchi in Tokushima City in 2011 as a special purpose WEPs, we have introduced a number of systems that meet subsidiary. This subsidiary enables people with disabilities to WEPs at group companies in Japan. Notable examples fully realize their potential. are the Work Interval System, which mandates minimum 1. Scope: Figures for 2019 at nine companies (Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, rest periods for workers, and the Family Smile Support Otsuka Foods, Otsuka Pharmaceutical D&C, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and System,3 which encourages employees to work from home Pharmavite) if necessary to deal with childbirth, childcare, childrearing, 2. United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women 3. Revised telework system for increased flexibility and nursing care, thus achieving better work efficiency, External Recognition Nadeshiko Brand Platinum Kurumin Eruboshi Diversity Management System for selecting companies that and Kurumin Certification system based on the Selection 100 actively promote the employment Certification system based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s System recognizing companies that and advancement of women. Act on Advancement of Measures Participation and Advancement have improved corporate value (Ministry of Economy, Trade and to Support Raising Next-Generation in the Workplace. Companies are through diversity management. Industry; Tokyo Stock Exchange) Children. Platinum Kurumin is a recognized for excellent efforts to (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Selected in 2020: Otsuka Holdings* certification for Kurumin-certified empower women in the workplace. Industry) companies that have carried out (Ministry of Health, Labour and 2014 Award: Otsuka Pharmaceutical * Scope of survey: Otsuka Holdings and higher-level initiatives. Welfare) Otsuka Pharmaceutical (Ministry of Health, Labour and Eruboshi (highest grade): Welfare) Otsuka Chemical Platinum Kurumin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical Kurumin: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, and others 44 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Health & Safety Participants in Health Seminars held by the Participants in Anzen Dojo group for employees and family members: programs (Otsuka Chemical): 1,050 (Cumulative) 658 (Fiscal 2019) Basic Policy to relevant education and training. These activities are reported The Otsuka group recognizes that the mental and physical at health and safety committee meetings and form the basis well-being of each and every employee is indispensable for improvements to the workplace environment. Furthermore, to realizing the group’s shared corporate philosophy. To major group companies hold a joint meeting every year to share this end, we are committed to creating a safe workplace reports on workplace accidents and recurrence prevention environment and are continuously implementing initiatives measures. to help employees maintain and improve their health. Otsuka Chemical, which handles chemical substances, conducts various workplace safety initiatives. Major initiatives Approach include a system for swift information sharing on issues The major Otsuka group companies have issued a declaration related to factory operations among all domestic and overseas on health under which they strive to create a workplace locations, as well as regular reporting of group safety at Board environment conducive to employee health maintenance of Directors meetings. Another key initiative is Anzen Dojo, and improvement. As part of efforts led by Otsuka Holdings, an experience-based safety training center which opened in officers in charge of health management at each group 2012 as part of measures to prevent occupational accidents. company cooperate with the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health The center runs training programs aimed at improving safety Insurance Association and medical professionals in activities awareness for group employees, employees of overseas aimed at improving the health of employees. One such activity affiliates, and third parties. Through classroom instruction and is the hosting of Health Seminars for group employees and simulations of past accidents, the center reinforces lessons their families. Held in major cities across Japan, these seminars from failures and safety knowledge, sharpens awareness of are aimed at communicating the group’s initiatives on health, danger, and develops the ability to identify potential risks. introducing the Otsuka Pharmaceutical Health Insurance In recognition of its activities to improve health and safety Association, and disseminating information relevant to education and establish a safety culture through Anzen Dojo, improving the health of employees and their families. Another Otsuka Chemical received an RC Outstanding Award from activity is the group-wide Tokushima Health Project, known as the Japan Chemical Industry Association at the 8th Annual TOK-J, launched in 2017 under the theme of creating lively and Responsible Care Awards in 2014. cheerful workplaces by lowering the risk of lifestyle diseases. This project targets the Tokushima region—where the greatest concentration of group employees live and work—and focuses on raising awareness of health issues in the region as a whole. The project promotes walking, exercise and a healthy diet. Improving Workplace Health and Safety For the purpose of creating a safe and secure workplace, at factories and other business sites of each group company in Japan we have established safety and health committees, as defined in the Industrial Safety and Health Act. We actively carry out workplace health and safety inspections, as well as the necessary activities to ensure appropriate management of health, operations and the workplace environment, in addition Anzen Dojo External Recognition Health & Productivity Management Health & Productivity Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization* (White 500) Management Outstanding Outstanding Organization* (large enterprise category) Organization* (SME category) Otsuka Holdings, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, (large enterprise category) Otsuka Electronics, JIMRO, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Techno Otsuka Wellness Vending * The Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization Recognition Program examines organizations working to overcome health-related challenges in local communities or to promote health-conscious activities led by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, and recognizes organizations for outstanding efforts in health and productivity management. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 45 The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society Quality in All We Do To help build a sustainable society, the Otsuka group seeks to achieve sustainability by addressing environmental and social issues and by establishing a quality assurance structure that ensures safety and reliability at every stage of the value chain. Production, Quality R&D Procurement Control and Patient/ Logistics Sales and Marketing Customer Safety R&D 1. Ethical Considerations Concerning replacement of animal use, Reduction/minimization in the Appropriate R&D number of animals used, and Refinement/minimization of The use of experimental animals to verify efficacy and safety in animal suffering. Based on these, we conduct researcher R&D is at times necessary. The Otsuka group complies with all education and internal inspections and evaluations of the related laws, ordinances, and guidelines while striving to uphold implementation of experiments involving animals. scientifically valid methodologies and ethical considerations from the viewpoints of animal protection and welfare, including the 2. Ethics in Development lives of the animals; preservation of the environment; and the In the development of pharmaceuticals, we confirm the safety safety of experimenters. and effectiveness of candidate compounds by conducting As an in-house management system, we have developed clinical trials with the cooperation of healthy individuals and and implemented rules on experiments that involve animals, patients. Recognizing the importance of ethical considerations have established an Animal Experiment Committee, and regarding human rights and personal information, the Otsuka properly carry out animal experiments and breeding. The group implements clinical trials in compliance with ethical Animal Experiment Committee evaluates whether each principles and standards, including ICH-GCP, an international proposed animal experiment plan is appropriate based on standard for the implementation of clinical trials for the 3Rs principles. These are Replacement/avoidance or pharmaceutical products. Partners surveyed through the self-assessment questionnaire: Procurement Basic Policy 34 (Cumulative) Guidelines to provide more specific descriptions of the The Otsuka group, together with its business partners, aims to provisions of the above vision and policy. In order to ensure contribute to the building of a sustainable society by promoting a stable supply of products, we perform advance risk CSR procurement that takes into consideration factors such assessments on key raw materials to identify potential risks as legal and regulatory compliance, the environment, and the so that we can take countermeasures. We also make sure to protection of human rights. source raw materials from multiple companies, in principle. For products that use palm oil, for example, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Approach confirms that its business partners are RSPO* members before Across the entire value chain, the Otsuka group engages in purchasing raw materials. business activities that are safe, reliable, socially acceptable, and * Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil in compliance with laws and regulations. When commencing transactions with a supplier, we perform screening and checks 1. Collaboration with Business Partners to ensure the quality of raw materials and to guarantee stable We conduct surveys of business partners using the CSR procurement. We also conclude a basic transaction agreement. procurement self-assessment questionnaire* published by UN In the case of a new supplier, transactions are determined only Global Compact Network Japan. In 2018, we asked 26 companies after we have carried out due diligence. to complete the survey, and received responses from 25. In We aim for mutually sustainable development through fair, 2019, nine companies were selected, all of whom responded. equitable and transparent procurement and the establishment We assess our business partners not only with respect to of healthy relationships with business partners. To achieve this, legal and regulatory compliance but also with respect to their we have formulated and share with all business partners the activities regarding human rights, labor, the environment, and Otsuka Group Sourcing/Procurement Vision & Policy, which anti-corruption measures. Results of the survey are provided to takes into account factors such as human rights, labor issues, partners as feedback to further promote CSR procurement. the environment and anti-corruption measures. Going forward, we will hold briefing sessions for our partners. We have also formulated the Sourcing/Procurement * Questionnaires are sent to business partners that meet predefined criteria. 46 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 2. Joint Business Partner Audit by Pharmaceutical Companies For details on the Otsuka Group Sourcing/Procurement Vision & Policy, In the Otsuka group, four pharmaceutical companies conduct please visit our website: joint business partner audits for shared suppliers of raw https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/society/ materials. We began these audits in 2016, applying proprietary quality/procurement.html methodologies and including an auditor skills training program. Production, Quality Control and Patient/Customer Safety Basic Policy 2. Quality Control and Patient/Consumer Safety The Otsuka group always puts its customers first. In seeking to The Otsuka group always puts its customers first. To this make products that gain their trust, we promote collaboration end, it has built and maintains safety control and operation and joint activities among group companies, taking into account systems that take into account the characteristics of each the characteristics of each of our businesses, which include of its businesses, which include pharmaceuticals, foods and pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages, chemicals, and cosmetics. beverages, chemicals, and cosmetics. Proper assurance of quality is the foundation for the efficacy and safety that enable Approach pharmaceutical products to be used in medical care. The Otsuka group is strongly committed to quality. This In addition, while complying with the laws and regulations commitment began with the words of Busaburo Otsuka, the in each country, for example the Pharmaceutical and Medical founder of the Otsuka group: “Quality is vital in a factory and Devices Act in Japan, we engage in quality control and postso is packaging. We have to manufacture and market, putting marketing surveillance to ensure safety in accordance with ourselves in the consumer’s position.” This commitment has GQP1 and GVP2 standards. We also make reports, as well as been passed down by employees ever since. We believe that compile and revise various documentation, for submission to ensuring a stable supply of high-quality products contributes the relevant regulatory authorities. We have also established a to a sustainable society. As such, we believe we should focus system for constant global pharmacovigilance that collects and active efforts on ensuring quality through human resource assesses product safety information, including on side effects. development and by building appropriate systems. We continue to promptly provide the results of our monitoring The Otsuka group’s production, quality, and safety control to medical institutions and other relevant parties. systems comply with legal and regulatory requirements, 1. GQP: Good Quality Practice 2. GVP: Good Vigilance Practice and with governmental and industry standards, including the Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Act and the Food 3. Global Product Quality Team Activities for Sanitation Act. Group companies also work to acquire the Pharmaceutical Business international certifications such as ISO 9001 for quality, and Since 2016, Otsuka Pharmaceutical and its group companies ISO 22000 and FSSC 22000 for food safety. have conducted activities to enhance compliance with GxPs* for a range of processes from development through to 1. Production the finished product. Among initiatives to improve quality Production departments at the Otsuka group employ a control systems, we hold meetings attended by management traceability system covering all stages of the value chain, from personnel, as well as group-wide meetings. raw material procurement to production, distribution, and The Pharmaceutical Business established global product sales, thereby enabling thorough management throughout the quality policies in 2017. Activities are carried out globally, and entire value chain. include ensuring the reliability of quality data and compiling Moreover, for over 30 years, production departments procedural manuals. have held a global production meeting aimed at group* GxP: Umbrella term for GCP, GVP, GMP, GDP, etc. wide improvements by sharing techniques and information. In 2019, the meeting was attended by approximately 100 4. Quality Control Activities for employees involved in production at group companies in 13 the Nutraceutical Business countries/regions. In addition, failure case study meetings and In 2018, Otsuka Pharmaceutical established the Quality Division environmental management information exchange meetings for the purpose of further facilitating quality improvement began in 2017 and 2018, respectively. At these meetings, and safety control for products in the Nutraceutical Business. participants share presentations and opinions on case studies Furthermore, with the establishment of the Quality Assurance of collaborative measures and technological development Office, we have implemented a system based on GMP for to address quality, safety, cost and environmental issues, the pharmaceuticals. The system enables centralized management future outlook, and overseas development. of all processes from identifying and verifying risks arising At the global production meeting, we also present awards from changes, to investigating causes and taking remedial to employees who have made significant contributions action when risks manifest. As of May 2020, all our factories to production activities, lay the foundations for further in Japan that manufacture nutraceuticals are certified for the improvements in productivity, and conduct personnel training. FSSC 22000 food safety standard. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 47 The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Society 5. Collaboration between Pharmaceutical The meeting is an opportunity for participants to review the and Nutraceutical Departments preceding year’s quality control performance and to work on Product quality departments of the Pharmaceutical Business improving quality control and developing personnel by sharing and Nutraceutical Business jointly hold an annual global product reports that illustrate the need for predictive risk management quality meeting. The 2019 meeting was attended by around in production activities, based on the importance of learning 100 managers and quality supervisors for pharmaceuticals from examples of issues as well as successes. and nutraceuticals from 22 companies in nine countries. Logistics Basic Policy Specifically, we are improving logistics quality by introducing The Otsuka group handles products that relate directly to IT systems for truck dispatch and vehicle monitoring, which human life, including pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages. enable better tracking of transport and delivery status. As such, we ensure the rigorous control and maintenance Other initiatives of product quality throughout distribution, and actively take include computerizing measures to ensure stable supply in the event of a natural warehouse operations disaster or other emergency situation. The group also promotes to reduce incorrect environmentally friendly logistics operations through measures shipments and mispicks, such as reducing CO2 emissions. thereby helping quality improvement through Approach higher efficiency. Warehouse navigation system The Otsuka group delivers products throughout Japan, mainly The diverse assortment of shipping forms has been standardized via group company Otsuka Warehouse. To ensure the control and digitalized, with benefits that include lower mishandling rates and maintenance of product quality, Otsuka Warehouse has set when orders are changed. up the GDP* Promotion Office to facilitate appropriate logistics Otsuka Warehouse is working to ensure stable supply in accordance with the GDP guidelines for pharmaceuticals. by establishing distributed storage facilities across Japan We disseminate the principles of the GDP guidelines among to maintain adequate product stocks that reflect product personnel engaged in the manufacture and distribution characteristics. Furthermore, for pharmaceuticals, a framework of pharmaceuticals through training and drills on quality for business continuity planning (BCP) has been established management systems, document control, administration of that ensures essential products can be delivered to where they outsourced processes, facility and equipment maintenance, are needed. In addition to securing stock, measures include storage and transport operations, assessment of supplier and developing an emergency response system for transporting customer eligibility, among others. In addition, we conduct products, for example registering vehicles for authorized regular training to ensure compliance with internal standards access to restricted areas and exchanging MOUs with shippers, and procedures. warehouse owners and other partners for cooperation in the We also strive to standardize data management system transport of emergency relief supplies. specifications in order to facilitate collaboration and cooperation between shippers and logistics operators. * GDP: Good Distribution Practice Sales and Marketing Basic Policy Given that society demands transparency in relationships The Otsuka group believes that it has a responsibility to deliver between pharmaceutical companies and healthcare higher-value products and services to customers. To do so, we organizations, we are striving to ensure code adherence in will engage in suitable promotion and advertising activities order to fulfill our duty as a pharmaceutical company and that comply with laws and regulations, and communicate with ensure the practice of ethical, patient-oriented medical care. customers in an appropriate manner. 1. Approach in the Nutraceutical and Approach Consumer Products Businesses The Otsuka group has expanded on the JPMA Promotion The Nutraceutical Business contributes to solutions for social Code for Prescription Drugs—a code of behavior for issues by providing creative products directed at maintaining healthcare professionals issued by the Japan Pharmaceutical and improving people’s health while offering useful health Manufacturers Association (JPMA)—to formulate its own information. Otsuka Pharmaceutical has established the Scientific Code of Practice covering each group company in an effort to Affairs Department to gather and disseminate information engage in appropriate collaboration based on relationships of about products, related knowledge and the latest academic trust with all stakeholders, including medical practitioners. information in order to provide appropriate information to 48 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 consumers. To develop personnel who can help resolve social 2. Reducing Food Loss issues, we hold monthly training programs in three formats: The Otsuka group seeks to address food loss issues by group seminars, e-learning and satellite broadcasting. producing foods and beverages with longer shelf lives and with In a similar fashion to the Pharmaceutical Business, we have expiration dates that are indicated by the month rather than established a dedicated unit comprising multiple departments day. Some products are unsuitable for the consumer market to review marketing plans and sales promotion materials for due to being short-dated, in poor condition external packaging nutraceutical and consumer products. This ensures that our or other reasons. From 2019, to further reduce food loss, marketing and sales promotion activities are appropriate and we began selling these products to group employees. These comply with laws and regulations. initiatives helped us eliminate approximately 131 tons of food loss in 2019. Promotion of Customer-centric Management Basic Policy treatment, those in need of nursing care and others who said In October 2018, the Otsuka group announced its Declaration that they had difficulty opening the cap because of muscular of Customer-centric Commitment, as a way of putting the strength issues. Based on this feedback, we redesigned the corporate philosophy into practice. Promotion of customercontainer to be easier to open. We have also created websites centric management has been targeted in activities for material that provide product information in Japanese, English, Chinese issues. In conducting business, we recognize that respecting and Spanish, and added QR codes to product labelling that link consumer rights is an important human rights issue. Our with these websites. Declaration of Customer-centric Commitment establishes basic * OS-1 is approved as a food for persons with medical conditions and is intended to provide water and electrolytes in order to maintain the proper water and electrolyte policies stating our commitment to our social responsibilities balance in persons with mild-to-moderate dehydration (Approved by the Consumer as a corporation, which we fulfill by pursuing customer-centric Affairs Agency) management and making appropriate decisions that are based on dialogue with all stakeholders. Example of Improved Product: OS-1 Jelly 1. Inculcating a Customer-centric Enlarged cap diameter by 5 millimeters. Mindset in Employees Customer-facing employees from group companies in Japan Previous design New design meet twice yearly to share best practices for customer service Larger cap makes the and product improvements. This helps foster a customer-centric product easier to open. corporate culture. 2. Enhancing Information Exchange with Customers and Mechanisms for Reflecting Customer Feedback Each group company establishes dedicated customer contact points for patients, healthcare professionals and general consumers, and provides appropriate training for the employees For packaging produced by group companies in Japan, who work there. For example, the assignment of specially with the exception of certain products such as those with trained female operators enables us to better answer inquiries space limitations, we ensure the understandability of labelling. about products designed for women. This approach helps us In addition to information required by law, the following deepen communication with customers, provide appropriate information is presented: instructions for storage after opening, information and reflect customer requests and suggestions in precautions for use, an easy-to-read list of allergens contained product improvements. (mandatory and recommended items), and a clear indication of One such product improvement was for OS-1* and OS-1 packaging materials. Based on customer feedback, we continue Jelly,* produced by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory. These to make further improvements. For example, Otsuka Foods products are foods for persons with medical conditions. We has redesigned allergen labelling by adding a list of allergens received feedback from elderly individuals, customers receiving on the package in a separate location from the comprehensive list of instructions and precautions. For Bon Curry for Children, illustrations have been Previous design New design added to make the For details on the Declaration of information easier to Customer-centric Commitment, understand, so that please visit our website: consumers can purchase https://www.otsuka.com/en/company/ customer/ it with peace of mind. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 49 Environment Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council Otsuka Group’s Environmental Policy As a global group that contributes to the health of people The Otsuka group of companies strives to advance worldwide, the Otsuka group works sincerely to reduce the as an essential company that contributes to the impact its businesses have on the global environment, and health of people worldwide. We will help to realize seeks to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society a sustainable society by always taking account of the that can protect nature and the future of the earth. global environment in the value chain as we pursue our The Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council business activities based on our trademark qualities of comprises the group-wide coordinator at Otsuka Holdings, autonomy, proactiveness and creativity. executive officers at each group company who are Guidelines responsible for and have jurisdiction over matters related to the environment, and a secretariat. Matters deliberated 1. Climate Change on by the council are approved by the Board of Directors Play a part in controlling global warming by reducing of Otsuka Holdings, and shared as the environmental CO2 emissions. management policies of the Otsuka group. The council 2. Resource Recycling and Conservation promotes initiatives that contribute to solutions to global Continue to improve resource efficiency and help social issues related to the earth’s environment. create a zero-waste society. 3. Water Conservation ■ Otsuka Group Global Environmental Council Organization Promote sustainable use of water through conservation, recycling and clean return. Group-wide coordinator 4. Environmental Compliance Otsuka Holdings director Continue to improve our environmental management system, increase effectiveness of compliance, and reduce risks. Secretariat Otsuka Holdings Otsuka Pharmaceutical The Otsuka group has determined the materialities of its environmental initiatives to be climate change, resource recycling and conservation and water conservation. We have Council members set goals for 2030, and are carrying out activities aimed Otsuka Otsuka Taiho at achieving them. As part of these initiatives, the Otsuka PharmaPharmaPharmaOtsuka Otsuka Otsuka ceutical Chemical Warehouse Foods group’s five major companies in Japan1 are working to ceutical ceutical Factory acquire integrated ISO 14001 certification, the international standard for environmental management systems, as part of efforts to promote activities that are more efficient and highly effective.2 Going forward, the group will work together toward the realization of a decarbonized society, and ultimately a sustainable society, raising awareness and understanding of environmental issues by conducting environmental training for employees and generating synergy through collaborations between group companies. 1. Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods 2. As of December 31, 2019, 20 Otsuka group companies in Japan and overseas are ISO 14001-certified. To accelerate efforts to achieve group goals, we are working to acquire integrated ISO 14001 certification for the group. 50 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Climate Change FY 2030 Goal: 30% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to FY 2017 Climate change due to global warming is causing serious environmental issues on a worldwide scale, such as by severely impacting biological and water resources. We recognize it as a major risk to our global operations. The Otsuka group is committed to creating a decarbonized society, and thereby a sustainable society. We are aiming to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across the entire value chain in order to help achieve the Paris Agreement goal of holding the global average temperature increase below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. 1. Initiatives for Efficient Energy Use Taiho Pharmaceutical have been validated under the Science and CO2 Reduction Based Targets (SBT) Initiative. In Tokushima Prefecture, where a number of Otsuka In order to achieve these new goals, we will optimize group production sites are concentrated, we have installed energy use and introduce renewable energy, and continue cogeneration systems at Otsuka Chemical and Otsuka to promote reduction of GHG emissions throughout the Pharmaceutical Factory. These systems generate electric value chain. power from natural gas, while converting waste heat into steam and hot water, which are then supplied to nearby 2030 Goals group companies. Furthermore, the cogeneration system • Reduction of greenhouse gas introduced in February 2020 at Otsuka Pharmaceutical emissions (Scope 12 and 23) Factory’s Toyama Factory supports our business continuity by 30% compared to 2017 plan, reduces annual CO2 emissions by approximately • Reduction of greenhouse gas 1,800 tons, and contributes to energy efficiency and stable emissions (Scope 34) by 20% compared to 2017 drug supply. 1. An international initiative led by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI), and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Validates We are working to reduce CO2 emissions by switching companies’ CO2 emission reduction targets that align with scientifically-based to renewable energy. In July 2019, we started introducing reduction scenarios, in order to achieve the Paris Agreement goal of holding the global average temperature increase below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. CO2-free electricity, which is derived from renewable energy 2. Scope 1: Direct emissions 3. Scope 2: Indirect emissions from energy sources sources and does not emit CO2, at Otsuka group factories 4. Scope 3: Other indirect emissions and research centers in Tokushima Prefecture and at Otsuka Pharmaceutical’s Fukuroi Factory. In November 2019, we 3. Third-Party Verification of GHG Emissions expanded its introduction to Otsuka Foods’ Shiga Factory, In order to improve the transparency and reliability of and overseas to Nutrition & Santé’s Spain Factory. its environmental data, the Otsuka group has its GHG ■ Total CO2 Emissions emissions Scopes 1 and 2 (CO2 emissions from energy (Thousand tons-CO2) (Tons/¥ million) sources, including energy consumption), and Scope 3 900 1.00 (Category 1) verified by third-party organizations. This helps Japan 34.4% 821 us identify emissions trends and implement improvements. Indonesia 21.2% We will continue to expand the scope of verification and India 18.5% 600 further enhance the reliability of our data. 0.59 South Korea 7.5% ■ GHG Emissions throughout the Value Chain North America 7.6% 0.50 Scope 12 300 China 5.9% 10.5% Europe 2.1% Scope 2 3 Others 2.9% 7.0% Other categories 0 0 2017 2018 2019 27.2% 1,320 thousand tons-CO2 Scope 3 4 Total CO2 emissions (left) CO2 emissions per sales (right) 82.5% Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Category 15 2. Validation of Otsuka Pharmaceutical 55.3% and Taiho Pharmaceutical Goals under the SBT Initiative1 5. Purchased goods and services Scope: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, GHG reduction goals set by Otsuka Pharmaceutical and Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 51 The Otsuka Group’s CSR: Environment Resource Recycling and Conservation FY 2030 Goals: 50% reduction in simple incineration and landfill compared to FY 2019 50% or higher content of recycled and plant-based materials in our PET bottles In order to realize both a sustainable society and ongoing corporate growth, a global shift to sustainable business models that grow without impacting the environment is necessary. To continue providing products that contribute to the health of people worldwide, the Otsuka group will raise resource efficiency throughout the value chain and build a sustainable system for recycling and conservation of resources, including biological resources. 1. Initiatives to Achieve Zero Waste1 Otsuka Group Plastic Policy In fiscal 2019, the Otsuka group’s total global waste volume ■ Fundamental Concept was 97,000 tons. The effective use amount including PET bottles comprise the majority of plastic containers and material recycling,2 composting, and heat recovery3 was packaging used for consumer products by our group companies. 74,000 tons, or about 76% of the total. For this reason, we believe that by promoting PET bottle recycling, Furthermore, the simple incineration volume was 5,000 we can reduce our reliance on fossil fuel and thereby contribute tons (mainly in Japan) and the landfill volume was 11,000 to environmental conservation. Our plan is to use PET bottles tons (mainly overseas). Going forward, we will promote manufactured from recycled and plant-based materials and increase activities to reduce waste and disposal volumes together the percentage of such sustainable resource use in our production with group companies in Japan and overseas. processes globally to 50 percent by 2030 and 100 percent by 2050. 1. Approach seeking to reduce waste generation and wasted resources to zero Moreover, to advance PET material recycling, it is essential to recycle 2. Reuse of recycled materials as raw materials PET bottles for use as raw material. Together with our various 3. Generation and use of heat energy from incineration (in accordance with EU or Japanese standards); includes use as fuel and solid fuel conversion stakeholders, we will advance our global efforts on proper collection and recycling of used PET bottles. ■ Total Waste Volume ■ Our Vision for 2050 7.2% 7,000 tons For our entire line of consumer products, we will endeavor to use 5.2% packaging that supports a sustainable society: 5,000 tons Material recycling • No use of plastics made from petroleum-based materials 11.3% Composting, conversion to feed, reuse, etc. 11,000 tons 43.3% • Promote use of recycled, plant-based, and biodegradable Power generation, heat use, 12.4% 42,000 tons fuel conversion materials 12,000 tons Landfills • Promote use of reusable packaging 20.6% Simple incineration 20,000 tons Others ■ Our Goal for 2030 • Achieve a 50 percent or higher content of recycled and plantTotal waste volume based materials in our PET bottles. 97,000 tons • Introduce alternative packaging (e.g., paper) and increase use of Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group cans for our drink products. • Step up promotion of drink bottle recycling by introducing reusable packaging through a zero-waste sales and circular 2. Initiatives Targeting the Issue of Plastic Waste distribution model, which also includes the use of sports bottles for our powder products. As an initiative aimed at solving the issue of plastic waste, We will promote the use of alternative packaging and concurrently we have formulated the Otsuka Group Plastic Policy to pursue using more recyclable materials for drink containers. contribute to the sustainable recycling of resources. As a group that provides products that contribute to people’s health, the Otsuka group will continue measures to assure the safety and quality of containers and packaging. 52 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Water Conservation FY 2030 Goal: Improvement of water use efficiency by 15% compared to FY 2017 Since its establishment, the Otsuka group’s operations have had a deep connection to water, a resource essential to life. Through products that use water as a raw material, we have actively contributed not only to the treatment and prevention of diseases, but also the maintenance and promotion of health. We therefore recognize water as an important resource, and consider its conservation to be a critical global issue. Moreover, water resources are unevenly distributed across different countries and regions, each of which faces different risks. The Otsuka group therefore cooperates with all stakeholders, and conducts ongoing water conservation initiatives from intake to discharge (including cultivation of water resources, conscientious use and clean return), in the aim of sustainable water use. Evaluating Water Risk at Production Sites ■ Water Usage and Water Use Efficiency (Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million) Considering environmental risk in each region is also 25,000 30 important to sustainable growth in the diverse business models of the Otsuka group operating around the world. 20,000 18,756 Since 2017, the Otsuka group has conducted water risk 15,000 20 6,482 assessments at all production sites using the water risk assessment tool “Aqueduct,” developed by the World 10,000 13.4 10 Resources Institute (WRI), so as to understand and minimize 5,000 12,274 the impact of such risk on water-related business activities. Going forward, we will conduct more specific assessments 0 0 2017 2018 2019 and promote activities tailored to each region that target Outside Japan (left) Japan (left) Water use efficiency (right) the effective management and use of water, with the aim of Scope: Allproduction Scope: All production the consolidated sites ofsites Otsuka group Otsuka group of the consolidated conservation and sustainable use of water resources. Environmentally Friendly Products of the Otsuka Group Going beyond making our products themselves low impact, in development, we consider environmental impact throughout the value chain, from raw material procurement to disposal, as well as the needs of the times resulting from changes in society. In this way, we contribute to solutions to global environmental issues and increasingly diverse social issues. A unique formulation allows POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY to be stored at room temperature We developed POCARI SWEAT ICE SLURRY with a focus on core body temperature regulation to support active people in hot environments. The unique formulation of this drinkable ice product allows it to be stored at room temperature and conveniently frozen before use. Even if it melts, the liquid can be returned to a slurry state by refreezing. This also enables energy savings when transporting or storing the product. Bon Curry can be warmed in the microwave while still in the box Launched in 1968, Bon Curry was the world’s first commercial retort pouch food product and can be heated in the microwave while still in the box. It saves consumers the time and trouble of boiling water or putting the curry on a plate to warm it. This product is environmentally friendly because it does not require open flame or water for preparation.* * Does not apply to Okinawa limited Bon Curry products The world’s first quad-chamber infusion bag Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory develops products under its management vision of being “The Best Partner in Clinical Nutrition.” It is focusing above all on the development of kit products that are easy for healthcare workers to use, and which also reduce medical errors and the risk of infection. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory was behind the development of the first-ever quad-chamber bag, which is used for ELNEOPA, a high-calorie infusion vitamin mixture containing glucose, electrolytes, amino acid, multivitamin, and trace elements. Its groundbreaking design makes it possible to aseptically prepare the mixture with a single push. It also saves resources, enables efficient transportation and reduces disposal waste. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 53 Governance Corporate Governance Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) is committed to promoting sustainable increase of its corporate value over the medium to long term by realizing its corporate philosophy, “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide.” To meet this commitment, it adopts a basic policy of making transparent, fair and timely decisions, and fulfilling its corporate social responsibility by living up to the expectations of all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, employees, local communities, and shareholders, through ongoing dialogue. Board of Directors meeting attendance: Outside directors: Female directors: 100% 30.8% 23.1% Initiatives to Strengthen Corporate Governance The Company discloses its basic approach to corporate governance in its Corporate Governance Guidelines, available on the corporate 2008 • Establishment of Otsuka Holdings • Term of directors set at one year website. • Decision not to adopt a directors’ retirement benefits system Corporate Governance Guidelines • Corporate officer system adopted • Two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members https://www.otsuka.com/en/company/ governance/pdf/guideline.pdf 2010 • Three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members • Stock options as performance-linked remuneration introduced • Stock publicly listed in December Corporate Governance Report https://www.otsuka.com/jp/company/governance/ 2011 • First Medium-Term Management Plan announced pdf/report.pdf (available only in Japanese) 2013 • Two outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members 2014 • Second Medium-Term Management Plan announced • Three outside directors; two outside Audit & Supervisory Board members Overview of Corporate Governance Structure • Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics established The Board of Directors, which also includes outside 2015 • Corporate Governance Guidelines established • Internal whistleblowing system (for Otsuka Holdings and major directors, advances the execution of management plans, group companies) established, with reporting to an independent supervises the Company’s management, and also assumes body outside the Company roles and responsibilities to enhance the profitability and 2016 • Three outside directors; three outside Audit & Supervisory Board members capital investment efficiency in order to promote the • Effectiveness of Board of Directors evaluated • System for granting stock options conditional on progress with sustainable growth of the Company and the increase the medium-term management plan introduced of corporate value over the medium to long term. The 2017 • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised Company secures its soundness and establishes the • Corporate Governance Committee established • Started to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors solid corporate governance structure living up to social based on questionnaires completed by all directors and Audit & expectations by ensuring that the Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board members • Started to hold reporting meetings for outside directors and Board and its members, which are independent from the outside Audit & Supervisory Board members to improve their Board of Directors, can audit the Directors’ performance of understanding of the group’s management and business their duties in collaboration with the Accounting Auditor, as 2018 • Two female directors • Corporate Governance Guidelines revised well as the Internal Audit Department. 2019 • Third Medium-Term Management Plan announced • Restricted stock-based compensation plan introduced • Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy established 1. Corporate Organization 2020 • Four outside directors; three female directors As a company with an audit and supervisory board as defined by the Companies Act, the Company has Governance Structure (As of March 27, 2020) established a Board of Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Company with an Audit & Board, and also engages an accounting auditor. The Articles Form of organization Supervisory Board of Incorporation stipulate that the number of directors shall Directors [Outside directors] 13 [4 (independent directors)] not exceed 18, and that the number of Audit & Supervisory Term of directors 1 year Board members shall not exceed five. Audit & Supervisory Board members [Outside Audit & Supervisory Board 4 [3 (independent auditors)] members] Accounting auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC 54 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 2. Board of Directors Meetings candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board members, the The Board of Directors convenes regularly once a month and committee obtains approval from the Audit & Supervisory holds extraordinary meetings as necessary to make important Board prior to reporting to the Board of Directors. business decisions and supervise the execution of operations. Candidates are those put forward by the representative director(s). 3. Director Selection Criteria (2) Remuneration The Company aims to become “an indispensable contributor The Corporate Governance Committee discusses matters to people’s health worldwide” by targeting sustainable related to the remuneration system and standards for growth and enhanced corporate value over the medium to directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and long term. Toward this aim, the Company works to ensure reports to the Board of Directors. the overall diversity of directors, and appoints people with (3) Corporate Governance Structure the insight, expertise, and experience needed to realize and In addition, the Committee deliberates on matters related maintain appropriate and effective corporate governance. For to the enhancement of the corporate governance structure, internal directors in particular, we comprehensively evaluate and reports to the Board of Directors as necessary. the experience, expertise, insight, and other attributes of candidates to ensure that they have the qualities needed 5. Audit & Supervisory Board and Its Members to implement the group’s corporate philosophy, Code of Audit & Supervisory Board members attend and express Business Ethics, and management strategies. opinions at meetings of the Board of Directors, and monitor the performance of duties of directors in terms of 4. Corporate Governance Committee legal compliance and soundness of management through In February 2017, the Company established the Corporate audits. In striving to improve the effectiveness of audits, Governance Committee with the aim of increasing Audit & Supervisory Board members also share information transparency and objectivity in management. As an advisory and exchange opinions as appropriate with relevant body to the Board of Directors, the committee discusses departments, including the Internal Audit Department, matters relating to corporate governance, including the Internal Control Department, Administration Department, nomination of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board and Finance and Accounting Department, as well as the members, and the remuneration system and standards for accounting auditor. directors, and reports the results of its deliberations to the Board of Directors. The committee consists of the president, 6. Evaluation of Effectiveness of Board of Directors the director in charge of administration, and all four outside From January through February every year, the Company directors. The president serves as the chair of the committee. conducts a questionnaire survey of all directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Results of the survey are Content of Deliberations reviewed by a company attorney, and then reviewed and (1) Nomination evaluated at the Board of Directors meeting in March. The Corporate Governance Committee discusses the Questionnaire items are as follows. validity and fairness of matters related to the appointment (1) Composition of the Board of Directors and dismissal of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board (2) Each director’s understanding and knowledge of business members, and reports to the Board of Directors. Regarding fields and specific management strategies and plans Shareholders’ Meeting Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Elects/Dismisses Consults Operational audits Corporate Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Accounting audits Governance (13 directors; 4 of whom are outside directors) (4 Audit & Supervisory Recommends Board members; 3 of whom Committee Appoints/Dismisses are outside members) President and (Cooperates with) (Cooperates with) Representative Director, CEO Accounting audits Instructs Reports Accounting Auditor Internal Audit Department (Cooperates with) Approval of Meetings of the Prior material matters/ Group’s boards consultation/ Management of corporate Ex post guidance auditors facto reports Subsidiaries (Shareholders’ Meeting, Board of Directors, Audit and Supervisory Board Members, etc.) Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 55 (3) Cooperation with outside directors companies. Furthermore, given that all outside directors (4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Board and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members satisfy (5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings requirements of independent directors/auditors prescribed (6) Governance-related matters by the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), the Company has i. Function of the Board of Directors in determining the registered them as such with the TSE. direction of management strategy ii. Monitoring of each business with respect to the 8. Internal Audit Department execution of management strategy The Company’s Internal Audit Department reports directly iii. Understanding of the perspectives of major investors to the president. The department regularly conducts audits and stakeholders based on the Internal Audit Rules to verify that operations iv. Risk management are being executed appropriately and efficiently with v. Cooperation and information sharing with each regard to the assets and business of the Company and operating company its affiliated companies. The department submits audit (7) Support system for outside directors reports to the president, directors, and Audit & Supervisory (8) Overall functioning of the Board of Directors from Board members. Where there is need for improvement, the perspective of effectiveness the department recommends remedial actions and later confirms their implementation, thereby contributing to the optimization of business execution. The department also Summary of Evaluation in Fiscal 2019 shares information and cooperates in audits by Audit & The results of the analysis and evaluation of the overall Supervisory Board members and the accounting auditor. effectiveness of the Board of Directors in fiscal 2019 are summarized below. 9. Internal Control Department There was an increase in opinions stating improvement from the previous year regarding the 12 items in the questionnaire. The The Company’s Internal Control Department handles opinions noted particular improvement in (3) Cooperation with internal controls regarding financial reporting by the outside directors, (4) Cooperation with the Audit & Supervisory Company and its affiliated companies. The department Board, (6) i. Function of the Board of Directors in determining the formulates rules and manuals pertaining to internal controls, direction of management strategy and (6) ii. Monitoring of each provides training, and ensures that employees thoroughly business with respect to the execution of management strategy. understand operational rules. The department also works With regard to (5) Operation of Board of Directors meetings, in cooperation with the Internal Audit Department to there was agreement that deliberations have improved. However, issues were identified, such as criteria for whether items should continuously monitor the status of operations. This is be deliberated by subsidiaries or be deliberated and subject to the basis of an internal control system under which resolution of the Board of Directors, appropriate allocation of management personnel can be reliably evaluated. deliberation time, and early provision of reference materials. This Our basic approach to the internal control system and its confirms the need to further review matters relating to this item. current status are described in the Corporate Governance On the basis of this evaluation, we believe that the Company’s Report that we submit to the TSE (available only in Board of Directors is functioning appropriately from the perspective Japanese). of effectiveness. Nonetheless, we will strive to make further improvements on issues that have been identified through evaluation and review. In addition, we will work to strengthen corporate 10. Accounting Audit governance by discussing best practices in our role as a holding The Company has signed an auditing agreement with company, and in cooperating with and monitoring subsidiaries. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC as the accounting auditor to audit its accounts from a fair and impartial standpoint. The certified public accountants that audited the Company’s 7. Independence Criteria for Independent Officers accounts were Yukitaka Maruchi, Koichi Niki, and Hirofumi When selecting outside directors and outside Audit & Otani. They were assisted by eight other certified public Supervisory Board members, the Company looks for accountants and six other individuals. All of the certified individuals with a wealth of knowledge and extensive public accountants that audited the Company’s accounts experience in various fields. The Company requires have done so for less than seven consecutive years, that candidates have the ability to adequately exercise therefore that description is omitted. management oversight functions through fair and objective monitoring, supervision, and auditing of management 11. Succession Plan from a neutral and objective viewpoint. The Independence The Company continues to develop and implement executive Standards for Outside Directors are defined in our human resource development programs to identify talented Corporate Governance Guidelines, and form the basis for personnel early and systematically nurture next-generation judgements on the independence of outside directors. In management candidates equipped with the qualities and skills addition, we require that they have not previously been called on by the corporate philosophy. The status of these engaged in the execution of operations at any of our group programs is regularly reported to the Board of Directors. 56 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Skill Matrix for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members In order to establish an effective corporate governance structure that supports sustainable growth, the Company appoints individuals with wide-ranging business experience, advanced expertise in broad fields, and extensive knowledge, as directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. The table below summarizes areas of experience and expertise of directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members. Strategic Legal, Healthcare Major Global Technology, R&D, Finance, Company planning, compliance, risk administration, qualifications, business production accounting analysis marketing, sales management public health etc. Ichiro Otsuka ● ● ● Tatsuo Higuchi ● ● ● ● Yoshiro Matsuo ● Yuko Makino ● Shuichi Takagi ● ● ● Sadanobu Tobe ● Directors Masayuki Kobayashi ● ● ● Noriko Tojo ● ● ● Makoto Inoue ● ● ● Yukio Matsutani ● MD Ko Sekiguchi ● ● Yoshihisa Aoki ● Mayo Mita ● Yozo Toba ● ● Audit & Supervisory Hiroshi Sugawara ● CPA Board Yoko Wachi ● Attorney members Kazuo Takahashi ● ● Rationale for Selection of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Attendance rate Audit & Rationale for selection1 Board of Supervisory Directors Board meeting meeting Outside Yukio Matsutani Mr. Matsutani has provided appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management 100% directors from an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint based on his abundant experience and extensive knowledge in the healthcare and (16/16 — welfare fields and high level of expertise in overall healthcare. times) Ko Sekiguchi Mr. Sekiguchi has provided appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management 100% from an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint based on his abundant experience and extensive knowledge as a corporate manager (16/16 — and high level of expertise in Pharmaceutical Business. times) Yoshihisa Aoki Mr. Aoki has provided appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from 100% an independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint based on his abundant experience, track record, and extensive knowledge as a corporate (13/13 — manager and abundant experience, expertise and network in the food industry. times) Mayo Mita Ms. Mita, as a securities analyst, has abundant experience in corporate analysis and based on that, a high level of insight in objectively observing and analyzing companies. She is expected to provide appropriate suggestions and advice to the Company’s management from an —2 — independent standpoint as an outside director, and from an objective and expert viewpoint. Outside Audit Hiroshi Mr. Sugawara has specialized knowledge as a certified public accountant, as well as abundant 100% 100% & Supervisory Sugawara business experience, and the Company has determined that he will be able to use such (16/16 (17/17 Board experience and expertise in audits of the Company. times) times) members Yoko Wachi As an attorney, Ms. Wachi is well-versed in corporate legal affairs, and the Company has 100% 100% determined that she will be able to use such experience and expertise in audits of the Company. (16/16 (17/17 times) times) Kazuo Takahashi Mr. Takahashi has held major positions in IT and internal control departments for many years 100% 100% and has abundant experience in corporate management, and the Company has determined that (16/16 (17/17 he will be able to use such experience and expertise in audits of the Company. times) times) 1. For all outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, given no risk of conflict of interest with general shareholders, the Company believes each outside officer qualifies as an independent director/auditor. 2. Attendance for Board of Directors meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings by Mayo Mita is not listed because she was newly appointed as an outside director at the 12th General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 27, 2020. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 57 Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members The Company’s remuneration plan for directors and Audit In addition, following extensive study by the Board of & Supervisory Board members is designed to achieve Directors and the Corporate Governance Committee, the sustainable growth and enhanced corporate value over the decision was made to design and implement a restricted medium to long term for the group while also ensuring stock-based compensation system starting fiscal 2019. that functions such as business execution and management supervision are exercised appropriately, maintaining 4. Composition of Remuneration transparency and fairness. The Company’s basic approach a) Remuneration for directors of Otsuka Holdings to remuneration for directors and Audit & Supervisory Board (holding company of the Otsuka group) members is as follows. Remuneration for directors (excluding outside directors) of the Company consists of fixed remuneration according 1. Remuneration Levels to title or position, bonuses linked to results of operations Considering the need to acquire and motivate outstanding (short-term incentive), as well as stock-based compensation personnel who will take responsibility for the Company’s (medium-to-long-term incentive). Remuneration for outside global business activities, the Company sets remuneration directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members consists levels fully commensurate with the roles and responsibilities only of fixed remuneration. expected of such personnel. b) Composition of remuneration for directors 2. Remuneration System (excluding outside directors) With regard to remuneration for directors responsible Performance-linked remuneration as a percentage of for business execution, the Company has formulated a total remuneration varies according to the Company’s remuneration system that is closely linked to performance single-year and medium-to-long-term consolidated results in individual fiscal years, as well as over the medium to of operations. The system emphasizes medium-to-longlong term, while emphasizing sustainable enhancement term enhancement of corporate value. Performanceof corporate value. In addition to cash remuneration, the linked bonuses are designed to be variable over the Company also provides share-based payments more closely range of 0–100% of fixed remuneration, and stocklinked to shareholder value. Outside directors and Audit & based compensation over the range of 0–100% of fixed Supervisory Board Members are paid fixed remuneration; remuneration. Maximum performance-linked remuneration they are not paid any remuneration that varies according to as a percentage of total remuneration is 66% (200% of performance. 300% total). 3. Governance of Remuneration-related Decisions c) Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries (Activities of the Remuneration Committee and (operating companies of the Otsuka group) the Board of Directors) Remuneration for directors of subsidiaries that are Decisions related to remuneration for directors and Audit operating companies is determined based on their duties & Supervisory Board members are made by the Board of and responsibilities (including execution of business of Directors based on a report from the Corporate Governance operating companies based on group strategies formulated Committee, an advisory body to the Board of Directors. by the Company, formulation of strategies for operating The committee deliberates on matters including the companies, and strengthening corporate governance) and remuneration system and levels of remuneration. When is not to exceed the cap on director remuneration resolved deciding on remuneration, efforts are made to enhance at the General Meeting of Shareholders. objectivity through such means as utilizing external data. It should be noted that the restricted stock-based In determining remuneration for directors and Audit & compensation system newly implemented in fiscal 2019 Supervisory Board members in the current term, the Board will also apply to about 40 directors (excluding outside of Directors and the Corporate Governance Committee directors) of some of the group’s major subsidiaries. deliberate a number of times. The Board of Directors makes final decisions after receiving the Corporate Governance Committee’s report that those decisions are appropriate. 58 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Content of Remuneration to Directors Fixed • Fixed remuneration for directors of the holding company is determined based on their duties and responsibilities including remuneration formulation of group strategies, monitoring group operations, and strengthening corporate governance. • Remuneration for Directors who serve concurrently as Directors of subsidiaries that are operating companies is determined based on their duties and responsibilities including execution of business based on group strategies formulated by Otsuka Holdings, formulation of strategies for the operating company, and strengthening corporate governance. (Remuneration shall not to exceed the upper limit of remuneration resolved at the shareholders meeting.) Performance• Remuneration is determined based on (1) rate of achievement of the fiscal year’s targets for consolidated revenue, consolidated linked bonus operating profit, and consolidated business profit before R&D expenses; (2) progress with respect to medium-to-long-term consolidated performance targets; and (3) appropriate business management in compliance with corporate governance, along with the individual’s personal performance. • The Corporate Governance Committee deliberates upon the above items and reports the results of its deliberations to the directors. Decisions are then made by the Board of Directors. Share-based At a meeting of the Board of Directors held on February 13, 2019, the Company resolved to introduce a restricted stock remuneration payment plan as an incentive plan to sustainably improve the medium-to-long-term performance and corporate value of the Company. • The plan is designed to provide an effective remuneration system by combining multiple release conditions for the transfer restrictions, including a set performance evaluation period and performance achievement, and by in principle granting shares with transfer restrictions requiring evaluation of performance over several fiscal years simultaneously in the first fiscal year. • The shares with transfer restrictions issued under this plan are intended to comprise a remuneration system that reflects progress in achieving the medium-term management plan. To this end, the remuneration plan combines multiple performance achievement requirements based on performance indicators in the Third Medium-Term Management Plan announced on May 30, 2019. Total Remuneration by Officer Category and by Type, and Number of Applicable Officers Total remuneration, etc. by type (¥ million) Total remuneration, etc. Fixed Stock Eligible officers (¥ million) Bonus remuneration compensation Directors (excluding outside directors) 544 296 104 144 9 Audit & Supervisory Board members (excluding outside Audit & 24 24 — — 1 Supervisory Board members) Outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members 54 54 — — 7 Regarding Directors’ Conflict of Interest All operational judgements and decisions are not to be made in relation to the interests of individuals, but in the best interests of the Otsuka group. The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy to prevent such conflicts of interest. It also applies to directors. Page 64, Compliance Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 59 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of March 27, 2020) Directors Ichiro Tatsuo Yoshiro Otsuka Higuchi Matsuo Chairman and President and Senior Managing Representative Representative Director Director Director, CEO Profile Profile Profile Apr. 1987 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 1977 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1985 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 1997 Executive Director, Director of Consumer Products Development Jun. 1998 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jan. 2003 Vice President, Associate General Manager of the General Affairs Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Pharmavite) Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 1998 Managing Director, responsible for Consumer Products, Publicity, Nov. 1998 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Jun. 2006 Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Promotion and Development Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Jun. 1999 Executive Director, responsible for U.S. Business, Otsuka Nov. 2007 Senior Vice President, General Manager of the General Affairs Dec. 2001 Executive Director, Research and Development, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Department with additional responsibility for Legal Affairs and Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. External Relations, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jun. 2000 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical May 2002 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Co., Ltd. Jul. 2008 Managing Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Dec. 2003 Executive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Jun. 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Mar. 2016 Senior Managing Director, Corporate Administration, Otsuka Jul. 2008 President and Representative Director, CEO, Otsuka Holdings Holdings Co., Ltd. Dec. 2004 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current) Factory, Inc. Jan. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. (current) Dec. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Jul. 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2019 Senior Managing Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Feb. 2015 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Jun. 2010 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Co., Ltd. Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2020 Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Jun. 2014 Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Co., Ltd. (current) Vice Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2015 Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current) Chairman, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. (current) Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Yuko Shuichi Takagi Sadanobu Makino Tobe Executive Director, Executive Director, Business Portfolio Executive Director CFO Management Profile Profile Profile Apr. 1982 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1989 Joined Tobishima Corporation Apr. 1976 Senior Managing Director and Representative Director, Shinko Foods Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd.) Apr. 1996 Joined Baxter Limited Sep. 1995 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jul. 1993 Executive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Apr. 2000 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Aug. 2002 Finance Department of OIAA Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Foods Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Mar. 2015 Director of the Corporate Finance & Accounting Department, Nov. 2004 Executive Deputy President and Representative Director, Otsuka Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Jul. 2003 Corporate Finance & Accounting Department, Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.) Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Sep. 2016 Vice President, Director of the Corporate Finance & Accounting May 2006 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Chemical Holdings Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2015 Vice President responsible for India Business, Otsuka Co., Ltd. Vice President, Director of Accounting Department, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Inc. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jul. 2008 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. May 2015 CEO, Claris Otsuka Private Limited (now Otsuka Pharmaceutical Apr. 2017 Vice President, Director of the Tax Department, Otsuka Holdings India Private Limited) Jun. 2009 Vice Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Jan. 2019 Senior Vice President, President’s Office, Otsuka Holdings Vice President, Director of the Finance & Accounting Department, Co., Ltd. Jun. 2011 Chairman and Representative Director, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2019 Executive Director, Finance and Business Portfolio Management, Jun. 2012 Vice Chairman, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Executive Director, Corporate Finance, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current) Jun. 2013 Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Mar. 2019 Executive Director, CFO, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Executive Director, Business Portfolio Management, Otsuka Co., Ltd. Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Nov. 2013 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Jun. 2014 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2018 Chairman, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Mar. 2019 Executive Director, Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. (current) Masayuki Noriko Makoto Kobayashi Tojo Inoue Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Profile Profile Profile Oct. 1993 Joined Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 1987 Joined Goldman Sachs (Japan) Corporation Apr. 1983 Joined Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Aug. 2002 President, Taiho Pharma USA, Inc. (now Taiho Oncology, Inc.) Aug. 1991 Joined Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Jun. 2008 Vice President, General Manager of Diagnostic Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Sep. 2003 Executive Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Jul. 2002 Engagement Manager, McKinsey & Company, Japan Office Jun. 2009 Senior Vice President, Deputy General Manager of Pharmaceutical Apr. 2010 President and CEO, Otsuka America, Inc. Jun. 2006 Director, Intel Capital Japan, Intel Corporation Business Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Apr. 2012 President and Representative Director, Taiho Pharmaceutical Aug. 2008 Managing Director, Corporate Development, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. (current) Co., Ltd. Mar. 2015 Executive Director, Executive Vice President, General Manager of Executive Director, Taiho Pharma USA, Inc. Feb. 2011 Executive Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Co., Ltd. Nutraceuticals Business Division, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Apr. 2014 Chairman, Taiho Oncology, Inc. (current) Apr. 2012 President and CEO, Otsuka America, Inc. Apr. 2015 Executive Director, Pharmavite LLC Mar. 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Aug. 2015 Executive Director and CEO, Pharmavite LLC Mar. 2017 Managing Director, Nutraceuticals Business, Otsuka Jan. 2017 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Medical Devices Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. (current) Sep. 2017 Executive Director, Daiya Foods Inc. May 2017 Executive Director, Otsuka America, Inc. Mar. 2018 Senior Managing Director, Nutraceuticals Business, Otsuka Aug. 2017 Chairman, Pharmavite LLC Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Oct. 2018 Chairman, Nardobel SAS Mar. 2019 Executive Deputy President and Executive Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2020 President and Representative Director, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (current) Executive Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) 60 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Outside Directors Yukio Ko Yoshihisa Matsutani Sekiguchi Aoki Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Profile Profile Profile Apr. 1975 Intern, Pediatric Department, St. Luke’s International Hospital Apr. 1973 Joined Mitsubishi Corporation Apr. 1974 Joined Itochu Corporation Oct. 1981 Joined Ministry of Health and Welfare (now Ministry of Health, May 1990 Joined The Boston Consulting Group Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, Itochu Corporation Labour and Welfare) Jan. 1996 General Manager of Sterrad Business Division, Johnson & Johnson Apr. 2009 Managing Executive Officer, President, Food Company, Itochu Aug. 2005 Director-General, Health Policy Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour Medical K. K. (now Johnson & Johnson K. K. Medical Company) Corporation and Welfare Nov. 1998 President and Representative Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 Member of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Aug. 2007 Director, National Sanatorium Tama Zenshoen (now Janssen Pharmaceutical K.K.) President, Food Company, Itochu Corporation Apr. 2012 President, National Institute of Public Health Jul. 2009 Chairman and Director, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Mar. 2017 Administrative Officer, Itochu Corporation (current) Dec. 2015 Vice President, International University of Health and Welfare Oct. 2009 Supreme Advisor, Janssen Kyowa Co., Ltd. Jun. 2017 Outside Director, Arata Corporation (current) (current) Jan. 2011 Representative Director, DIA Japan (now SH DIA Japan) Mar. 2019 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2016 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Apr. 2012 Outside Director, N.I.C. Corporation (now Solasto Corporation) Jun. 2019 President, Japan Public Health Association (current) (current) Mar. 2014 Outside Director, Kenedix, Inc. Mar. 2018 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Outside Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members Yozo Hiroshi Mayo Toba Sugawara Mita Standing Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Director Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Member Member Profile Profile Profile Apr. 1983 Joined Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. (now Mitsubishi Apr. 1979 Joined Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Chemical Oct. 1997 Joined Chuo Audit Corporation UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.) Co., Ltd.) Oct. 2000 Joined Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (now Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Jan. 1989 Equity Research Division (Healthcare), Morgan Stanley Japan Jan. 1995 Director, Information Center, Otsuka Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. LLC) Securities Co., Ltd. Jan. 2006 CFO, Trocellen GmbH Feb. 2006 Vice President, Will Capital Management Co., Ltd. (current) Dec. 2000 Managing Director, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. May 2009 Operating Officer, Information System Department, Otsuka Jun. 2010 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Dec. 2013 Senior Advisor, Investment Banking Business Unit (Healthcare), Chemical Holdings Co., Ltd. (now Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd.) Co., Ltd. (current) Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. Jun. 2009 Corporate Officer, Director of IT, Corporate Finance & Accounting Jun. 2012 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Mar. 2020 Outside Director, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Dec. 2011 Executive Director, Corporate Administration, Accounting and IT, Oct. 2013 Outside Director, Nippon Parking Development Co., Ltd. Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. Mar. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Mar. 2015 Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance & Accounting and Co., Ltd. (current) Corporate Service Department, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Mar. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Chemical Co., Ltd. (current) Yoko Kazuo Wachi Takahashi Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Member Member Profile Profile Apr. 1989 Registered as an attorney at law (Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association) Apr. 1975 Joined Ebara-Udylite Co., Ltd. (now JCU Corporation) Joined Kajitani Law Offices (current) Mar. 1986 Executive Director, Strategic Planning, RA Institute Co., Ltd. Jun. 2015 Corporate Auditor, Nichias Corporation Nov. 1992 Executive Director, General Manager of the System Division, Mar. 2016 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Sunkus & Associates, Inc. Co., Ltd. (current) Oct. 2004 Executive Director, Head of the Information System Division, Circle Jun. 2019 Outside Director, Nichias Corporation (current) K Sunkus Co., Ltd. May 2006 Executive Director, Chief of the Management Strategy Office, the Customer & Franchisee Relations Office, and the Internal Control & Environmental Management Office, Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd. May 2008 Executive Director, Head of Area Franchise, Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd. May 2010 Executive Director, Head of Information Systems Division, Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd. Mar. 2018 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. (current) Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 61 Messages from Outside Directors Enhancement and Expansion of Businesses Critical to Life through Stronger Governance Each year, members of the Board of Directors are asked to evaluate the Board’s effectiveness and give a detailed account of the roles of the Board and each of its members. It is a robust assessment. As a medical doctor, I am expected to contribute opinions based on my broad expertise from many years of involvement in clinical medicine, public health, and healthcare administration, and I have strived to live up to those expectations. Healthcare is an essential aspect of social infrastructure and everybody needs healthcare. Given that healthcare is critical to life, the level of quality must be paramount, while other requirements and demands are also significant. Healthcare costs rise year after year. It is therefore essential to make the most effective use of finite resources. In Otsuka’s Pharmaceutical Business, this entails the efficient creation of drugs, medical devices, and diagnostic agents that in turn supports their efficient provision to patients. In the Nutraceutical Business, it means creating products that help people to maintain or improve their well-being. Going forward, Otsuka Holdings must continue to offer value to society in both of these areas. Yukio Matsutani Outside Director Meeting the Expectations of Stakeholders Worldwide Based on Sincerity The provision of information prior to Board meetings has been enhanced, including its timing. Important information is shared at individual briefings, and explanations are provided regarding the status of group companies and other operational data. I feel that one of the strengths of Otsuka’s corporate culture is its embodiment of integrity and humility. This goes a long way to earning the trust of customers and business partners. Otsuka is committed to providing consumers and patients with the solid value that generates revenues and profits. Results in the Pharmaceutical Business have been excellent, but from a mediumto-long-term perspective, a look at the drug pipeline indicates there is no room for complacency. It is also vital that Otsuka becomes a truly global company, and evolves to the next stage rather than simply operating as a collection of companies. Only by adopting this approach can Otsuka develop a clear roadmap for the future. Ko Sekiguchi Outside Director 62 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 High Expectations for Otsuka’s Contributions to a 100-Year Lifespan through Preventive Medicine The chairman has ensured that Board meetings are a forum where members can discuss matters freely, which fosters meaningful discussions. Furthermore, I believe that the appointment of a new president at Otsuka Pharmaceutical has strengthened the governance framework. In China, it has been a long-held belief that herbal medicines and a proper diet share similar principles, and today it is widely accepted everywhere that a balanced diet is the basis of good health. The Otsuka group’s strong footing in food and nutrition may be attributable to its belief in this philosophy. Otsuka is doing good work with respect to safety and security, and consumers appreciate that. We are approaching an age when it will be common for people to live to 100, and preventive medicine will play a vital role in that. Not many companies are able to offer solutions in both treatment and prevention solutions. Indeed, many businesses give up if they are unable to make a quick profit, but the Otsuka group is ready for the long haul; even if a product does not sell well initially, Otsuka has the patience and determination to go the distance. I hope that Otsuka will continue in this vein, because it will benefit society. Yoshihisa Aoki Outside Director Sharing Otsuka’s Unique Corporate Story Will Build Broad Stakeholder Loyalty My first impression of the Otsuka group was its uniqueness. Operating for many years in pharmaceuticals and healthcare, as well as food and nutrition, I expect it to sustain its operations long into the future. Indeed, with its centenary approaching in 2021, I look forward to seeing how Otsuka advances into its second century. I see my role as a bridge between company management, and analysts, shareholders, and investors. As an outside director, I hope to support Otsuka’s development by pointing out opportunities to management and diligently raising concerns as necessary. When an enterprise comprises such a broad range of businesses as Otsuka, I believe it is important to identify the common threads that unite them all. The key is how to effectively convey that story not only to shareholders and the investment market, but also to customers, consumers, and employees. If Otsuka is able to convey the story of its passion, it is sure to acquire many more long-term fans. Mayo Mita Outside Director Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 63 Compliance Legal compliance is the cornerstone of all our business activities. The Otsuka group maintains high ethical standards and conducts its business activities with integrity in order to secure the trust of all stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth. Universal compliance training participation rate: 98.4% Approach 1. Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy We have established the Otsuka Group Global Code of The Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy embodies Business Ethics and we openly convey information about and reiterates our steadfast commitment to conducting our stance on related initiatives on our website in the business with integrity and in compliance with all relevant form of a message from the president of Otsuka Holdings. anti-corruption laws. This Policy outlines how to prevent, Furthermore, we have formulated the Otsuka Group Global detect and deter violations of anti-corruption laws. It Anti-Corruption Policy, which expresses our stance against sets forth our global minimum standards regarding the corruption at all sites worldwide; the Otsuka Group Global prevention of corruption and applies to all our worldwide Conflict of Interest Policy, aimed at maintaining objectivity business operations. in business; and the Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy, which defines our stance and guiding principles on privacy protection. These policies form the basis for conducting our business with high ethical standards. Guiding Principles: Synopsis Adhering to Anti-Corruption We respect and uphold the letter and the spirit of all applicable anti-corruption laws, domestic and Laws and Policies foreign. We never give or accept, directly or indirectly, “anything of value” (e.g., bribes, kickbacks, gifts or Prohibiting Bribery entertainment) to improperly influence any person to obtain or retain a financial, business or other advantage. Working with Third-Party We require third-party suppliers to ensure compliance with this policy as well as relevant anti-corruption Suppliers laws and regulations. We perform due diligence to obtain an informed assessment of the nature and extent of potential Conducting Due Diligence corruption risks associated with the retention of all third-party suppliers working on Otsuka’s behalf. Refusing to Make Facilitating We will not make facilitating payments of any kind. Payments We provide annual training regarding this Policy and anti-corruption laws, incorporating them into Providing Training Otsuka’s global compliance program. We keep complete books and records in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly documenting and Recording reflecting all transactions including expenses, disbursements, receipts and the disposition of assets. Monitoring We maintain internal controls focused on detecting and deterring improper business practices. We promptly report instances or activities that may violate or appear to violate this policy to our internal Reporting Concerns Legal/Compliance Department. We will not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone for making a good faith report of a potential violation. 64 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 2. Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest Policy In addition, an Internal Audit Department under the The Otsuka group recognizes conflicts of interest between direct authority of the president has been established. It the group and individual employees as a matter that could conducts regular audits based on the Internal Audit Rules impact the integrity of the organization, and one that has a to verify that operations are being executed appropriately great bearing on the group’s future. Based on this thinking, and efficiently with regard to the assets and business in we formulated the Otsuka Group Global Conflict of Interest general of Otsuka Holdings and its affiliated companies. Policy to prevent such conflicts and we are working to instill The department submits its audit reports to the president, the policy at a global level. directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board members. In cases where it finds the need for improvements, the department 3. Otsuka Group Global Privacy Policy issues improvement advisories. It then follows up to check In recent years, many countries have enacted privacy the implementation status of measures and ascertain that protection legislation, such as the European Union’s General the execution of duties has been suitably improved. In Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) implemented in May 2018. addition, the department shares information with Audit & The Otsuka group is working to strengthen privacy protection. Supervisory Board members and the accounting auditor and In addition to formulating the Otsuka Group Global Privacy coordinates a unified stance. Policy to define our stance and guiding principles on privacy protection, we establish related rules and review management 6. Whistleblowing Hotline systems in accordance with the laws and regulations related a) Internal Whistleblowing Hotline to privacy protection in each country. At Otsuka Holdings and domestic and overseas group companies, we have established an internal whistleblowing 4. Training System hotline within the group and at the offices of an attorney The Otsuka group conducts universal compliance training that can be accessed safely and anonymously. Through at least once annually based on the content of the Global this hotline, we work to ensure that any improper acts, Code of Business Ethics, the Global Anti-Corruption Policy, including acts of bribery, as well as violations of policies, and the Global Conflict of Interest Policy. Employees at laws and regulations, can be quickly uncovered and subsidiaries attend training, and materials are available in corrected. Rules for accepting reports extend beyond fullJapanese, English, Chinese, and Indonesian. Furthermore, time employees to include contract, dispatched, and partthe implementation status of training is regularly reported time employees. Information about whistleblowers and to the Board of Directors of Otsuka Holdings. their reports is strictly managed in order to prevent any negative repercussions. Information on the operational 5. Monitoring status of the internal whistleblowing hotline at major group As a holding company whose role is to maximize the Otsuka companies is regularly reported at meetings of the Board of group’s corporate value, Otsuka Holdings has established a Directors of Otsuka Holdings. system to ensure appropriate business operations from the perspective of the group as a whole. We have established b) External Inquiries and External a system for facilitating cooperation in the Otsuka group. Whistleblowing Hotline Under this system, affiliated companies report to Otsuka Otsuka Holdings and its major group companies have Holdings as necessary regarding items specified in the established a whistleblowing hotline that accepts inquiries and Affiliated Company Management Regulations, and obtain opinions from external stakeholders and general customers. approval on relevant important items. Furthermore, certain channels of the hotline also accept Examples of overseas initiatives include the appointment anonymous consultations and reports. of compliance officers at each group company in Asia and the holding of regular meetings for sharing the status 7. Due Diligence of progress in each country. The director in charge of Each group company has established a due diligence policy compliance also visits companies to gather information and and conducts due diligence for new business partners as offer suggestions on how improvements may be made. needed to evaluate corruption-related risk. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 65 (Excerpt from the Otsuka Group Global Anti-Corruption Policy) Working with Third-Party Suppliers Anti-Corruption Due Diligence Conducting our business according to rigorous legal, ethical and Due diligence includes investigations into the third-party supplier’s professional standards, we require the same standards from all thirdbackground, reputation, financial records, codes of conduct and party suppliers who perform services on Otsuka’s behalf. Otsuka can be training, and business conduct as well as written agreements and held liable for the actions of the third parties who act as intermediaries monitoring controls. The following circumstances typically necessitate for and on behalf of Otsuka in the conduct of business dealings. anti-corruption due diligence: (a) Engaging the services of a thirdProhibitions that apply to our employees apply equally to all individuals party supplier; (b) Entering into a joint venture with another entity; and and entities acting on our behalf. Accordingly, our commitment to anti(c) Merging with or acquiring another entity. We perform due diligence corruption activities includes use of special care in our business dealings before and after proceeding with the proposed business transaction, through third-party suppliers or intermediaries. continuously evaluating the third-party suppliers’ adherence to relevant anti-corruption laws. At the outset of our relationship with third-party suppliers, we should clearly articulate and effectively communicate our policy against We conduct risk-tailored and risk-based due diligence. The due diligence corruption as well as our commitment to transparent and responsible process must be a fact-based inquiry closely tailored to the specific business conduct. We expect third-party suppliers to share and uphold business operations of the third-party suppliers. We define the proper this dedication. level of due diligence for each third-party supplier, depending on key risk factors (e.g., the industry, geographic location, reputation, beneficial We will reevaluate our business relationship with third-party suppliers ownership, professional capability, experience, financial standing and who fail to ensure compliance with the relevant laws and regulations credibility of the third-party supplier and the history of that thirdand this policy. Upon any indication of misconduct, we all have a duty to party supplier’s compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and report the misconduct to our internal Legal/Compliance Department. regulations, the scope of the services performed). Not intended to be a one-time event, due diligence should be considered an ongoing process. We must periodically re-examine our relationship with third-party suppliers. The frequency of the re-examination may depend on the level or risk presented by the party as well as the context in which they are engaged. Tax Compliance The Otsuka group complies with the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Ethics, the group’s tax policy, country-specific laws, regulations and tax treaties, as well as international taxation rules, and does not engage in transactions designed to evade the payment of taxes, but carries out the appropriate filing and payment of taxes in each country. We endeavor to appropriately disclose information and ensure a degree of transparency and trust when dealing with tax authorities in each country. The complexity of tax oversight increases as our businesses become more global. By continuously updating information and engaging in prior consultations with tax experts where necessary, we are appropriately responding in order to minimize tax risk. 1. Correspondence with Tax Authorities relevant authorities. Also, when necessary, we make use of The Otsuka group engages in constructive relationships advance pricing agreements (APAs) to obtain ahead-of-time with tax authorities in the 31 countries/regions in which it consensus from tax authorities. operates. We will continue to improve the reliability of tax data and establish systems to provide it promptly. 3. Governance We work to maintain and improve tax-related governance, 2. Transfer Pricing Policy recognizing that this contributes to the enhancement of The Otsuka group calculates transfer prices based on the corporate value. To this end, under the active involvement OECD guidelines that were created for the prevention of of the CFO, we are strengthening cooperation between double taxation and fair application of the transfer price tax departments and operating companies as well as securing system, as well as each country’s transfer price tax system, and training capable human resources, thereby maintaining and makes efforts to ensure proper transactions between an appropriate system that enhances tax compliance related parties. In recent years, the OECD has issued an and reduces tax risks. Furthermore, we have established action plan on base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS), in reporting obligations to the Board of Directors and the which multinational corporations engage in international Audit and Supervisory Committee regarding the abovetransactions that lead to double non-taxation. We will mentioned policies and processes, as well as their ongoing properly execute our obligations to make submissions to implementation and maintenance. 66 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Risk Management The Otsuka group carries out risk management under the supervision of top management based on the recognition that pursuing management efficiency and controlling the risks inherent in business activities is important to enhancing corporate value. Risk Management System is fully equipped and prepared from a BCM standpoint. In establishing a risk management system for the Otsuka Through collaboration mainly between Otsuka group, we have put in place the Risk Management Policy Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho and set up a Risk Management Committee. The committee Pharmaceutical, and Otsuka Warehouse, the Otsuka group comprises the President and Representative Director as the is making every effort to strengthen its countermeasures chair, the director in charge of administration as the vice and systems so that the group as a whole can effectively chair, as well as the information disclosure officer and the continue its business activities and thereby ensure stable internal control officer. Leveraging the controls operated by product supply even during times of disaster. In 2018, major each risk management department, the Risk Management group companies jointly conducted a desktop simulation Committee assesses and comprehensively manages risks drill for the scenario of an earthquake with an epicenter that could jeopardize the sustainable enhancement of directly below Tokyo. Then in 2019, they jointly conducted group value. another desktop simulation drill, this time for the scenario of a typhoon passing directly over western Japan. These Responsibilities of the drills provided opportunities for testing cooperation systems Risk Management Committee under close-to-realistic conditions, with a focus on ensuring The Risk Management Committee examines group stable product supply. risk management policies, coordinates between all companies and departments and issues instructions 2. Risk Management Training when a risk manifests, reports risk information to the Risk management training is held annually for directors, Board of Directors, issues instructions to all companies, Audit & Supervisory Board members, executive officers, and promotes compliance. and department heads of major group companies. Training includes simulation drills and lectures by outside experts, Approach and involves discussions and reviews on the subject of The Otsuka group individually assesses risks in each of domestic and overseas risk, referencing serious incidents its businesses. Risk management officers are responsible and other matters. Topics include initial response and for analyzing and evaluating risk, and formulating and coordination of information among the group when a executing action plans so that each organization can meet crisis occurs, measures to ensure business continuity, and its objectives and targets. We also periodically implement corporate social responsibility. employee training with reference to events that could pose a risk within the organization. Training related to topics 3. Information Security such as corruption prevention and the protection of human The Otsuka group has established the Otsuka Group Global rights based on the Otsuka Group Global Code of Business Security Policy as its basic policy on information security. Ethics is another part of this approach. Furthermore, we We endeavor to ensure shared awareness of the policy regularly hold drills to prepare for unexpected events such at all group companies, including overseas subsidiaries. as disasters. In striving to raise the level of, and constantly improve, comprehensive security across the group, we set up the 1. Business Continuity Planning and Management Otsuka Group Information Security Committee to examine The Otsuka group has business continuity plans (BCPs) specific measures and to share up-to-date information in place to ensure that the group continues to operate with regard to information security based on the policy. In as effectively as possible in order to maintain the stable order to counter the risk of cyberattacks, the Otsuka group supply of products, even when large-scale earthquakes and employs a number of measures, such as arranging system disasters strike. security audits by external specialists, diagnosing website From the perspective of business continuity management vulnerabilities, conducting drills related to targeted email (BCM), Otsuka Holdings and its group companies are attacks, and monitoring posts on social media. The group cooperating to construct a group-wide business continuity also conducts regular emergency drills with a focus on the framework. In August 2012, we acquired ISO 22301 core systems that construct data. In addition, we have built certification for the production and stable supply of capabilities for responding to cybersecurity emergency pharmaceutical products, beverages, and foods, and we situations, including the establishment of the Computer have since gradually expanded the scope of certification. Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), which preempts We acquired additional certification for the stable supply the occurrence of damage from cyberattacks targeting of intravenous solutions in April 2015, and for the stable personal information and trade secrets held by respective supply of anticancer agents in May 2016. The acquisition of group companies. ISO 22301 certification demonstrates that our organization Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 67 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Revenue, Overseas Revenue Ratio Business Profit, Business Profit Margin (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 2,000 60 250 15 13.4 13.5 50.6 51.6 200 195.0 1,500 187.2 1,396.2 1,445.0 40 10 150 1,000 100 20 5 500 50 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Plan) (Plan) Revenue (left) Overseas revenue ratio (right) Business profit (left) Business profit margin (right) Profit Attributable to Owners of the Company, Return on Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company (ROE) R&D Expenses (in Pharmaceutical Business), R&D Ratio (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 200 9 250 30 8.0 7.3 205.1 207.0 200 150 145.0 6 20 127.2 22.2 22.0 150 100 100 3 10 50 50 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Plan) (Plan) Profit attributable to owners of the Company (left) R&D expenses (in Pharmaceutical Business) (left) Return on equity attributable to owners of the Company (ROE) (right) R&D ratio (right) Note: Excluding impairment losses Total Assets, Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Company to Total Assets Annual Dividend per Share, Dividend Payout Ratio (¥ billion) (%) (¥) (%) 3,500 80 100 100 100 80 68.8 68.4 3,000 2,500 2,477.4 2,581.3 60 75 60 2,000 40 50 40 1,500 42.6 37.4 1,000 20 25 20 500 0 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (Plan) Total assets (left) Annual dividend per share (left) Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the Company to total assets (right) Dividend payout ratio (right) 68 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for major CSR data: https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/hd_activity/ download/MajorCSRData_en.pdf Number of Employees Number of Female Managers, Female Manager Ratio (%) 35,000 400 15 32,992 374 30,000 300 25,000 10 59.5% 20,000 10.3 200 15,000 5 10,000 100 5,000 40.5% 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2016 2017 2018 2019 Outside Japan Japan Number of female managers (left) Female manager ratio (right) Scope: 167 companies including Otsuka Holdings and its subsidiaries Scope: (Fiscal 2016–2018) Six major companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods (Fiscal 2019–) Nine companies: six companies listed above, plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite Number of Employees Taking Parental Leave Total CO2 Emissions (Thousand tons-CO2) (Tons/¥ million) 600 900 1.00 Japan 34.4% 821 513 Indonesia 21.2% India 18.5% 400 600 0.59 South Korea 7.5% 303 North America 7.6% 0.50 China 5.9% 200 300 Europe 2.1% Others 2.9% 210 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Female Male Total CO2 emissions (left) CO2 emissions per sales (right) Scope: (Fiscal 2016–2018) Six major companies: Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Pharmaceutical Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Factory, Taiho Pharmaceutical, Otsuka Warehouse, Otsuka Chemical, and Otsuka Foods (Fiscal 2019–) Nine companies: six companies listed above, plus Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development & Commercialization, Otsuka America Pharmaceutical, and Pharmavite Water Usage, Water Use Efficiency Total Waste Volume (Thousand m3) (m3/¥ million) 7.2% 25,000 30 7,000 tons 5.2% 20,000 5,000 tons Material recycling 18,756 Composting, conversion to 11.3% 20 feed, reuse, etc. 11,000 tons 15,000 43.3% Power generation, heat use, 6,482 12.4% 42,000 tons fuel conversion 12,000 tons Landfills 10,000 20.6% Simple incineration 13.4 10 20,000 tons Others 5,000 12,274 Total waste volume 0 0 97,000 tons 2017 2018 2019 Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Outside Japan (left) Japan (left) Water use efficiency (right) Scope: All production sites of the consolidated Otsuka group Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 69 Main Data With effect from fiscal 2016 (ended December 31, 2016), Otsuka adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Information for fiscal 2015 (ended December 31, 2015) is also presented in line with IFRS. J-GAAP Item 1 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2014/125 Results of Revenue (¥ billion) ¥1,154.6 ¥1,218.1 ¥1,452.8 ¥1,224.3 Operations Selling, general and administrative (¥ billion) 457.4 462.2 563.4 508.6 expenses2,3 Business profit before R&D expenses (¥ billion) Ratio of business profit before R&D expenses (%) to revenue R&D expenses3 (¥ billion) 159.2 192.4 249.0 172.9 R&D ratio (%) 13.8 15.8 17.1 14.1 Business profit 4 (¥ billion) Business profit margin (%) Operating profit (¥ billion) 148.7 169.7 198.7 196.5 Operating profit margin (%) 12.9 13.9 13.7 16.1 Profit attributable to owners of the Company (¥ billion) 92.2 122.4 151.0 143.1 Financial Total assets (¥ billion) ¥1,666.8 ¥1,779.2 ¥2,028.4 ¥2,178.2 Position Total equity (¥ billion) 1,222.8 1,325.1 1,510.8 1,658.6 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of (%) 72.5 73.7 73.2 74.7 the Company to total assets ROE (%) 7.8 9.7 10.8 9.2 Cash Flows Net cash flows from operating activities (¥ billion) ¥ 147.6 ¥ 119.3 ¥ 226.5 ¥ 88.5 Net cash flows from (used in) investing (¥ billion) (107.6) (91.2) (108.5) (28.7) activities Free cash flows (¥ billion) 40.0 28.1 117.9 59.9 Dividends Annual dividend per share (¥) ¥ 45 ¥ 58 ¥ 65 ¥ 75 Dividend payout ratio (%) 27.2 26.1 23.4 28.4 Common Number of shares outstanding at year-end (Thousand 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 Stock, shares) Stock Price Stock price at year-end (¥) ¥ 2,450 ¥ 3,300 ¥ 3,087 ¥ 3,617 Number of Total (Persons) 24,595 25,330 28,288 29,482 Employees8 Japan (Persons) 13,808 13,732 14,116 14,285 Outside Japan (Persons) 10,787 11,598 14,172 15,197 1. Line items are based on IFRS. 2. SG&A expenses under J-GAAP are presented as total expenses less R&D expenses. The Company believes that this information is useful to investors in comparing the Company’s financial results under J-GAAP with those under IFRS. 3. Excluding impairment losses. 4. Business profit = Revenue − Cost of sales − Selling, general and administrative expenses + Share of profit of associates − R&D expenses 5. Due to a change in the consolidated fiscal year, fiscal 2014 (ended December 31, 2014) was a transitional period covering the nine months from April 1 to December 31, 2014. 6. As of December 31, 2019, the Company finalized provisional accounting treatments for business combinations. This is reflected in the presentation of figures for the year ended December 31, 2018. 7. Calculated at ¥109.56 = US$1. 8. Number of employees at 167 companies including Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (as of December 31, 2019). 70 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 IFRS IFRS 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 6 2019/12 2019/127 ¥1,427.4 ¥1,195.5 ¥1,240.0 ¥1,292.0 ¥1,396.2 (US$ million) $12,744 617.5 519.5 531.4 552.8 557.6 (US$ million) 5,090 369.8 285.7 305.4 313.8 403.0 (US$ million) 3,678 25.9 23.9 24.6 24.3 28.9 (%) 28.9 199.6 152.6 174.0 192.9 215.8 (US$ million) 1,970 14.0 12.8 14.0 14.9 15.5 (%) 15.5 170.2 133.1 131.4 120.9 187.2 (US$ million) 1,708 11.9 11.1 10.6 9.4 13.4 (%) 13.4 148.9 101.1 104.2 108.3 176.6 (US$ million) 1,612 10.4 8.5 8.4 8.4 12.6 (%) 12.6 102.0 92.6 112.5 82.5 127.2 (US$ million) 1,161 ¥2,575.3 ¥2,478.3 ¥2,480.3 ¥2,477.4 ¥2,581.3 (US$ million) $23,561 1,727.4 1,738.4 1,822.0 1,732.3 1,795.4 (US$ million) 16,388 66.0 69.0 72.3 68.8 68.4 (%) 68.4 6.1 5.4 6.4 4.7 7.3 (%) 7.3 ¥ 257.9 ¥ 142.0 ¥ 102.8 ¥ 135.8 ¥ 192.6 (US$ million) $ 1,758 (422.6) (135.1) (40.1) (93.3) (52.3) (US$ million) (477) (164.7) 6.9 62.8 42.5 140.4 (US$ million) 1,281 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 ¥ 100 (US$) $ 0.91 53.1 58.5 48.2 65.7 42.6 (%) 42.6 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 557,836 (Thousand 557,836 shares) ¥ 4,317 ¥ 5,093 ¥ 4,948 ¥ 4,493 ¥ 4,883 (US$) $ 44.57 31,940 31,787 32,817 32,935 32,992 14,082 13,909 13,880 13,757 13,356 17,858 17,878 18,937 19,178 19,636 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 71 Corporate Information, Global Network Corporate Profile Company Organization (As of December 31, 2019) (As of April 1, 2020) Internal Control Department Company Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. Internal Audit Department Name Nutraceutical Business Global Strategy and Planning Headquarters Established July 8, 2008 Corporate Planning Department Global Business Support Department Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Capital ¥81.69 billion Finance and Accounting Department Project Office Chairman President Tax Department Head Office 2-9 Kanda-Tsukasamachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-0048, Japan Corporate Service Department Business Development Department Investor Relations Department Tokyo Shinagawa Grand Central Tower, 2-16-4 Konan, Headquarters Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8241, Japan Administration Department President Office Public Relations Department Telephone +81-3-6717-1410 Sustainability Promotion Department Human Resources Department Number of 104 (Consolidated: 32,992) Employees Human Resource Planning Department IT Planning Department Legal Affairs Department Business Control, management and related activities with Statutory Auditors/ Description respect to the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates Board of Statutory Statutory Auditor’s Office operating in pharmaceutical, nutraceutical, consumer Auditors product, and other businesses. Global Network (As of December 31, 2019) Europe 39 companies North Japan America Otsuka operates in 50 33 31 Asia, companies Middle East companies countries/regions 68 companies South and Central America 2 Oceania 3 companies companies 72 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Group Structure and Overview of Main Operating Companies Otsuka Group Corporate Philosophy Overview The Otsuka group of companies, whose origins date back to 1921, aims to contribute to the health of people around the world. It aims to do so through two main pillars: the pharmaceutical business for the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and the nutraceutical * 1 business to support the maintenance and promotion of everyday health. The company’ s culture, summarized in a few words as, “Ryukan-godo” (by sweat we recognize the way), “Jissho” (actualization) and “Sozosei” (creativity), have been fostered by successive Otsuka leaders. These are emphasized by our 47,000 * 2 employees across 195 group companies in 31 countries and regions who strive to create and market unique products and services. * 1. Nutraceuticals: nutrition + pharmaceuticals * 2. As of end of December, 2019. Otsuka Holdings and subsidiaries and affiliates. Organizational Structure O t su k a H o l d i n g s Otsuka Pharmaceutical Otsuka Medical Otsuka Pharmaceutical Taiho Pharmaceutical Otsuka Warehouse Otsuka Chemical Otsuka Foods Factory Devices Otsuka Pharmaceutical A total healthcare company supporting well-being for the whole body, Co., Ltd. from the treatment of diseases to the promotion of everyday health Under the corporate philosophy “Otsuka-people creating new products for better health worldwide,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical operates in two core businesses: the Pharmaceutical Business, which provides breakthrough treatments for patients around the world, and the Nutraceutical Business, which helps healthy people maintain good health. Otsuka Pharmaceutical Original company of the Otsuka group, and a leader in IV solutions Factory, Inc. in Japan with more than 70 years of experience in the field Based on its management vision of being “The Best Partner in Clinical Nutrition,” Otsuka Pharmaceutical Factory creates innovative products that meet a variety of needs, including pharmaceuticals, medical devices, oral rehydration solutions and other medical foods, and OTC pharmaceuticals. The company operates globally, with a focus on Japan and the rest of Asia. Taiho Pharmaceutical A pioneer of oral anticancer agents in Japan for half a century Co., Ltd. “We strive to improve human health and contribute to a society enriched by smiles.”—This is the corporate philosophy of Taiho Pharmaceutical, an R&Ddriven specialty pharmaceutical company focusing in the fields of oncology, allergy and immunology, and urology. In the oncology field in particular, Taiho Pharmaceutical is recognized as one of Japan’s leading companies and is actively expanding its global presence. In the consumer healthcare business, it seeks insights into people, and focuses on creating new products better attuned to their lifestyles. Otsuka Warehouse Contributing to people’s health worldwide in the field of logistics Co., Ltd. Since its founding, Otsuka Warehouse has operated businesses with an emphasis on pharmaceutical and food product logistics. This includes building a common distribution platform for the Otsuka group’s three core categories: pharmaceuticals, foods and beverages, and daily necessities. In recent years, Otsuka Warehouse has been working to extend its logistics solutions to outside the group. Otsuka Chemical Creatively giving shape to the power of materials for the future, together with customers Co., Ltd. With materials at the core of its operations, Otsuka Chemical aims for continuous technological innovation that leads to the creation of products that enable higher standards of living. Otsuka Chemical provides products to global markets in automotive, electrical and electronic equipment, housing, and healthcare areas through its main segments of the hydrazine business, the inorganic and composite materials business, and the pharmaceutical intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) business. Otsuka Foods Co., Ltd. Creating high-value-added products that offer new dietary lifestyles since 1955 Otsuka Foods operates under the motto “the company begins with people and food begins with spirit,” with “deliciousness, safety, peace of mind, and better health” at the heart of the “spirit of food” shared by all employees. Today, the aging of societies is among the many issues relating to health, the environment and demographic change that are transforming the social landscape. Otsuka Foods will continue to pursue solutions that address this kind of social change by creating and providing the products that customers need, and be a company that contributes to people of the world. Otsuka Medical Devices Introducing new technologies that make Otsuka’s medical devices business unique Co., Ltd. Otsuka Medical Devices seeks to grow the medical devices business, which operates mainly in Japan, China, and other Asian countries, into a core business for the Otsuka group. Otsuka Medical Devices is achieving further growth by bringing together the group’s experience and know-how in medical devices in order to integrate the latest technology into new devices that meet emerging healthcare needs. Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 73 Disclosure by the Otsuka Group The Otsuka group provides an overview of financial and non-financial information through this integrated report. Visit the Otsuka Holdings website for additional information, including consolidated financial statements, financial results presentations and supplementary documents, and information about research and development. Website Investor Relations https://www.otsuka.com/en/ https://www.otsuka.com/en/ir/ The Otsuka group’s CSR https://www.otsuka.com/en/csr/ ■ About the Integrated Report ■ Cautions Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Beginning with the fiscal 2017 edition, Otsuka Holdings has combined its This integrated report summarizes the operating and financial results of Annual Report and CSR Report into a single integrated report that brings Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries for fiscal 2019 (January 1, together financial information and non-financial information. We hope it 2019 to December 31, 2019). It also includes information regarding select deepens stakeholders’ understanding of the group in its aim to become material events that occurred between January 1, 2020 and the date of an indispensable contributor to people’s health worldwide. publication. The report contains forward-looking statements pertaining to plans, projections, strategies, and prospects for the Otsuka group of ■ Reporting Period companies. These statements are based upon current analysis and beliefs Fiscal 2019 (January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019). in light of the information available on the issuing date of the report. Note that certain information from January 2020 onward is also included. Actual results may therefore differ due to the risks and uncertainties that may affect Otsuka group operations. ■ Scope of Reporting In principle, this report covers Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. and its ■ Medical information subsidiaries (“the Otsuka group”). Where the scope of activities or data is In this integrated report, for the sake of readability a unified brand name narrower, details are noted. is used when a product has different brand names in different countries or regions. Therefore, these products may not be available in all countries, ■ Guidelines Referenced or may be available under different brand names, for different indications, • International Integrated Reporting Framework, in different dosages and strengths. International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Please note that the information regarding pharmaceutical products • GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, (including products under development) is not intended for advertising or Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) promotional purposes, or as medical advice. • ISO 26000 • Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2018, Ministry of the Environment • Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry • Other guidelines 74 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 Shareholder Information (As of December 31, 2019) Number of shares authorized 1,600,000,000 shares Principal Shareholders (Top 10) Number of shares issued 557,835,617 shares Number of Shareholding Name of shareholder shares held Number of shareholders 62,219 (thousand) ratio (%) The Nomura Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. 57,815 10.66 Otsuka Founders Shareholding Fund Trust Account The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (trust account) 40,246 7.42 Stock Distribution Otsuka Estate Co., Ltd. 23,296 4.29 Treasury shares Securities Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account) 22,991 4.23 2.79% companies 2.94% Otsuka Group Employee Shareholding Fund 12,998 2.39 Other corporations The Awa Bank, Ltd. 10,970 2.02 Financial 17.25% institutions Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 5) 7,728 1.42 35.23% Otsuka Asset Co., Ltd. 7,380 1.36 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (trust account 9) 6,920 1.27 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 6,755 1.24 Individuals and others Overseas Number of shares held rounded down to the nearest thousand. 19.91% corporations Excluding treasury stock held by the Company (15,564,187 shares). 21.88% Shareholding ratio is calculated excluding treasury stock. Maximum/Minimum Stock Price and Volatility by Year Total Shareholders’ Return Maximum Minimum Volatility (%) Fiscal 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Fiscal stock price (¥) stock price (¥) (standard deviation) (%) 122.1 146.3 145.1 135.3 148.8 2019 5,072 3,434 27.61% (Comparison: (112) (112) (137) (116) (136) 2018 5,832 4,331 29.07% TOPIX Total Return Index) 2017 5,895 4,290 14.20% 2016 5,139 3,467 17.69% 2015 4,774 3,433 20.22% 2014 4,019 2,773 19.24% 2013 3,630 2,454 27.09% 2012 2,512 2,100 9.89% 2011 2,252 1,737 13.77% Stock Performance (¥) Stock price (left) Trading volume (right) (Thousand shares) 6,000 150,000 120,000 4,000 90,000 60,000 2,000 30,000 0 0 2010/12 2011/12 2012/12 2013/12 2014/12 2015/12 2016/12 2017/12 2018/12 2019/12 Otsuka Holdings Co., Ltd. INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 75 Significance of the Corporate Symbol A symbolic representation of the Otsuka group’s corporate philosophy, the corporate symbol adopts the initial ‘O’ of the corporate name as its motif. Representing the sky above, the large ‘O’ is rendered in gradations of Otsuka Blue and the small ‘O’ in Otsuka Red represents the focused energy of Otsuka, the wellspring of these tenets. Offsetting the two Os, the Otsuka name is spelled out in an open and friendly typeface. The corporate symbol conveys the Otsuka group’s energetic commitment to human happiness through good health.
