Sustainability Report 2019 Table Of Contents Overview Of Apparel Group People Marketplace Community Environment About This Report We are proud to present our sustainability report, summarizing our work and achievements for the year 2019. This report has been compiled to communicate our sustainability commitments and actions to all our stakeholders customers, suppliers, employees, regulators, community, and society at large. The reporting period is from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019. This report provides information regarding our performance on the UN Global Compact principles and Women’s Empowerment Principles, therefore, serves as our annual Communication On Progress (COP). Report Boundary The ‘Reporting Boundary’ considers only the UAE operations and for environmental disclosures, the reporting is based on the level of our influence and is mainly for our corporate office in Jebel Ali. Feedback We welcome any comments, feedback and suggestions, which will help improve our reporting and ensure transparency. This report is available on United Nations Global Compact and Apparel Group websites. In case of queries, please contact: apparelcsr@appareluae.com About Apparel Group Founded 1999 15,000 Employees Over 3 Continents 75 Brands + 3M SQ FT 14 Countries Total Retail 1750+ Space Stores Vision Be The No. 1 Retailer Globally Mission To operate 2000 stores globally by the end of 2020 and to drive excellence through its people by providing committed services to its customers and community. Values Integrity, Respect & Recognition, Passion For Excellence, Working Together Our Brands Footwear Fashion Cosmetics Entertainment E Commerce Loyalty Food & Beverage Department Store FitOut Community Centre Business Models Franchise & License We partner with top footwear, fashion, F&B and lifestyle brands and operate them in the region. We work with our Principals to ensure products are sourced, manufactured & packaged in a sustainable manner and are of top quality. Own Concept Brands We design our products and source finished products from ethical vendors, to ensure good quality. We store and distribute our partners’ products from our centralized distribution centre in Dubai. Our stores are designed in an environmentally friendly & accessible manner. We have over 3.29 mln sq ft of retail space across regions We have a dynamic, 360o marketing strategy with seamlessly integrating large format OOH media, mall media, radio, print, PR & events and innovative, engaging and highly targeted omni-channel digital & social media marketing campaigns. Our constant endeavour to build strong relations with partners and associates – consumers, mall partners, media, bloggers & influencers – through activations and events based on innovative concepts and ideas differentiates us from competition. 6thstreet.com provides our customers the experience of shopping from the comfort of their own home. The products are all delivered to their door step, free of any charge. Our award-winning mobile app-based Club Apparel loyalty programme allows customers to earn and instantly redeem reward points on every purchase. A point is equal to AED 1, making it the most-rewarding loyalty programme in the region. Recognition M o ha mm ed Bin Ras hid A l M aktou m B u si n e s s Award 2019 Apparel Group – Winn er of th e 10 th Cycle Mohamm ed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum Busin ess Award. Through this award, Dubai Chamber of Comm erce recognizes an d celebrates th e success of th e organizations wh o are lea din g th e way to establish n ew busin ess excellen ce stan dards G rea t P l a ce to Wo rk Ranked in top 20 best workpla ces in KSA , while UAE is a GPTW ME cer tif ied workpla ce. R e t a i l Middle Eas t Awards 2019 Aldo – Most a dmired Retailer of th e Year – Footwear & Accessories Th e Children’s Pla ce – Most Admired Retailer of th e Year – Children’swear Calvin Klein – Most Admired Retailer of th e Year – Luxur y 6thStreet .com – Most Admired o nlin e Retailer of th e Year D u ba i C h am ber Advan ced CSR L ab el Apparel Group was awarded Dubai Chamber Advan ced CSR L abel, in recognition of its work in th e CSR & sustainability sec tors. G ra z i a S tyle Awards 6thStreet .com awarded Grazia Style Awards for best onlin e high-street mul tibran d T h e Fi l i p in o Tim es Awards Aeropostale – Preferred Retail Fashion Bran d of th e Year Skech ers – Preferred Spor ts Bran d of th e Year S u p e rb ra n ds Award 2019 LC Waikiki Beverly Hills Polo Club Crocs Levi’s Tim Hor tons Dun e Lon don Charles & Keith R&B Aldo Skech ers CSR CSR Vision To be recognised as the most responsible company CSR Mission Be committed to sustainable actions and contribute meaningfully to the Triple Bottom Line (social, economic and environment) performance “ I'm happy to present to you the 2019 sustainability report, showcasing Apparel Group's commitment towards becoming a responsible company through all its business endeavours and verticals – people, marketplace, community & environment. We continue to be active members of the UN Global Compact and UN Women’s Empowerment Principles and report on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). I strongly believe in investing well in my greatest asset – my team at the Apparel Group. Decent Work & Economic Growth (SDG 8) & Quality education (SDG 4) remain priorities as it is my job to create entrepreneurs and cultivate an entrepreneurial mindset for all the people who work at Apparel. At Apparel, we groom our people for leadership by providing them with opportunities and education and provide enviable incentives. In every business, it is imperative to be industrious, innovative and resourceful. At Apparel, we are constantly changing and pushing the envelope at every step and our success is based on two things. Our obsession with the customer and our ability to change and adapt ourselves to what the customer wants. Our award-winning mobile-app based loyalty program Club Apparel is now in seven countries and has 3.2 million members and gathers real-time, transaction-based customer feedback. To boost our omni-channel presence, our booming e-commerce site 6thstreet.com now has over 400 international brands and provides free home delivery of products. Inspired by the UAE’s leadership’s direction for the adoption of innovative solutions to protect the environment for current and future generations, we installed solar panels (SDG 7: Affordable & Clean Energy) at our head offices and main warehouses. We have always challenged ourselves to operate in a more sustainable way whilst also making consistent energy savings to create a greener footprint, whether it is our recycling programmes or investing in energy-& water-efficient systems in our offices, warehouse and retail stores (SDG 12: Responsible Consumption & Production). Our audacity to dream big and do things better or faster than our competition is only possible thanks to the tremendous efforts of our employees, support of our partners and the loyalty and encouragement of our customers. So I’d like to sincerely acknowledge each of your contributions towards our sustainability initiatives and for always pushing us ” to achieve more. As Chairman of the Group, my job is to dream BIG and dare people to dream bigger and live more sustainably! Nilesh Ved, Chairman, Apparel Group Memberships Apparel Group is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, since 2015. In 2018, we signed the Women Empowerment Principles (WEP), showing our support for gender equality. By doing this, we have committed to making the WEPs a reality across our organisation. Apparel Group is a member of the Dubai Quality Group, demonstrating our commitment to quality improvement and business excellence. Dubai Chamber's Retail Business Group, chaired by Nilesh Ved, aims to promote the cooperation among retailers in Dubai, address common concerns, raise industry standards, share best business practices, organise and support retail-related events. ENGAGE Dubai is part of an international network of businesses and community organizations that collaborate to support the development of healthy and sustainable communities by increasing the quality and quantity of employee volunteering in their local communities. Sustainability Network offers companies the opportunity to network, learn, share experiences and constitute CSR leadership. Highlights People • 69 Nationalities • 35% Women • 16 People Of Determination Employed • 5 Days Paternity Leave Introduced • Introduced American Sign Language Training For Store Teams • 4,630 Hours Invested In Employee Training Marketplace • CA Launched in 7 countries & over 3.2 million members • Invested AED 10 million to introduced paper & resuable eco-friendly shopping bags in our retail stores, eliminating plastic shopping bags • Introduced E-Receipts • Introduced Mobile Point of Sale • Click & Collect • Over 150 influencers from 6 regions participated in the Apparel Connect Event • 400+ fashion & beauty brands available on ecommerce site 6thstreet.com Community • 70,020 shoes given to refugees • 5,000 underprivileged children supported with school supplies • 5,339 breast cancer survivors & caretakers supported • 1,123 blue-collar labourers supported • 1000 people helped with access to clean water • 24 children with special needs empowered Environment • 4,657 solar panels commissioned at Apparel headquarters catering to 55% consumption & reducing 2,121 tonnes of CO2 emission annually • Employees provided with water dispensers, reusable water bottles, cutlery, paper plates and cups to eliminate plastic usage • 374.42 tonnes of waste diverted from landfill & recycled • 86.57 tonnes of footwear & clothes diverted from landfill & repurposed • Introduced food waste composting at HQ “ With 15,000 employees and 20 years of our growth behind us, we consider ourselves to be in a position of having a global impact. We can perpetuate the message of the world that we want to see, and that’s our raison d'être now. Inspired by UAE’s leadership’s theme for the ‘Year of Tolerance’, we took it up on ourselves to embed tolerance in all our activities. While we have been employing People of Determination for several years now, in 2019, we began providing opportunities for children with special needs to train, intern and work with us at our office, warehouse and retail stores. We also created awareness on inclusivity and simple American Sign Language phrases through our Club Apparel social media channels on International Deaf Awareness Week. To ensure that customers with special needs feel more comfortable, we began etiquette training & American Sign Language training for our store teams. Our efforts were recognized as best practices and published in Dubai Chamber’s special report. Serving the pressing needs of the communities in regions we operate remains a top priority for Apparel Group. We focus on providing school supplies and supporting education of underprivileged children, empowering war-displaced families and blue-collar workers. We also support breast cancer survivors and people of determination and those without access to clean water. Our efforts include sponsorships, product donations, raising funds through our retail stores as well as volunteering our time and expertise to support community partners. In 2019, we also organized special sessions to engage with employees from different cross-cultural and diverse teams. We ensured senior management was present and listening to our people through our HR forums ‘Hear for You’, where employee-friendly policies were approved and supporting initiatives launched in a month’s time. We also introduced 5-day paternity leave & strengthened our policies to ensure better gender equality and safer workplace for all our employees. Espousing the values of tolerance extends to the way we treat resources and our planet. We decided to tackle the fashion industry’s pollution problem head on, by phasing out single-use plastic from our operations. We replaced 1 million water bottles and foam plates used in the head office with reusable ones and replaced 5 million plastic shopping bags with paper and recyclable ones. To continue making an impact on sustainable fashion, it became imperative that we work closely with our customers and gain insights on trends and evolving fashion needs. With that objective and to promote our initiatives, we organised one of GCC's largest influencer meet 'Apparel Connect Event'. The event saw over 150 influencers at Apparel headquarters that was transformed into a Wonderland landscape, sharing their insights, which will influence our buying decisions in the future. We believe change should begin with us, so we organized fun recycling competitions and events for our employees. We also invited our waste management and recycling partners to showcase how ‘waste’ is repurposed, saving energy and resources. These engaging interactions and employee efforts have bolstered our efforts to reduce waste to landfill. So join us in our sustainability journey by participating in our CSR campaigns or connecting us ” to the people we can help through our programmes. Remember, it just takes one of us and one small step to change the world, so let’s begin today! Sima Ved, Founder & Vice Chairperson, Apparel Group Sustainable Development Goals 3. Good Health & Well-Being • Support Health & Well-Being with a Focus on Cancer & Healthy Lifestyle Through Friends of Cancer Patients & Ministry of Health & Prevention 4. Quality Education • Supporting Education of Underprivileged Children in India, UAE and Other Countries through Dubai Cares & Emirates Red Crescent 6. Clean Water & Sanitation • Supporting Families in Africa with access to water through Project Maji solar-powered water kiosks. 7. Affordable & Clean Energy • Commissioned a solar power project that powers 55% of electricity needs of the head office 8. Decent Work & Economic Growth • Providing a safe & comfortable work environment that enables professional and personal growth. 10. Reduced Inequalities • Supporting Labourers in UAE through SmartLife Foundation • Supporting Refugees in Middle East through Emirates Red Crescent • Supporting People of Determination through Employment, Training through Integreat Centre & Senses 12. Responsible Consumption & Production • Single-use Plastic Elimination • Circular Economy & Waste Management through recycling programme • Energy & water-efficient facilities in our warehouses, stores, outlets andoffices to reduce consumption • Products are tested by independent laboratories for quality & safety People GCC Women Men Total No. Of Employees: 11,370 35% 65% Top Management 20% 80% Senior Management 12.5% 87.5% Middle Management 26% 74% Junior Management 19% 81% Non Management 32% 68% Newly-hired employees: 3,288 35% 65% Employees 18-24Yrs 25-34Yrs 35-44Yrs 45Yrs & Above by Age 23% 57% 17% 3% 0-4Yrs 5-9Yrs 10Yrs Employees & Above by Years 83% 13% 4% of Service Stores Back Office Warehouse Workforce Distribution 81% 12% 7% Nationalisation: 20% 16 People Of Determination Employed 5 Days Paternity Leave Introduced Introduced American Sign Language Training For Store Teams We Invested Over 4,630 Hours In Training For Our Employees Across The Group. 8,708 Employees Trained People Hear For You The employee forum was organized in June 2019 and was addressed by members of Senior management. The forum is organized to take suggestions, feedbacks from the employees and address grievances if any. While the forum was organized at the Dubai head office, it saw participation from all GCC countries who joined the forum over a webinar. Some of the employee suggestions implemented are new joiners to receive three times their housing allowance upon joining, introducing Bombay Chowpatty restaurant at subsidized rates for the employees in office. All Apparel Group employees enjoy a 25%40% discount across all brands In a move to make our organisation more family friendly, we have created a nursing room for new mothers. English training for warehouse team Apparel warehouse, transport and housekeeping staff has been trained on English and communication skills every Friday. Dubai-based NGO SmartLife organises the classes, aimed not only to improve their communication skills but also to empower them. People Sports Day The company organizes an Annual Sports Day every year that allows employees to participate and play different sports such as Cricket, Badminton, Basketball, Volleyball, Tug of War etc. In 2019 the event was organized in June 2019 and had participation from over 1100 employees in the UAE. The winners of different sports were awarded a trophy along with Apparel Group gift cards People Survey Apparel Group partnered with Great Place to Work in its efforts to evaluate and improve the workplace culture. As part of the process the Trust Index Survey was taken by all employees in UAE, Qatar & KSA in Oct 2019 – Dec 2019. The survey was also made available to the employees in 3 different languages; namely English, Hindi & Arabic online as well as on Kiosk to ensure maximum reach & participation. Basis the responses received from the employees which are completely anonymous, Apparel Group received the Great Place To Work Certification in UAE & KSA in Dec 2019 which is valid for a period of one year. Great Place to Work® Certification communicates to internal and external stakeholders that an organization invests in their people and that have created a high-trust workplace. The certificate was handed over to AG in Feb Internal Job Posting facilitates Managers and Supervisors with a process through they can identify qualified employees for an open position within the group & also provides employees with the opportunity to advance their careers by self-nominating for an open position within the organisation People Dubai Fitness Challenge As part of Apparel Group’s participation in the Dubai Fitness Challenge in Oct 2019, fitness activities were organized for the employees. The head office employees participated in a 30 minute fun fitness routine at the office & Skyzone under the guidance of a fitness instructor. Several competitions were also organized for the employees -Weight loss challenge, apparel fitness leader, weekly fitness challenges, sharing a fitness video etc. along with prizes for the winners and freebies for the participants. We also participated in the Dubai Run 30x30 on Sheikh Zayed Road which was a unique, on foot perspective of iconic buildings along the 5 km / 10 km run Learning & Development Our training & development programmes help in upskilling employees and optimising their performance, leading to better growth for the company. We focus on equipping our frontline teams with knowledge of latest technologies to improve customer experience. Some of our programmes include Net Promoter Score (NPS) Training, Self Managed Teams (SMT), Apparel Manager Programme (AMP), Second in Command (SIC), We have also partnered with Havard Business School to provide leadership training to our senior management teams. Health & Safety Around 1,000 employees participated in health camps organised at warehouse and offices by Harley Medical Clinic. In UAE, around 1,000 employees were trained in basic first aid & fire safety. Additionally, we partner with a Dubai Civil Defense approved training companies to certify HSE officers on Fire Safety & First Aid. Fire drills are organised at headquarters and warehouses. We've had 0 grievous injuries in 2019 Marketplace Club Apparel • 3.2 Million Members • Spanning 7 countries (UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, India) • 1,750 Stores • 75+ Brands • Offering Rewards on Over a Million Products Club Apparel encompasses brands ranging from Fashion, Footwear, Cosmetics and F&B categories. For the F&B Brands (Tim Hortons and Cold Stone) – Club Apparel has a Stamps based loyalty program in line with industry standards. Club Apparel has consistently received a high rating from its customers on App Store & Play Store. (Stands at ~4.7 as of date) the store. These Kiosks also capture the NPS scores from non-buyers. Club Apparel rewards its customers on every purchase, whether on a Sale Season or a Non-Sale Season. Club Apparel focuses on customer convenience by allowing customers to access ‘Digital Bills’ for every Loyalty transaction done at the Club Apparel Stores. Club Apparel has a strong focus on providing personalized Coupons / Offers to its customers frequently based on their behavior pattern. Club Apparel Gives Back Club Apparel’s popular Promotion ‘CA Thanks You with Half Back as Brand Points’ takes place seasonally every year. All brands of Apparel Group (except F&B Brands) participate in this promotion. As a Member-Exclusive promotion, 50% Back is given to the customer as respective Brand Points upon transacting with any of the participating brands. These Brand Points can be used by the customers instantly for redemption on the next transaction. Customer Feedback Club Apparel constantly works on enhancing its customer experience by constantly capturing customer feedback and engaging with customers through various channels. Customer feedback is captured through Mobile App channel as well as In-store Kiosks. A Club Apparel customer can give feedback through the Mobile App on every transaction done at the Club Apparel stores. Customers can also use the ‘Write to Us’ section on the Club Apparel App to write directly to our Customer Care team for any Query/Complaint/Suggestion/Feedback. Marketplace is a one-stop shop for style conscious women, men and children. LIVE FASHION MOMENTS ANYTIME, ANYWHERE WHERE WE STAND 6M+ PRESENCE IN 6 COUNTRIES 400+ Monthly unique visits international fashion & beauty brands ONLINE SHOPPER BY GENDER WOMEN 56% MEN 44% ONLINE SHOPPER BY AGE AGE AGE 25 35 50 %of the browsers are between 25 and 35 years old Marketplace HYBRID FULFILLMENT MODEL Own Last Mile delivery network already live in UAE and launched into KSA. Delivering orders across 6 countries through the network of courier partners. 6THSTREET OMNICHANNEL CONSUMER JOURNEY SHIP FROM ALL REGIONAL STORES CLICK & COLLECT RETURNS IN STORE ENDLESS AISLE * coming soon TRIAL ROOM Marketplace ACE-Apparel Connect Event Acing their social media strategy, Apparel Group organized the biggest ever GCC Influencer meet at their plush HQ. The power list of social media Influencers were invited to a make-believe wonderland that was creatively crafted over weeks of meticulous planning and designing. Having enjoyed successful relations with many leading brands within the group, it was time for the influencers community to visit the retail giant’s hub, for an unforgettable tea – party! October 17, 2019, marked the first ever extravagant Influencers meet at the Apparel Group’s head office. The entire Apparel Group’s offices, were turned into a whimsical utopia, inspired by the fairy tale; Alice in Wonderland. The impeccable décor had green woods, a key-hole entrance and the magical tunnel that represented the wonderland theme in the most Instagram worthy way. Live mascots of the rabbit and the madhatter merrily greeted the guests and transported them into the magical wonderland. Marketplace The event started with a throwback journey showcasing the milestones achieved over the last 20 years. An entire video wall was created and dedicated to tell the story of how Mrs. Sima’s love for good shoes set the stepping stone to building this marvelous empire that Apparel Group is today and the leadership of the visionary Chairman Mr. Nilesh Ved, has taken the group from strength to strength. Following this the invitees were addressed by the Founder and Vice Chairperson herself, on the impact of social media and how it elevates a brand’s equity and engagement with real time insights. She also mentioned that the influencers community were more like partners in the business, and their feedback on the product range was imperative to the brands buying strategy. The amazing portfolio of brands created an eye-catching pop up store each, showcasing the new FW collection for a sneak preview of what’s to come at their stores. Our in-house F&B brands served up an amazing lunch and special activations were created to engage the guests: Tailor shop by Levis, hand massage by Rituals, giant photo wall with a curated tea party set up, string wall art installation and a unique ‘sign and throw ‘memorabilia for the invitees to bid adieu to the wonderland in style. Community In-Kind Donation Supporting War-Displaced Children by TOMS Around 70,000 pairs of shoes were distributed among war-displaced children in UAE & at refugee camps in Jordan & Yemen through Emirates Red Crescent. This initiative is part of TOMS’ ‘One For One’ commitment in the region, wherein a pair is donated to underprivileged children, for each pair sold Eid Gifts For Children By Ajman Grand Centrale Around 50 orphan children from Ajman & Umm Al Quwain were invited to Grand Centrale Ajman to shop for their Eid gifts, as part of the Group's Ramadan activity. Children were also treated to surprise goody bags for their new school year, in association with Ajman Youth Council & Emirates Red Crescent. Empowering Blue-Collar Workers by R&B, Athlete's Co Apparel Group brands R&B, Athlete’s Co. & Skechers supported education and sports activities for blue-collar workers in association with SmartLife by sponsoring kits and gifts. Community Special Needs Centre fundraising by Garage, Coldstone Creamery Apparel Group brands Coldstone Creamery & Garage helped raised funds for special needs centres Special Needs Future Development Center & Al Noor Training Centre For Persons With Disabilities at their fundraising events. Customer Engagement In CSR Activities International Deaf Awareness Week During the International Deaf Awareness Week, Apparel Group released videos educating its social media followers on common phrases in sign language. Our store teams are being trained on ASL through Apparel Learning Academy to ensure we provide great service to those customers with hearing impairment. In 2020, all stores of Apparel Group will have at least one staff member who knows sign language. Breast Cancer Awareness & fundraising by Nine West Nine West sponsors treatment of breast cancer victims and raises awareness on early screening by supporting Pink Caravan, through sale of special pins in its stores. Nine West also donated 5,300 pairs of sandals to breast cancer survivors for each pair purchased, as part of its Pink October campaign. Community Providing Access to Water in Africa by Aldo, Aldo Accessories Families in Ghana enjoy clean water available through kiosks, sponsored by Apparel Group. Our brands Aldo & Aldo Accessories raise funds for Project Maji, which helps set up the solar-powered water kiosks. The brands donated AED 1 for every shoe-shine product sold at the stores. Breast Cancer Fundraising by Skechers Skechers was a sponsor for ‘Relay for Life’, an event by NGO Friends of Cancer Patients, to raise funds for cancer survivors. Access to Education for Children by The Children's Place The Children’s Place has partnered with Dubai Cares, a nonprofit that aims to ensure inclusive and quality education, to raise funds through customer donations in stores. Community Supporting Children's Education by Skechers As part of ‘Back to School’ initiative, Skechers engaged children to play virtual games and encouraged them towards charity, by donating 4,500 pairs of shoes on behalf of every child that completed the challenge. Empowering Special Needs Children by 6thstreet.com 6thstreet teamed up with winners of the Cosmopolitan Middle East's 2019 Influencer Awards during Ramadan to raise funds for special needs children. For the ‘Box for a cause’ campaign, influencers filled a box each with products from 6thstreet and 25% of the proceeds from the selected products were donated to Emirates Red Crescent. Recycling and Supporting the Needy by Levi's Levi's stores collected 1,000 pairs of jeans from customers & recycled them as part of their Ramadan fundraising campaign for Emirates Red Crescent. Community Empowering Children's Education by Skechers Over 5,000 children supported by Dubai Cares, Rawafed Centre, Dubai Foundation for Women & Children and Ministry of Health & Preventation were provided school kits by Skechers. Engaging Employees Special Needs Internship Programme To integrate students with special needs into a workplace, Apparel Group offered a 6-week internship & opened their kitchens to Integreat Center students, who were on an experiential learning trip to practice their skills at making a range of hot and cold drinks. The project and Apparel’s donations impact 85 children with special needs. Dubai Cares Walkathon for Education The 3-km walk signifies the long distances children in developing countries have to walk to their schools. Community Ramadan Clothes Donation Apparel employees donated lightly-worn clothes generously during our Ramadan Clothes Donation campaign. Partnering with Emirates Red Crescent, Apparel helped raise funds for the NGO's Ramadan charity projects through sale of these clothes. Employees teamed up and competed to land a spot in the coveted list of top donors. Blood Donation Camps Blood donation camps are organized at the head office by Dubai Blood Donation Centre to provide a safe and adequate supply of blood to all Dubai Health Authority hospitals & private hospitals in Dubai. Recycling Programmes As part of the Dubai Chamber Sustainability Week 2019, employees deposited electronic waste and shoes at the head office for the recycling competition. Our warehouse & office admin teams competed for the paper & carton recycling competition. A quiz competition was held on electronic waste & impact of improper disposal and a kiosk was set up displaying materials made out of recycled textiles and shoes donated by employees. 4,180 kg 719.5 kg 111.67 kg 2169 kg Recyclable Recyclable Recycable Paper & Carton Waste Collected E-waste Collected Shoes Collected Collected Environment Waste Management We launched the region’s first cardless app-based loyalty program, eliminating more than 2.3 million plastic cards and associated packaging material. We eliminated 1 million single-use plastic items such as water bottles, spoons & foam plates, cups from our headquarters by providing employees with reusable water bottles, steel spoons, biodegradable plates & cups. We eliminated 5 million plastic shopping bags, replacing them with paper & other reusable & eco-friendly alternatives, with an investment of AED 10 million. We diverted 86.57 tonnes of damaged & unwanted clothes and footwear from the landfill, by sending it for re-use & recycling with a recycling partner. While 57% of the products were repaired and resold, 37 % was repurposed into raw material & 10% was sent to waste-to-energy plants. We have colour-coded bins for food waste & recyclable waste & have recycled 371 tonnes of cardboard & 3 tonnes of paper. Our on-site sewage treatment plant generates recycles water for landscaping and flush systems We installed food waste composters at the headquarters and the compost is used for landscaping at office and provided free of charge to employees who enjoy gardening Environment Water Efficiency • We consumed around 3.9 mln litres of water, 5.82% more than the previous year. • Dual flush systems, • Water taps with sensors and aerators • Sensor-operated soap dispensers Electricity Efficiency • We consumed 4.3 M KwH of electricity, 23.69% less than the previous year • Automated lighting controlling systems • Controlled air-conditioning – Installed aircon energy saver and have locked thermostats so the temperature remains 24 degrees C, leading to 25% increase in savings. Solar Energy Apparel Group installed a 1.7 MWp single rooftop solar power system in 2019. Around 4,675 solar panels generate electricity, fulfilling 55% of Apparel HQ consumption needs and will help reduce 2,121 metric tons tonnes of CO2 emission annually. Environment Transport Conscious of the carbon footprint of air freight, we have reduced the amount of air shipments over the years by 10% over the previous year We provide bus transport for employees (covering 70% of staff in head office) from Sharjah & Dubai location to head office in Jebel Ali We provide shuttle bus to and from the closest metro station to office Charging stations for electric vehicles in head office to encourage eco-friendly alternatives to fuel cars Our fuel consumption reduced by 1.5% compared to the previous year. Retail Stores Our stores are designed to be energy efficient with LEDs, smart sensors, temperature controls, and energy management systems, in accordance with the UAE green building code We receive an average of 4-star ‘Green Star’ rating in third-party audits by mall management. Jebel Ali South, Dubai, UAE l P.O. Box: 261873 Phone: +971 48136111 l Email: info@appareluae.com
