201 9 2 020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Truth. Love. Integrity. Our Company’s Values Reflect Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact 201 9 TABLE OF C O N TE N TS 13  CASE STUDY GRAEBEL'S RESPONSE TO COVID-19 202 0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5 A LETTER FROM THE CEO 14  MOBILITY MAKING A SUSTAINABLE DIFFERENCE: GRAEBEL PARTNERS LEAD THE WAY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 6 ALIGNMENT INDEX STEWARDSHIP Truth. Love. Integrity. 8 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES 17  ANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP AWARD   Our Company’s ADVANCING OUR Values Reflect Our Commitment to the UN 11 CORPORATE SOCIAL 18 OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Global Compact RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 2 Our Values | Truth | Love | Integrity MISSION: DUT Y OF CARE GRAEBEL Become the Global CORPORATE Employer of Choice RESPONSIBILITY 2019 / 2020 VISION: B E T HE T R U ST E D G LO BA L B R A N D This report is a reflection of the activities and results Operate in a Safe and that demonstrate Graebel’s Compliant Manner commitment and willingness to maintain a sustainable, safe and equitable working environment. It’s also an affirmation of how VALU E S: T R U T H, LOV E & I N T E G R I T Y our values of Truth, Love and Integrity guide everything we do. Leave It Better Than You Found It CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 3 Our commitment to the UN Global Compact continues to provide us with a universally accepted framework to validate and guide our policies and actions. Bill Graebel Chairman and CEO A LETTER F RO M TH E C E O W hat an amazing world we live in. A world full • Continued support and sponsorship of the Move for of opportunities and challenges. Our Graebel Hunger organization, committed to reducing hunger organization concluded 2019 with client, in North America employee and supplier satisfaction at all-time highs. • Record participation in our Supplier Environmental We attribute our success to our people and our continued Stewardship Award process, demonstrating the emphasis on Graebel values of Truth, Love and Integrity. leadership of our Graebel Alliance Partners in over 165 countries Our commitment to the UN Global Compact continues to provide us a universally accepted framework to In 2020 we are excited to see the rapid deployment of validate and guide our policies and actions. We are new practices which will positively affect the world we proud to submit our Corporate Social Responsibility live in. These include: (Sustainability) Report 2019-20. • Graebel’s overall response to COVID-19 helping We navigate a vastly new world in 2020 and find our clients and prospects, and our own employees and partners, through a pandemic crisis Corporate Social Responsibility efforts more central and Sincerely, more critical than ever before to serving our clients and • Virtual meetings and conferences reducing employees in the months and years ahead. travel significantly • Technology and policies to promote quality work In 2019 we were very proud of: from home • Improvement in our employee engagement scores • Paperless practices and document signatures aligned with our commitment to be the Employer of Choice in our industry We will engage with the UN Global Compact organization • The progressive work of our Diversity and Inclusion in these days ahead more formally. Bill Graebel Council, which in 2020 became the Diversity, Equity Chairman and CEO & Inclusion Council and we intend to expand its Our company was founded on the simple question, of strategic presence globally “Hey world, what do you need and how can I help?” • Expansion of operations, by opening offices in India, We strive to ask and answer the question every day. Germany and Switzerland Here’s to the world ahead! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT A s part of their commitment to the Global Compact, businesses have a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within their sphere of influence. A LI G N MEN T I N D E X The following principles show our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the effective Businesses should undertake initiatives 1 the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 5 abolition of child labor. 8 to promote greater environmental responsibility. POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Human Rights Policy POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Human Rights Policy Business Partner Code of Conduct Graebel Companies Environmental Policy Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Business Partner Code of Conduct 6 Mission / Vision / Values Businesses should uphold the elimination 9 PTO Policy of discrimination in respect of employment Businesses should encourage Business Partner Code of Conduct and occupation. the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Businesses should ensure that they are 2 Prohibitions of Discrimination and Harassment POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy ISO 14001 Environmental Management System POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (General) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Business Partner Code of Conduct 10 Business Partner Code of Conduct Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Council Businesses should work against Supplier Diversity Policy corruption in all its forms, including Businesses should uphold the freedom of extortion and bribery. 3 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Code of Business Conduct and Ethics POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Business Partner Code of Conduct About Our Company POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Conflict of Interest Graebel Companies Environmental Policy Sanctioned Countries Policy 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination Business Partner Code of Conduct TRACE International of forced or compulsory labor. ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (General) POLICY & IMPLEMENTATION ALIGNMENT Human Rights Policy Business Partner Code of Conduct CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 6 Full-time employees are granted up to 24 hours of volunteer paid time off to participate in charitable activities. PEOPLE AND C O MM U N ITI E S GRAEBEL EMPLOYEES AROUND THE GLOBE LOOK FOR CREATIVE AND FUN WAYS TO SUPPORT LOCAL CHARITABLE CAUSES.  AMERICAS Region ST. JUDE CHILDREN’S RESEARCH HOSPITAL-ALSAC September 2019 was Childhood Cancer Awareness month, and we partnered with St. Jude Children's Research Hospital ALSAC on our 'Pie Face Showdown,' which saw leaders from our Atlanta office graciously volunteer to (potentially) accept a pie to the face if they received the most votes. Each ballot was $1 and teammates could vote as many times as they desired. Over 60 employees turned out for the event, laughs were shared, and funds were raised for a very worthy cause. MOVE FOR HUNGER – COLFAX MARATHON In May 2019, Graebel participated in the Colfax Marathon (a run that goes through Downtown Denver and other adjacent neighborhoods along Colfax Ave.) We organized a team of Colorado employees to support our Move For Hunger partnership, and 22 employees and family members participated. We also raised an additional $1500 from this event for this terrific organization. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 8 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES (Continued) EMEA Region DUNDALK SIMON COMMUNITY ANNUAL COAT COLLECTION VOLUNTEER PAID TIME OFF In December 2019, Graebel Dundalk participated in the annual Coat Collection in Aid of Dundalk Simon Community. The coats that were donated have been delivered to Dundalk Simon We established a Volunteer Paid Time Community where their service users were able Off (VPTO) policy in 2015 so employees to select a coat(s) of their choice, any additional can donate their time – up to 24 hours coats were delivered to the Dundalk Simon per calendar year – toward charitable Community Charity Shop for sale. The response organizations in their respective across all of the local businesses involved in the communities. Through this program, we’ve coat collection was overwhelming. provided donations and volunteer time to the following organization in 2019-2020. Boy Scouts of America National Leadership Academy APAC Region Colorado UpLift CHILDREN’S WISHING WELL CENTRE Northwest Harvest Dress for Success Food Drive Food Bank of the Rotary International On 6 September 2019, thirty children from Rockies St. Jude Children’s Children’s Wishing Well Centre in Singapore, Habitat for Humanity Hospital mainly from low income families, joined us our Josephinum Academy APAC Graebel yearly charity event. The kids Salvation Army of the Sacred Heart enjoyed watching the newly released Angry Bird United Way Junior Achievement movie, as well free popcorn and drinks, plus a Wausau Performing photo session with the Angry Birds mascots. Marathon County Arts Foundation Humane Society It was a great event for the community and our Willing Hearts volunteers enjoyed spending time with the children Move for Hunger Soup Kitchen and their parents! CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 9 How Graebel is Expanding and Strengthening our Corporate Social Responsibility  Advancing our Corporate Social Responsibility Using U.N. Global Compact’s Diversity, Equity & Inclusion: Action Manager Expanding and Strengthening our Commitment O ver the past four years, Graebel has increased our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts and impact. Participation in the U.N. Global Compact has been one avenue that has opened our eyes to how our global company can make the world a better place. Integrating our In 2018, Graebel introduced the company’s Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Council to guide the Corporate Social Responsibility program with the Global Compact has helped us identify gaps organization in its effort to be a more diverse and coalesce our efforts and people around well-defined goals. As a result, our CSR program and inclusive workplace. Since then, employees is far more strategic and robust. continue to work with HR and executive leaders to highlight the importance of how a diverse workforce drives employee engagement. This increased commitment to CSR programs Case in point, the recently released U.N. Action In 2019 and the first part of 2020, our – which align closely with the principles that Manager tool, which we adopted in January 2020, commitment related to diversity, equity and inclusion continues to strengthen and improve. guide the U.N. Global Compact – is evident will be extremely useful to take us further on this Some key developments and updates include: throughout our organization. Not only do we critical journey. As with the U.N. Global Compact, see continued involvement by our employees, the elements of Action Manager will guide our An increase of Council participation by 270%, but our Sustainability Committee, along with CSR program and help us define even more since its inception in 2018 support from our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion granular action steps that will help us achieve Graebel’s D&I Council became the Diversity, (DE & I) Council and executive leadership team, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) most Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Council enhance our investment of time and resources relevant to our industry. Valencia Culbreath named Senior Director of to implement tools and programs that support Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and continues our commitment. Implementing the Action Manager Tool to chair the DEI council She now helps guide our company’s inclusive and strategic vision. In our view, Action Manager is the perfect tool As we look to become more socially, culturally This appointment increases our commitment to drive performance improvement, striking the and environmentally conscious across the globe by designating a leader accountable for longright balance between self-assessment and peer with an expanded CSR program, our goals and term results. review. Further, it is built on the understanding programs are being elevated to fulfill the Graebel that since not all businesses and business models corporate values of Truth, Love and Integrity. are the same, every participating company has the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 11 Advancing our Corporate Social Responsibility Using U.N. Global Compact’s Action Manager (Continued) opportunity and the responsibility to focus on those provides a platform for multiple users to set and areas for improvement available to them. track goals. In our case, our Human Resources, Risk, Supplier Development and Enterprise We are currently in the process of identifying the Excellence Departments all have ownership of SDGs most important and relevant to our company certain elements of our CSR program. Thanks to and industry. These SDGs could ultimately include: Action Manager, our organization is more broadly aware of the U.N. Global Compact and the linkage • Updating our best practices and policies around between these principles, the SDG goals and our Good Health and Well-Being (SDG #3), especially CSR program. in relation to our return to workplace as COVID-19 subsides while preserving the health In this uncertain economy, many companies are of employees working from home making do with fewer resources. The value of Action Manager in this context is that it helps • Adding rigor to our policies and additional staff Graebel and other organizations take on CSRresources to support our efforts to achieve related issues more efficiently – to not lose Gender Equality (SDG #5) under our expanded momentum and to continue progress. DEI program • Leveraging our involvement in environmental Finally, at Graebel and in companies around the management systems, Green Building world, there is a heightened awareness of social standards and our supplier diversity program issues and responsibilities related to corporate to drive progress in Industry, Innovation and citizenship. The Action Manager tool provides Infrastructure (SDG #9) a blueprint for productively channeling these intentions. • Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving carbon initiatives both internally and The world is going through some fundamental with our suppliers to further the Climate Action challenges and changes at this pivotal time, but (SDG #13) standards. Graebel will not lose sight of our commitment to take our CSR efforts to ever-higher levels. Using The Right Tool at the Right Time Action Manager, we will continue to identify and The Action Manager tool arrived at an ideal time address opportunities for improvement. We’ll do in history. Along with many other companies, our part so that, working with companies around Graebel has shifted to a work-from-home model the world, the goals of the U.N. Global Compact due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Action Manager can be met by the 2030 deadline. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 12  Graebel’s Response to the Coronavirus Pandemic: A Case Study PREPARING TALENT MOBILITY PROFESSIONALS TO LEAD THROUGH THE FIRST 120-DAYS OF COVID-19 As COVID-19 prompted governments across the world support while adjusting talent mobility programs and to close borders, restrict travel and implement staystrategy to the new normal of the mobile workforce. at-home orders, global talent mobility professionals¬ Our Coronavirus Information and Resource Center working for businesses classified as ‘essential and was set up to help with: non-essential’ by governments around the world were • Repatriation tasked with adjusting strategy to meet assignee needs, • Insights and Knowledge Sharing stay ahead of evolving health and safety regulations • Virtual Onboarding and Internships and engage company leaders and other stakeholders. • Stakeholder Communication • Supplier Network Simultaneously, Graebel’s top internal priority was to • Immigration make sure our own people were well taken care of so that • Mobility Strategy they could feel safe, equipped, empowered and confident • Duty of Care to serve our clients and their mobile employees. • Extended Relief Services and in-home cleaning services All in all, a very positive Planning efforts to help our clients—particularly those experience! Very in industries deemed ‘essential’, like healthcare, We work closely with our partners to develop pharmaceutical, online retailers, insurance and Extended Relief and In-house cleaning services proactive, caring and financial, among others—started early, when the first programs that provides a range of services to care for responsive. Could signs of it appeared in China and the Asia-Pacific your employees and their families facing challenges not have been more region, and then following it closely as it progressed virtually anywhere in the world. through the rest of the world. effective or better. With Graebel’s guidance, mobility professionals were – Employee of global Adhering to our Mission’s principle of ‘Duty of more prepared, felt more educated and were ready pharmaceuticals company Care’, we helped global mobility leaders respond to to take a seat at the table and help with the people, COVID-19 by providing strategic guidance and tactical processes and technology needed to be successful. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 13  Mobility Making a Sustainable Difference: Graebel Partners Lead the Way I n October 2019, we hosted more than 150 supplier partners from over 40 countries at our annual Graebel Alliance Meeting in Denver. One of the highlights of this conference is announcing the winner of our Annual Environmental Leadership Award. For example, our destination service provider partner recycling programs, such as the “Ecolones” initiative, in South Africa, Relocation Africa, shared their which allows companies to exchange their waste seven-point CSR plan that includes practical water materials for discounts in cinemas, restaurants, conservation at its facilities, rooftop gardening and shops, etc. This year we had a record number of submissions solar heating. Their programs demonstrate how and it was inspiring to learn about how our partners medium and small companies can make an impact In the U.S., our Washington D.C. partner, Paxton are making their communities cleaner, fairer and within their communities, taking many simple steps to International, supports the Move for Hunger program more sustainable. create a big impact. where relocating families can donate food to lighten their load. Paxton went the extra mile and supported This year’s award winner was AGS Mobilitas, an Our partner in Argentina, Lift Van International, Move for Hunger’s D.C. “Rock and Roll Marathon,” international moving and storage company providing empowered one of their employees to develop the collecting 20,000 pounds of donated food after the race. service on four continents with over 4,000 employees. company’s “Giving is your best move” program, (Please read more about AGS Mobilitas in our helping relocating families donate unwanted These are just a few examples of our partners’ Environment Leadership Award feature) clothing. The program helps the disadvantaged and sustainability efforts. We’re proud to be affiliated with reduces the volume of shipments, saving energy and these companies and we’ll do our best to share their As we reviewed all the award submissions, reducing emissions. ideas and best practices throughout the industry. we uncovered similar inspiring stories from Our nearly 900 Graebel employees around the globe other companies. Mudanzas Mundiales in Costa Rica, told us about join them in this commitment to make our world their partnership with local and national government better, cleaner and more sustainable. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 14 Since 2015, Graebel contributed funds to American Forests that equate to the planting of over 30,000 trees ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Move For Hunger O ur CSR Committee is charged with establishing environmental measures and initiatives across the globe. By integrating our environmental work with that of our supplier partners, internal teams, and organizations, we help to minimize our carbon footprint throughout the An Ongoing Commitment and Partnership relocation process. Since 2007, we’ve maintained ISO 14001 certification at headquarters, providing structure for our Over the past four years, Graebel environmental management systems. In addition to adhering to these standards, we’re using our industry leverage to encourage partner companies to also operate according to these principles. teams across the U.S. have participated in multiple local fundraisers for the Move for Hunger organization, raising over $30,000 (see Colfax Marathon FOR EXAMPLE: AS FOR OUR OWN EFFORTS, WE'VE: story in ‘Americas Region-People and Communities’ update). Revised International Supplier Planted 6,500 trees in 2019 standards to include requirement in partnership with American to adopt, maintain and implement Forests – one tree is planted Since 2009, Move for Hunger, a U.S. policies which align with UN Global for every online transferee nonprofit organization has worked with Compact principles evaluation we receive movers and temporary living providers Transportation service providers to collect surplus food items from encouraged to convert to higher Expanded use of virtual families who are moving and deliver it CARB-compliant standards and pre-move survey processes to to local food pantries. We’ve partnered enhance the recycling and reuse of minimize fuel usage with Move for Hunger since 2016 to their packing materials promote the program to our clients and their employees. Temporary housing providers are Expanded use of consolidated mandated to offer onsite recycling containerized shipping options services and use energy-efficient to reduce transportation miles design and utilities CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 16  ANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL Leadership Award UN Global Compact Signatory since 2009: AGS aligns their company’s programs with the ten Compact principles related to labor, E ach year we acknowledge one of our supplier partners for exceptional sustainability efforts. We were proud to honor this year’s Environmental Leadership Award winner, AGS Mobilitas, an international moving and storage company providing service on four environment and anti-corruption continents with over 4,000 employees. We were impressed with the company’s sustainability initiatives Solar Heating and in their local markets in Africa, Eco-grazing: Europe and Asia as well their efforts on a global scale. AGS has been Several AGS facilities use these environmentally a signatory to the United Nations friendly options for land management Global Compact since 2009, aligning their company’s programs with the ten Compact principles related to labor, environment and anticorruption. AGS also maintains a unique partnership with Planete Urgence, funding one tree for every AGS move. Its Paris location has a Gold-level Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) rating from the independent Ecovadis Eco-Friendly rating organization. Several of its facilities use solar heating as well as eco-grazing for landscape packing material: management. AGS also has moved away from its classic white packing materials to more ecofriendly, unbleached corrugated materials. AGS uses more eco-friendly, unbleached corrugated materials moving away from classic Please read about other inspiring stories from other supplier partners in our feature story entitled, white packing materials ‘Mobility Making a Sustainable Difference: Graebel Partners Lead the Way’. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 / 2020 17 R E SP ON SIBLY OPERATING G raebel aspires to secure the certifications which apply to our industry segments to demonstrate our commitment to the highest standards. In addition to our commitment to the UN Global Compact, we follow guidelines from the following organizations to ensure quality for international moves, data collection, security, privacy, environmental leadership and other concerns related to protecting our clients’ information, as well as anti-bribery and customtrade partnerships: FIDI-FAIMPLUS, the premier seal of quality Annual SOC-2 compliance audits, which for the international moving industry. relate to data security, availability, processing We’ve qualified in each of the past 20 years. integrity, confidentiality and privacy. ISO 14001: 2015, which certifies our TRACE International, a non-profit headquarters as having an effective membership that specializes in anti-bribery environmental management system, due diligence reviews. providing us with a solid framework for organizational performance. The Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), which seeks to safeguard The General Data Protection Regulation the world’s vibrant trade industry from (GDPR), an EU legal framework that sets terrorists Audited and recertified in 2019. guidelines for the collection of data and personal information of our clients and their employees. We’ve also established an annual testing plan for GPDR compliance, including breach notification. GRAEBEL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 18 201 9 2 020 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTACT US FOR QUESTIONS OR FURTHER INFORMATION. GRAEBEL.COM © 2020 GRAEBEL COMPANIES, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. ALL TRADEMARKS ARE THE PROPERTY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE OWNERS.
