PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 REPORT CONTENT • From our Director • Company Identity • PT. Pangansari Profile • Implementation of UNGC Principles Human Rights Labor Standard Environment Anti – Corruption • Partnership in Support of UN Goals PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. FROM OUR DIRECTOR PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA (PSU) was founded in 1975, in association with Greatways Group of Companies that operated extensively throughout South East Asia. This group of Companies was involved in Restaurants, Bars, Coffee Shops, Supermarkets, Bakeries, Offshore Services, Food Supply, Industrial Catering and Remote Site Support Services. Firstly, between 1976 and 1979, PSU started to develop its Food Supply activities for PT. Pertamina at the Bontang LNG plant in Indonesia. In 1980, when the government issued a Presidential Decree No. 14A concerning Procurement and Distribution of Products PSU has further constructed a complete set of Cold Storage and Warehousing Facilities in Balikpapan to cope up with wide range of services to the Clients throughout East Kalimantan including Hotels, Restaurants, Commissaries and Remote Construction Sites. During 1981, PSU enlarged its scope of activities into Industrial Catering and Total Remote Site Support Services for Projects throughout Indonesia ranging from Aceh to Papua. Soon thereafter, In response to client needs, PSU further turned out leading to the construction of complete cold storage, freezer and warehousing facilities in Jakarta, Surabaya, and Balikpapan. Each project presented its own unique challenges and required its own tailored solution. PSU then developed its professional expertise and modern infrastructure of supply chain that ensures excellent end product quality and choice by applying highly approved technology to track, trace and coordinate the entire distributions. In 2011, PT. Pangansari Utama Food Resources became Holding Company of PSU. PSU has rapidly become bigger and bigger ever since, and expanded its operations from Eastern to Western parts of Indonesia. The rapid size and complexity of PSU within the devised framework of its contractual agreements with a number of companies, variety of community including the native tribes, has compelled PSU to consider what is the impact of PSU operations to all of these stakeholders, and how to develop and maintain the sustainability of PSU among these groups. All of these parallel with the current governmental regulations whereby a corporation must put into practice a strong commitment to implement Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in their daily operational activities. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. COMPANY IDENTITY Company Name : PT. Pangansari Utama Address : Jl. Raya Poncol No. 24 Ciracas Jakarta Timur Country : Indonesia Contact Name : Mr. Maghfur Lasah Contact Position : President Director Contact Telephone : +62 21 871 7870 Membership Date : 22 March 2013 No of Employees : + 4200 employees Sector : Catering & Support Services PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. COMPANY IDENTITY Brief Description of Nature Business PT. Pangansari Utama (PSU) was founded in 1975. It operates as a food service and distribution company in the Asia Pacific and provides industrial, community, institutional and in-flight catering services, food processing, patisserie, manufacturing, storage and warehousing, shipping and handling, training, retail, facility management, maintenance, and remote site support services . PSU primarily serves catering and housekeeping services for the oil and gas and mining companies, hospitals, airports, international schools, and also factories in Indonesia. PSU’s head office is in Jakarta with the branch offices spreading out from the west to the east parts of Indonesia such as at Palembang, Pekanbaru, Surabaya, Balikpapan, Makassar, Timika, Sorong, and Tembagapura; while the overseas services include South East Region. It operates with it’s current work forces comprising of employees 4,200 employees. PSU has operationally changes during the last one year in terms of the structure of PSU since the addition of one of Director as President Director as a Top Management in PSU and several Management to strenghten the operational of company. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. COMPANY IDENTITY Vision To be the leading Food Resources Solutions Company with the World Class Capabilities Mission To excel operation of Company's core business by providing a totally reliable service in the Catering Industry, Food Distribution, Manufacturing Product, Supplies Consolidation, Retailing, Camps, Integrated Housekeeping, related Hospitality and other Facility Management Support Services . Values Our Corporate Values represent the slogan “DEIISY”: • Dedication • Excellent Service • Innovative • Integrity • SYnergy PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should Principle 1: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to support and respect the protection environmental challenges; of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 2: make sure that they are responsibility; and not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the HUMAN ENVIRONMENT RIGHTS development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ANTI LABOUR CORRUPTION Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Principle 6: the elimination of including extortion and bribery. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2019 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. HUMAN RIGHT Our support and respect to the International declaration of Human right has been our commitment since years ago as the implementation of our social responsibility. Internally, Principle 1 we facilitate our employee with working safety environment, health insurance, and freedom Businesses should support and respect in belief of such religion. Externally, we do provide customer care program to support the protection of internationally customer satisfaction and gave quickly feed-backed when arise complaints, both for our proclaimed human rights; and products and services. PSU have to make sure that everyone in this company has contribution to the success of Principle 2 company target achievement with no any discrimination. We ensure that there is no make sure that they are not complicit in employee in the work place under intimidation and threaten in expressing their ideas. human rights abuses. Outcomes: • PSU provides Musholla for Muslim employees to represent our commitment on supporting the freedom in belief of such religion and also provides a meeting room for Christian Prayer Community every Friday. • PSU has a refreshment corner for employee that provides coffee and tea to refresh their mind after or during working. • PSU Provides a Nursery Room for breast-feeding Mother. • PSU provides sport facilities and instructor for Employee’s health. • Management provide one package of basic food subsidies and affordable for each employee per month. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. HUMAN RIGHT Refreshment Area, Praying Room, Nursery, Sport Facilities, Basic Food Subsidies and affordable announcement PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. HUMAN RIGHT 11 December 2019 Since 2019, Pangansari Utama dispatch Umrah for Moslem and Christian Holyland Tour to employees who excel and have worked in the company until facing their pension as a form of appreciation of their performance. 17 February 2020 PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. HUMAN RIGHT PSU in doing business recognizes and respects the human rights. The human rights basically concerned with equality and fairness, freedom of choice, living a life free from Principle 1 fear, harassment, or discrimination, inhumane treatments, etc. All of these have made Businesses should support and respect human rights to be universal. the protection of internationally Since 2007 PSU has encouraged its employees to respect and implement human rights in proclaimed human rights; and the operational work place. The human rights sessions were generally given to all level of employees regardless of their positions. PSU and its employees support and respect the Principle 2 protection of human rights whilst ensuring that all are not complicit in human rights make sure that they are not complicit in abuses. human rights abuses. All employees regardless of their level of positions have attended numerous classes of the Socialization of Human Rights since 2007. Client company has allowed PSU to conduct the internal Socialization of Human Rights to its employees. The Socialization of Human Rights was given to make certain that PSU personnel were sufficiently knowledgeable in Human Rights and Human Rights Violations. Employees should adhere to the CLA that consist of all employment terms and conditions to be met, and right and duties of all parties involved. This include adherence to Human Rights regulations . (GC HR1) PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. HUMAN RIGHT Each employee has a right to report any violation against the Human Rights (GC HR2). Subsequent to this, each supplier or contractor has its own mechanism to handle and process all violations Principle 1 against the human rights. Certain areas like PT Freeport Indonesia has adopted a regulation that Businesses should support and respect it’s suppliers, contractors, and privatized companies providing products or services to them must the protection of internationally be given a mandatory human rights induction program (GC HR3). PSU FI project has sent more than proclaimed human rights; and 80 percent employees to attend this mandatory sessions. No incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken whatsoever being reported involving PSU employees in the past (GC HR4). Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in PSU received no complaints of Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to human rights abuses. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights (GC HR5), nor they are reported as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor (GC HR6) and/ or identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor (GC HR7), and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor . PSU itself strongly restricts child labor in its operation. PSU will consider about sending its security personnel to be trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations (GC HR8) . PSU received no reports of incidents/ violations involving right of indigenous people and actions taken (GC HR9) , nor any operation sites that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (GC HR10), and/or grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (GC HR11) . Future Target: In 2020, PSU maintain this policy to remain the same PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. WORK ENVIRONMENT PSU encourage the employees to bound with anykind of bounding activity due to implement equality within workplace. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the Outcomes: protection of internationally proclaimed human PSU staffs enjoy the potluck together at least once by two months rights; and Management PSU always celebrate employee’s birthday every month and hold a farewell party for employee has in retirement period Principle 2 Our employee relationship increases, they have a better communication with one other make sure that they are not complicit in human No boundaries between employees and the management team rights abuses. To encourage employee to have a healthy life, PSU holds a wellness program every month. Outcomes: Every employee had the chance to join this wellness program To encourage employee to have a caring with other people, PSU holds a blood donation, cooperate with PMI (Indonesian Red Cross Society) Outcomes: Every employee had the chance to donate their blood once in three months PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. LABOR Combined training program with local Vocational High School. Principle 3 Receiving students on vocational high school level to do “field practice” for three months. This Businesses should uphold the freedom of program is yearly basis, and PT. PSU is receiving students from two school with their major of study association and the effective recognition of “culinary arts” and “department office”. the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The Effective Abolition Of Child Labor the elimination of all forms of forced and We do strongly committed against child labor with minimum age is over 18 years old and we apply compulsory labour; such standard of employment based on company rules. ( GC HR5) Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Avoid the Discrimination In Related with Employment And Occupation The discrimination relates to treating employee differently based on an unfair or unsubstantiated Principle 6 category such as race, nationality, gender or religious affiliations in recruitment, promotion, the elimination of discrimination in respect training and career development. We provide fair opportunity to all employees to get higher salary of employment and occupation. improvement based on individual achievement and performance appraisal. Personal evaluation is done independently by other employees at the same level who close relate in the work place. Promotion procedures are based on personal performance which evaluated by direct superior, head of department and human resources department. It is, therefore, different person get different amount or percentage of salary improvement annually. (GC HR6) PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION PSU opens the communication between employee/internal through some communication programs to address their aspirations to management and vice versa. Some of the programs are: • Management Review Meeting An annual meeting at the end of the business year, attended by all department head to recognize the achievers and communicate company’s quality target, customer survey and internal audit result. • Internal and External Training (Hard & Soft Skill) The Training is a monthly class for employee to sharpen their knowledge or help their productivity and services • Budget and Work Program Meeting Hold in the end of the year to discuss the budget for qualitative and quantitative program in the upcoming year • Coordination Meeting PSU’s Board of Directors invite all General Managers and Managers every month to discuss the company operational • Outcomes: Socialize the Program of UN Global Compact by Mrs. Lisa Luhur Schad as a Chief CSR Officer Media Group (18 June 2019) PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make COMMUNITY SERVICE some social activities per year. Papuan Scholarship Program Batch VII (2019-2022) • As commencement realization of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) from PT Pangansari Utama in general and located in Freeport Project Papua in specific; • To prepare trained and skilled candidates Employees within the work scope of PT. Pangansari Utama • As basis for commencement of Succession Plan and Program to prepare the regeneration cycle replacing terminated Employees (resigned, retired, etc.). The Goals is Papuan natives, graduates of Jr. High School or Tourism Industry Jr. High School with some criterias: 1. Papuan Natives (specifically from the 7 Tribes). 2. Rank 1-5 (Top/ Best 5) in SMP/ SMIP. 3. Interested in working in service industry. 4. Interested to work in PT. Pangansari Utama (minimum 4 years-bonding following graduation) 5. Originated from less-fortunate family background. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make COMMUNITY SERVICE some social activities per year. Activities with Bumdes of ARAR Sorong Village (PSU uses Submission of 200 boxes of Snack Box Donations at fish from ARAR Fishermen for Petrogas Project, Sorong) the commemoration of National Health Day and World Aids Day November 22, 2019 December 5, 2019 PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make COMMUNITY SERVICE some social activities per year. Donating for Orphanage at surround environment of Head Office Jakarta Ramadhan Season 2019 PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make COMMUNITY SERVICE some social activities per year. PT. Biomagg Indonesia collected the special food waste to be processed by Maggot BSF (Black Soldier Flies) at June 11, 2019 consist of frozen chicken and meat which is expired and rotten, besides they collect our food waste from Central Kitchen daily. Utilization of results : Maggot after harvesting is then used as animal feed. PT Biomagg Indonesia utilizes maggot to feed catfish and poultry (ducks and chickens). Meanwhile, organic waste from maggot decomposition is used for organic garden fertilizer which is located behind the BSF cultivation area. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make COMMUNITY SERVICE some social activities per year. Participation in Program Peduli Dhuafa which held by LPPOM MUI, Contributing for World ASI Week provided 500 lunch boxes. At Public Health Centre Ciracas (Nearby Office), provided 210 snack boxes for that activity. 27 May 2019. 12 August 2019 PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. As our commitment to corporate social responsibilities, PSU make COMMUNITY SERVICE some social activities per year. Donations of hewan Qurban/ sacrificial animal for Ciracas and local communities. 11 August 2019. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. ENVIRONMENT • In water usage we are targeting to reduce 10% in compare to last year. Principle 7 Businesses should support a • Encourage the use of reused paper and print any documentation wisely. precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Supporting PT. Freeport Indonesia (Environmental Department) on providing the used cooking oil to be proceed and produced as fuel. This as an action which combining other Principle 8 company to achieve one of the principles of UN Global Compact in environment areas. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. ENVIRONMENT The Waste Cooking Oil that we produce as much as 1000 liters per month is processed in refinary to become B30 biodiesel at PT Artha Metro Oil in Sidoarjo. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. ANTI CORRUPTION We have committed and agreed with this principle and will not tolerate any Principle 10 kind of corruption in our personal life as well as business activity. We do not Businesses should work against corruption in all its practice the bribery as well as corruption which do not allow in our business forms, including extortion and bribery. and personal life activities. (GC AC10) Pedoman Perilaku & Budaya Perusahaan DAFTAR ISI Surat Pengantar 1 Pendahuluan 2 Pakta Integritas 3 Visi – Misi Perusahaan 4 Budaya Perusahaan 5 Komitmen Prinsip-Prinsip GCG 9 Pedoman Perilaku 10 Sanksi Pelanggaran 13 Penutup 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Covering Letter 1 Foreword 2 Integrity Pact 3 Corporate Vision & Mission 4 Corporate Culture 5 Commitment of GCG Principles 9 Code of Conduct 10 PEDOMAN PERILAKU Breaches & Punishment Closing 13 14 & BUDAYA PERUSAHAAN Code of Conduct & Corporate Culture PT. Pangansari Utama Food Resources Pangansari Utama Food Resources released the code of conduct & corporate culture to be applied to all the employees. PT. Pangansari Utama ©2020 PSU. All rights reserved. Do not use without permission. THE INDUSTRIAL CATERING EXPERT PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA Jl. Raya Poncol No. 24 Ciracas Jakarta 13740 Indonesia T +62 21 871 7870 F +62 21 871 7869 www.pangansari.co.id
