Integrated Report 2019 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2019 Editorial Policy CTC’s corporate mission is “leveraging IT’s potential to change the future for the Global Good.” In Integrated Report 2019, we explain how our value creation model provides the path toward sustainable growth that will enable us to fulfill this mission. From the perspective of value creation, CTC’s forte lies in supporting the IT lifecycle and a corporate culture cultivated through business activities conducted over many years. Leveraging these attributes, through its business CTC strives to enhance corporate value for its clients and help resolve social issues. Though an overview of the Company’s corporate activities, this report provides general financial and non-financial information selected in view of its importance. Scope of Report This report covers ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation (CTC) and its consolidated subsidiaries and includes information about non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates. Notes on Financial Amounts Figures less than one unit have been rounded down, based on IFRS. Forward-Looking Statements Statements made in this report with respect to CTC’s plans, strategies, and beliefs, and other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements about the future performance of CTC based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of information available at the time of publication and involve certain risks and uncertainties. CTC assumes no obligation to publicly update these forward-looking statements to reflect events, changes in the operating environment, or unforeseen developments that occur after the date of publication. This report is designed to provide in-depth information about CTC’s management strategy, messages to Website stakeholders, and other topics. For the Information latest financial data and news about our business initiatives and projects, please visit the following links. IR Information www.ctc-g.co.jp/rose/en/index.htm IR documents such as financial results and securities filings, as well as the latest IR news CSR www.ctc-g.co.jp/en/corporate/csr/ D  etailed information about the Group’s relationships with ­clients, business partners, employees, and communities, as well as corporate governance and environmental initiatives Corporate Governance Report (Japanese only) www.ctc-g.co.jp/rose/profile/pdf/cor_gov.pdf Project Reports (Japanese only) http://www.ctc-g.co.jp/report/index.html Project case studies, event reports, and articles Best Engine http://www.ctc-g.co.jp/en/corporate/pr/ T  his publication describes the Company’s initiatives related to the most recent IT trends and technologies. 01 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Cover Story Challenging Tomorrow’s Changes SLOGAN Human resources are the type of management resource most critical to the IT business. Diverse human resources who are highly capable and motivated take on new challenges and ­perpetuate our DNA. We have introduced a host of HR policies to enhance our environment. Human Resource Strategies P.35 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 02 Cover Story MISSION Leveraging IT’s potential to change the future for the Global Good People have diverse values, and “Global Good” can mean different things to different people. As a company, we define this term as the role society demands of us and our responsibilities to society, and we reflect the voice of broader society in our corporate activities. Stakeholder Dialogue P.59 Environmental Initiatives P.63 Contributing to Society P.65 Corporate Governance P.67 03 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Once 5G is fully commercialized, the utilization of 5G to create new business will become a new pillar of activity. By taking advantage of our long-standing track record in the configuration of telecommunications networks, we will showcase our ability to create new businesses with clients. Horizon 2 Go Forwards: Sharpen our Advantages P.29 L U E S VA Challenge the Change Are you determined? Are you constantly trying new things without ever giving up? Challenge the Value Are you creative? Do you create value that exceeds customers’ expectations? Challenge the Future Are you free thinking? Do you strive to map out a brighter future? ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 04 Take responsibility for the evolution N VISIO of the IT industry, as the industry’s n Visio leading company Our TC for C Slogan Challenging Tomorrow’s p Changes T C Grou C o phy Mission l o s Phi Leveraging IT’s potential to change the future for the Global Good Values—Action Guidelines Challenge the Change Are you determined? Are you constantly trying GAN new things without ever giving up? SLO Challenge the Value Are you creative? Do you create value that exceeds customers’ expectations? Challenge the Future Are you free thinking? Do you strive to map out a brighter future? I S S ION M CTC Group Code of Conduct We at CTC will endeavor to fulfill our corporate social responsibility in accordance with the CTC Group Philosophy, and always conduct ourselves with a strong sense of ethics and responsibility based on an understanding of the code set forth below: 1. Full Commitment to Compliance 2. Offering Services and Products Useful to the World 3. Fair Trade and Prevention of Corruption UES 4. Strict Management of Information V A L 5. Creation of a Work Environment with Respect for Human Rights 6. Consideration for a Sustainable Environment 7. Contribution to Society 8. Standing Against Antisocial Forces and Organizations 9. Reporting and Preventing the Recurrence of Violations 10. Taking the Initiative and Setting Good Examples 05 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Contents CTC’s Value Creation Story The Foundation Supporting Value Creation 07 Message from the President 57 The CTC Group’s Materiality 13 The CTC Group’s History of Embracing Challenges 59 Stakeholder Dialogue: Realizing a sustainable society: What sort of 15 The CTC Group’s Value Creation Model abundance will be needed for the future? 17 CTC Group Strength 1: 63 Environmental Initiatives The Ability to Create New Businesses with Clients 65 Contributing to Society 18 CTC Group Strength 2: The Ability to Build New Businesses by Harnessing IT 67 Corporate Governance 19 Source of the CTC Group’s Strength: The Ability to 67 Corporate Governance Respond in the Era of Cloud Computing 77 Communication with Stakeholders 21 Key Financial and Non-Financial Data 78 Internal Control and Compliance 79 Risk Management System CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Corporate and Other Information 23 Medium-Term Management Plan 81 Financial Highlights — Opening New Horizons — 83 Non-Financial Highlights 23 CTC’s Position and Changes in the Operating Environment 84 Glossary 25 Plan Overview and Progress 85 Management Team 27 Horizon 1 Go Upwards!: Challenge Business Transformation 86 Organization Chart 29 Horizon 2 Go Forwards!: Sharpen Our Advantages 87 Corporate Data 31 Horizon 3 Go Outwards!: New Coverage, New Region in Globe 88 Stock Information 33 Horizon 4 Consolidate Footholds!: Stabilize Management Infrastructure 35 Horizon 4 Consolidate Footholds!: Human Resource Strategies 39 Main Business Strategies 39 Business Segments at a Glance 41 Enterprise Group 43 Distribution Group 45 Telecommunication Group 47 Regional & Social Infrastructure Group 49 Financial Services Group 51 IT Services Group 52 Service Design Group 53 Global Business Division 54 Major Group Companies in Japan 55 Message from the CFO ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 06 CTC’s Value Creation Story Message from the President President & CEO Satoshi Kikuchi 07 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Maintaining a Client Perspective and Taking On New Challenges This is already my eighth year since having been appointed president—time has passed quickly. Rather than to change things at CTC, I see it as my role to propel the Company forward in its areas of strength. This reasoning stems from my belief that even though it operates in the fast-changing IT sector, the values and DNA that the Company has built up over the years have earned it the unwavering support of its clients. At the root of the values CTC holds dear are its focus on maintaining a client perspective, which is expressed in the Company’s marketing capabilities across a wide range of job categories. We strive to gain a deep understanding of our clients’ needs and issues and provide optimal solutions to resolve them. To achieve this, my sense is that throughout the Company we remain constantly attuned to information on the latest technologies, honing our technological capabilities. Having observed this working environment, I became convinced that flexibility and elasticity are the secrets to management in our industry. Rather than being firmly wedded to specific modes of operation in certain fields, I believe the ability to accept new ideas and respond flexibly to the needs of our clients and society are essential to sustained growth. Infrastructure business related to 5G mobile communications systems is expected to finally gain momentum in fiscal 2019, with a view to commercial rollout in 2020. Over many years, CTC has built up expertise in providing solutions centered on configuring networks for Japanese carriers. By aligning our perspective with those of our clients, we will embrace new businesses that clients are working to realize through 5G technologies and the issues they are seeking to resolve. Another value CTC holds dear is the spirit of challenge. Reflected in the Company slogan of “Challenging Tomorrow’s Changes” is a deeprooted Groupwide culture of trying new things and seeing them through to the end. In addition to achieving sustainable growth for the Company, through our business we aim to help realize a sustainable society. To that end, we aim to continue taking on the challenge of helping resolve the issues society faces. August 2019 President & CEO Satoshi Kikuchi ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 08 CTC’s Value Creation Story Message from the President Expressing Things in My Own Words and the top of my mind when considering our business and Engaging in Dialogue human resource strategies. When I was first appointed president, the field of IT was new to me. Still, a president’s job is to improve a company Opening New Horizons that may still be in operation 100 years in the future before Turning now to the management environment surrounding passing it on to the next generation. Although I needed to the IT industry, it is clear that IT is playing an ever greater acquire some specialist expertise, I did have experience as role in supporting society and resolving society’s issues. As the president of an operating company. I have also realized the term “Society 5.0” suggests, initiatives that utilize digital that rather than following along and working according to transformation (DX), artificial intelligence (AI), and the my superiors’ instructions, I am better suited to using my Internet of Things (IoT) to address such issues as a falling own discretion in managing a company. A manager’s tasks birthrate and aging population, an unevenly distributed popare essentially the same, whatever the industry. First, I put in ulation, and the reduction of environmental impact are gainplace some of the practices from my previous workplace, ing currency in society. Companies are also becoming more so I started and have steadily continued to use my own aware that combining their own businesses with leadingwords to express my thoughts in an easy-to-understand edge technologies to respond to society’s new needs is manner and engage proactively in dialogue with frontline essential to their sustainable growth. employees. The full-scale launch of 5G mobile communications systems is imminent. If we can put in place the infrastructure Leveraging CTC’s Strengths, Built by Taking a Client for achieving enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB), UltraPerspective Reliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC), and Going out onto the front lines, I saw that employees were massive Machine Type Communication (mMTC), IT will be closely involved with clients and working from the same called on to perform far more functions for society than perspective. Many times I heard clients say things like “First, ever before as it connects people with things and things let’s consult with the people at CTC” and “I’d like to work with other things, as well as people to other people. with Person X at CTC.” I recognized that the concept of The new Medium-Term Management Plan we formuworking from a client perspective was deeply rooted in our lated in April 2018 is named “Opening New Horizons.” This employees’ psyche, and that building strong client relationplan indicates the fields in which CTC will leverage its own ships was a distinctive strength for CTC. In fact, these traits strengths to take up challenges in an era where IT is playing underlie the Company’s business model. an ever more important role. We have defined the directions Originally, the Company’s business focused on sourcing for broadening our horizons as “Go upwards: Challenge leading-edge products from the United States and other business transformation,” “Go forwards: Sharpen our advancountries for sale in Japan. Even after that point, we contintages,” “Go outwards: New coverage, new region in globe” ued to build up our business by providing optimal proposals and “Consolidate footholds: Stabilize management that combined products and services to fulfill the functions infrastructure.” clients required. As a result, we accumulated the tangible We have positioned each of the plan’s three years differand intangible assets an IT company needs to grow: the ently. We explain that fiscal 2019, the second year, is our ability to handle a large number of products and services, “breakthrough” year both internally and externally. The partnerships with suppliers, and the technological capabilinaming of the years of the plan in Japanese corresponds to ties to combine these products and services optimally to artistic modulations in traditional Japanese performance art. meet specifications. The first year corresponds to the introduction, beginning By providing clients with a variety of products, we also steadily (intro). The second year, the breakthrough phase, is cultivated expertise among our employees in providing more rhythmic (breakthrough), and the third year, or accelafter-sales maintenance, operations, and other support. We eration, rushes toward the climax (accel). Although we conconsequently built up a business model that is unique in our ceived the idea based on concepts we are familiar with in industry. We became able to handle operations across the IT Japan, this expression of a cycle from beginning to end is lifecycle—from proposing products to configuring systems universal, and is found in Western theater as well. and providing support—without being tied to specific manuIn fiscal 2018, the “intro” year, projects connected to IoT facturers and products. and other next-generation businesses were realized and In other words, because client perspective was the origin started contributing to earnings. We also made progress on of our business, it naturally became a strength that fueled building an earnings model in which maintenance, cloud, our growth in the IT field. I strive to keep this viewpoint at and other legacy businesses created a stable earnings base. 09 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Because client perspective was the origin of our business, it naturally became a strength that fueled our growth in the IT field. The “breakthrough” year of fiscal 2019 will mark the medicine and autonomous vehicles to smart factories that full-fledged start of initiatives for “Opening New Horizons.” utilize local 5G networks. In building-based businesses, by We will focus in particular on three key measures: 5G, DX, virtue of its technology for building high-speed networks, CTC and global. Let me briefly outline our direction in each of is uniquely positioned to provide numerous sorts of proposals. these areas. In particular, we should be able to leverage this strength in the Please see pages P.23–38 for details on the Medium-Term Management Plan. area of local 5G networks. I am convinced that the Company’s style of business holds the key to major opportunities. 5G: Leveraging Our Know-How in Building Infrastructure In addition to its business of building carriers’ 5G networks, DX: Making the Most of a Keen Eye and Technological CTC needs to acquire usage-based businesses, creating new Capabilities businesses that leverage 5G. CTC offers a number of strengths to clients striving to use IT We expect to steadily expand our building-based busito propel themselves to the next stage: business expertise ness, buoyed by our many years of experience in working accumulated through business with a wide range of clients, with Japan’s leading carriers. I am confident that our track a keen eye for the latest technologies honed by providing record of providing solutions optimized to each carrier’s some of the best products in the world, and the technologiindividual needs has earned us the trust of our clients and cal capabilities to combine these technologies. earnings opportunities. The research activities of an R&D center we set up on The Telecommunication Group has been central to our the West Coast of the United States in 1990 support our initiatives in the building-based business. By comparison, all efforts to keep a keen eye on information related to breakbusiness groups will have the opportunity to take on new ing technologies. This center keeps our antennae outchallenges in usage-based businesses. Such businesses are stretched and liaises with our front lines to uncover possible in a wide range of industrial fields, from remote leading-edge technologies that meet our clients’ needs. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 10 CTC’s Value Creation Story Message from the President Also, in 2017 we established the Institute of Open Innovation In fiscal 2018, we entered a capital alliance with SYSCOM Research “MIRAI” to leverage the leading-edge technologies (USA) INC. of the United States and a business alliance with of startup companies in Japan and overseas. In October of Newton Information Technology Ltd. of the United Kingdom. the same year we opened DEJIMA, a dedicated space in Tokyo In fiscal 2019, we will endeavor to expand our scale of busifor open innovation, providing an environment where we ness efficiently, including through M&A. We will also recruit can work with startup companies to create new businesses. local personnel overseas, concentrating first on building a As part of an organizational reform in April 2019, we set network spanning the ASEAN region. up a new structure with a group of top-level engineers led by the Chief Technology Officer (CTO). By cultivating and Stabilizing Our Management Infrastructure verifying leading technologies near the front lines, as well To this point, I have explained our growth strategy in the as by nurturing the human resources to utilize these techcontext of reinforcing CTC’s strengths. Of course, managenologies, we are maintaining our keen eye and honing our ment cannot simply press down on the accelerator forever. technological capabilities to meet the needs of clients in If, through verification, we find some risks that are strategithe DX generation. cally critical and cannot be ignored, we have to formulate Leveraging these technologies marks the manifestation measures to address those risks. of digital businesses—IoT and AI. To illustrate, CTC is providWith Japan affected by a labor shortage, recruiting ing full-fledged backup for the digital businesses that the human resources is an urgent issue for the IT industry as ITOCHU Group is promoting. We are expanding earnings well. As 5G and DX progress, we will need to recruit and culopportunities by creating new businesses through value tivate as many people as possible with strong technological chain optimization, the digitalization of payments, and the capabilities and put in place an environment that encourlinking and analysis of customer data. ages them to maximize their potential with us for as long as possible. It almost goes without saying that cultivating good Global: Expanding Our Scale of Business, Including human resources is our most important priority over the through M&A medium to long term. To date, CTC has focused mostly on 5G and DX are breaking down the borders of business even hiring mid-career professionals. Recently, we have been more than ever before. Even IT companies are likely to transitioning toward the hiring and development of new become unable to grow sustainably through domestic busigraduates. We recognize the need for work-style reforms ness alone. As in the past, our global business involves and other ongoing measures to put in place a working envistrengthening support structures as Japanese companies ronment that encourages excellent human resources to develop their businesses overseas and building business remain with us for a long period of time. through collaboration with companies in areas slated for Please see pages P.35–38 for details on our human resource strategies. high economic growth, particularly the ASEAN region. I believe CTC’s raison d’être is to provide value that makes society more bountiful. 11 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 As part of our efforts to stabilize our management infrastructure, we revamped our corporate governance structure in June 2019. We slimmed down the Board of Directors from nine members to six, two of whom are independent outside directors. Both are women, helping to ensure the Board’s diversity. We increased membership of the Board of Corporate Auditors from three to four, with two members being independent outside auditors. Having put the structures in place, now is the time to focus on content. To ensure CTC’s sustainable growth, we will endeavor to fortify the governance system, facilitating energetic exchanges of opinion and swift decision-making. E  nsuring Sustainable Growth for Society and the Company Our numerical targets for the period of the Medium-Term change the future for the Global Good.” I believe CTC’s Management Plan are aimed at simultaneously boosting raison d’être is to provide value that makes society more profit and increasing capital efficiency. We are targeting bountiful. return of equity (ROE) of 12% or more by fiscal 2020. We will To realize our vision and mission, we signed up to the divide the cash provided by operating activities mainly among United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and support its 10 shareholder returns and the investments in growth I have principles in four key areas: human rights, labor, the environmentioned—particularly M&A and human resources. In line ment, and anti-corruption. Also, in March 2016 we identified with its basic policy on providing dividends to return profits areas of materiality to help realize a sustainable society to the shareholders who support the Company, CTC works through our business. These areas of materiality are linked to secure stable dividend payments and stresses the return with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals of profits according to business performance, while carefully (SDGs) to help our employees see a clear connection considering the balance of internal reserves and the actual between their roles and the SDGs. amount distributed to shareholders. Targeting a consoliI mentioned that flexibility and elasticity were the dated dividend payout ratio of approximately 45%, we raised secrets to management in the fast-changing IT industry. I dividend distributions for the 10th consecutive year. think this style of work is particularly apt for CTC, which is That said, measuring the success of corporate activity on dedicated to combining and providing superior products the basis of earnings growth and dividends alone seems from around the world. I invite our stakeholders to join us insufficient. Our vision for CTC is to “take responsibility for on the journey to see how CTC grows and keeps pace with the evolution of the IT industry, as the industry’s leading a changing society. company,” and our mission is “leveraging IT’s potential to Fiscal 2018 Results Fiscal 2020 Numerical Goals (¥ billion) 3: Strengthen profitability FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Plan Net profit attributable to Revenue 429.6 451.9 480.0 CTC’s shareholders  ¥30.0 billion Operating income 32.6 35.8 39.0 6: Drive growth in core businesses Net profit attributable Cloud and IT outsourcing business  ¥60.0 billion 23.5 24.6 27.0 ¥60.0 billion to CTC’s shareholders Global business  ROE 11.8% 11.5% — 12: Increase capital efficiency ROE  12 % or more ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 12 CTC’s Value Creation Story The CTC Group’s corporate culture is distinguished by the word “challenges.” Since establishment, the role we are called upon to perform in the IT industry has The CTC Group’s changed, but we have consistently worked to provide History of Embracing optimum solutions to meet clients’ requirements by cultivating leading-edge technologies and enhancing our technological capabilities. Our mindset of embracing Challenges challenges, nurtured over many years, is evident in our corporate slogan, “Challenging Tomorrow’s Changes,” and our corporate brand, “CTC.” 1972 Established as a business operator within the ITOCHU Group CTC’s predecessor, C. ITOH Data Systems Co., Ltd., was established in 1972. As a subsidiary of a trading company, the new company’s business revolved around customizing and selling the best products from around the world to Japanese clients. The company derived a higher proportion of sales from products than other system integrators, and CTC’s business model, which emphasizes the building of infrastructure, carries forward to this day. 1970198019901998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 1980s 1990 1990s Started sales of Oracle products E  stablished ITOCHU Technology, Inc. Launched a business targeting carriers In 1983, CTC concluded a sales agent as U.S. research hub Our involvement in carrier networks contract for the Japanese market with Established as a research and developbegan in the 1990s, and our introduction Sun Microsystems (now Oracle). ment hub in the United States, the comof mobile Internet services in 1999 was CTC and Sun Microsystems subsepany is tasked with monitoring market ahead of the curve. Our ability to consisquently built up a solid partnership, with trends and conducting research into the tently meet carriers’ sophisticated and CTC becoming the world’s largest latest technologies, services, and prodcomplex requirements by providing optireseller of Sun Workstations in 1995 on ucts. The company became a subsidiary mal solutions featuring state-of-thethe back of Sun Microsystems’ dramatic in 2012*1. In addition to leading the art technologies has led to the carrier global growth. CTC Group’s research and development business becoming a major pillar of This project illustrates our penchant for activities, the company helps tech startearnings today. bringing the best products from around ups move into the Japanese market and the world to Japan as quickly as possible. works to grow the Group’s business with Japanese businesses based in the United States. 13 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Revenue (¥ billion) 2006 Conducted a management integration Fiscal 2018 Revenue ¥ 451.9 billion October 2006 marked the birth of ITOCHU TechnoEngineers:over 6,300 in 2019 Solutions Corporation through the management integration of two companies with strengths in different business domains. This merger between ITOCHU Techno-Science Corporation, whose forte was in the 500 cultivation and sales of products, and CRC Solutions Corporation, which boasted operations, maintenance, and other support capabilities in addition to system development expertise, resulted in a company capable of providing services across the IT lifecycle. 400 300 200 100 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2013 2018 ­ ­  cquired two companies in A O  pened a space dedicated to the ASEAN region, and began agile development globalizing As one of our initiatives in the To provide our clients with global area of agile development, which support and expand our business aims to enhance development on a global scale, we acquired speed and respond flexibly to 2009 2017 ­ CSC Automated and CSC ESI*2, ­ change, we set aside dedicated T  ook first steps in cloud which have extensive client bases E  stablished Institute of Open locations in Tokyo and Aichi computing in Singapore and Malaysia. This Innovation Research “MIRAI” Prefecture. Agile development is CTC began providing cloud sermove launches us into the We established the Institute of a new methodology aimed at vices, starting with the provision ASEAN market, which is expected Open Innovation Research responding to client needs in a of Techno-CUVIC, a public cloud to grow at one of the fastest “MIRAI” with an organizational timely manner by developing service utilizing its data centers in rates within the IT industry, and mission to cultivate and develop applications capable of respondJapan. We currently provide two spearheads CTC’s efforts to leading-edge technologies and ing to an ever-changing operatcloud services developed indevelop its global business. create a new business model. In ing environment. CTC’s ability to house, Elastic-CUVIC and October, we opened DEJIMA, a respond to this methodology for CUVICmc2. We have also built dedicated space for open innomaking development faster and relationships with numerous vation, to facilitate the creation more efficient sets the Company cloud vendors, establishing our of new businesses among clients apart in the development and superiority as a multi-cloud and startup companies. system integration (SI) domains. vendor. *1 Name changed to ITOCHU Techno-Solutions America, Inc. *2 Renamed CTC GLOBAL PTE. LTD. and CTC GLOBAL SDN. BHD. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 14 CTC’s Value Creation Story The CTC Group’s Value Creation Model The CTC Group’s business model leverages the strengths it has cultivated to date to provide optimal solutions for clients in a wide range of industries. This business model is supported by our thorough dedication to maintaining a client perspective and an ongoing emphasis on embracing challenges. Through this model, we aim to maximize corporate value for our clients, realize our mission to “change the future for the Global Good,” and achieve sustainable growth as a company. Maintenance and Operation Data Center F  alling childbirths and an aging population, decrease in the working population G  rowing environmental awareness, increase in natural disasters R  eplacement of core systems in response to the “2025 digital cliff” Rising information security risks Introduction  orkstyle reforms, need for higher W and worker productivity Transition U  rban concentration, depopulation of outlying areas Business Domains Manufacturing, transportation, Strength 1: retail and distribution, information The Ability to and communications, public sector Create New and utilities, finance, educational and Businesses with research institutions Management Clients Environment, P.39–53 P.17 Social Issues Main Business Strategies P.23–24 CTC’s Position and Changes in the Operating Environment 1 Provide trusted IT services Ensure rigorous information security Improve quality The CTC Group’s Compliance Material Topics (Materiality) 2 Cultivate  personnel who can change society for the better P.57–58 C  onduct personnel development The CTC Group’s Materiality and training Promote diversity and change work styles Help cultivate people who can be a bridge to the next generation 3 H  arness IT to build a sustainable society A  ddress issues related to an aging society Reduce environmental impact Contribute to regional economies 15 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Mission IT Lifecycle Strength 2: CTC Provides The Ability to Build New Businesses by To change the Harnessing IT Business P.18 future for the Strategies Global Good Planning and Design Client Perspective Challenges P.7–8 Procurement Resolve social issues Development and Construction Enhance corporate value for clients Business Outcomes  nique business model backed by capabilU ities in IT infrastructure construction S  table business portfolio with broad exposure to different sectors  trong, stable profits and shareholder S returns O  ne of Japan’s best track records working with world-class IT vendors H  ealthy, motivating workplaces that enrich the lives of employees P.21–22 Key Financial and Non-Financial Data ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 16 CTC’s Value Creation Story CTC Group Strength 1: The Ability to Create New Businesses with Clients With IT slated to play an ever greater role in society, companies in a wide range of industries are searching more energetically for ways to create new businesses through technological innovation. System integrators are called on to help clients realize these aims by connecting their growth strategies with leading-edge technologies. The CTC Group, which has clients and has amassed operational know-how across a host of industry sectors, collaborates with myriad partners to foster its innovative capabilities and help create new businesses to support society. Client base: Clients and Operational Know-How Spanning a Host of Sectors 8,951 Broad companies Client Base CTC’s clients span a broad range of industries—including telecommunications, finance, manufacturing, and public-sector entities Ratio of top-10 with large-scale systems—that rely on 24/7 uptime. The sophisticustomers, by sales: cated operational expertise and specialized knowledge we have amassed through our business in these areas over the years is the 40 % wellspring of our ability to respond to new client issues and a source of strength. Visitors to the Future-Oriented Service Focused on Creation DEJIMA open Innovation in Collaboration with Clients innovation space Capabilities (Fiscal 2018): Institute of CTC works with clients to create new businesses and expand their Approximately Open Innovation lines of business by leveraging the relationships with a wide range Research “MIRAI” of partners and the leading-edge technologies we have cultivated in Japan and overseas. 2,500 To further prepare the groundwork for innovation, in 2017 we Investments by CTC established the Institute of Open Innovation Research “MIRAI,” Innovation Partners: 5 developed an open innovation platform called CTC Future Factory, and established CTC Innovation Partners as a corporate venture projects capital (CVC) firm. P.32 Subsidiaries and Strong Relationships with Partners in Japan affiliates in Japan and and Overseas overseas: Partnerships In addition to joint ventures with clients, we have built robust relationships with our own Group companies in Japan and overseas, as 20 well as with members of the ITOCHU Group. We also collaborate with universities to engage in human resource development and conduct research that leverages our mutual strengths. Such collaboration enables us to proactively create a framework that welcomes change with new businesses that we would be unable to embrace solely with our own resources. 17 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 CTC Group Strength 2: The Ability to Build New Businesses by Harnessing IT Compared with other Japanese system integrators, the CTC Group derives a higher percentage of sales from products and is stronger in infrastructure development. Over the years, we have forged relationships with excellent Japanese and overseas vendors. The leading-edge products and technological information we glean from them helps us hone the technological skills that infrastructure development calls for. This wide-ranging knowledge and technological expertise is the source of the CTC Group’s competitiveness. Silicon Valley A Keen Eye for the Latest Technologies and relationships: an Unrivaled Choice of IT Products Multi-Vendor 29 years We maintain a vigilant lookout for superior vendors in Japan and overseas, fueling our efforts to deploy numerous products, techVendor partners: Multi-Cloud nologies, and cloud and other services in Japan. In addition to More than knowledge of individual products and services developed since establishment, we have honed our ability to bundle multiple prod300 companies ucts and created a niche as a “multi-vendor” system integrator. We have one of the strongest track records with leading vendors of any company in Japan, which also leads to solid advantages on the pricing front. P.19–20 Teams of Engineers That Can Integrate the Engineers: Technological Latest Technologies 13,898 Capabilities CTC has built up its technological capabilities by embracing the Development partchallenges posted by new technologies and pursuing measures to ners: Approximately Full Stack resolve the true issues that clients face. This approach has earned 980 Engineering us trust from our clients and led to the accumulation of expertise. companies CTC applied its ability to build IT infrastructure in a multi-vendor People with vendor environment, cultivated over many years, to the carrier-oriented certifications: business it launched in the 1990s. We harness these skills to develop services and applications that bolster our clients’ com­ petitive advantages. P.19–20 7,111 Support Framework Linked with New Business Nationwide maintenance and As a multi-vendor, the CTC Group goes beyond just procuring support network Support products and building infrastructure. We also provide post-installation Overseas support Framework operational and maintenance support, which requires us to understructure: stand the features of deploying products from multiple vendors across complex system environments. The support capabilities of the CTC engineers who facilitate the stable operation and mainte626 people in nance of extremely complex systems earn a high degree of trust and provide an important reference point for new business. 5 countries ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 18 CTC’s Value Creation Story Source of the CTC Group’s Strength: The Ability to Respond in Multi-Vendor the Era of Cloud Computing Multi-Cloud Strong relationships with numerous excellent IT vendors underpin the competitive edge the CTC Group has built up over the years. Another factor is our development of applications for high-end IT environments and the provision of quality maintenance and operation services. Technological Now that cloud computing has become commonplace, in addition to solid relationships Capabilities with cloud vendors CTC has continued to leverage its strengths and provide the same level of quality that has become its hallmark in a hybrid, multi-cloud, and multi-vendor environment. Full Stack We will also continue to apply such traditional CTC strengths as a keen eye and sourcing and Engineering integrating technologies. Partnerships and CTC’s Technological Prowess in the Era of Cloud Computing Since the time of its founding, the CTC Group has continued world’s foremost IT vendors, sharing clients’ requests and to build solid relationships with superior IT vendors in Japan comments from Group engineers in deliberations to help and overseas. The CTC Group deploys IT services and more them develop high-quality products and services. than 300 products to support them, consistently making it a In 1990, we set up an R&D base in the United States, leading Japanese company on a transactional basis. In addiwhich has led to the ongoing discovery of emerging prodtion to such hyper-scale cloud vendors as Amazon Web ucts and leading-edge technologies. As a result, we have Services (AWS), we also form partnerships with major venalso commenced research in Shenzhen and continue to dors that develop numerous application services, such as research and discover technologies at our global bases. SAP and Box. We meet on a regular basis with some of the Main Vendors and Services Vendors for which Vendors that accord CTC is the largest seller top partner ranking in Japan: to CTC: Azure 16 companies 22 companies  TC Wins Award at C  TC Receives Award at Box C Full-Fledged Efforts to Introduce SAP ERP OutSystems InStep APAC 2018 Japan Partner Award 2018 In recent years, we have steadily built up a repAt an event in August 2018 In February 2018, CTC was utation for the configuration of large-scale hosted by OutSystems—which named “Best Channel Partner” for systems utilizing products from SAP, a leading provides low-code development the third consecutive year by Box vendor enterprise resource planning (ERP) environments—we earned high as the top seller of its cloud sersoftware. Based on the backbone system conmarks from the company’s engivices in Japan. Going forward, we figuration and operational experience we have neers for our system configurawill continue to support corpoaccumulated in the process, we are responding tion and service provision and rate work-style reforms via Box, to the demand for transitioning to SAP S/4 were cited as having the “most leveraging CTC’s capabilities in HANA® after SAP stops providing ERP maintecertified professionals.” such areas as proposal-making, nance support for the previous version in 2025. installation support, consulting, and support services. P.88 Major Vendors and Awards 19 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 A Keen Eye U.S. Base and Research Efforts We established U.S. subsidiary ITOCHU Techno-Solutions America, Inc. in 1990 to stay alert for the leading-edge technologies that tend to surface in the United States. In the nearly 30 years since, the company has expanded its operations to include bases on both the east and west coasts, facilitating one of the biggest lineups among Japanese system integrators. Staff come from various industrial domains across without needing to be physically present in the United CTC’s business groups, looking for emerging technologStates. Through this company, we are also strengthenical information to connect to actual business. They ing our relationships with local companies. gather information at trade shows, meet regularly with We have begun sending personnel to conduct superior IT vendors, and conduct searches based on the research in Shenzhen, China, which is experiencing needs of clients and CTC Group engineers. This resource rapid IT growth. We also expect to begin sending such provides CTC with access to breaking technology trends personnel to Europe. Sourcing and Integrating Technologies Full Stack and System Integrators for the DX Era Digital transformation (DX) refers to the accelerating ability to use IT resources easily at any time. In addition, the emergence of 5G mobile communications systems will lead to enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB), UltraReliable and Low Latency Communications (URLLC), and massive Machine Type Communication (mMTC), facilitating the exploding volume of data as IoT becomes a Tadataka Okubo Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer reality. We will need to make progress on AI for the analAssistant to the President (Special ysis and analytics on this data, as well as transitioning to appointment for Advanced IT Strategy) a new business model suited to this environment. CTO As no single service will be able to meet all the needs arising in this environment, customers will need to make use of multiple cloud services (multi-cloud environment) form teams with full stack technologies, including a and employ various analysis and analytics tools. The data knowledge of infrastructure environment operations and amassed and cultivated at data centers can be utilized. control methods; expertise on the products and technolWe also anticipate the emerging need to analyze, perogies that employ these methods; and an understanding form analytics on, and process streaming data even of application development environment, application closer to end-users (edge computing environment). development tools, and application programming interIn addition to the infrastructure to support 5G, we faces (APIs) through microservice architecture. will provide environments to control the aggregation of Fortunately, the CTC Group is one of the few system cloud-native microservice software such as softwareintegrators with full stack engineers equipped with netdefined networking (SDN) and network function virtualwork, IT infrastructure, cloud, application development, ization (NFV) and provide dynamic infrastructure control and project management technologies. in response to application needs. Through our sourcing and integrating technologies, Creating services that offer stable quality in such we will provide the human resources and skills with the multi-cloud, edge computing environments will be no flexibility to respond in the DX era and foster their easy task. Nor will it be simple to develop high-quality ongoing development. As a full stack system integrator, applications and perform maintenance and conduct we will respond across the IT lifecycle to the needs of operations on these systems. Accordingly, we will need to the new era. P.84 Glossary ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 20 CTC’s Value Creation Story Key Financial and Non-Financial Data Revenue (by Business Model) Orders Received / Backlog (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 470.1 437.5 435.2 388.0 398.3 429.6 451.9 391.6 407.8 381.9 155.7 167.1 177.8 262.9 147.8 155.6 238.0 243.6 201.6 208.3 87.1 91.5 94.9 79.0 77.6 155.0 158.3 164.9 170.9 179.1 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Services SI Development Products Orders Received Backlog Operating Income / Operating Income Margin Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders / EPS (¥ billion / %) (¥ billion / ¥) 35.8 31.1 32.6 23.5 24.6 29.3 27.9 21.8 18.0 106 17.4 102 7.7 7.6 7.6 7.9 94 7.1 74 77 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Operating Income Operating Income Margin Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders EPS ROE / Ratio of Shareholders’ Equity to Total Assets Annual Dividends per Share* / Dividend Payout Ratio (%) (¥ / %) 50 45 40 55.8 58.2 57.7 58.4 58.2 35 30 44.9 42.3 44.1 46.9 40.3 10.5 10.4 11.8 11.8 11.5 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) ROE Ratio of Shareholders’ Equity to Total Assets Annual Dividends per Share Dividend Payout Ratio * CTC conducted two-for-one stock splits of common shares on April 1, 2015 and April 1, 2018. Amounts for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2017 in the above table have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock splits. Note: In fiscal 2018, revenue, all profit items, orders received, and the backlog reached the highest levels since the merger between ITOCHU Techno-Science Corporation and CRC Solutions Corporation in 2006. 21 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Employees Monthly Average Overtime Work (Non-Consolidated) (People) (Hours) 18 18 7,857 7,993 8,100 8,175 8,359 16 1,170 1,176 1,222 1,256 1,327 14 14 6,687 6,817 6,878 6,919 7,032 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Men Women * Hours in excess of statutory working hours Annual  Average Number of Holidays Taken / Turnover  Rate (Non-Consolidated) Ratio of Taking Holidays (Non-Consolidated) (Days / %) (%) 72 75 67 70 63 4.0 13.9 14.5 3.3 3.4 13.0 13.5 12.3 2.8 3.0 2.9 3.0 2.6 3.0 2.8 2.8 2.7 2.4 3.0 2.8 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Annual Average Number of Holidays Taken Ratio of Taking Holidays Total Men Women Childcare Leave System Users (Non-Consolidated) Greenhouse Gas Emission Volume / Energy Used (People) (t-CO2 / kl) 128 120 68,668 67,586 65,647 61,749 58,074 82 64 67 33,029 33,472 33,007 31,749 31,562 54 59 4 2 17 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Childcare Leave System Users Male Employees Greenhouse Gas Emission Volume Energy Used * Sum of the figures of offices and data centers ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 22 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — CTC’s Position and Changes in the Operating Environment The most important factors underpinning the CTC Group’s competitiveness are the relationships built with many outstanding IT vendors over the years, numerous high-quality products and technologies, and a wealth of expertise on handling these products and technologies in cloud environments. Our multi-vendor and technological expertise are strengths that play together to enhance these factors in a virtuous cycle. Business Model Characteristics By Model By Business Segment One characteristic is the high degree of trust we have We are strong in the telecommunications business, thanks earned in infrastructure construction by selling products and to a track record spanning many years in the design and combining numerous products and the cloud. As our clients’ configuration of communications networks for carriers. Even businesses grow more digital, we are stepping up our so, we have built up a business portfolio that is relatively balresponsiveness to application development. At the same anced by industry sector, generating stable earnings. time, to stabilize earnings we are focusing on the service sector—chiefly in areas of recurring business. IT Other Services 8% Distribution & Financial 3% Enterprise Services Products Services 32% 9% 40% 39% Regional & Revenue by Social Revenue by Business Model Infrastructure Business (Fiscal 2018) 11% (Fiscal 2018) Telecommunication SI Development 21% 37% 23 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Market Trends  xpected Expenditures in the Japanese IT E Forecast for the Japanese Public Cloud Services Market, by Industry (2018–2023) Market (2018–2023) Average annual growth between 2018 and 2023 is Average annual growth between forecast at 2.4% 2018 and 2023 is forecast at 20.4% Market scale to grow by around 2.5 times Year-on-year growth rate (%) (¥ 100 million) Sales (¥ billion) Finance Manufacturing Logistics Information services Services Government agencies Other Source: IDC Japan Press Release on May 23, 2019 Source: IDC Japan Press Release on March 27, 2019 Market Changes The operating environment surrounding the IT industry is changing rapidly. Other trends we follow closely include clients’ operating environments and global economic trends, particularly in the ASEAN region. When executing its strategies, the CTC Group mainly takes the following environmental changes into consideration. PEST Analysis Opportunities Factors Limiting Growth I ntroduction of laws and regulations related to information security Restrictions on the use of specific prodEstablishment of finance-related laws and regulations and ucts due to worsening relations between growth of cashless payments P countries Demand for higher labor productivity in keeping with (Political) work-style reforms Growth in emerging-market economies, centered on the ASEAN region  low economic growth in Japan and S E other developed countries Acceleration of IT investment centered on DX (Economical) Demand for large-scale social infrastructure as populations concentrate on urban areas Demand for regional innovation and revitalization Decreases in the working population S (Social) of local economies Globalization of business  ull-fledged commercialization of 5G F  roduct commoditization P Outsourcing needs accompanying growing system Shortage of highly skilled IT personnel, T (Technological) complexity and sophistication rising human resource expenses ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 24 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Plan Overview and Progress Amid accelerating technological innovation and ongoing business digitalization, the CTC Group is working to capitalize on its strengths to ensure sustainable growth. At the same time, we recognize the need to transform in tandem with the operating environment and embrace change in new business fields. Against this backdrop, in April 2018 we formulated a medium-term management plan named “Opening New Horizons.” During the plan’s three-year period, from fiscal 2018 to fiscal 2020, we are undertaking activities in four areas we have defined as “horizons.” Outline of Fiscal 2018 to Fiscal 2020 New Medium-Term Management Plan Horizon 1 Horizon 2 Go Upwards!: Go Forwards!: Challenge Business Transformation Sharpening our Advantages Co-Creation of Digital Transformation No. 1 Cloud-Computing Integrator Businesses with Major Clients N  o. 1 IT Infrastructure & Network Environment Expand Businesses in Application Services Layer Provider Accelerate Expanding of Recurring Businesses 3 4 Horizon Horizon Go Outwards!: New Coverage, New Region in Globe Consolidate Footholds!: Stabilize Management Infrastructure Expand Global Activities Create Open Innovation Activities as S  kill Transition & Work-Style Q  uality First & New Business Models Transformation Customer-Centric Consolidate CTC Group K  eep Shareholders’ Value & Governance Returns 25 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Performance in Fiscal 2018 and Progress on the Plan In fiscal 2018, we made steady progress against our quantitative benchmarks for the recurring business and the global business, pursuing initiatives outlined in our medium-term management plan. As one aspect of our efforts to stabilize management infrastructure, we worked to curtail unprofitable development projects, ensuring a clear path from orders to higher profit levels. Review of Priority Measures for Fiscal 2018 Horizon 1 Horizon 2 Go Upwards! Go Forwards! Expanded the DX Businesses Strengthened Next-Generation Strengthened Agile Network Technology Development Capability Expanded Recurring Businesses Horizon 3 Horizon 4 Go Outwards! Consolidate Footholds! Business Partnership in U.S. and Controlled and Reduced Europe Unprofitable Projects Invested in Four Open Increased Dividends for 10 Innovation Projects Consecutive Years Progress in Numerical Targets Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders Recurring Business (¥ billion) (¥ billion) ¥30.0 billion ¥ 60.0 billion 55.9 +Stretch goal 48.6 ¥2 billion 24.6 23.5 28.0 2017 2018 2020 (FY) 2017 2018 2020 (FY) (Target) (Target) Recurring business: Total of revenues from cloud ­services, operating system applications, and managed security services Global Business R  OE (¥ billion) (%) ¥ 60.0 billion 12% or more 41.1 11.8 38.6 11.5 2017 2018 2020 (FY) 2017 2018 2020 (FY) (Target) (Target) Global business: Total of revenues from overseas operating companies, overseas projects in Japan, and overseas associated companies ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 26 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Go Upwards!: Horizon 1 Challenge Business Transformation Creating New Businesses That Leverage Data Companies’ digital strategies are shifting from an emphasis on raising productivity through the introduction of mission critical systems to digitalization of the businesses themselves. Rather than following conventional growth trajectories, the key to corporate growth strategies of the future will be to create new businesses that leverage the data companies already possess and new businesses that generate synergies with partner companies having strengths in other areas. While taking advantage of our strengths in product sales and infrastructure construction, we will support the business transformation of our clients by increasing our business knowledge and our understanding of the AI business. AI Systems Market Forecast (¥ billion) 350 313.1 300 251.6 250 200 187.6 150 110.2 100 55.4 50 0 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 (Year) Finance Manufacturing Distribution Services Public sector Government agencies Other Source: IDC Japan, #JPJ4436341, December 2018 Case01 Cultivating Human Resources to Contribute to Business Transformation To support the DX of our clients, we are developing human resources in the data science field. Partnerships human resources with AI and other leading-edge between industry and academia promote corporate ­technologies, in addition to expertise on system con­ data analysis and AI development, along with the develfiguration, application development, and operations. In opment of human resources in these fields. Meanwhile, November 2017, we set up the AI Business Development in November 2018 we began core AI training for salesDepartment to invigorate our AI business by taking people and engineers. Targeting some 3,000 people, charge of expanding our AI solutions, cultivating busiincluding salespeople and engineers, this training is ness, and pursuing the development of AI-related human designed to enhance Groupwide proposal-making resources across the Company. capabilities and augment project quality over the In July 2018, we signed an academic exchange medium to long term. agreement with Waseda University aimed at cultivating See P.48 for details on partnerships between industry and academia. 27 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Case02 Case03 Launching ITOCHU Corporation’s NextSupporting the Digitalization and Generation Groupwide Digital Platform Next-Generation Shift of the Distribution Business As part of the complete overhaul of ITOCHU Corporation’s mission critical systems, in August Retail/distribution is an industry sector where clients 2018 we built and deployed a next-generation are urged to quickly leverage their customer data to Groupwide digital platform (Data Lake) to support make their businesses more efficient and move to the analysis of business data. Using CUVICmc2*, the next generation. The combination of customer CTC’s cloud service for mission critical systems, the attributes gleaned from purchasing data obtained system achieves higher processing speeds and feathrough daily settlements can be used to formulate tures an added data analysis function. As a result, in marketing and sales strategies, contributing to store addition to accounting data the new system facilioperation and overall business strategies. By digitates the integration and analysis of a host of data talizing settlement functions and facilitating the use related to business transactions. The ability to comof purchasing data, the CTC Group is supporting bine business data the ITOCHU Group has accumumultifaceted digital strategies in these fields. Moving lated individually in a wide range of business fields forward, customer information will be used as a expands the potential for creating new businesses. management resource to generate new sources of Going forward, we plan to continue providing proearnings, and these fields will undergo a full-fledged active support as part of the CTC Group’s “Go business transformation as face recognition and the Upwards!” initiative. automation of settlements enables stores to oper* CUVICmc2, a proprietary IaaS we developed especially for SAP solutions ate with fewer staff. The CTC Group will take and other backbone systems, is a pay-per-use solution providing guaradvantage of the business know-how it has cultianteed performance and high security. Highly regarded for its security measures and operational structure, CUVICmc2 has received ISO/IEC vated to date to help the retail and distribution busi27017, international certification related to cloud security. nesses make the shift to the next generation. Case04 Strengthening Agile Development As DX gains traction, demand for ever faster and more efficient application development will also grow. The CTC Group is reinforcing its framework for responding to demand for agile development, which handles repeated change flexibly. In 2015, we introduced OutSystems development infrastructure, which is provided by a Portuguese company of the same name, and began adopting cloud-native architecture. In 2018, we opened dedicated “agile office” spaces in two locations (Tokyo and Aichi Prefecture) to facilitate meetings among engineers in charge of clients and development and other related parties. Going forward, an organization focused on promoting agile development will play a central role in cultivating engineers and stepping up agile development efforts. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 28 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Go Forwards!: Horizon 2 Sharpen Our Advantages Leveraging Strengths Cultivated by Building Infrastructure For many years, we have followed a business model of procuring products from Japan and overseas and combining them into optimal configurations to create the solutions clients require. As a result, the CTC Group has developed infrastructure construction capabilities as a unique strength. Honing this unique differentiating factor has allowed us to establish an overwhelming presence in the infrastructure and networking fields. We are using this strength as a foothold into the cloud-based business, which we are combining with on-premise systems we have built to strengthen our response to moves toward the hybrid cloud and establish ourselves as a multi-cloud integrator. By strengthening our overall recurring business, including the cloud business, we will stabilize our earnings base and create new business opportunities. See P.19–20 for details of our cloud-related initiatives. Use of the Cloud by Deployment Model (Japan) Deployment Models in Use (%) 77.7 12.5 7.6 2.2 SaaS Multi-Cloud: Public 17.3% 38.1% Cloud IaaS/PaaS 53.8 27.5 14.3 4.4 61.9% 12.5% 44.5 24.5 25.1 5.9 EPC 1 (on-premise) 32.1% 2 Private 3 Cloud 33.1 26.1 29.0 11.9 4 HPC (hosting) Note: Figures indicate use of each deployment model, so multiple uses of Saas would be shown as 1 unless other deployment models were also used. In use Under consideration Not in use, not under consideration Source: IDC’s Japan Cloud User Survey, September 2018 (n = 1,500) Don’t know Case01 Changing Lifestyles with 5G N  ew Markets through 5G (Expected Global Economic Impact of IoT by 2025) 5G refers to next-generation mobile communications Retail Wearable Urban systems that feature enhanced Mobile Broadband ¥49.2–139.2 ¥20.4–190.8 ¥111.6–199.2 trillion trillion trillion (eMBB), Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency Communications Automated accounting, Disease monitoring, manPublic safety, traffic investilayout optimization, invenagement and promotion of gation, resource utilization, (URLLC), and massive Machine Type Communication tory management, etc. health, etc. etc. (mMTC). As 5G will support higher communications speeds, greater communications quantity, a sharp increase in the number of devices that can be connected By 2025, 5G Expected By up to to Expand New 5G at one time, and a decrease in communications delays, Business Domains ¥1,336 trillion this technology is expected to pave the way to adoption by industries whose IT adoption has so far been limited. As well as responding to the building of 5G networks (the Worksites Factories Automotive business of building 5G networks), the CTC Group sees ¥19.2–111.6 ¥145.2–444.0 ¥25.2–88.8 trillion trillion trillion major opportunities for using 5G to create new solutions Operational optimization, Operational optimization, Self-driving, support for (businesses using 5G). We are preparing by enhancing our predictive maintenance, predictive maintenance, safe driving, tracking health and safety, etc. etc. systems, etc. responsiveness on projects that require greater technological expertise and are increasingly complex. Source: Trends in Mobile Communications Policy toward the IoT Era (November 2016), Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications 29 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 5G Case02 Network-Building Businesses The adoption of 5G will lead to a massive increase in the boundaries between business domains will blur, and data transmission volume, and IoT will result in a seemglobal vendors from other businesses are likely to enter ingly infinite number of terminals being connected to this area of business. We will combine the trust we have 5G. Processing this complex and vast quantity of data cultivated among our clients since the 1990s with our will call for the configuration of even more flexible netknowledge of network equipment for carriers and the works than in the past. configuration of their individual networks, as well as Network virtualization technology is expected to network virtualization technology to expand opportunihelp address these needs. Technology allowing the centies in the business of creating 5G networks. tralized control of equipment on a network (softwaredefined networking, or SDN) and technology to Average Monthly Mobile Data Traffic virtualize network functions (network function virtual(Gbps) ization, or NFV) will be essential for 5G networks. Up by 1.8 Times in Two Years 2,937 2,911 2,712 The competitive landscape is expected to change 2,545 2,199 2,314 once the use of virtualization technology to build net1,991 1,815 1,636 works becomes mainstream. This technology will enable the virtualization of certain functions on systems related to base stations—an area the Company has not been involved in to date. Companies like CTC that have expertise in this technology will become able to enter 16/12 17/3 17/6 17/9 17/12 18/3 18/6 18/9 18/12 (Year/Month) this business more easily. However, as the shift to 5G Source: CTC, based on the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications’ Database leads to the complete virtualization of all networks, of Statistics on Information and Communications 5G Case03 Businesses Using 5G Once 5G is adopted widely, we expect to enter a new of 5G. Companies other than carriers will be able to phase in which businesses will be created to take advanallocate 5G frequencies within a certain area—such as tage of such 5G characteristics as enhanced Mobile within a factory. The use of 5G communications netBroadband (eMBB), Ultra-Reliable and Low Latency works that provide highly secure environments that are Communications (URLLC), and massive Machine Type separate from public networks are likely to be adopted Communication (mMTC). It will become possible to by industries seeking confidentiality and safety. accumulate data and link information on a host of physiClients have high expectations for using 5G for innocal and virtual items in real-time, giving rise to a range of vation and new business creation and are seeking partservices that will change our lifestyles, such as IoT, selfners who can do so swiftly. The CTC Group has a track driving vehicles, and remote healthcare. record in building communications networks and Local 5G networks, which use 5G technologies to knowledge of business across a wide range of industries. create a dedicated network within a limited area, are We expect to build a new business foundation by workexpected to be a powerful force driving the expansion ing with clients to create businesses making use of 5G. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 30 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Go Outwards!: Horizon 3 New Coverage, New Region in Globe Creating New Business Domains To achieve ongoing business growth, we must aim beyond revenue increases in existing fields of business. We also need to utilize existing management resources to proactively cultivate new fields and regions to develop into earning pillars. We have identified the global business, centered on the ASEAN region, as having market growth potential and being an area we can tap into to support our own growth. We are also emphasizing open-innovation-style business to utilize leading-edge technologies and connect them to new businesses. Case01 Expanding Our Locations, Centered on the Recent Events ASEAN Region 2012 Acquired ITOCHU Technology, Inc. of the United States, making it to a consolidated subsidiary, and renamed the Expanding our bases in the ASEAN region will be company ITOCHU Techno-Solutions America, Inc. pivotal to our global business. This region is Invested in Netband Consulting Co., Ltd. in Thailand expected to continue experiencing high levels of 2013 Acquired shares of CSC ESI Sdn. Bhd. of Malaysia and economic growth. Also, personal consumption is CSC Automated Pte. Ltd. of Singapore, making them consolidated subsidiaries, and changed their names to robust, and the public sector, finance, distribution, CTC GLOBAL SDN. BHD. and CTC GLOBAL PTE. LTD. and other growth industries are investing proactively 2017 Established Indonesian subsidiary PT. CTC Techno in IT. However, as the IT industry is on its way to Solutions Indonesia maturity, we believe we can capture business Converted Netband Consulting Co., Ltd., a joint venture in Thailand, to a subsidiary, and changed its name to opportunities through horizontal expansion in our CTC Global (Thailand) Ltd. tried-and-true approach of utilizing leading-edge 2018 Entered capital participation in SYSCOM (USA) INC. technologies from overseas to generate business in Japan. Furthermore, as globalization by Japanese companies accelerates we anticipate demand from local clients to construct and support IT infrastrucUnited States ture. Another reason for concentrating on this Thailand region is that we also expect demand for the creation of new businesses by making use of leadingedge technologies. CTC began its full-fledged development of global business in 2013. Since then, we have opened offices in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Indonesia. Our Indonesia primary approach going forward will be to enter into capital and business alliances with powerful local companies and expand our bases in these areas as we work to grow our global business. Malaysia Singapore 31 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Case02 Embracing the Challenge of Developing Business through Open Innovation In the aim of leveraging leading-edge technologies to To further promote the development of openexpand our digital business, we are pursuing openinnovation-style business, in December 17 we estabinnovation-style business with companies and clients lished CTC Innovation Partners as a corporate venture from other sectors, as well as startups. To enhance capital (CVC) firm. By providing capital and participating these initiatives, in 2017 we established the Institute of in the businesses of promising startup companies, CTC Open Innovation Research “MIRAI” as a new organizaInnovation Partners supports their growth and helps to tion for constructing the “MIRAI Platform.” Through this expand its business fields through joint business with platform, we aim to create services and solutions to clients. As of July 2019, the firm had invested in five resolve the problems faced by companies, industries, projects, including character recognition technology and society. One such open innovation platform has using AI and a food-sharing service. been CTC Future Factory, a platform that connects companies and public agencies involved in open innoInvestments to Date vation with venture companies to develop new ideas. Cinnamon Active SONAR DeCurret Here, we have set aside DEJIMA as a dedicated space to Development of an Online distribution Provision of digital provide consulting services at each level, conduct AI-based engine for platform for resellcurrency transaction reading documents ing branded items and settlement ideathons and hackathons, and engage in prototype (AI, OCR) INTUMIT services development. Similarly, we have opened the Open CoCooking Development of an Innovation Lab at ITOCHU Techno-Solutions America, Operation of AI chatbot engine TABETE, a foodInc., our U.S. subsidiary. This lab will work with DEJIMA sharing service to support global open innovation. MIRAI Platform Open Innovation Lean Startup Open innovation platform Framework to support new business creation CTC Future Factory CTC NewBiz Framework SPACE (Innovation space) Engineering GATE management system  orkspaces for corporate innovators W (Agile and scrum development approaches) Residency for startups and business Support for PoC using agile and scrum Internal business creation program accelerators development approaches Support platforms Joint prototype development (cloud, AI, IoT, and other resources) Hands-on advanced technology development Corporate Venture Capital (CVC) Ideathons, hackathons Producing (Cooperation / enablement) CVC using open innovation Community (Community and events) S  upport cooperation between business C  ommunities for innovators CTC Innovation Partners partners Events to encourage interaction between Planning, technology research, market different industries studies Community marketing Investment in startup firms / Cooperation with startups, accelerators, investment in joint business creation external partners ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 32 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Consolidate Footholds!: Horizon 4 Stabilize Management Infrastructure The Foundation of All Corporate Activities As we embrace challenges in growing fields of business by going upwards, forwards, and outwards, we recognize that achieving ongoing increases in corporate value requires us to build a robust management foundation and generate expected returns for our stakeholders, including clients and shareholders. Creating a workplace that provides fulfillment for its human resources—the CTC Group’s most important management resource—is a topmost management priority. To this end, we have introduced work-style reforms and otherwise striven to enhance our personnel measures. We will continue working to be a company that is fulfilling and healthy for employees, and that suits individual employees’ working styles. Maximizing the potential of our employees and increasing the quality of the products and services we provide leads to client trust, business growth, and increased corporate value. We believe we can further stabilize the management infrastructure by sharing these benefits with shareholders and employees. With respect to corporate governance, which supports corporate sustainability, we will continue to monitor social trends and undertake initiatives to ensure transparency and fairness. P.35 Human Resource Strategies P.34 Ensuring Quality and Enhancing Client Satisfaction P.69 Corporate Governance P.55 Message from the CFO 33 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Case01 Ensuring Quality and Enhancing Client Satisfaction In April 2019, CTC updated its Quality Policy for the first time in six years. With this policy, we aim to further enhance the leading-edge IT expertise and quality that Quality Policy We support clients’ IT systems are cornerstones of CTC’s success and ensure the (Amended with reliable technologies and April 1, 2019) ongoing provision of safe and secure systems and serquality. vices that provide peace of mind to our clients. To augment quality, we are stepping up our efforts at failure analysis and recurrence prevention to keep similar issues that arose from project activities or during operational services from happening again. We have in place an internal, third-party organization that reviews the status of highly difficult, large-scale projects at the estimate and planning stages, as well as when projects are in process, monitoring for risks on an ongoing basis. To improve customer satisfaction, we listen to client O verall evaluation for the year Results of (compared with previous evaluation period) feedback, which we incorporate into improvements and Fiscal 2018 Year-on-year improvement new proposals. The CS Improvement Committee leads Client Satisfaction Assessment by category efforts to enhance customer satisfaction, such as conSurvey (35 categories) ducting client satisfaction surveys. Client evaluations High assessment •S  ales capabilities (enthusiasm and opinions are shared throughout the Company. Each and integrity) part of the Company considers appropriate measures, •P  roposal-making capabilities which are reflected in its sales, project, and service (understanding of client issues and requests) activities. We plan to continue these initiatives going •T  eam technological capabilities forward, as we aim to remain a trusted business partner •F  lexibility in responding to for our clients. requests • Incident responsiveness Room for improvement •C  ost competitiveness •F  ree thinking Case02 Strengthening Relationships with Development Partners Alliances with Japanese and overseas partners are information security systems, and management sysessential for meeting increasingly diverse and sophistitems. With excellent partners, which we call CTC cated client needs in an environment marked by a Alliance Partners, we share information about leadingdomestic situation where IT personnel are in short edge technologies and quality-related initiatives. We supply. High-quality IT systems are essential, and prealso strive to enhance relationships by sharing opinions serving information—client property—is of topmost on development environments and quality standards. importance. For this reason, when selecting partners we We make available the training curriculum used by the pay close attention to their management foundation, CTC Group support human resource development at technological expertise, operating performance, individual partner companies. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 34 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Consolidate Footholds!: Horizon 4 Human Resource Strategies Basic Stance on Human Resource Strategies As indicated by our corporate philosophy and slogan of “Challenging Tomorrow’s Changes,” embracing challenges is a fundamental part of the Company’s DNA. By cultivating human resources who continue to take on the challenges inherent in IT’s potential, we link this growth with increases in corporate value. With human resource shortages currently endemic across the IT industry, providing comfortable working environments and promoting measures that make us a favorite in labor markets are of urgent importance. Being convinced that the happiness of employees is as important as the Company growth, CTC believes in “work in life,” which positions work within life. On this basis, we strive to provide a healthy, motivating workplace that enriches the lives of employees. Human resource policies that encourage employees Hisashi Sawanobori to embrace challenges as they enjoy change and continue to grow are Executive Officer being introduced in tandem with CTC’s Long-Term Strategy. Specifically, we General Manager, Human Resources provide opportunities for growth in the course of their duties. We provide Management & General Affairs Division intangible support in the form of personnel systems and frameworks, as well as IT tools, office environments, and other infrastructure. In recent years, we have focused in particular on enhancing systems that encourage employees to develop skills on their own initiative. HR Strategies Linked with Overall Strategy Fiscal 2013–2014 Fiscal 2015–2017 Fiscal 2018–2020 Medium-Term Human resource cultivation, diversity Investment in human resources and technologies, Human resource development and Management Plan establishment of multi-path personnel management system, work-style reforms doubling percentage of women in leadership roles Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Personnel System Reform New personnel system Stronger  measures to reduce  Slide work, mobile work, time-based paid Participation in Telework Day / Days, expansion of telework overtime work leave systems Work-Style Reforms S  tart of morning-focused Start of employee engagement survey working system Diversity and Inclusion F  ormulation of manager training plan based on Companywide Reform of post-retirement targets for number of female managers re-employment system  mpowering women in E the workplace  trengthening of mentor/mentee system, launch of the Chorus diversity website S Promoting the employStart of Company-wide management meetings ment of seniors Work-at-home system, reform of child-rearing and nursing care systems Childcare and nursing care Start of Iku-boss/Iku-men seminars People with disabilities Establishment of HINARI Corporation in 2010 as a special subsidiary  ealth promotion measures: H Stronger promoEstablishment of E  nhancement of measures to support Regular health checks and thorough post-checkup measures tion of health the CTC Group workers with cancer: Health Management Health promotion activities: management Health Insurance Early detection of and response to Prevention of lifestyle diseases, prevention of shoulder stiffness and pain, Association cancer and enhancement of measures support for smoking cessation, mental health care to support workers with cancer  lobal human resource training: G T  raining system reforms in tandem E  nhancement of management capabilities: Introduction of Global Leader (GBL) Training with human resource system reforms: multifaceted observation (executives and employees) Short-term overseas language study Newly established training for Cultivation of motivation toward career development: Selective education: management candidates Expansion and reworking of career design training Section of next-generation leaders Cultivation of motivation toward career Reconfiguration of training system development: for engineers: Support for Human Start of career development support Integration of engineering skill inventory Resource Training and system Companywide training on AI and introCareer Development Start of individual career support duction of collaborative measures interviews between industry and academia Promotion of work-style reforms: Cultivation of professional global Training for all management members human resources: Dispatch for language study in ASEAN countries 35 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Topics 01 Promoting Further Work-Style Reforms To date, our work style reforms have concentrated on Utilization of Flexible Work Styles* improving working conditions for employees. For (%) instance, in 2014 we introduced a morning-focused working system. In 2016, we launched “slide work,” a 76.9 78.0 72.7 system that allowed employees flexibility on their start time without changing the number of hours worked. We also encouraged mobile work and introduced infrastructure to improve working conditions. As a result, in fiscal 2018 our monthly average overtime work was 14 hours, down nearly 10 hours over a five-year period, 2016 2017 2018 (FY) and significantly lower than the industry average. * Percentage of employees making use of the morning-focused working In fiscal 2019, the theme of our work style reforms system, time-based paid leave, or slide work underwent a major shift, from improving working conditions to making work fulfilling. Incorporating the Monthly Average Overtime Work* improvement of working conditions, making work fulfill(Non-Consolidated)/Operating Income ing also involves cultivating a culture in which employees (Hours) (¥ billion) are actively motivated to work toward growth, and our 35.8 32.6 policies have taken on even more flexibility in terms of 31.1 29.3 27.9 work location and timing. One example is the active use 23.8 of teleworking. With the understanding of our clients, we have rolled out teleworking across the Company, which 23 we believe has boosted productivity further. Through 18 18 16 efficient working styles and by supporting spontaneous 14 14 activities, we are making the working environment more flexible and increasing employee satisfaction as we strive 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) * Hours in excess of statutory working hours to provide an environment where employees can remain Monthly average overtime work Operating income fulfilled in their work for a long period of time. Topics 02 Health Management CTC considers health management an important aspect initiatives include working with such organizations as of providing an environment where employees can make the National Cancer Center to offer comprehensive the most of their capabilities for a long period of time. cancer screening, specialized examinations, and expand Accordingly, we hold health-related seminars, have introother supplementary systems for screening targeting duced mental support, and are expanding other healthcancer in specific diagnostic categories. If cancer is maintenance systems. In fiscal 2018, we took a step diagnosed and treatment becomes necessary, we have forward through the full-scale introduction of a system in place support systems to help with the costs of medfor providing support to employees fighting cancer. ical treatment for leading-edge healthcare, and we Nowadays, it is becoming more common to conhave taken out umbrella cover with an insurance comtinue working while fighting cancer as an outpatient. We pany for this purpose. In recognition of these health believe advances in medical technology combined with management initiatives, we were certified as an enhanced corporate systems make it possible to provide Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity a working environment in which people with cancer can Management 2019 (White 500) by Japan’s Ministry of remain optimistic rather than growing despondent. Economy, Trade and Industry and Nippon Kenko Kaigi In addition to regular health checks, specific for a third consecutive year. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 36 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Medium-Term Management Plan — Opening New Horizons — Horizon 4 Consolidate Footholds!: Human Resource Strategies Topics 03 Recruitment and Development Japan faces a shortage in the working population across Evaluating human resources fairly and allocating all industries. Personnel shortages continue in the IT them optimally are also important management prioriindustry, as well, where the shortfall of people handling ties. We strive to build a system to assess employees’ leading-edge IT activities is projected to reach 550,000 skills objectively and form a skill portfolio. By ascertainby 2030. Given these circumstances, CTC is striving to ing employees’ skill proficiencies and level of growth, make its workplace more attractive, both by improving we encourage them on to further growth and strive to working conditions and by making work more fulfilling. allocate human resources strategically. We also endeavor to recruit human resources from The fields of AI and data science require sophistidiverse channels. cated and specialized knowledge, and we recognize Our recruiting efforts concentrate on hiring the that early-stage training is an essential element of speed sophisticated and specialized human resources essential in technical innovation. In the AI field, for example, we to future business growth. In the AI and security fields, set skill targets for several thousand people and conduct we use an internship system to be certain of attracting concentrated training on such topics as machine learnpeople with advanced skills. ing and data science. To raise proposal-making capabiliOur training programs for new employees are flexities throughout the Company, we provide AI-related ble, meeting the needs of the times. As we are nearing educational opportunities to salespeople as well as an era where people may soon commonly live to be engineers. 100, we have changed our programs to emphasize In the data science field, we conduct human teaching highly generalized basic skills to young resource development via partnerships between indusemployees to give them more flexibility as engineers try and academia. Combining the actual data companies over a long period of time. In addition to acquiring engipossess with universities’ knowledge of data analysis neering skills, we work to cultivate communication helps to cultivate data analysis expertise that can be capabilities and augment problem-solving skills. We also used in actual business settings. This approach also offer career development support that encourages helps in cultivating human resources capable of taking employees’ ongoing self-improvement and the ability to the lead in the data science field. think on their own. 37 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Topics 04 Diversity and Empowering of Women in the Workplace We promote human resource diversity because we and providing training to help them move up in the believe that employees from diverse backgrounds workworkplace. As of April 1, 2019, the number of women in ing together inspires synergies and enhances skills that leading positions among employees originally hired by foster innovation. In particular, we recognize the imporCTC was around 70. We aim to increase this figure to tance of measures to empower women in the workapproximately 90 by fiscal 2020. place. To this end, we are working to increase the We are expanding our child-rearing, nursing-care, number of women we hire and are emphasizing meaand other systems that allow both male and female sures to raise the percentage of female employees in employees to continue working at different stages of leadership positions. their lives. We offer a number of systems to facilitate a In the past, the people in charge of individual divibalance between work and child-rearing or nursing sions and the HR department selected female managecare. For instance, we have a system of shorter working ment candidates. It was commonplace to prepare and hours for employees engaged in childcare, and have implement uniform training plans according to years raised the age of children to which this system is appliworked and work responsibilities. Looking at this cable, as well as on our system of staggered working approach operationally, from differences in departmenhours, and we have a system that encourages fathers tal affiliation and attitudes toward their occupations and to take leave for child-rearing. We also hold seminars other reasons, motivation and appropriateness for leadtargeting employees in leadership positions whose ing position of each candidate differs. Taking these fac­subordinates are returning from child-rearing leave. tors into consideration, we created a framework to In these ways, we seek to foster a deeper understanding boost motivation by taking individual situations and skills of balance among life events and careers across into account, meeting with the individual employees the workplace. Target number of women in Target percentage of female Target percentage of women leading positions regular employees among new graduates hired (employees originally hired by CTC) (CTC, non-consolidated) (CTC, non-consolidated) 35% or more of women among 90 by 2020 20% or more by 2023 new graduates joining the Company Fiscal 2018 actual: 59 Fiscal 2018 actual: 16% in fiscal 2019 (As of March 31, 2019) (As of March 31, 2019) Fiscal 2019 actual: 37.6% (Joined on April 1, 2019) Seminar for people returning to work after childcare leave Card making work departure times visible ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 38 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Business Segments at a Glance Fiscal 2018 Results (Before Organizational Restructuring) Revenue by Business Group (Fiscal 2018) Fiscal 2018 Results Revenue (¥ billion) Profit before Tax (¥ billion) Distribution & Enterprise Revenue and profit grew, 141.2 145.0 due mainly to an increase 9.7 9.8 in operations in the distribution sector and more 32% infrastructure development and maintenance projects in the manufacturing sector. 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) Telecommunication 168.8 151.1 14.9 Revenue and profit rose, 12.5 reflecting growth mainly in network and infra37% structure development projects for the communications sector. 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) Regional & Social Infrastructure 53.8 49.2 1.8 Revenue fell, mainly due to a decline in projects 1.1 for the public business 11% sector. Profit decreased due to lower revenue and higher SG&A expenses. 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) Finance 39.1 40.5 2.5 2.3 Revenue and profit were up, reflecting growth in infrastructure develop9% ment projects for the finance sector. 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) IT Services 10.8 11.3 9.2 * This segment offers comprehensive services that focus on cloud7.4 related business and maintenance and operation to other organiza3% tions Companywide. Accordingly, most revenue is between segments; those amounts are excluded from the figures shown on this graph. 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) Other 36.9 33.3 Revenue and profit 2.2 grew, mainly due to an increase in projects at 8% certain overseas subsidiaries. 0.9 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) Note: Abovementioned revenues exclude intersegment revenues and transfers. 39 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Segments after Organizational Restructuring Enterprise P.41, 54 Business units comprising the segment: Enterprise Group CTCSP CORPORATION Asahi Business Solutions Corp. Distribution P.43 Business unit comprising the segment: Distribution Group The Company reorganized on April 1, 2019 Telecommunication P.45 O  bjectives of the Organizational Business unit comprising the segment: Restructuring Telecommunication Group To respond to the rapid digitalization of business, mainly in the enterprise and distribution fields Overview of the Organizational Restructuring Regional & Social  e divided the Distribution & Enterprise Group into the W Enterprise Group and the Distribution Group Infrastructure P.47  o reinforce our support for the digital business transT Business unit comprising the segment: formation of our clients, such as the utilization of digital Regional & Social Infrastructure Group settlement and purchasing information, we combined the Distribution Group, which is in charge of the retail and distribution fields, and a portion of the Financial Services Group, which handles card business and other types of retail finance. Financial Services P.49  o increase sales of analysis and analytics solutions and T expand our digital business domain, we transferred the Business unit comprising the segment: Science & Engineering System Division, which strengthFinancial Services Group ens analytics and simulations, to the Enterprise Group, which is in charge of manufacturing. IT Services P.51, 54 Business units comprising the segment: IT Services Group CTC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION CTC SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CORPORATION CTC FACILITIES CORPORATION Other P.52–53 Business units comprising the segment: Service Design Group Global Business Division Overseas Group Companies, etc. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 40 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Enterprise Group Leveraging the know-how and technologies that we have accumulated over many years to support the evolution of businesses in a wide range of industries including manufacturing Strengths Challenges  trong customer base covering a S  peedily leverage leading-edge S wide range of business fields technologies and provide solutions  now-how derived from our broad K  raining employees to respond to T CTC’s Strengths and customer base the rapid pace of technological Challenges  bility to build strong A innovation infrastructure as a multi-vendor  echnological prowess in the areas T of analysis, simulation, and AI Opportunities Factors Limiting Growth Changes in the structure of indusR  eining in of IT investment in tries driven by accelerated data response to global economic communication speeds slowdown Growth in demand for corporate  hortage of qualified IT S Business Climate customers to respond to DX of their professionals business environments 41 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives Responding to Changes in the Structure of Industries Driven by Accelerated Data Communication Speeds The Enterprise Group has corporate clients in a wide range of Accurately read changes fields including manufacturing, especially auto manufacturing, in the market to help clients and transportation, food, and energy. Our goal is to support the evolution of our clients’ businesses and grow alongside take advantage of new them. The next generation of telecommunications technology earnings opportunities (5G) will catalyze the creation of new businesses in a wide in the digital era range of business fields, and we will face the challenges of these new fields side-by-side with our clients. We will develop new 5G services by creating local 5G infrastructure and using key technologies such as edge computing, AI, and blockchain to support our clients’ businesses. We will also enhance our ability to conduct agile development that allows the flexible adoption of different specifications. We have already collected information on practical solutions allowing us to implement this type of development at key clients, and plan to apply this knowledge in other fields and secure more projects. Leveraging the Strengths of the Group to Meet the Challenges of the Digital Era As part of the organizational restructuring carried out in April 2019, the Science & Engineering System Division, which was formerly part of the Advanced IT Strategy Group, was integrated into the Enterprise Group. Much like companies in the manufacturing sector, our mainstay clients in the construction and electric power industries are facing rapid digitalization of their business domains. Amid rising demand for business digitalization solutions using AI and IoT technologies, the Enterprise Takanori Minatohara Group will integrate high-value-added services based on the Managing Executive Officer analysis capabilities developed by the Science & Engineering COO, Enterprise Group System Division with the Group’s IT knowledge to face the challenges of the digital era together. Column Cooperating with Toyota Systems to Increase Productivity of App Development for Toyota Motor Corporation The Enterprise Group cooperated with Toyota Systems to create mission critical systems for Toyota Motor Corporation. We used agile development methods to build these systems as well as low-code platform OutSystems, which allows rapid development and increased efficiency and AgileRoom, a work space that allows close communication among development staff. This allowed us to increase development productivity by up to 40%. We hope to continue working with Toyota Systems to increase the productivity of the Toyota Group’s systems in Japan and overseas. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 42 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Distribution Group Strengthening our business digitalization support capabilities to support our customers’ new businesses, such as futuristic stores Strengths Challenges Strong relationships with mainstay C  ontinuous improvement in quality customers nurtured through mission and productivity critical system construction and T  raining of employees to use CTC’s Strengths and s­ ystems operation leading-edge technologies Challenges  nowledge in the field of retail K finance gained from our settlement and contact center business Synergies with the ITOCHU Group Opportunities Factors Limiting Growth Growth in demand for business digi ecline in consumer spending D talization support solutions owing to economic slowdown Demand for upgrading mission criti ifficulty in procuring IT resources, D cal systems to make them compatible especially qualified IT professionals Business Climate with next-generation technologies Expectations regarding increased IT * By 2025, Japanese companies should organize investment in response to shortage existing, closed, overly specific, and outdated systems and determine which systems should be abolof qualified IT professionals ished. In parallel with this, they should renovate necessary systems and implement a DX strategy. DX Scenario proposed by the Ministry This is expected to improve Japan’s real GDP in of Economy, Trade and Industry* 2030 to over ¥130 trillion. 43 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives Digitalization of Retail and Distribution Businesses As part of the organizational restructuring carried out in April We will maximize synergies 2019, retail distribution business and the organization which operates card and other retail finance businesses were intebetween the distribution and grated to form a business group that supports the development finance businesses to of our clients’ digital businesses by achieving synergies between contribute to the creation distribution and finance businesses. We are establishing a presof business opportunities ence in the rapidly developing field of next-generation business digitalization centered on leveraging of digital settlement and for our clients. purchasing information by 1) developing and operating mission critical systems and business systems in the field of distribution, 2) using know-how gained from our experience from settlement and security projects in the field of finance, and 3) using new technologies such as fintech. Expansion of Mission Critical Systems Business We will continue to focus on construction and operation of mission critical systems and business systems. In addition to supporting our clients’ businesses by safely running and operating a wide range of systems, we are proactively moving to secure ERP package installation projects. For example, we are leveraging the experience and know-how gained by being one of the first in the Japanese market to handle SAP S/4 HANA® migration to aggressively expand our SAP business. Acquisition of New Technologies and Improving Quality We view strengthening relationships with our corporate clients and accumulation of knowledge regarding new technologies as essential amid the trend of acceleration in business digitalization. We will leverage internal and external resources to enhance the abilities of our employees and focus on continuNoboru Omoto ously improving quality and productivity, thereby evolving to Managing Executive Officer COO, Distribution Group become a business group that can provide high-value-added products and services. Column Rebuilding of FamilyMart’s Ordering System In fiscal 2018, our project to rebuild FamilyMart Co., Ltd.’s ordering system improved functionality and reduced running costs. This project, which involved the upgrading of a mission critical system that handled ordering data from roughly 16,500 stores, went smoothly and had no impact on day-to-day operations. We have been able to support this client’s business by leveraging our systems construction and operation know-how to safely and smoothly complete the project. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 44 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Telecommunication Group We aim to leverage our infrastructure building know-how to not only build 5G but also use 5G to help our partners create new businesses. Strengths Challenges Large-scale infrastructure building Achieve rapid response and differcapabilities that support telecomentiation when introducing new munications networks technologies CTC’s Strengths and Ability to develop and operate Nurture and secure high-valueChallenges mission critical systems added human resources Opportunities Factors Limiting Growth Rapid growth in data volumes on Heating up of competition mobile networks for telecom carrier projects Full-scale preparation for 5G Slow adoption of new ahead of 2020 technologies Business Climate Full-scale cooperation with telecom carriers and companies to prepare for growth in the 5G market 45 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives The Telecommunication Group contributed to the developWe will support infrastructure ment of telecommunications services by providing telecom that empowers telecom carriers with leading-edge technologies that connect mobile devices to the Internet and building backbone networks that carriers in the 5G era while allow devices such as smartphones to transmit massive volleveraging the strength of umes of data as mobile telecommunications systems became the entire Company to take more advanced. 5G technology is expected to accelerate the digitalization on the role of a business of businesses in all industries by connecting a wide range of partner connecting telecom devices to networks. In response, telecom carriers are shifting carriers and other industries. away from business strategies focused on their conventional telecommunications businesses and toward strategies focused on supporting business model revolutions in other industries by leveraging 5G infrastructure to cooperate with other companies. Businesses that Build 5G and Businesses that Use 5G In response to the abovementioned trends, the Telecommunication Group has for quite some time been conducting surveys and research on virtual network technologies and has given top priority to the securing and execution of projects ahead of the full-scale launch of 5G services in 2020. More specifically, we aim to work on projects that make the existing networks of telecom carriers compatible with 5G technology and set up the appropriate operations and support systems. We will not only support 5G infrastructure but will also position ourselves as strong business partners for our telecom carrier clients and assist them in DX projects using 5G technology so that they can empower their customers in all industries. We will also leverage the capabilities of the entire Company to Yasuhiko Terada build 5G infrastructure at the local level (local 5G). Managing Executive Officer COO, Telecommunication Group Column Construction of Data Communication Connection System for SoftBank’s Mobile Access Services The CTC Group built the data communication connection system for Security Mobile Access (SMA), a mobile access service for business customers provided by SoftBank Corporation. SMA is a service that meets diverse needs including the development of environments that employees working from home can access from outside their company via mobile terminals and the construction of systems to integrate with many IoT devices. When building the data communication connection system, the CTC Group used NFV technology and achieved high scalability which can handle high volumes of connection. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 46 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Regional & Social Infrastructure Group Winning the trust of local governments and our corporate partners by integrating and delivering leadingedge technologies Strengths  hallenges C Large-scale SI capabilities acquired Improving management efficiency in the social infrastructure sector over a range of business domains Network of partner companies CTC’s Strengths and covering all regions Challenges Business know-how gained from our broad customer base Know-how regarding labor productivity improvement tools such as AI and RPA O  pportunities  actors Limiting Growth F Full-scale use of AI and IoT technol eining in of IT investment in R ogies to improve business efficiency response to global economic and services slowdown Demand for shift to cloud computS  hortage of qualified IT professionals Business Climate ing in the public sector owing to decline in working Need to improve labor productivity population owing to decline in rural populations 47 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives Focus on Businesses with Awareness of Issues Facing Society as a Whole The Regional & Social Infrastructure Group partners with local governments, social infrastructure companies, and regional Supporting social banks impacted strongly by major social changes such as aging infrastructure and regional and urbanization of the population and maldistribution of industry. We leverage the know-how accumulated by the Group to revitalization with IT and help resolve problems that impact society as a whole through business ideas labor productivity improvement and regional revitalization. Our near-term strategy is to strengthen relationships with our existing customers and focus on expanding our business in the key fields of electric power, local governments, regional banks, and education. We will also respond to the needs of local corporations and local governments for labor productivity improvement and leverage digital technologies to assist social infrastructure companies in upgrading to next-generation ­systems by providing solutions utilizing IoT, AI, big data, and agile development. Evolving to Become a Group that Contributes to Regional Revitalization The Regional & Social Infrastructure Group’s operations span multiple industries and regions, and we work to solve a wide range of problems for our customers. It is therefore essential for us to bring to bear leading-edge technologies while maintaining high management efficiency. In addition to working to improve profitability by carefully monitoring the progress and profitability of each project, we will address these issues by deepening the connections between our offices and businesses Hisashi Eda Managing Executive Officer and focusing on efficiently sharing our know-how and solutions. COO, Regional & Through these activities, we will also contribute to regional Social Infrastructure Group revitalization and the revitalization of regional economies. Column Nurturing Human Resources in the Field of Data Science by Signing an Academic Exchange Agreement with Waseda University In July 2018, CTC signed an academic exchange agreement with Waseda University with the goals of nurturing human resources and promoting collaboration between industry and academia in the field of data science. In this field, academics face the issue of insufficient access to big data that can be commercialized while companies in the industry face a shortage of human resources. This agreement provides a platform to coordinate efforts to simultaneously address these issues. This agreement is expected to lead to advancements in data analysis and AI development and broaden the range of applications to which data science can be applied. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 48 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Financial Services Group Leveraging CTC’s global network and infrastructure building experience to support financial institutions’ efforts to make their operations more globalized and digitalized and quickly comply with regulations Strengths Challenges Ability to construct large-scale IT Developing the ability to flexibility infrastructure and develop business respond to the needs of diversifying applications that use cloud computfinancial businesses ing and virtualization technologies in A  cquisition of rapidly evolving finanCTC’s Strengths and the field of finance cial industry IT and securing of Challenges Expertise in the field of RegTech*, human resources where we have considerable experience CTC Group’s global network that * RegTech = Regulation + Technology (the applicasupports financial businesses in Asia, tion of technology to help ensure regulatory North America, and Europe compliance) Opportunities Factors Limiting Growth Support our clients’ business Reining IT investment in business reforms by leveraging leading-edge model reforms by major financial digital technologies institutions Supporting our clients in our areas Business Climate of strength: Risk management and international financial regulatory compliance Accelerated global expansion by clients 49 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives Deepening Our Existing Business and Taking Up the Challenge of Broadening Our Business Domains Provide secure, high-quality As part of the organizational restructuring carried out in April 2019, we were established as a business group to serve finanIT technologies on a concial institutions, mainly major banks. In the field of RegTech, tinuous basis to support which is one of CTC’s strengths, there is strong demand from critical social infrastructure financial institutions for assistance in handling risk management issues and compliance with international regulations businesses that clients need such as Basel III and this remains one of our areas of focus. We to protect also expect a gradual reemergence of IT investment by financial institutions, which had been reined until last year, in line with plans to strengthen business digitalization efforts in the medium-term business plans of our customers. Amid the evolution of fintech, a variety of financial services have been created in the financial industry based on new technologies and our clients see business restructuring as an urgent challenge. In order to encourage this trend, in our recent organizational restructuring we have concentrated on the Financial Services Group functions promoting the acquisition of the newest financial IT, such as digital technology, and efficient SI development. We aim to increase our ability to provide support for leading-edge technologies and financial services and expand the range of our business operations. Supporting Overseas Expansion of Our Customers’ Operations We expect major banks to aggressively expand their global businesses in Asia. Masaaki Matsuzawa We will leverage the CTC Group’s global network to support Executive Vice President Assistant to the President our client’s overseas businesses by expanding our operations in (Special appointment for Overall Management Asia based on our success in installing overseas account infraof the Groups and Operating Companies) In charge of Enterprise Group / Distribution Group structure in Singapore and strengthening our businesses in / Telecommunication Group / Regional & Social North America through cooperation with our partners. Infrastructure Group / Financial Services Group COO, Financial Services Group Column Increased Convenience and Security by Upgrading the IT Infrastructure of the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) The Financial Services Group upgraded the IT infrastructure that operates the core systems of public financial institution JBIC. The main objectives of this project were to install cloud computing functionality, improve security, and integrate the bank’s overseas and domestic operations under one system. We leveraged the synergies of each company in the CTC Group, focusing on making a user-friendly system while creating an IT environment to allow our customer to operate with peace of mind in Japan and overseas. We made full use of our capabilities as a multi-vendor to assist this client in a wide range of business domains that require the use of leading-edge technologies. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 50 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies IT Services Group We contribute to the expansion of our customers’ businesses by using Toshiyuki Awai leading-edge IT to provide Managing Executive Officer COO, IT Services Group competitive services ahead of other companies in the industry. The IT Services Group integrates cloud computing,  rganizational Positioning O security, and data center businesses, expanding businesses by bringing together these elements and proEnterprise Distribution TelecomRegional Finance posing and promoting strategies that involve providing Group Group munication & Social Group Group Infrastructure high-value-added services. We not only support other Group business groups by planning cloud integration projIT Services Group ects and providing technological support but also handle sales of the services we provide to customers. Service Design Group Mission  Proactively install leading-edge technologies in Global Business Division overseas countries such as the United States and promote the creation and delivery of new services in the domains of cloud computing, security, and data centers. Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives The IT Services Group contributes to the stable manageto shift their IT infrastructure to cloud or hybrid environment of the Company by supporting our recurring fee ments. In the field of hybrid cloud computing, where businesses with a focus on cloud computing. We expect we expect to see growth, we will focus on creating growth in the public cloud market and see this as an area new business models to take advantage of business that we must strengthen. One of CTC’s strengths is its opportunities. In addition to expanding the scale of our ability to provide services as a multi-vendor including IT businesses through our sales promotion efforts, we are infrastructure construction, maintenance, operation, and improving the operations quality of our cloud, security, cloud services. We are building up a wealth of experiand data center services, working to increase efficiency, ence not only with CTC’s CUVIC series of cloud services and aiming for further growth. but also with major public cloud services such as AWS. We are leveraging this strength to assist our customers 51 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Service Design Group For the establishment of a prosperous and safe future society, leverage leadingEiji Haraguchi edge IT to contribute to Managing Executive Officer COO, Service Design Group resolving social issues and to CIO the creation of innovative businesses The Service Design Group consists of the Institute of Organizational Positioning Open Innovation Research “MIRAI,” which creates new business models and the Corporate IT System Enterprise Distribution TelecomRegional Finance Division, which reforms business processes. Group Group munication & Social Group Group Infrastructure Collaboration between these two sub-groups allows Group us to provide our clients with leading-edge services and also improve the labor productivity and compeIT Services Group tiveness of the CTC Group. Service Design Group Mission  • Collaborate to create new businesses Global Business Division • Support the DX of our customers • Put into practice business process reforms using leading-edge IT and propose new work styles M  ediumto Long-Term Initiatives At MIRAI, we use DEJIMA, a dedicated space for open The Corporate IT System Division installs nextinnovation that encourages collaboration. We also bring generation IT infrastructure with the aim of controlling IT in corporate venture capital and cooperate with venture systems and promoting diverse work styles. In order to businesses to create joint ventures. We focus on busibe able to adapt to a rapidly diversifying and constantly nesses that have potential synergies with the ITOCHU changing environment, we install leading-edge systems Group and businesses that address social issues as outthat use cloud services to provide both convenience and lined in the United Nations’ SDGs. We also proactively security and conduct operations while assessing their assist the Group’s existing customers to digitalize their effectiveness. The division not only works toward the businesses and guide them to the next generation with goal of the CTC Group of contributing to improvement the aim of rapid commercialization and profit of labor productivity but also contributes to the creation generation. of new services by CTC. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 52 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Main Business Strategies Global Business Division Building a business infrastructure to acquire excelJunji Hirooka lent goods and services Executive Officer COO, Global Business from around the world and General Manager, Global Business Division deliver them to our clients on a global scale CTC’s Overseas Network Organizational Positioning  The Global Business Division strengthens cooperaMalaysia United States tion in Japan, the United States, Europe, and the CTC GLOBAL SDN. BHD. ITOCHU ASEAN region, and promotes the growth of the Techno-Solutions America, Inc. Group’s existing overseas operating companies, Thailand CTC Global (Thailand) Ltd. cooperation among partner companies from around the world, and strategic business investment. Mission  • Develop leading-edge technology in the United States, Europe, and Asia • Provide solutions in the United States, Europe, and Singapore Indonesia CTC GLOBAL PTE. LTD. PT. CTC Techno Solutions the ASEAN region ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Indonesia • Support the global development efforts of Corporation Singapore Branch Japanese companies Mediumto Long-Term Initiatives Strengthen Earning Abilities of Existing Overseas Development and Enhancement of Leading-Edge Operating Companies Technologies We are focusing on continuously expanding the busiWe will develop leading-edge technologies, products, and nesses of the Group’s existing overseas clients in the services and expand CTC’s lineup of multi-vendor solutions. telecommunications and finance industries and also We will also leverage the relationships we have developed at securing new clients in the automotive and healthcare our R&D* center in Silicon Valley to enhance our ability to industries. In addition, we aim to expand our service identify promising new businesses in Shenzhen and Europe. businesses by shifting to high-margin development and Expanding Our Operations services businesses and support the global development We will expand our global businesses operations, espeefforts of Japanese companies by strengthening coopcially in the United States, Europe, and the ASEAN region eration with our Japanese clients. by creating new business foundations through M&A, capital tie-ups, and business alliances. * R&D includes the identification of trends related to leading-edge technologies and IT markets and development of new products. 53 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Major Group Companies in Japan As of July 2019 Business Strategies Maintenance and Operation Planning and Design The CTC Group uses Data Center comprehensive group IT Lifecycle CTC Provides capabilities to provide Introduction total support for clients’ and Transition Procurement IT lifecycles Development and Construction Maintenance & Operations Services  eveloping Businesses Specialized for Client D Maintenance & Operations Services provide a variety of necCompanies and Industries essary technological capabilities, from product maintenance Develops businesses specialized for client companies and to the management of infrastructure and operation of backindustries, providing systems developed for clients’ unique bone system application and the ongoing management of operating processes and industry-specific solutions. data centers. Each operational specialization of CTC Group companies supports clients’ IT lifecycles. Asahi Business Solutions Corp. Established: Jan. 5, 1989 CTC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION Since being established as an information systems subsidiary for System Maintenance and Support Business Asahi Breweries, provides total solutions to the Asahi Group, from IT Established: Apr. 6, 1990 solutions planning, proposal, and development to maintenance and operations. Provides a range of services including assembly, transfer, and installation of equipment, 24-hour maintenance and systems operation, and comprehensive IT engineer training services. We aim to contribute to the continuity of our customers’ businesses and become a company Solutions Business Using Distinct Products that supports the society of the future through IT. Laying out the framework to offer a variety of IT-related products and top global vendors to provide the best solutions to CTC SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CORPORATION client needs. System Operations and Support Business Established: Jul. 1, 2008 CTCSP CORPORATION Established: Apr. 1, 1990 Provides specialized operations services, such as satellite communications controls and the operation management of IT infrastrucWe offer the best IT services that meet the needs of clients by ture, backbone systems, and data centers for clients in the financial, adding “proposal capability” value to leading-edge and unique distribution, telecommunications, and manufacturing industries. solutions from Japan and abroad. Also carries out IT infrastructure construction, develops ERP-related software, and provides maintenance services. CTC FACILITIES CORPORATION Data Center Facility Management Business Established: Jul. 7, 2000 Provides operations, maintenance, construction, and management services for CTC’s data centers. Also leverages the experience and know-how it has accumulated to provide a wide variety of facilitiesrelated services including construction and operations support and upgrade consulting for customers’ data centers and server rooms. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 54 CTC’s Long-Term Strategy Message from the CFO We will continuously increase corporate value by improving business portfolio management and achieving steady profit growth. Director & Executive Vice President Assistant to the President & CAO In charge of Corporate Administration Group / Global Business Development CFO & CCO Toru Matsushima Shoring Up Our Strategy to Open New Horizons margin improvement. Each of our business groups has cusOur current Medium-Term Management Plan (please see tomers from a wide range of sectors and we operate using page 25), which began in April 2018, is called Opening New multiple business models with different earnings structures. Horizons. Under the plan, we will reinforce our strengths Although each business is able to achieve earnings on their while following a strategy of entering new business domains projects, efforts to improve profit margins have varied from by creating businesses that leverage 5G and DX technologroup to group. I think it is essential for us to reevaluate the gies and expanding our operations bases around the world. earnings potential of each of our business models and furI believe it is my role as CFO to support many aspects of ther optimize allocation of our management resources. In management, not only our financial strategy, so that we can this way, I hope to improve CTC’s business portfolio carry out our corporate strategy and achieve continuous management. growth. In order to open new horizons, it is essential for us to participate in products using new technologies that we Focus on Investments Aimed at Future Growth and have not worked with before and proactively enter new Resolving Social Issues business fields that are ahead of their time. Such projects We view the IT sector as an industry that continuously creates have the potential to develop into businesses that form new businesses to produce social change and resolve social earnings pillars for the Company. Of course, we must be issues. Continuous investment is essential in order to mainextremely cautious when agreeing to take on such projects tain and improve our completive strength in a rapidly as they can be very difficult and result in temporary profit changing environment. From the point of view of business declines. However, I believe not giving up on these projects portfolio management, when deciding which investments to and doing what it takes to create an environment wherein make, we must not only consider the best fit for the CTC the Company can nurture businesses that will contribute to Group but also think about how to meet the needs of society. growth over the medium and long term is an essential part We aim to invest in ways that allow us to contribute to the of my role as CFO in supporting management. solution of social issues while achieving continuous growth. Under our current Medium-Term Management Plan, we We have established investment criteria based on capital are aiming for net profit attributable to CTC’s shareholders costs in order to ensure that investment in our businesses of ¥30.0 billion and ROE of 12% or more in fiscal 2020. In leads to steady profit growth. In recent years, our M&A has our plan, we target profit growth with a focus on profit been focused overseas and we have established criteria for 55 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 each country, taking into consideration factors such as As a result of the above, ROE declined by 0.3 percentage country risk and economic indicators. We use these criteria point year on year, to 11.5%, but remained at a high level. to ensure that we maintain financial discipline when making We are making steady progress toward the target in our curinvestment decisions. As capital costs form the basis for rent Medium-Term Management Plan of ROE of 12% or these criteria, we review capital costs annually, report them more in fiscal 2020, the final year covered by the plan. to the Board of Directors, and share this information with In fiscal 2019, we will continue to reinforce our strengths the entire management team. and proactively seek challenges in new business domains, When making investment decisions, we must never targeting net profit attributable to CTC’s shareholders of forget that our most valuable resources are our human ¥27.0 billion. resources. We view securing the outstanding human In order to live up to the trust our shareholders have resources of companies we acquire and gaining access to placed in us, we plan to speedily carry out the abovementheir knowledge and expertise as essential to boosting our tioned measures and thereby achieve stable profit growth competitiveness. Also, to strengthen our ability to work with and make dividend distributions that are stable and at a high leading-edge technologies, we must not only secure comlevel. We always take into consideration the option of repurpetent human resources but also give them access to the chasing shares as a means to increase shareholder returns. appropriate training and nurture them as employees. In While we have not rejected the possibility of repurchasing order to have employees live up to their full potential, it is shares, we plan to use dividend distributions as our primary essential to evolve our human resources policies and sysmethod of returning value to shareholders. tems (please see page 35) by, for example, implementing work-style reforms and flexible compensation systems. Basic Policy on Profit Distribution CTC recognizes the return of profits to shareholders as Leveraging Profit Growth to Increase Corporate Value an important management issue. In line with its basic In fiscal 2018, the first year covered by the current Mediumpolicy of increasing dividend levels, CTC works to Term Management Plan, sales to telecommunications comsecure stable dividend payments and stresses the return panies and manufacturers were strong and the ratio of of profits according to business performance, while unprofitable projects declined to 1.2%, from 2.8% in fiscal carefully considering the balance of internal reserves 2017. Net profit attributable to CTC’s shareholders rose to and the actual amount distributed to shareholders. ¥24.6 billion, reaching a record high for the fifth consecutive fiscal year. As part of our efforts to increase shareholder returns, we increased our dividend payout ratio from As we believe that, with the support of our stakeholders, roughly 40% to approximately 45% and distributed dividends the continuous growth of CTC will contribute to the Global of ¥50 per share (up ¥5 per share year on year). This was the Good, we will continue to do our best, always keeping in 10th consecutive year we increased dividend distributions. mind the spirit of mutual benefit.  evenue from SI Development and R Annual Dividends per Share* / Dividend Payout Ratio Unprofitable Amount (¥ billion) (%) (¥)(%) 100 94.9 5.0 75 100 91.5 80 4.0 60 80 55 50 45 60 2.8 3.0 45 60 35 40 44.9 44.1 46.9 47.1 42.3 40 2.0 30 40 1.2 20 1.0 15 20 25 11 0 0 0 0 2017 2018 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) (Forecast) Revenue from SI Development Unprofitable Amount Occurrence Ratio of Unprofitable Projects Annual Dividends per Share Consolidated Dividend Payout Ratio * CTC conducted two-for-one stock splits of common shares on April 1, 2015 and April 1, 2018. Amounts for fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2017 in the above have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock splits. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 56 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation The CTC Group’s Materiality With a view to achieving its mission of “leveraging IT’s potential to change the future for the Global Good,” the CTC Group has identified material topics (materiality), which are priority social issues and themes on which the Group should focus efforts and address by utilizing its mainstay IT business. Accordingly, we are embedding efforts to address these material topics into our corporate activities. Further, to enable each employee to understand the connection between their work and society, we inform employees about our corporate philosophy and initiatives. The SDGs and Materiality The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted by the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015 and comprise 17 goals to be addressed in the period through to 2030 for the future of the earth. Increasingly, society expects companies to participate proactively in initiatives aimed at reaching these goals, which apply to the whole of international society. The CTC Group endorses the philosophy of the SDGs and will contribute to their achievement through its materiality initiatives. Column Initiatives to Help Reach the SDGs The CTC Group is advancing an array of initiatives with the aim of contributing to the realization of the SDGs. In-house, we take measures to ensure that all employees understand our initiatives related to the SDGs. For example, we explain and report on the ­initiatives at events attended by approximately 4,000 employees, and we hold “Morning SDGs Seminars” before employees begin work. In addition, the CTC Group disseminates information on its SDGs-related initiatives through a public relations An in-house seminar (PR) magazine, external seminars, and the hosting of workshops for clients and contributes to the achievement of the SDGs through the Group’s mainstay business. 57 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Identification of Materiality In March 2016, the CTC Group identified its material topics stakeholders. For each of the identified material topics, we (materiality) by aggregating and analyzing various types of have established specific targets and key performance indiinternational guidelines on sustainability, the SDGs and other cators (KPIs). We continuously improve our initiatives by social issues emphasized by corporate social responsibility annually reviewing and evaluating our performance in relaevaluation bodies, and feedback from internal and external tion to respective material topics and identifying issues. 1 Provide trusted IT services Ensure rigorous information P.80 security Ensuring Rigorous Information Security P.34 Improve quality Ensuring Quality and Enhancing Client Satisfaction P.78 Compliance Internal Control and Compliance 2 Cultivate personnel who can Conduct personnel P.37 development and training Recruitment and Development change society for the better P.36 Promote diversity and Promoting Further Work-Style Reforms change work styles P.38 Diversity and Empowering of Women in the Workplace P.48 Help cultivate people Nurturing Human Resources in the Field of Data who can be a bridge to the next generation Science by Signing an Academic Exchange Agreement with Waseda University 3 Harness IT to build a P.42 Address issues related to Cooperating with Toyota Systems to Increase sustainable society an aging society Productivity of App Development for Toyota Motor Corporation P.63–64 Reduce environmental impact Environmental Initiatives Contribute to regional P.47–48 economies Regional & Social Infrastructure Group  For details, please visit our website. http://www.ctc-g.co.jp/en/corporate/csr/policy/materiality.html Initiatives to Obtain Feedback from Society Since identifying our material topics, we have continued to actively obtain and reflect feedback from stakeholders. For example, through dialogues between external experts and our senior management team, we clarify the social issues that we should tackle and the stances we should adopt as a company. In June 2019, we held a dialogue themed on how best to achieve the “Global Good” called for by our mission, and the audience comprised interested employees. P.59 Stakeholder Dialogue ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 58 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Stakeholder Dialogue Realizing a sustainable society: What sort of abundance will be needed for the future? The CTC Group’s mission is “leveraging IT’s potential to change the future for the Realizing Abundance Global Good.” By fulfilling this mission, through its operations the CTC Group plays an important role in working to realize a sustainable society in accor­ Joining us today are Mr. Ryojun Shionuma, a Buddhist dance with the thinking behind the SDGs. monk holding the title of Dai Ajari who speaks extensively Here, we explore what we—as a compa­ at companies and educational institutions in Japan and ny handling leading-edge technologies— overseas, and Dr. Shigeki Goto, a professor emeritus of are being called upon to do in these Waseda University who has contributed over a long period rapidly changing times, when values of time to developments in the computer science field, with respect to “abundance” (which is notably in telecommunications engineering. described in our Group mission as the First, we would like to ask a question about today’s “Global Good”) are growing more diverse. theme, “abundance.” Would each of you please describe To this end, we hosted a dialogue what abundance means from your own perspective? between experts from the perspectives of Buddhism and technology. Shionuma: People have different values and they don’t need to be always related with money and physical items. But, in situations that truly enrich the soul? This is the theme that called me to the vocation of priesthood. Our lives involve relationships with other people and whenever we interact with someone, we become aware of that 59 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 person’s physical condition and our own mood as well. When two people truly communicate and understand each other in this situation, we feel enriched. The simple presence of someone who understands you impacts the power of perseverance despite any pain or difficulty. In that sense, I think abundance refers to the ability of naturally understanding what other people need and what would make them happy. “Half a word to a wise man is enough” states a Japanese proverb, which my mother Ryojun Shionuma repeated when I was young—she was strict with my Founder of Jigenji Temple in Akiu, Sendai upbringing. During the teenage years, when a person’s feelDai Ajari, Omine Thousand Day ings and personality are forming, becomes the basis of their Circumambulation Practice behavior and interaction with others. Thinking of others and acting in a way that will make others happy is a way to experience a meeting with the heart. Such experiences enrich the soul and lead to abundance. Goto: One major thing that differentiates people from aniRealizing Abundance mals is the fact that people interact and form societies. through Technology What connects us is communication. Means of communication have grown more sophisticated as science and technology have evolved. But society has not necessarily become more abundant in the true sense as a result. Globalization means that the economics You noted that the way technology is used is being called of individual countries and regions affect other regions, so into question. How is the CTC Group, which is active in the it has become possible for one region to grow richer while fields of IT and telecommunications, being called upon to another becomes poorer. Communication always has both achieve abundance? positive and negative aspects. Technology can be used for war as well as peace. Considering how they can be utilized Satomi: An abundant society must be safe and secure. A to achieve abundance, I agree with Mr. Shionuma that the society in which you must always be in a state of high alert way people interact with one another is key. is not abundant. The CTC Group has been involved with telecommunications for many years, and the CTC Group will continue to play an important role in supporting society in the future. Negative aspects have been pointed out with respect to such technologies as AI and cybersecurity, but by taking a forward-looking approach and improving negative aspects, we can contribute to society’s safety, security, and abundance. I think another important aspect is that clients and the ultimate end-users enjoy using the products we provide in their work. It is important to have common values by sharing joy in this way. Matsushima: My experience of management has taught me to constantly be comparing things. I compare our profits with competitors’ and think of what needs to be done to Shigeki Goto make our company a better place to work. I wonder, Professor Emeritus, Waseda University though, whether it is possible to go too far in comparing President, Japan Network Information one’s own abundance and happiness with that of others. Center (JPNIC) Rather than money and physical items, as Mr. Shionuma has Chairman, Research Committee for R&D Strategy, National center of Incident readiness and Strategy for Cybersecurity (NISC) ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 60 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Stakeholder Dialogue 100-meter impact. Our future goals for how people and technology coexist cannot be at odds. Otherwise, we will not move toward for an altogether better future. Satomi: I am also against the idea of using technologies unless the ethics and objectives are clear. For instance, research is being conducted to help AI learn emotional Toru Matsushima awareness. This is being done so that when it is not possible Director & Executive Vice President to understand what older people are saying, AI can analyze Assistant to the President & CAO a person’s speech characteristics to recognize the meaning. In charge of Corporate Introducing AI without having a clear sense of how it will be Administration Group / Global Business Development used invites confusion into society. When conducting and CFO & CCO applying basic research and adapting it to society, we need to have sufficient reasons for doing so and be clear about its role when using it. Goto: I would like to make one additional point. Going fornoted, interactions between people are surely more enrichward, I think it will become more common for companies ing and provide more of a sense of abundance. and research institutions to openly share the information I think we can contribute toward the realization of an they possess and make use of this collective knowledge. abundant society by providing the underpinnings to support When this happens, I hope the institutions involved will do IT systems and ensure that people are firmly connected so without trying to hide negative information. For instance, with each other. I would like to see our company aim for an organization may not want to disclose the fact that it has this sort of support and connection to help achieve greater been the victim of a cyberattack, but that information has abundance. value because lessons can be learned from it. I think we need to create information-usage frameworks that do not Shionuma: Earlier I mentioned the sentence: “Half a word penalize the people providing information. Along with clarito a wise man is enough.” I think that proverb describes the fying their objectives, I would like the people responsible way AI is evolving. AI will not move forward in a positive for technologies to take this into consideration. In order to direction without human intervention. The evolution of AI do so, it is important for people to communicate with one also requires that progress needs to be made by the people another and develop trust-based relationships. who developed it and those who use the technology. Goto: I believe that people have capabilities suitable to making progress in AI. People differ from other animals in the way we acquire the vast majority of our learning after we’re born. That sense is behind the phrase “Half a word to a wise man is enough,” and is how we develop ethics. Whether ethics can be taught to AI depends on people. Shionuma: If value is attributed to something existing, then people will not change. AI exists to fill in the gaps, but we as human beings must be clearly aware of the goals behind its use. We need to think about the reason behind its development and how it will be used. Rather than just a few specific people having the right to make such decisions, other communities need to be involved by providing their input, Hidetoshi Satomi like religious communities, economic communities, and Fellow, General Manager, CTO Office Advanced IT Strategy Division politicians. If the initial target is off by as little as a single Assistant to COO, Service Design Group millimeter now, down the road it could have a major, 61 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 A Company Working to proposals that are appropriate or optimal, also need to be “Change the Future worked out in conjunction with employees. for the Global Good” Goto: Regardless of how hard you work, there are limits to what a single person can achieve. When a job is shared, information on the positive and negative aspects of the In addition to their own growth, companies are increasingly parts that individuals have been responsible for is gathered being called upon to conduct corporate activities in coopera­ together. This is possible because humans are in charge. tion with society and address social issues. Going forward, A society that uses IT to enhance trust between people what should the CTC Group, which is working to achieve will be more robust. Although difficult in the past, it will abundance through technology, be doing? become possible to interact with people who are located far away. I think you have an important role to play in your Shionuma: As a company, you need to generate profit. work toward building a society capable of trust and in However, rather than rushing to compare with other which trust can be shared. companies and with your own performance in the previous year, I think it would be better to grow slowly. Self-interest Matsushima: The CTC Group believes in the importance of and philanthropy must be pursued cyclically. It is better to contributing to the SDGs via its business. Ideally, rather than grow gradually and over the long term, both for your by making the SDGs the objective we would naturally work company and for society. You should not lose the desire toward those 17 goals as we go about our business. The to improve. However, I undertook a difficult training to SDGs are connected with the goal of “abundance,” and I earn the title of Dai Ajari, but when I look back after I believe it is meaningful to keep this in mind as we go about completed that training it made me realize I wanted to our business. maintain the passion for the priesthood I felt when I was The ITOCHU Group has its roots with the merchants of 19 years old. Still always remaining humble to the end of Ohmi, who understood the concept of sampo yoshi (good my days. I want to be able to always grow in whatever for the seller, good for the buyer, and good for society). In environment I am placed in and am always taking on new Japanese, the characters for “company” and “society” are challenges. I would like to see the CTC Group maintain the same, just in reverse order, which illustrates their interthat same sort of energy. connectedness. Companies must always take society into consideration, and management needs to think about Satomi: In order for a company to grow, its people need to contributing toward the abundance of all stakeholders. grow as well. What level of growth is appropriate is not just To contribute toward the common good of society, the a question for the management team; it also requires conCompany must achieve sustainable growth. As we do so, sensus from employees. The ability to contribute to society our management will take the words of you experts to on a business front, as well as frameworks for making heart. Thank you for your time today. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 62 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Environmental Initiatives The CTC Group is doing its part to pass on a sustainable global environment to future generations. We are cutting energy ­consumption, using resources effectively, and taking other steps to prevent global warming. Also, recognizing the importance of maintaining biodiversity, we are working to improve the natural environment.  The CTC Group aims to keep its businesses in harmony with the global environment, addresses Environmental issues including climate change, the effective use of resources, and the preservation of biodiversity, Activities Policy and strives to improve environmental management systems in a sustained manner. 1 Provision of Value through the Solution of 3 Compliance with Relevant Laws, Regulations, etc. Issues Faced by Customers The CTC Group observes laws and regulations associated with The CTC Group offers value by helping address environmental environmental preservation and other items to which it agrees. and social issues. For example, we utilize IT to enable environmental load reduction and eco-efficiency improvement. 2 R  eduction of Environmental Footprint in 4 Cultivation  of an Awareness of the Need for a Business Activities Sustainable Society The CTC Group proactively promotes such initiatives as those for The CTC Group increases employees’ environmental awareness saving energy, saving resources, reducing waste, and greening through environmental education and other awareness-raising procurement and works to reduce the environmental footprint initiatives. Also, the Group cultivates an awareness in each of the Group and prevent pollution in its business activities. employee of the need for a sustainable society. Environmental Management Structure Environmental Education The CTC Group has established an Environmental Activities The CTC Group provides environmental education through Policy based on its corporate philosophy and has estabe-learning for all employees once a year. Environmental lished an environmental management structure. Managers and Eco Leaders are also offered training to We engage in Groupwide environmental improvement ­promote their activities. activities under the management of the CSR and Compliance Committee chairman and Environmental Control Manager; Environmental Improvement Activities with our Environmental Managers and Eco Leaders and We are helping reduce CO2 emissions by rolling out virtualDeputy Eco Leaders (who are responsible for driving enviization hosting services that provide IT infrastructure via ronmental activities) in their particular departments, including cloud computing and by offering comprehensive services at Group companies, taking a central role in these activities. that encompass the efficient introduction of renewable We have attained ISO14001 certification at a total of 22 busienergy through to its utilization. Further, we are encouraging ness locations (19 offices and 3 data center locations). employees to change their attitude to work styles and reducing overtime work and energy use by introducing a CTC President & CEO morning-focused working system. Under this initiative, we Chief Environmental Sustainability have prohibited working overtime after 8pm in principle as Internal Auditor Committee Chairman* well as working late at night and on days off. If there is a Chief Auditor Environmental need for employees to perform duties outside normal Environmental Planning Division Control Manager (Environment Office) working hours, we recommend that they perform these duties in the morning. CTC Departments CTC Group companies Environmental Preservation Activities Environmental Managers Environmental Managers (General Managers / As a supporter of the Chinju no Mori Project, which creates (General Managers) Department Managers) forests that help prevent disasters and preserve the environSection (Under direct ment, we regularly participate in tree planting and suppleDepartment / Team control of Group company Eco Leaders head office / secretariat) mentary planting activities. Also, we support and take part in Eco Leaders the environmental preservation activities of the “MOTTAINAI Staff Staff Campaign,” which promotes the establishment of a sustain* For fiscal 2019, Director & Executive Vice President is assigned to Sustainability able recycling-based society. Committee Chairman. 63 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Establishment of the 2050 CTC Environmental Declaration In April 2019, the CTC Group established the 2050 CTC concrete measures. In these efforts, we will focus on such Environmental Declaration, which calls for a 30% reduction areas as the use of IoT, AI, and other leading-edge technolin the CO2 emissions of the Group’s business activities comogies to save energy, the utilization of IT in the formulation pared with their 2015 level by 2030 and the elimination of of innovations, and the use of renewable energy. these emissions by 2050. Through this declaration and initiative, we will contribute The Group will collect knowledge on the reduction of to the realization of a carbon-free society and help clients CO2 emissions, form a task force comprising representaaddress the issues they face. tives of all segments of the Group, and regularly examine On the occasion of our establishment of the 2050 CTC Environmental Declaration, we received a message from World Wide Fund for Nature Japan’s Masako Konishi, who provided suggestions for the setting of mediumto long-term targets at the fiscal 2018 Stakeholder Dialogue. First, I would like to express my sincere respect with regard to the CTC Group for establishing the 2050 CTC Environmental Declaration and setting clear mediumto long-term environmental targets. Specifically, the deceleration calls for a 30% reduction in the CO2 emissions of the Group’s business activities compared with their 2015 level by 2030 and the elimination of these emissions by 2050. I remember the cautious attitude of the representatives of the CTC Group when I participated in its Stakeholder Dialogue in August 2018 and spoke about the importance of having a mediumto long-term vision. To be honest, I was filled with admiration when, less than a year later, the Group committed itself to eliminating emissions by 2050. The October 2018 issuance of the Special Report on Masako Konishi Global Warming of 1.5 °C of the Intergovernmental Panel Ph.D. (Social Governance), Meteorologist Expert Director, Conservation and Energy, on Climate Change (IPCC) made it widely known that WWF Japan aiming to limit global warming to 1.5 °C requires zero ­emissions by 2050 (limiting global warming to 2 °C requires zero emissions by around 2075). Consequently, at a stroke, aiming to limit global warming to 1.5 °C became a worldmeasures that earn it a favorable international reputation. wide trend at COP24 (the 2018 United Nations Climate For example, in relation to Science Based Targets, RE100 Change Conference) and other international negotiations. (business activities based on 100% renewable energy) is parOne of the CTC Group’s strengths is IoT, which will be an ticularly recommended for corporate groups such as the integral part of a carbon-free society. By taking the lead CTC Group that have relatively large amounts of indirect and rolling out initiatives and services in Japan and overseas, emissions (Scope 2). Also, as a corporate group that not only the Group will show the way to a carbon-free society, and aims to become carbon free itself but also to help others setting targets in alignment with limiting global warming to become carbon free, the Group would benefit from setting 1.5 °C befits such a leader. out a future scenario for its business activities in accordance Meanwhile, the Group has not yet clarified the concrete with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climatemeasures that it will take to reach the mediumto longrelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD). With the growing trend term targets. Therefore, I look forward to the Group’s toward investment that focuses on environmental, social, ­preparation of specific measures. In the era of the Paris and governance factors, the aforementioned initiatives will Agreement, companies, municipal authorities, and other encourage investors worldwide to choose the Group. non-national actors are playing very active roles worldwide. Further, I would like the Group to be a corporate group By participating in initiatives that promote global climate that speaks up. For example, the Group could issue such meschange countermeasures and which originate from nonsages as “the CTC Group’s technologies can increase the use national actors, the Group will learn about the types of conof renewable energy to 50% by 2030.” I look forward to the crete measures available as well as the areas where it should CTC Group’s further development as a leader driving us toward exercise care. Moreover, the Group will be able to pursue a carbon-free society in the era of the Paris Agreement! ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 64 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Contributing to Society As a member of local communities, the CTC Group aims to create an affluent society by using its personnel, information technology, and other resources to conduct proactive social contribution activities and provide support across a wide range of fields, including the environment, welfare, nurturing the next generation of young people, supporting the international community, and contributing to local communities and cultural activities. CTC is also actively involved in activities to help communities recover from natural disasters. On this page, we look at some of CTC’s activities. Local Community and Society Initiatives S  upport for Fostering the Next Generation of Young People Since fiscal 2015, the CTC Group has held the Children’s Technology Challenge Enabling Children to Develop Their IT workshop classes to give children, who will lead the future, opportunities to Potential and Have Fun while Learning encounter IT. In preparation for the start of compulsory programming educaabout IT tion at elementary schools in 2020, we also developed Minna de Challenge! (Everyone Take on the Challenge!) IT Engineer classes, which we began conducting at schools in fiscal 2018. The new classes teach programming-based thinking by having children act as IT engineers, develop hypotheses, and make verifications to derive the optimal delivery route. In fiscal 2018, we conducted these classes for 395 students at six elementary schools. Also, we held six workshops focused on using tablet devices to create “stories for playing,” and 111 children participated in the workshops. Conducted by our employees on a pro bono basis, these classes and workshops help foster the next generation of IT personnel. Support Activities for Disaster Areas Since fiscal 2014, we have been supporting the restoration of areas damaged by Continuing Trips in Support of Areas the Great East Japan Earthquake by conducting trips that enable employees Damaged by the Great East Japan who want to contribute to the happiness of those living in the Tohoku region to Earthquake learn about current conditions in the disaster area. In fiscal 2018, we conducted three trips, in which a total of 123 employees and family members of employees participated. Going forward, we will continue taking measures to support the restoration of the disaster area. Moreover, we provide special leave*1 and financial support*2 to employees who participate in volunteer activities in areas that have been catastrophically damaged by disasters. *1 Special leave for disaster area support volunteers: Paid leave that can be taken seven days per year (taking leave in half-day increments possible) *2 S ubsidy for the cost of volunteer activities in support of disaster areas: To cover such costs as return travel and accommodation, subsidies of between ¥35,000 and ¥50,000 paid each time an employee participates in activities, with each employee able to use the subsidy five times in each fiscal year Welfare Activities We endorse the “Third Place” facilities project of The Nippon Foundation, which Supporting Facilities That Foster takes measures to counter child poverty, and have concluded an official partChildren’s “Power for Living” nership for child poverty countermeasures with the foundation. As part of this partnership, we donate rice and tea for children’s meals. Every month, the CTC Group’s special subsidiary HINARI Corporation*3 provides 13 facilities with rice and tea from commercial farms with which it has contracts. In fiscal 2018, we donated a total of 1.6 tons of rice and nine kilograms of tea. The Nippon Foundation plans to open 100 “Third Place” facilities throughout Japan. Going forward, we will continue supporting such welfare activities. *3H INARI Corporation is a special corporation that contracts farmers to perform light agricultural work and which sells agricultural and processed products. 65 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 External Recognition ESG indicators selected by the Japanese Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) FTSE Blossom Japan Index MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN)* CTC was selected for the CTC was selected for the MSCI Japan Empowering FTSE Blossom Japan Women Index (WIN), a stock market index developed by Index, a stock market MSCI Inc., the largest ESG research company in the world, index developed by FTSE consisting of Japanese companies in the MSCI Japan IMI Russell, a wholly owned Top 500 Index that exhibit a commitment toward promoting and maintaining a high level of gender subsidiary of the London diversity among their workforce. Stock Exchange Group * THE INCLUSION OF ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, (LSEG), consisting of TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR Japanese companies that demonstrate strong PROMOTION OF ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE ESG practices. THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. FTSE4Good Index Series ISS-oekom Corporate Rating M ember of SNAM Sustainability Index2019 CTC was selected for inclusion CTC’s information security CTC was selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series, and environmental managein the SNAM Sustainability a series of stock market indices ment practices have been Index, a stock market index for ESG investors developed by rated as “Prime Status” by ISSdeveloped by Sompo Japan FTSE Russell, consisting of oekom, one of the world’s Nipponkoa Asset Management global companies demonstratleading sustainability rating Co., Ltd. based on ESG evaluaing strong ESG practices. institutions. tion conducted by research companies and a proprietary equity valuation method (fundamental value). JPX-Nikkei Index 400 Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock  019 White 500/Health & Productivity 2 CTC was selected for Selection program Outstanding Entities Recognition program inclusion in the JPXUnder the Competitive IT In this program, METI recogNikkei Index 400, a Strategy Company Stock nizes large enterprises constock market index developed by the Japan Selection program, the Ministry ducting excellent health and Exchange Group and Nikkei Inc. composed of 400 of Economy, Trade and productivity management. companies with high appeal for investors and which Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Certified in the large enterprise meet requirements of global investment standards, Stock Exchange (TSE) jointly category (dubbed the “White such as efficient use of capital and investor-focused select companies that create new value and imple500”), CTC was selected as a member for 2019, management perspectives. ment management innovation and proactively recognizing its efforts in health management by leverage IT to improve productivity. CTC has been managing the health of employees from a business selected for three consecutive years for its use of standpoint. leading-edge digital technology to increase productivity and its efforts to nurture human resources. Nikkei Smart Work Semi-Nadeshiko Brand “ Kurumin” certification for nurturing This project aims to Semi-Nadeshiko future generations promote growth in brands are listed corCTC was recognized by the the Japanese econporations selected by Ministry of Health, Labour and omy by improving the METI and the TSE as Welfare (MHLW) as a “company productivity of corenterprises that are that supports child-rearing.” porations through the outstanding in terms of CTC has received certification introduction of leading-edge technologies, innovaencouraging the empowerment of women in the under the Law for Measures to tion, and work-style reforms achieved through workplace. CTC was selected for the first time in Support the Development of the Next Generation, restructuring. CTC was selected as a leading-edge fiscal 2018 for its efforts in the areas of hiring and which was enacted in April 2005. The certification corporation for its efforts to improve productivity support for the career advancement of women, recognizes our efforts and track record in nurturing through work-style reforms and received a 4-star work style, and integration of child-rearing and future generations through our action plans (genrating in the second Nikkei Smart Work survey. nursing care. eral business owner action plans). “Eruboshi,” a symbol of certification based Certification as Tokyo Sports Promotion S ports Yell Company on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Corporation CTC’s efforts to encourage the Participation and Advancement in CTC has been recognized by use of holiday leave and fundthe Workplace the Tokyo metropolitan goving for participation in sports CTC received the highest rank, ernment for four consecutive events that support disasterbeing highly rated in all five years as a company that demaffected areas, and its support criteria (hiring, continuous onstrates excellence in its for company sports clubs have employment, work styles such efforts to promote the sports been recognized for two conas working hours, percentage activities of its employees and in its support secutive years. of managers, and various of sports. career courses) provided by the MHLW, based on the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 66 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Messages from Outside Directors As an independent outside director, I will strive to help CTC increase corporate value and contribute to society. Naoko Iwasaki Independent Outside Director With issues such as the aging of society and labor shortages becoming more April 2017  Professor, Institute of urgent, global uncertainty is on the rise driven by the emergence of global probe-Government, Waseda University lems. In the information age, which brings with it tremendous evolution and devel(current position) opment, I believe business system innovation and aggressive ICT investment President, International Academy aimed at creating added value will prove to be the key to solving many problems. of CIO Japan (current position) My specialty is in ICT management strategy and helping CIOs to leverage Member of Ageing Research Institute for Society and Education (ARISE) leading-edge technologies, and I believe CTC is making dynamic progress in ICT Advisory Board, Nanyang management focused on DX. In addition, CTC’s global perspective has also led to Technological University, Singapore the Company aggressively expanding its business in the United States, Europe, and (current position) the ASEAN region and implementing measures designed to increase diversity. April 2018  Amid accelerated adoption and application of leading-edge technologies such as Visiting Research Fellow, Peking University (current position) 5G, AI, and IoT, I think it is essential to apply these technologies with a focus on September 2018 service innovation. It is also essential to secure and nurture ICT professionals that Member of “Committee on can strategically leverage these technologies. Standardization of Business I firmly believe that, under the leadership of President Kikuchi, CTC will come Processes/Systems and Utilization of AI/Robotics in Local Governments,” together to increase corporate value based on the SDGs and that contributing to Ministry of Internal Affairs and society will promote the further growth of the Company’s businesses. Communications (current position) CTC has maintained an excellent balance in terms of its management and, January 2019  based on the strong teamwork of the Board of Directors and the Company’s highly Project Overseer, APEC project regarded corporate governance processes, I hope to fulfill my duties as outside on Smart Silver Innovation (current position) director by representing the shareholders and ensuring that the Company continues to conduct sound and transparent governance. 67 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 From an independent perspective, I will strive to help CTC remain a trusted company. Aya Motomura Independent Outside Director I am pleased to have recently taken a position as an outside director at CTC. I have October 2002  Registered as an attorney mainly worked as an attorney in the fields of finance and legal compliance, and (Dai-Ichi Tokyo Bar Association) served as an external member of the compliance committee of a listed asset manJoined Nagashima Ohno & agement company and a member of the environmental real estate investment Tsunematsu screening committee of a government–industry fund. This experience has given September 2008  me the opportunity to consider how corporations can conduct sound operations Worked for Cleary Gottlieb Steen & and development from the viewpoints of a diverse range of investors. Hamilton LLP (New York Office) CTC currently supports a wide range of IT systems that serve societies and February 2009 Registered as a member of industries around the world. Therefore, being a trusted company is in the shared New York State Bar Association best interests not only of the Company’s shareholders but also of all its stakeholdJuly 2009 ers, including customers, employees, trading partners, and local societies. Amid Worked for Financial Markets the recent robust debate regarding the strengthening of corporate governance in Division, Planning and Coordination response to the changing environment faced by companies including globalization Bureau, Financial Services Agency and changes in the financial environment and employment conditions, I think the October 2013 Partner, Inaba & Partners importance of the role of outside director in ensuring the continued growth of (current position) CTC is increasing. I believe my role is to increase the transparency and fairness of December 2013 management by considering the question of who a company should serve and by Member of Screening Committee for gathering and analyzing information and making proposals from an objective posiSeismic-resistant/Environmentallytion independent of the Company. friendly Real Estate Development Promotion Project, Real Estate In order to help CTC to continue to grow and “change the future for the Global Sustainability & Energy-Efficiency Good,” in my position as outside director I will do my best to make use of my Diffusion (RE-SEED) (current position) knowledge as an attorney and my perspective as a woman to increase corporate March 2014 value over the long term. Outside Member of Compliance Committee, AEON Reit Management Co., Ltd. (current position) ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 68 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Efforts to Strengthen Corporate Governance CTC’s New Initiatives Related to Governance (Fiscal 2015–2018) Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Establishment of Nomination Committee, Remuneration Invited outside Introduction of Invited outside Committee and Governance Committee as advisory commitspeakers and con­performance-linked speakers and tees for the Board of Directors ducted ESG study stock-based remu­conducted comCommencement  of evaluation of the effectiveness of the sessions for directors neration plan pliance training Board of Directors Invited outside sessions for Establishment  of liaison meeting between Audit & Supervisory speakers and condirector Board Members and non-executive directors ducted SDGs training Establishment  of information-sharing meeting for nonexecusessions for directors tive directors Provision of opportunities for outside directors to take part in training (external seminars) Reformation of Governance Systems Composition of the Board of Directors At the 40th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 19, 2019, it was decided to reform the Company’s Ratio of Outside (Independent) Directors governance system so that one-third of the Company’s directors would be independent outside directors and half Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 of the Company’s Audit & Supervisory Board Members would be independent outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. To ensure that the Board of Directors contributes to the 22% 1/3 continued mediumto long-term growth of corporate value, we believe the Board of Directors must have an appropriate balance of knowledge, experience, and abilities as well as a balance in terms of genders and high-level specializations, including persons with relevant knowledge and Ratio of Female Directors experience, attorneys, and certified public accountants. Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 With the reform of the Company’s governance system, the number of directors was reduced from nine to six, two of whom meet the requirements for independent officers established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Both independent 11% 1/3 outside directors are women; one is a university professor and the other is an attorney. While none of the directors are citizens of a country other than Japan, some of them have resided abroad, worked with overseas vendors, or have extensive overseas business experience and have an interna atio of Outside (Independent) Audit & Supervisory R tional perspective. We therefore believe the Company’s govBoard Members ernance system is sufficiently diverse. The number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members was Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 increased from three to four, two of whom are independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members. 1/3 1/2 69 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Overview of Corporate Governance System Basic Stance on Corporate Governance Guided by the slogan “Challenging Tomorrow’s Changes” governance in order to enhance management transparency and the CTC Group Philosophy, which sets out our mission and fairness as part of our efforts to maximize the Group’s of “leveraging IT’s potential to change the future for the corporate value. Global Good,” we are working to reinforce corporate Overview of the Corporate Governance System Company with corporate Audit & Supervisory Board Members Organization type (Audit & Supervisory Board) Chairman of the Board of Directors President & CEO Number of directors (of which, outside directors) 6 (2) Number of Audit & Supervisory Board Members 4 (3) (of which, outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members) Executive officer system Adopted Yes (Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, Existence of discretionary advisory bodies to the Board of Directors Governance Committee) Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Election and Election and Election and Dismissal Dismissal Dismissal Cooperation Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors (Directors) (Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditor Members) Nomination Committee Appointment Monitoring and Remuneration Committee and Removal Auditing Cooperation Cooperation Governance Committee President and CEO Management Committee Audit Division Delegation of Compliance & Information Security Committee execution authority Sustainability Committee Internal Internal Control Committee Audit Independent Risk Management Committee Audit Executive Officers, General Managers Reasons for Selecting the Current Corporate Governance System As a Company with Audit & Supervisory Board Members trading partners and regarding whom there is no concern (Audit & Supervisory Board), through the monitoring of that their interests will be in conflict with general shareholdmanagement by Audit & Supervisory Board Members, ers, and ensures the appropriate decision-making by the including outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, CTC Board of Directors and realization of the management monensures that it has strong monitoring and auditing functions itoring function. We have determined that our corporate and transparency in its decision-making processes. In addigovernance system, based on a Board of Directors that tion to establishing a corporate governance system based includes outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board on the monitoring of management by Audit & Supervisory that includes outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Board Members, the Company appoints outside directors is functioning effectively. who are independent from the parent company and major ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 70 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Selection and Appointment of Directors Reasons for Appointment of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members IndeDiscretionary Committees Name Title Age* penReason for Appointment dent NominaRemuGovertion neration nance Mr. Satoshi Kikuchi possesses personal qualities such as high ethical perspective and fairness as Director, and subsequent to assuming the office of President & CEO in S  atoshi President & CEO 66 June 2012, he is demonstrating leadership toward achieving the three-year MediumKikuchi Term Management Plan from fiscal 2018, in pursuit of continuous business growth and higher corporate value. Thus, the Company has reappointed him as Director. Director & Executive Vice President Mr. Toru Matsushima possesses personal qualities such as high ethical perspective Assistant to the President & CAO and fairness as Director, and subsequent to assuming the office of Director in June Toru In charge of Corporate 64 2014, he has served as CAO, CFO, CCO, etc. He has extensive knowledge and abiliMatsushima Administration Group / Global ties regarding management, and the Company believes that he is necessary for the Business Development management of the Company. Thus, the Company has reappointed him as Director. CFO & CCO Director & Senior Managing Mr. Tadataka Okubo possesses personal qualities such as high ethical perspective and Executive Officer fairness as Director, and subsequent to assuming the office of Director in June 2014, Tadataka Assistant to the President he has been responsible for the IT Services Group, Advanced IT Strategy Group, and 63 Okubo (Special appointment for served as CTO in addition to possessing extensive knowledge and abilities regarding Advanced IT Strategy) management, and the Company believes that he is necessary for the management of CTO the Company. Thus, the Company has reappointed him as Director. Ms. Naoko Iwasaki does not have past experience of being directly engaged in corporate management, yet she possesses personal qualities such as high ethical perNaoko Director 44 spective and fairness as Director, as well as a high level of expertise and deep knowledge Iwasaki as an academic, and the Company believes that she is necessary for the management of the Company. Thus, the Company has appointed her as Outside Director. Ms. Aya Motomura does not have past experience of being directly engaged in corporate management, yet she possesses personal qualities such as high ethical perAya spective and fairness as Director, as well as a high level of expertise as an attorney Director 40 Motomura and deep knowledge on corporate legal affairs and the Company believes she is necessary for the management of the Company. Thus, the Company has appointed her as Outside Director. Mr. Kiyoshi Imagawa possesses personal qualities such as high ethical perspective and fairness as Director, and has fulfilled his duties as Director since assuming the Kiyoshi office in June 2018. He possesses a high level of expertise and extensive knowlDirector 54 Imagawa edge regarding management as Chief Operating Officer of the ICT Division of ITOCHU Corporation, and the Company believes that he is qualified for the management of the Company. Thus, the Company has reappointed him as Director. Mr. Hiroshi Takada has experience with corporate management departments at the Company and in the Group companies multiple times across many years, and posHiroshi Audit & Supervisory Board sesses an adequate level of knowledge toward corporate management of the 61 Takada Member Group. He also possesses appropriate knowledge regarding finance and accounting. Thus, the Company believes that he will appropriately audit the execution of duties by Directors, and has appointed him as Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Mr. Yasuyuki Harada has managerial experience in serving as Managing Executive Officer and President of the General Products & Realty Company of ITOCHU Yasuyuki Audit & Supervisory Board 60 Corporation, as well as broad knowledge gained from many years of service at Harada Member ITOCHU Corporation. The Company believes that he is well-qualified for Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, and thus has appointed him to that position. Mr. Toshiaki Tada does not have experience of being directly engaged in corporate management except serving as an Outside Director or an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, yet he possesses specialized knowledge and abundant experience Toshiaki Audit & Supervisory Board 51 regarding corporate judicial affairs as an attorney, and has provided comments to the Tada Member Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board from a specialist standpoint. Thus, the Company believes that he will appropriately audit the execution of duties by Directors, and has reappointed him as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Mr. Katsuhiko Hara does not have experience of being directly engaged in corporate management except serving as an Outside Director or an Outside Audit & Katsuhiko Audit & Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Member, yet he possesses a high level of financial and account64 Hara Member ing expertise and deep knowledge as a certified public accountant. The Company believes that he is well-qualified for Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, and has thus appointed him to that position. * As of July 30, 2019 : Chair / : Member / : Observer Outside Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Nominations Outside directors are nominated for their objectivity and ability to conduct audits with an objective perspective to specialized perspective on corporate management in an ensure management health and transparency. attempt to create the Board of Directors with the appropriOf the five outside directors and Audit & Supervisory ate decision-making and management supervisory functions Board Members, four are independent and not affiliated from a variety of perspectives. Outside Audit & Supervisory with CTC, our parent company, or any of our major suppliBoard Members are nominated based on their wealth of ers, and have no inherent conflicts of interest with regular knowledge and experience in their area of specialization and shareholders. 71 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Director Remuneration Director Remuneration and Calculation Method Director remuneration is paid according to the Director The amount of Audit & Supervisory Board Member Remuneration System, which was established in considerremuneration is determined for each Audit & Supervisory ation of the opinions from the Remuneration Committee. Board Member based on a discussion among Audit & CTC decides monetary remuneration for directors of no Supervisory Board Members. Audit & Supervisory Board more than ¥640 million per annum, monetary remuneration Members and part-time directors, including outside direcfor Audit & Supervisory Board Members of no more than tors, are not paid performance-based bonuses. ¥100 million per annum and stock-based remuneration for * Performance-linked stock-based remuneration plan: CTC introduced the plan for its directors and executive officers (excluding part-time directors, outside directors, directors of no more than ¥180 million for the three subject and domestic non-residents) in June 2017. The plan replaces part of the amount fiscal years. Remuneration comprises standard remuneracalculated by the formula of the previous “performance-linked bonus” with stock, and is aimed at raising awareness of contributing to the improvement of mediumtion, which is fixed payments, bonuses, which are perforto long-term operating results and corporate value by further clarifying the link between directors’ remuneration and CTC’s operating results and equity value, as mance-linked cash compensation, and performance-linked well as by directors sharing not only the advantages of rises in the share price with stock-based remuneration* (paid upon retirement). shareholders but also the risk of drops in the share price. Performance-linked Performance-linked Cash Stock-based Standard remuneration (Fixed payments) remuneration remuneration (bonus) Calculation Method of Performance-Linked Stock-Based Remuneration and Calculation Method of Standard Performance-Linked Cash Remuneration (Bonus) Remuneration (Fixed Payments) Total remuneration: Calculated by using the predetermined stan• Target achievement rate for the relevant fiscal year for net profit attributable to CTC’s shareholders dard remuneration table for each position • Year-on-year growth rate based on consideration of executive and non• Total remuneration is calculated based on the predetermined ratio of the total fund amount of executive work, responsibilities, and individual performance-linked remuneration and determined by the Board of Directors evaluation. The total amount to be paid is  (¥ million) decided by the Board of Directors and the Performance Indicator Used Fiscal 2018 Target Fiscal 2018 Results President and CEO determines the amount to be paid to each individual. Net profit attributable to CTC’s shareholders 24,000 24,616 Individual remuneration: Total remuneration is apportioned to directors, etc., based on performance evaluations for duties performed individually during the relevant fiscal year and is the total of performance-linked individual bonuses and performance-linked stock-based remuneration. Individual performancelinked bonuses and performance-linked stock-based remuneration amounts are determined by multiplying this total by the proportional division ratio. Performance-Linked Position Bonus Stock-Based Remuneration President & CEO 70% 30% Executive Vice President 80% 20% Senior Managing Executive Officer / 85% 15% Managing Executive Officer Total Remuneration, Etc., of Each Director or Auditor Segment (Fiscal 2018) Audit & Supervisory Board Members: 1 person Directors: 8 people Outside Directors and Audit & (excluding outside Audit & (excluding outside directors) Supervisory Board Members: 4 people Supervisory Board Members) Basic remuneration:  ¥194 million Bonus:  ¥85 million Stock-based Basic remuneration:  ¥25 million Basic remuneration:  ¥54 million remuneration:  ¥26 million (Performance-linked: approx. 40%) ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 72 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Measures to Improve Effectiveness Analysis and Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Since fiscal 2015, CTC has been conducting a survey of and the results of the assessments are submitted to the directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to analyze Governance Committee for deliberation. and evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. Based on such analysis and evaluation, we intend to use In order to elicit candid opinions, all directors and Audit this process to encourage the board to take a longer-term & Supervisory Board Members conduct self-assessments, and more strategic perspective in discussions. Main Survey Items in the Evaluation of the Board of Directors Main Opinions in the Evaluation of the Board of Directors in Fiscal 2018 • Participation in management strategy decisions • The operation of the Board of Directors and discussions thereby are • Monitoring of management strategy appropriate in general • Appropriateness of the contents of the distributed materials and the • The monitoring of the execution of the duties of directors is number of proposals appropriate • Matters concerning the operation of the Board of Directors such as • The balance of non-executive directors and executive directors is the deliberation of proposals appropriate in carrying out effective discussions • The number of directors, diversity, and matters concerning the • Progress was made in terms of information sharing regarding the ­constitution of the Board of Directors based on consistency with the Company’s mediumand long-term strategy with non-executive business strategy directors • Monitoring of execution of duties by directors • Discretionary committees have established an environment where • Status of deliberation at discretionary committees and matters outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members can ­concerning the constitution of each committee express their opinions • Matters discussed at the committees are appropriately reflected in the deliberation of proposals at Board of Directors’ meetings Follow-Up System for Outside Directors In order to ensure that directors and Audit & Supervisory of Directors’ meetings while ensuring collaboration Board Members can fully perform their management between Audit & Supervisory Board Members and ­supervision and auditing functions, CTC has set up an non-executive directors. ­information-sharing meeting for non-executive directors Furthermore, to facilitate outside directors in fulfilling and a liaison meeting between Audit & Supervisory Board their functions sufficiently, CTC has continuously provided Members and non-executive directors. opportunities suitable for outside directors since their By sharing information in advance and exchanging appointment so that they can acquire the necessary knowlopinions, we aim to enhance the discussions at the Board edge of the CTC Group’s business, finance, and organization.  ther Special Circumstances That May Have a Material Impact on Corporate Governance O (Relationship with Parent Company) CTC is a consolidated subsidiary of its parent company When conducting business transactions with ITOCHU ITOCHU Corporation, which holds 58.24% of CTC’s voting Corporation, CTC establishes transaction conditions fairly rights. CTC aims to increase Groupwide corporate value by and appropriately based on reasonable judgment, just as it leveraging its strengths and the strengths of its parent comdoes when conducting business transactions with compapany in the information industry. nies with which it has no capital ties and takes appropriate With the aim of sharing management information and measures to ensure that the interests of minority shareholdknow-how, an employee of the parent company serves in ers are not harmed. the post of director of CTC. However, while the director works to promote personnel exchanges between CTC and Ratio of Sales from Members of the ITOCHU Group its parent company and strengthen collaboration in management activities such as making use of management information, the director’s independence has been retained by aiming to expand operating results while maintaining and Fiscal 2018 enhancing independence and autonomy in business Approx. 8% operation. 73 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Strategic Shareholdings CTC does not hold any shares purely for investment purstock, and the Board of Directors determines whether it is poses. Investment securities held for purposes other than appropriate to maintain these holdings based on the qual­ purely investment purposes fall into two categories: those itative and quantitative investment criteria set forth in the held for general investment purposes and those held for Company’s investment management regulations. In princiinvestment in open innovation. Shareholdings that fall into ple, the Company will reduce such holdings if they are these two categories are held for strategic reasons such as found to conform to predetermined exit criteria. investment for the purposes of encouraging smooth transRegarding the exercise of voting rights conferred associactions with partners, maintenance, expansion, or securing ated with the Company’s shareholdings, rather than basing of system engineer (SE) resources, or the launching of new our decisions on uniform criteria, we will give careful conbusinesses. sideration to the management plans and strategies of the Regardless of whether or not shareholdings are held for companies in question and make decisions based on strategic purposes, the Company conducts an annual survey whether we believe actions will contribute to growth in of the operations of all the companies in which it owns ­corporate value over the medium to long term. Investment Criteria Exit Criteria Quantitative Criteria Return on investment ≧ Expected rate of return 1. Investment goals have been achieved Qualitative Criteria 2. T rade merits as defined by our • Investment in customers (end-users, etc.) • Investment in suppliers quantitative criteria or business Securing of business merits other than trade Building of strategic relationships that yield merits as defined by our qualitative merits such as development of new busibusiness merits such as preferential terms of criteria are no longer present nesses, securing of business know-how, etc. trade, prioritized access to new technologies, or development of new businesses 3. F or other reasons, the supervising • Investment in development / department has determined that it technology partners • Investment in startup companies is appropriate for the Company to Securing of business merits such as prioritized Has sufficient financing to remain a going conexit (divest) from the investment access to SE resources or securing of leadingcern for at least one year edge technological know-how Main Activities in Fiscal 2018  umber of Meetings Held by Each Committee in N Number of Meetings of Major Organizational Fiscal 2018 Bodies Held and Attendance of Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members 5 meetings (attendance: 95%) Number of Board of Directors’ meetings held 18 Governance Deliberation on governance-related agenda Number of Audit & Supervisory Board meetings held 14 Committee below: Attendance of outside directors at Board of Directors’ meetings 100% 1. Stance on composition of the Board of Directors Attendance of outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members at 100% Board of Directors’ meetings 2. Evaluation of the Board of Directors 3. Response to revision of Japan’s Corporate Attendance of outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members at 100% Audit & Supervisory Board meetings Governance Code 2 meetings (attendance: 100%) Remuneration • Proposal of organizational restructuring Deliberation on design of remuneration system Main Comments Committee by Outside for fiscal 2019 for executives and directors (individual remuDirectors at I want to confirm how deeply discussions neration decided by the president based on the Board of have progressed regarding the expansion of remuneration system) Directors’ business opportunities and resulting growth Meetings in sales and profit as a result of organiza3 meetings (attendance: 100%) tional restructuring. Nomination • Deliberation on election / dismissal agenda of • Proposal regarding corporate separation Committee candidates for executive officers, directors, I want to confirm whether it is common pracand Audit & Supervisory Board Members tice to not present at the General Meeting • Consideration of succession plan (deliberation of Shareholders the proposal to have the on the qualities, abilities, and selection method Maintenance & Operations Services departof successor to the president) ment of the IT Services Group absorbed by CTC TECHNOLOGY Corporation. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 74 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members As of June 19, 2019 Back row, from left to right Toshiaki Tada Hiroshi Takada Tadataka Okubo Audit & Supervisory Board Member*2 Audit & Supervisory Board Member Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer Assistant to the President (Special appointment for Advanced IT Strategy) CTO Front row, from left to right Naoko Iwasaki Satoshi Kikuchi Director*1 President & CEO 75 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Kiyoshi Imagawa Yasuyuki Harada Katsuhiko Hara Director Audit & Supervisory Board Member*2 Audit & Supervisory Board Member*2 Toru Matsushima Aya Motomura Director & Executive Vice President Director*1 Assistant to the President & CAO In charge of Corporate Administration *1 Outside director as defined in Article 2, Item 15 of the Companies Act *2 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member as defined in Article 2, Item 16 of the Group / Global Business Development Companies Act CFO & CCO Outside directors Naoko Iwasaki and Aya Motomura and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Toshiaki Tada and Katsuhiko Hara are independent from CTC, our parent ­company, and major suppliers. As independent officers, they have no inherent conflicts of interest with regular shareholders. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 76 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Communication with Stakeholders Institutional Investors and Analysts In addition to investor relations (IR) presentations for instituNumber of Meetings with tional investors and analysts held at the time of announcement of our operating results, we hold small meetings and Institutional Investors and Analysts  238 individual meetings to provide opportunities for constructive Number of top management meetings 43 dialogue with our top management. In fiscal 2018, we also held technical study sessions in the IT field and on the subNumber of IR presentations 4 jects of leading-edge technologies and new businesses. Major Events Number of small meetings 2  umber of IR Days for domestic N institutional investors 1 Technical study sessions 3 Number of overseas IR events 4  umber of conferences held by N securities firms 2 Small meetings Individual Investors Since fiscal 2015, CTC has conducted IR activities targeting individual investors. In addition to holding briefings for individual investors around the country, we also provide information for individual investors on the CTC Power section of our website. We will continue to communicate CTC’s strengths to the market.  For more information, please visit the CTC Power section of our website. http://ctcir.ctc-g.co.jp/rose/personal/index.htm (in Japanese only) Number of Presentations for Individual Investors and Participants Fiscal 2017 16 / approx. 3,000 Fiscal 2018 Presentations for individual investors 13 / approx. 2,500 General Meeting of Shareholders Date of the General Meeting of Shareholders Wednesday, June 19, 2019 Number of shareholders attended 533 (Ratio of voting rights exercised: 89.7%)  Please visit our website for more detailed IR information. http://ctcir.ctc-g.co.jp/rose/en/index.htm 77 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Internal Control and Compliance Internal Control System CTC has created an internal control system, comprising sysSystems to Ensure Appropriate Financial Reporting tems to ensure directors perform their duties in accordance CTC is stepping up efforts to ensure appropriate financial with legal requirements and the Articles of Incorporation reporting in accordance with the Group’s accounting reguand systems to ensure business activities are conducted in lations, sales administration regulations, procurement an appropriate manner across the Group. The internal conadministration regulations, and other internal company trol system is continually improved through an ongoing rules. CTC also has a CFO who is tasked with ensuring review process designed to create a more adequate and financial reporting complies with accounting standards and efficient system. other relevant laws and regulations. In addition, the Internal Control Committee is responsible for establishing, regularly evaluating, and improving internal systems to ensure appropriate financial reporting. Full Commitment to Compliance The CTC Group regards compliance as a topmost manageCompliance Structure ment priority. We observe all applicable laws, regulations, and • Appoint a chief compliance officer internal rules related to our corporate activities and ensure •E  stablish the Compliance and Information Security Committee that all employees conduct themselves with high ethical •A  ppoint compliance general managers for each standards and a sense of responsibility. In this way, we aim to business group and subsidiary increase corporate value throughout the entire Group as a Internal Reporting System (helpline) sound company to ensure we are trusted and held in high The CTC Group has put in place an internal reporting esteem by society. system (helpline) for reporting or consulting about comTo achieve these objectives, we engage in the following pliance problems. We have registered our “self-declaraactivities. tion of conformity” (April 26, 2019) for this helpline, under Establish the CTC Group Code of Conduct and internal rules WCMS* certification. Reporting routes are internal and external (via attorForm a compliance structure neys). For both routes, the privacy of the person making a Acquire written oaths from all executives and employees (annually) report and related personnel is managed, as is the conConduct compliance-related education and training, awareness tent of the report. We make it clear that people making activities, and disseminate information reports will not be subjected to disadvantageous treatOperate, maintain, and improve an internal reporting system ment as a result of such reporting. (helpline) * WCMS: Whistleblowing Compliance Management System Under this system, a company assesses The CTC Group conducts regular monitoring and reviews its own internal reporting system and makes a “self-declaration of conforof these activities, enabling us to make continuous improvemity” if it complies with the certification standards. Based on an application by ments. We also conduct Compliance Awareness Surveys of the Company, the system’s content is checked by an organization all executives and employees every other year, analyzing the registration designated by the Consumer Affairs Agency, and the Company is registered. results to ascertain any issues and undertake new initiatives.  P.5 CTC Group Code of Conduct Response to Various Laws and Regulations The CTC Group has created a framework for keeping up to posted on an internal site so employees can view them at date with the most recent information to ensure thorough any time. compliance with various laws and regulations, ordinances, The supervisory departments for various laws and reguand industry guidelines. We have formulated the CTC Group lations cultivate the necessary awareness to ensure compliLegal Guidelines to indicate laws and regulations Group ance through morning public announcements, e-learning, companies should conform with. These guidelines are and regular group training. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 78 The Foundation Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance Risk Management System Risk Management In addition to individual risk management functions, we management systems and rules, assesses effectiveness have established the Risk Management Committee to take (conducts monitoring), and recommends corrective meaan overall approach to risks that should be managed on a sures. We are building a risk management structure capable Group wide basis. In addition to comprehensively consid­ of responding to future changes in the operating environering and identifying risks that should be managed on a ment and unforeseen circumstances. Company wide level, this committee establishes Risk Summary of Risk That Could Negatively Impact Earnings Risk Mitigation Measures • Risk of fluctuation in operating results due to changes  earch for advanced products and services; optimize S in the business environment such as domestic and organizational structure in order to provide high-valueoverseas economic conditions, information system added solutions 1 R  isks Concerning investment trends among clients, and changes in variChanges in the Business ous laws and regulations, tax systems, and accounting Environment standards • Risk of intensification of price competition due to new entrants and competition with other companies • Risk of leak, alteration, or loss of information caused by G  ive highest priority to information management; a computer virus, unauthorized access, or human error, established a specialized organization within the leading to claims for damage or loss of confidence Company to obtain various certifications, provide 2 Information Security Risk information security training, and carry out security measures in our business infrastructure in an effort to reinforce information management systems • Risk of a decline in the Group’s social credibility or E  stablished a Group Code of Conduct and compliance deterioration of the Group’s earnings due to a serious programs; provide training and awareness-raising pro3 Compliance Risk breach of compliance or a violation of laws or regulagrams for executives and employees tions in conducting business • Risk of personnel departures or a decline in productivity  ire and develop high-quality personnel by respecting H due to failure to secure personnel with high technical individuality and diversity and by fostering a liberal corskills and expertise as planned or a deterioration of the porate culture where employees can exercise their labor environment, affecting the Group’s earnings and creativity 4 Human Resources Risk business continuity Focus on supporting work-life balance and developing an appropriate working environment by introducing various systems for work-style reforms, such as a morning-focused working system and a work-at-home system, and promoting use of paid leave • Risk of additional costs that exceed plans being T  he Project Management Division and the project required due to failure to secure the intended quality or management organization of each business work in 5 Project Management to complete the project within the development time collaboration to examine projects prior to starting and Risk frame amid heightened complexity and sophistication monitor the progress and profitability of the projects as well as faster delivery of development projects • Risk of a serious system failure in the operation service  einforce control activities in the provision of system R business caused by disasters or operational errors, operation services and monitor systems on a continu6 System Failure Risk leading to a drop in confidence or payment of claims ous basis for damages from clients • Risk of a drop in recoverability due to failure to achieve F  ully examine the investment effects and risks beforethe expected results of investments such as in new hand as well as carry out management based on the business start ups, investments in or acquisitions of investment criteria 7 Investment Risk companies in Japan and elsewhere, and data centers and cloud services, caused by changes in the market environment and deterioration of revenues • Risk of a drop in profitability due to failure to adjust prices  arry out transactions related to procurement using C of products and services procured from overseas markets 8 Exchange Rate Risk forward exchange contracts at the time of order or when sudden fluctuations in exchange rates or a mediumdenominated in Japanese yen term depreciation of the yen occurs • Risk of severe damage to facilities and infrastructure or inju einforce systems for business continuity by developR ries due to large-scale natural disasters such as earth9 R  isk of Large-Scale ing business continuity plans (BCPs), establishing safety quakes, terrorist attacks, and infectious diseases such as the Disasters confirmation systems, and developing backup H1N1 influenza functions 79 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Ensuring Rigorous Information Security For the CTC Group, appropriate handling and safe manageWe have obtained ISO 27017 (JIS Q 27017) certification ment of information are important social responsibilities. for CUVICmc2, a cloud service specializing in mission critical Each year, information security threats become more systems, and promote the creation of services that ensure diverse and complex, owing to the use of new IT infrastructure peace of mind among clients whose information we handle. such as IoT, AI, and blockchain; society’s connections between Moving forward, we will continue to implement further cyberspace and physical space; and new working environsecurity measures against new threats, with the safe and ments arising from work-style reforms. secure handling of information entrusted to us by our clients Against this backdrop, the CTC Group has developed an as our highest priority. information security & personal information protection man* CTC-SIRT (CTC Security Incident Response Team) is an organization that copes agement system integrating information security management with security incidents resulting from cyberattacks. and personal information protection systems in compliance with ISO 27001 (JIS Q 27001) and PrivacyMark (JIS Q 15001), Information Security Basic Policy which is responsible for: By establishing the Information Security Basic Policy, the Creating various regulations, standards, and procedures CTC Group has taken measures to handle information  onducting education and awareness activities related to C and practice security management properly. information security and personal information protection All CTC officers and employees comply with this Conducting internal audits policy to ensure the appropriate handling, management, Conducting annual surveys of outsourcing contractors protection, and maintenance of information. 1. Management and protection of information assets At CTC, we handle all the information entrusted to us by 2. Cybersecurity measures our clients as confidential information; carrying out hando3. Information Security and Personal Information ver checks and exercising strict access management. Protection Management System To handle the increase in cybersecurity risk countermea4. Information security training sures in recent years, we have established the CTC-SIRT*, 5. Preventing and acting upon incidents impacting which conducts the following activities. information security 6. Observation of laws and regulations Training on responding to targeted attack email (annually) Vulnerability diagnosis of internal and public sites (annually) Monitoring for cyberattacks Human Resource Strategies Recognizing that people are the management resource most important to our business, we strive to recruit and cultivate highly capable human resources and put in place human resource policies and systems to help them maximize their own capabilities while contributing to CTC’s growth.  P.34 Strengthening Relationships with Development Partners  P.35-38 Human Resource Strategies Curtailing Unprofitable Projects We monitor the percentage of losses from unprofitable projects to revenue in SI Development, as we aim to put in place a revenue model to ensure that profits grow along with revenues as we curtail unprofitable projects. In fiscal 2018, this percentage was 1.2%, down from 2.8% in fiscal 2017.  P.34 Ensuring Quality and Enhancing Client Satisfaction  P.55-56 Message from the CFO ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 80 Corporate and Other Information Financial Highlights Fiscal years * CTC adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Figures for fiscal 2013 have been reclassified to reflect the new standards. (¥ billion) JGAAP 2009 2010 2011 2012 Operating Results Net Sales 290.3 283.0 297.7 322.4 Cost of Sales 213.5 208.1 218.1 239.1 Gross Profit 76.8 74.8 79.6 83.2 (Gross Profit Margin) 26.5% 26.5% 26.7% 25.8% SG&A Expenses 55.2 53.5 54.8 56.0 Operating Income 21.5 21.3 24.7 27.1 (Operating Income Margin) 7.4% 7.5% 8.3% 8.4% EBITDA* 1 27.5 28.0 32.3 33.2 Net Income 12.4 11.4 13.3 16.0 Orders Received 285.1 285.2 302.4 372.0 Backlog 129.6 131.8 136.6 186.2 (Backlog Turnover Ratio)*2 69.1% 68.2% 68.5% 63.4% Financial Position at End of Fiscal Year Total Assets 233.2 238.1 252.7 270.0 Total Equity 154.6 155.4 158.3 164.6 Cash Flows Cash Flows from Operating Activities 25.2 14.9 21.2 9.6 Cash Flows from Investing Activities (1.3) (6.9) (2.7) (10.3) Cash Flows from Financing Activities (7.2) (13.4) (8.9) (11.1) Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period 73.8 68.3 77.8 66.1 Capital Investment 4.5 8.8 6.2 10.0 Depreciation and Amortization 5.9 6.7 7.5 6.0 Financial Index/Indicator (%) ROE*3 8.3 7.4 8.5 9.9 ROA*4 5.4 4.9 5.4 6.1 Equity Ratio 66.3 65.3 62.7 61.0 Dividend Payout Ratio 43.7 49.9 43.8 39.1 Per Share Data (yen)*5 Net Income 48 45 54 67 Net Assets 603 623 651 691 Dividend 21.25 22.50 23.75 26.25 Per Capita Data (¥ million)* 6 Net Sales 41 40 41 42 Operating Income 3.1 3.0 3.5 3.5 *1 EBITDA = Operating Income + Depreciation and Amortization *2 Backlog Turnover Ratio = Net Sales / (Backlog of the previous fiscal year + Orders received of this fiscal year) x 100 *3 ROE = Net Income / Average Total Shareholders’ Equity *4 ROA = Net Income / Average Total Assets x 100 *5 CTC conducted 2-for-1 stock splits as of April 1, 2015, 2018. For the past data, retroactive revisions were made accordingly. *6 Figures are calculated on March 31. *7 ROE = Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders / Average total shareholders’ equity (which is based on total shareholders’ equity at the beginning and end of the year) x 100 *8 ROA = Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders / Average total assets (which is based on total assets at the beginning and end of the year) x 100 81 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 (¥ billion) IFRS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Operating Results Revenue 350.5 381.9 391.6 407.8 429.6 451.9 Cost of Sales (266.8) (290.6) (300.0) (311.1) (328.0) (344.2) Gross Profit 83.7 91.2 91.5 96.7 101.6 107.7 (Gross Profit Margin) 23.9% 23.9% 23.4% 23.7% 23.6% 23.8% Other Income and Expenses (59.8) (61.9) (63.5) (65.5) (68.9) (71.8) Operating Income 23.8 29.3 27.9 31.1 32.6 35.8 (Operating Income Margin) 6.8% 7.7% 7.1% 7.6% 7.6% 7.9% EBITDA*1 31.3 37.5 36.3 39.5 41.4 44.7 Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders 14.2 17.4 18.0 21.8 23.5 24.6 Orders Received 369.1 388.0 398.3 437.5 435.2 470.1 Backlog 195.4 201.6 208.3 238.0 243.6 262.9 (Backlog Turnover Ratio)*2 63.1% 65.4% 65.3% 63.1% 63.8% 63.3% Financial Position at End of Fiscal Year Total Assets 282.6 302.7 307.9 333.1 353.8 378.9 Total Shareholders’ Equity 162.9 168.8 179.2 192.1 206.5 220.7 Cash Flows Cash Flows from Operating Activities 6.4 25.8 21.8 25.2 11.0 20.6 Cash Flows from Investing Activities (8.0) (17.3) (18.1) (14.1) (2.3) (3.2) Cash Flows from Financing Activities (9.5) (13.5) (8.4) (7.8) (5.9) (9.5) Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period 55.0 50.1 44.8 48.2 51.0 58.8 Capital Investment 6.9 7.9 11.0 10.7 5.2 7.2 Depreciation and Amortization 7.5 8.2 8.4 8.4 8.8 8.8 Financial Index/Indicator (%) ROE*7 8.9 10.5 10.4 11.8 11.8 11.5 ROA*8 5.1 5.9 5.9 6.8 6.9 6.7 Ratio of Shareholders’ Equity to Total Assets 57.7 55.8 58.2 57.7 58.4 58.2 Dividend Payout Ratio 45.8 40.3 45.0 42.3 44.1 46.9 Per Share Data (yen)*5 Net Profit Attributable to CTC’s Shareholders 60 74 77 94 102 106 Shareholders’ Equity 692 730 775 831 894 955 Dividend 27.50 30.00 35.00 40.00 45.00 50.00 Per Capita Data (¥ million)*6 Revenue 45 48 48 50 52 54 Operating Income 3.1 3.7 3.5 3.8 4.0 4.3 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 82 Corporate and Other Information Non-Financial Highlights Human Resources-Related Data * Data calculation reference dates: Data calculated on March 31 of each fiscal year. However, employees with disabilities figures calculated on June 1 of each fiscal year. Consolidated 2015 2016 2017 2018 Unit Employees Men People 6,817 6,878 6,919 7,032 Women People 1,176 1,222 1,256 1,327 Total People 7,993 8,100 8,175 8,359 Non-consolidated 2015 2016 2017 2018 Unit Employees Men People 3,326 3,345 3,478 3,611 Women People 592 613 639 661 Total People 3,918 3,958 4,117 4,272 Average years worked Years 12.7 13.1 13.4 13.5 (Female employees) Years 12.7 12.9 12.6 12.9 Turnover* 1 People 108 115 123 133 (Female employees) People 20 18 20 29 Female employees Number People 50 49 56 59 in leading positions*1 *2 Percentage % 4.2 4.0 4.5 4.9 Percentage of employees with disabilities % 2.15 2.23 2.20 2.50 Annual average number of holidays Days 13.0 13.5 13.9 14.5 taken Childcare leave system users People 67 82 120 128 (Male employees) People 2 17 54 59 Rate of return from childcare leave % 100 99 99 100 Reduced working hours system users People 78 98 97 97 Nursing care holiday system users People 137 165 202 212 Nursing care leave system users People 1 2 1 0 Time off for caregivers system users People 19 34 34 32 Number of training participants People 111,553 115,451 111,260 101,673 Average hours of training per person Hours approx. 52 approx. 49 approx. 49 approx. 48 *1 Turnover and managers are for employees originally hired by CTC. *2 Leading position means managers and specialists. Environmental Data from CTC Group Offices and Data Centers 2015 2016 2017 2018 Unit Offices Energy used kL 3,383 3,293 3,701 3,724 Greenhouse gas t-CO2 6,706 6,437 7,044 6,889 Specific energy consumption*1 24.25 23.06 24.92 25.63 Data Centers Energy used kL 30,089 29,714 28,048 27,838 Greenhouse gas t-CO2 60,880 59,210 54,705 51,185 Specific energy consumption*2 1.779 1.707 1.703 1.697 Major Overseas Offices Greenhouse gas*3 t-CO2 695.4 722.8 397.9 396.1 *1 Energy used (kL) x Floor space/Number of employees *2 Whole data centers’ energy used (kL)/IT equipment energy used (kL) *3 Calculated based on the emission factors by country officially announced by the Institute of Global Environmental Strategies (IGES) 83 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Glossary Agile Development IoT (Internet of Things) A rapid, incremental approach to software development based The embedding of various physical devices, not just computers, on close onsite collaboration with clients, early development of with Internet connectivity, creating networks that enable autoprototypes, and feedback from clients and the market. mated verification, control, and remote measurement. AI-OCR (AI-Optical Character Recognition) Local 5G The use of AI to increase the accuracy of OCR systems, which System wherein companies other than telecom carriers are read handwritten text, forms and documents, by utilizing deep allotted 5G frequencies in a limited geographical area such as a learning to improve recognition of text with different fonts and manufacturing plant. This allows the use of a 5G network in a image quality. highly secure environment not connected to public networks. Big Data Low-Code Development A term for vast data sets that are too large to store, manage or A type of programming platform that requires minimal coding analyze using traditional database management systems and work. Low-code platforms have the potential to shorten appliprocessing applications. The ability to analyze big data is cation development times. expected to yield new business insights and lead to the development of new services. Microservice Architecture The structuring of applications as a collection of microservices Blockchain (such as settlement or ordering) and creating an architecture A new type of FinTech (see below) used to record transactions wherein microservices link to and communicate with each in virtual currencies such as Bitcoin. By dispersing data on other. This offers high flexibility and adaptability as each individ­computers distributed worldwide without centralized control, ual microservice can be altered independently of the others. blockchains enable the creation of robust networks that are resilient to tampering and destruction. MSS (Managed Security Service) A security service that monitors firewalls and other security sysCloud Native tems in real-time 24/7 all year round, gathering data to analyze A system or application specifically designed to be used in cloud and defend against threats. environments. NFV (Network Function Virtualization) DX (Digital Transformation) Virtualization technology that replicates network functions on Defined in 2004 by Professor Erik Stolterman of Umeå University standard servers. Currently, network functions are typically intein Sweden as “the change associated with the application of grated with specialized servers, but NFV has the potential to virdigital technology in all aspects of human society.” DX describes tualize network functions on standard servers without the need how companies can harness new digital technologies to for specialized hardware. develop new business models and create value. Open Innovation Edge Computing An innovation methodology for creating innovative products A network technology that reduces communication lag by and business models by combining technologies and ideas of installing application servers in close physical proximity to terminot only one company but also from outside that company. nal devices. RPA (Robotic Process Automation) ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) Initiatives that use cognitive technology including rule engines, An integrated approach to managing and allocating business AI, and machine learning to carry out, on humans’ behalf, work resources (personnel, funds, facilities, information, etc.) to that was traditionally done by humans. improve operational efficiency and optimize management. ERP also refers to integrated software applications that help compaSDN (Software-Defined Networking) nies achieve those objectives. A technology that controls telecommunications devices on a network such as routers and switches using a single layer of FinTech software, thereby allowing flexible and speedy changes to netA portmanteau of the words “finance” and “technology,” FinTech work structures and settings. refers to new IT tools in the financial sector. Common examples include online settlement technology and cloud-based houseVirtualization Technology hold budget services. FinTech has attracted growing attention in Technology that integrates or divides resources in servers and recent years amid growth in the number of relatively small comother hardware without any physical change in the hardware. The panies providing new services. technology can create multiple virtual servers in a single physical server or create a single virtual hard disk from multiple disks. Ideathon / Hackathon The words “hackathon” and “ideathon” are portmanteaus of the words “hack” (adapting or improving computer programs), “idea,” and “marathon.” At hackathons, computer engineers and other participants compete intensively in a fixed timeframe to develop programs or services with new capabilities or outcomes. At ideathons, teams discuss new ideas and collaborate on problem-solving. ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 84 Corporate and Other Information Management Team As of June 19, 2019 Directors Executive Officers Satoshi Kikuchi Masaaki Matsuzawa Yasushi Morimoto President & CEO Executive Vice President Executive Officer Assistant to the President (Special appointGeneral Manager, Risk Management Division Toru Matsushima ment for Overall Management of the Groups Director & Executive Vice President and Operating Companies) Nagaki Fujioka Assistant to the President & CAO In charge of Enterprise Group / Distribution Executive Officer In charge of Corporate Administration Group / Group / Telecommunication Group / ITOCHU Techno-Solutions America, Inc. Global Business Development Regional & Social Infrastructure Group / President & CEO CFO & CCO Financial Services Group COO, Financial Services Group Seiji Nagamatsu Tadataka Okubo Executive Officer Eiji Haraguchi Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Assistant to the President (Special appointManaging Executive Officer Corporate IT System Division ment for Advanced IT Strategy) COO, Service Design Group CTO CIO Hiroshi Torigoe Executive Officer Naoko Iwasaki Yasuhiko Terada  Deputy COO, Enterprise Group Director*1 Managing Executive Officer COO, Telecommunication Group Tatsuya Matsumaru Aya Motomura Executive Officer Hisashi Eda Director*1 Assistant to COO, Distribution Group Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Financial Services Division Kiyoshi Imagawa COO, Regional & Social Infrastructure Group Director Tadaaki Otsuka Toshiyuki Awai  Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Audit Division COO, IT Services Group Audit & Supervisory Junji Hirooka Board Members Takanori Minatohara  Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer COO, Global Business Hiroshi Takada COO, Enterprise Group General Manager, Global Business Division Audit & Supervisory Board Member Noboru Omoto Yoshinori Yoshida Yasuyuki Harada Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Audit & Supervisory Board Member*2 COO, Distribution Group Deputy COO, Financial Services Group General Manager, Financial Services Business Toshiaki Tada Kazunobu Moriyama Development Division Audit & Supervisory Board Member*2 Managing Executive Officer General Manager, Chubu Region Shinichi Hirayama Katsuhiko Hara Deputy COO, Executive Officer Audit & Supervisory Board Member*2 Regional & Social Infrastructure Group General Manager, Corporate Planning Division General Manager, Naka-Nihon Regional Division Hisashi Sawanobori *1 Outside director as defined in Article 2, Item 15 of Assistant to COO, Enterprise Group the Companies Act Executive Officer *2 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member as General Manager, Human Resources Mamoru Seki defined in Article 2, Item 16 of the Companies Act Management & General Affairs Division Managing Executive Officer Outside directors Naoko Iwasaki and Aya Motomura Deputy CFO and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Katsuya Kami General Manager, Toshiaki Tada and Katsuhiko Hara are independent Executive Officer Accounting & Sales Administrating Division from CTC, our parent company, and major suppliers. General Manager, As independent officers, they have no inherent conTelecommunication Division No. 3 flicts of interest with regular shareholders. Yasuhide Masanishi Executive Officer Kinya Matsuda CFO (Chief Financial Officer) CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) President & CEO, Executive Officer CTO (Chief Technology Officer) Asahi Business Solutions Corp. General Manager, CIO (Chief Information Officer) (Assistant to COO, Enterprise Group) Cloud & Security Services Division President & CEO, CTC Facilities Corporation Hirohito Ohashi Executive Officer Toshihiro Nakaya General Manager, Nishi-Nihon Region Executive Officer General Manager, General Manager, Nishi-Nihon Regional Division Telecommunication Division No. 1 85 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Organization Chart As of April 1, 2019 Enterprise Division No.1 Enterprise Division No.2 Enterprise Division No.3 Enterprise Group Enterprise Division No.4 Science & Engineering Systems Division Life Science Division Enterprise Planning Division Distribution Division No.1 Distribution Group Distribution Division No.2 Financial Services Division Telecommunication Division No.1 General Meeting of Shareholders Telecommunication Division No.2 Telecommunication Group Telecommunication Division No.3 Board of Corporate Telecommunication Planning Division Auditors Social Infrastructure Division Board of Directors Higashi-Nihon Regional Division Regional & Social Infrastructure Group Naka-Nihon Regional Division President & CEO Nishi-Nihon Regional Division Financial Services Division No.1 Management Committee Financial Services Group Financial Services Division No.2 Financial Services Business Development Division Cloud & Security Services Division IT Services Group Datacenter Services Division Institute of Open Innovation Research “MIRAI Service Design Group Corporate IT System Division Accounting & Sales Administrating Division Human Resources Management & General Affairs Division Corporate Administration Group Risk Management Division Project Management Division Global Business Division CTO Office Advanced IT Strategy Division Corporate Planning Division Audit Division ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 86 Corporate and Other Information Corporate Data As of April 1, 2019 Company Name: ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation (CTC) Head Office Composition of CTC Employees Kasumigaseki Bldg., 3-2-5, Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-6080, Japan Phone: + 81-3-6203-5000 URL: http://www.ctc-g.co.jp/en/ Other staff: Consulting, sales: Founded 1,034 1,198 April 1, 1972 Paid-in Capital ¥21,763 million Other engineers: 1,687 8,609 Business Lines Sales, maintenance, and support of computers and network systems; commissioned software development; information processing services; information services-related to science and engineering; System engineers (SE): Client engineers (CE): support; other 3,601 1,089 Employees 8,609 (CTC Group total) CTC Group Companies Subsidiaries Company Paid-in Capital Main Business Activities CTC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION ¥450 million System maintenance and support Maintenance and system management services, support services CTC SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CORPORATION ¥300 million for systems and networks, system construction services, and IT-related training Sales of network and security-related equipment, storage devices CTCSP CORPORATION ¥200 million and packaged software, and provision of related services Building facility operations management activities for computer CTC FACILITIES CORPORATION ¥100 million centers (Yokohama, Kobe, Otemachi, Shibuya, and Mejirozaka) Overall system development, maintenance, operation, and IT Asahi Business Solutions Corp. ¥110 million consulting CTC Global (Thailand) Ltd. THB 165,000,000 Sales of network products and solutions PT. CTC Techno Solutions Indonesia IDR 10,001,000,000 IT consulting service Reselling hardware and software products and providing mainteCTC GLOBAL SDN. BHD. RM 62,118,000 nance service Reselling hardware and software products and providing mainteCTC GLOBAL PTE. LTD. S$2,000,000 nance service Maintenance and support of computers and network systems, ITOCHU Techno-Solutions America, Inc. US$5,360,000 exporting of IT products, and research into state-of-the-art ­technology and market trends Four other companies (four in Japan) Contact center operations, helpdesk services, IT training, and Associated CTC First Contact Corporation ¥50 million planning and implementation of IT training Companies ITOCHU Technology Ventures, Inc. ¥100 million Operation of investment funds of venture companies SI solution, system management, maintenance, and support SYSCOM (USA) INC. US$3,200,000 services Three other companies (one in Japan, two overseas) Facilities Data Centers Remote Operation Center (ROC) Data Centers / Operations Development Yokohama Computer Center East Wing / Centers We provide remote system operation and monitoring services for West Wing (YCC) Centers client IT systems, 24/7 all year round (ROC monitoring services), Yokohama Computer Center North Wing (NYC) which can also be linked to automated notification and system operation services. Kobe Computer Center (KCC) Otemachi Internet Data Center (OiDC) CTC Security Operations Center (CTC-SOC) Shibuya Data Center (SDC) Our facility that provides the CTC Managed Security Service (CTCMSS), which offers 24-hour, 365-day remote monitoring of clients’ Meijirozaka Data Center (MDC) security devices and integrated emergency response, equipment settings changes, operation, and other tasks. Development Centers Sapporo, Osaki 87 ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 Stock Information As of March 31, 2019 Authorized 492,000,000 shares Issued  240,000,000 shares (includes 8,772,349 treasury shares) Validation Center Technical Solution Center (TSC) Shareholders 14,930 TSC is one of Japan’s largest multi-vendor comprehensive validation centers, equipped with a broad and balanced range of the latest equipment, totaling roughly 26,000 items. The center Major Shareholders also has purpose-built environments (LABs), such as the IoT Digital LAB and the Hybrid Cloud Validation LAB, which enable the testing of client Number of Shares (%) IT systems under various conditions. ITOCHU Corporation 134,661,600 58.24 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 12,593,800 5.45 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. 6,600,900 2.85 (Trust Account) Major Vendors and Awards CTC Employee Shareholding Association 4,547,272 1.97 BBH FOR MATTHEWS JAPAN FUND 3,404,100 1.47 AWS Partner Network (APN) Premier Consulting Partner J.P. MORGAN BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A. 1300000 2,408,536 1.04 AWS AWS MSP Partner Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. AWS Certification Award 2018 As trustee for Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 1,770,720 0.77 • AWS Certification Award 2018 Practitioner Retirement Benefit Trust Account re-entrusted by Mizuho Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. Gold Partner Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 1,753,800 0.76 Japan Award Cisco The Gibraltar Life Insurance Co., Ltd. • Japan Partner of the Year 2018 1,492,400 0.65 (General Account Stock D) • Service Partner of the Year JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 1,481,911 0.64 Titanium Black Partner DELL Note: The Company holds 8,772,349 treasury shares, and those shares are excluded DELL Technologies World 2019 from the above list of major shareholders. These treasury shares do not include EMC • Special Contribution-Japan APJ shares owned by the trust account related to the stock-based compensation • Go Big-Win Big Services APJ program (Board Benefit Trust = BBT) for the Company’s directors and officers. In addition, the ownership ratio was calculated by deducting the number of Platinum Partner treasury shares. HPE The 2018 HPE Partner of the Year Awards • Global Solution Provider of the Year 2018 Breakdown by Number of Owners Elite Partner Juniper Japan Partner Award 2018 Financial institutions juniper • Japan Excellent DC Partner of the Year 0.38% • Japan Excellent Cloud Partner of the Year • Japan Strategic Win of the Year Securities companies Individuals, others 0.35% Star Partner NetApp Japan Partner Award 2018 95.96% Other entities NetApp • Partner of the Year 1.05% • Support Partner of the Year Foreign entities, etc. • Technology Innovation Award 2.26% Platinum Partner Oracle Excellence Awards 2018 ORACLE • Advanced Cloud Service-Japan Ownership by Percentage Shareholding Oracle MySQL Partner Advisory Forum 2019 • MySQL Partner of the Year 2019 Individuals, others Financial institutions Solution Provider Premier Partner 12.06% 14.58%  Mware 2018 Partner Innovation Awards V VMware Foreign entities, etc. Securities companies • Partner of the Year (Asia Pacific and Japan) • Hyperconverged Infrastructure Solution 14.71% 1.30% (Asia Pacific and Japan) Other entities 57.34% Notes: *1 In “Other entities,” 48 units of stocks in the name of Japan Securities Depository Center, Inc. are included. *2 Out of 8,772,349 shares of treasury stock, 87,723 units are stated in “Individuals, others” and 49 shares in “Status of odd stocks.” ITOCHU Techno-Solutions Corporation Integrated Report 2019 88 オンプロダクト-スタンドードタイプ 英語版 オンプロダクト-ミニラベル 英語版（印刷スペースが無い場合） 1C 1C 4C Printed in Japan 4C
