Swiss Post is right here. For everyone. Sustainability Report 2019 About the Sustainability Report Structure of reporting documents The Swiss Post annual reporting documents for 2019 consist of: – Swiss Post Annual Report – Swiss Post Financial Report (management report, corporate governance, annual financial statements for the Group, Swiss Post Ltd and PostFinance Ltd) – Sustainability Report (report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines) – Annual Report key figures Languages This report is available in English, German, French and Italian. The German version of the online report is authoritative (www.swisspost.ch/sustainabilityreport). Ordering Electronic versions of the annual reporting documents are available at www.swisspost.ch/annualreport. The Annual Report and Financial Report are also available in printed form. Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements. They are based on current management estimates and projections, and on the information currently available to management. Forward-looking statements are not intended as guarantees of future performance and results, which remain dependent on many different factors; they are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, and are based on assumptions that may not prove accurate. Swiss Post sustainability reporting for 2019 Swiss Post documents its sustainability performance in accordance with GRI Standards. ­Sustainability means ensuring an appropriate balance between economic success, environmental action and social responsibility. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sets out internationally recognized standards for sustainability reporting, helping to foster transparency and comparability. All standards used are based on the 2016 GRI Standards (GRI publication date). This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option. Contents Foreword by CEO Roberto Cirillo 2 What we have achieved: contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals 4 Universal standards 6 102 General Disclosures 6 103 Management approach 14 Specific standards 26 200 Economic Disclosures 26 GRI 201: Economic Performance 26 GRI 202: Market Presence 27 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 27 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 27 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 28 300 Environmental Disclosures 28 GRI 302: Energy 28 GRI 305: Emissions 31 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 32 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 32 400 Social Disclosures 33 GRI 401: Employment 33 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 33 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 34 GRI 404: Training and Education 34 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 35 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 36 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 36 GRI 408: Child Labor 36 GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 37 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 37 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 37 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 38 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 38 2 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Roberto Cirillo CEO Dear Reader Swiss Post is right here. For everyone. That will remain the case in future, and Swiss Post is aware of its special responsibility towards individual citizens, Swiss society and the environment. For this reason, sustainability is a decisive factor in our corporate decisions. We wish to make our contribution to sustainable development by acting as a pioneer and a role model – for the benefit of Switzerland as a whole. In all its endeavours, Swiss Post strives to strike the right balance between commercial success, an environmentally-friendly approach and social responsibility, while taking account of the needs of current and future generations. And this is having an impact: Swiss Post is well ahead in comparison to other international postal organizations. We have been named the world’s best postal service by the Universal Postal Union for the third time in a row. That stands us in good stead for future challenges and inspires us to continue to be mindful of our responsibility and remain at the forefront in future. Our corporate responsibility strategy 2017–2020 focuses on five priority areas of action: responsible procurement, climate and energy, responsible employer, circular economy and corporate citizenship. They form the basis for our sustainability objectives and measures. To ensure transparent and comparable reporting and to promote dialogue, we review the key topics of corporate responsibility annually in our Sustainability Report, and the results are evident. We are making a verifiable contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals as well as to the Federal Council’s Sustainable Development Strategy for Switzerland. We remain committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. At the end of 2019, we reached and exceeded our ambitious CO2 efficiency target – an improvement of 25 percent by 2020 compared to 2010. In line with customer requirements, we are developing new products and services for a resource-­ friendly and circular economy. We focus on sustainable and responsible procurement, promote our employees’ performance and are committed to working for the common good as part of our corporate citizenship. Our activities and references are very diverse: thanks to our energy-efficient fleet and our promotion of renewable energies, we are continually reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. Out of all the European postal organizations, we have the biggest electric scooter fleet for deliveries, with around 6,000 three-wheeled vehicles powered by certified eco-electricity. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 3 – Social Disclosures We aim to use mainly e-vehicles for parcel deliveries in urban centers by 2025, and to deliver all letters and parcels using only electric vehicles by 2030. All addressed letters and PromoPost consignments in Switzerland are already transported carbon-­ neutrally. When sending parcels and other consignments, our customers can offset the CO2 emissions with “pro clima” shipment. We are also setting an example in our buildings by avoiding fossil fuels for heating systems in new developments and renovations. We are driving forward the withdrawal from fossil fuels as part of sustainability. In addition, we operate some of Switzerland’s largest photovoltaic systems on the roofs of our letter and parcel centers. Our systems produced over 7 GWh of solar power in total in 2019. Transparency and fairness are also important to us in procurement. We expect our producers to implement high social standards and to respect human rights. The Fair Wear Foundation has awarded us Leader status every year since 2014. We give used clothing a new lease of life. Items in good condition are either given to charitable organizations, where they are resold, or they are repurposed into bags and laptop cases through upcycling. Promoting the diversity of our workforce is particularly important to us. We have around 56,000 employees from 140 nations. They speak different languages, live in different ways and have chosen various lifestyles. This represents tremendous value added for Swiss Post. In 2019, we completely revised our Code of Conduct, which applies to all employees. Discrimination and bullying have no place at Swiss Post. To ensure our employees’ well-being, we optimize their working environments and assist them with advice and support measures in difficult circumstances. We are also Switzerland’s third largest training provider, with around 1,900 apprentices. That equates to just under 6 percent of our headcount in Switzerland. Our employees are not only the face of Swiss Post to the public – they are Swiss Post. Finally, we support charitable initiatives where we can provide value added with our core competencies. One example is the “2 × Christmas” campaign, which we support by providing logistics solutions free of charge, or the Santa Claus campaign, where over 20,000 children’s letters receive a personal response from Father Christmas thanks to Swiss Post employees. For all of these issues, it is not looking back that matters, and even the status quo is only of limited significance. More important is looking forward, assuming responsibility for the environment and future generations, and the opportunities this presents. The materiality analysis carried out with internal and external stakeholders in 2019 confirmed and expanded the focus areas previously set and lays the foundation for the priorities in the new ­strategy period and further ahead until 2030. In particular, we are focusing on digitization and data protection, climate and energy, innovation, customer experience, environmentally and socially responsible procurement, and our products and services. As a universal provider in the fields of communications and logistics, the backbone of mobility between urban and rural areas and a payment transactions partner, Swiss Post contributes vital added value to the Swiss economy. We want to play our part in ensuring sustainable development, and we take our responsibility very seriously! Roberto Cirillo CEO 4 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 What we have achieved: contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals Swiss Post takes its social, environmental and economic responsibilities seriously. We’re acting now – for tomorrow, for future generations, for the sustainable development of our environment and society. We are making a significant contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the UN in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The following goals are relevant to Swiss Post: SDG Our ambition and contribution to the goal Our performance in 2019 Ensure inclusive and Swiss Post helps young people and adults to – Swiss Post contributed almost 7 million francs towards co-funding equitable ­quality ­obtain the qualifications required for employindividual training opportunities. education and ment, decent work and entrepreneurship. – Over 1,100 team development events held throughout Swiss Post. promote lifelong It provides its apprentices with knowledge for – In total, Swiss Post employs around 1,900 apprentices. learning opportu­ sustainable development. – Swiss Post provides apprenticeships in 16 careers. nities for all – The success rate for completing apprenticeships is 98 percent. Goals 4.4 and 4.7 Achieve gender Swiss Post supports gender equality and equal – 45 percent of all employees at Swiss Post are women. equality and emopportunities and is setting the course for full – The proportion of women in senior management is 17.1 percent. power all women and effective participation of women in mana­ – The proportion of women in middle and lower management and girls gement roles at all decision-making levels. is 23.8 percent. – Women make up a third of the Board of Directors (three out of nine members). Goals 5.1 – Swiss Post signed the Charter for equal pay in the public sector and 5.5 and reduced the unexplainable difference in salary to –2.2 percent. Ensure access to Swiss Post will continually increase its share of – By the end of 2019, Swiss Post had increased its CO2 efficiency affordable, reliable, renewable energy and energy efficiency until by 27.6 percent compared to 2010, achieving and exceeding its sustainable and 2030 and beyond. By the end of 2020, it aims goal ahead of schedule. modern energy to increase its CO2 efficiency by over 25 percent – It operates some of Switzerland’s largest photovoltaic systems on for all compared to 2010. its roofs. The 17 systems produce 7 GWh of solar power. – In the delivery sector, it deploys over 6,000 three-wheeled scooters, Goals 7.2 the biggest electric scooter fleet of all European postal organizations and 7.3 – and all powered by eco-electricity. – Swiss Post covers 100 percent of its electricity requirements from renewable sources from Switzerland. Promote sustained, Swiss Post enables a high degree of ­economic – Almost 56,000 employees make up Swiss Post. inclusive and susproductivity through modernization and inno­ – Swiss Post provides over 16, 000 jobs in peripheral regions. tainable economic vation and endeavours to increase resource – Through its Code of Conduct and its current nine collective employgrowth, full and efficiency and to decouple economic growth ment contracts, it commits itself and all employees to freedom from productive employand environmental destruction. It supports discrimination, equal pay and health and safety. ment and decent productive full employment for all women and – In cooperation with its social partners, Swiss Post has initiated a Goals 8.2, work for all men, including young people and people with broad prevention programme with the aim of promoting its staff’s 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, disabilities, with equal pay for the same work. employability for a sustainable professional future. 8.7 and 8.8 It protects employment rights and promotes a – Swiss Post’s suppliers must sign its Code of Ethics and Social Responsafe working environment for all employees. sibility. It categorically opposes forced labour, modern slavery and child labour and demands the same from its suppliers (see also SDG 12). Build resilient Swiss Post makes a significant contribution to – Swiss Post provides postal public services for all of Switzerland: infrastructure, a high-quality, sustainable and resilient infra­ urban and rural areas, young and old, citizens and companies, promote inclusive structure – on a regional and cross-border basis ­analogue and digital. It was named the world’s best postal service and sustainable – and enables affordable and equal access for all. by the Universal Postal Union for the third consecutive time. industrialization To achieve this, it is continuously and sustaina– With its “PostVenture” and “Postidea” innovation programmes, and foster innobly modernizing, it focuses on environmentally Swiss Post is constantly developing future-oriented solutions Goals 9.1 vation acceptable technology and it drives innovation and new business models. It promotes cooperation with startups and 9.4 forward. or external partners and uses future-oriented technology. – PostBus operates 916 routes and transports over 430, 000 com­ muters, schoolchildren and passengers every day. With more than 2,400 vehicles, PostBus is the biggest public transport company on Swiss roads and plans to introduce more vehicles with alternative drives. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 5 – Social Disclosures SDG Our ambition and contribution to the goal Our performance in 2019 Make cities and PostBus creates access to safe, affordable and – In the delivery sector, Swiss Post uses around 6,000 electric scooters human settlesustainable transport systems for all through and delivers all addressed and unaddressed letter mail in Switzerland ments inclusive, its public transport. The company is constantly carbon-neutrally (2.8 billion). safe, ­resilient and improving safety on the roads, with particular – Swiss Post ensures low-CO2 delivery over the last mile with electric sustainable emphasis on people with special needs. scooters and cargo bikes, reduces empty runs by collecting recyclable material and works with bakeries and farmers to deliver regional Goals 11.2, Swiss Post contributes to more inclusive and susproducts. 11.3, 11.a tainable urban development and creates positive – PostBus operates 916 routes and is the biggest public transport and 11.6 links between urban, suburban and rural areas. company on Swiss roads, with over 2,400 vehicles. It is aiming to reduce environmental pollution, improve air quality and achieve positive developments in waste management in cities. Ensure sustainable Swiss Post promotes sustainable consumption – Swiss Post collects coffee capsules, Swisscom routers, PET bottles consumption and patterns and the sustainable management and and packaging material, and used items of clothing, enabling them production patterns efficient use of natural resources, as well as to be recycled and reused. sustainable public procurement procedures. – Swiss Post uses its old scooter batteries in stationary energy storage With its services, Swiss Post helps to increase the units. frequency of use and recycling rate of resources, – Swiss Post includes sustainability criteria in its invitations to tender Goals 12.1, thereby ensuring that consumption in Switzerand has carried out a risk assessment of 32 percent of its procure12.2, 12.6, land is more sustainable. ment volume. 12.7 and 12.8 – As a member of the Fair Wear Foundation, it adheres to compreIt systematically incorporates sustainability hensive social standards for the manufacture of its clothing and was ­information into its reporting and, as far as awarded Leader status for the sixth time in a row. ­possible, provides customers and employees – In the independent evaluation of its corporate management by with knowledge about sustainable development EcoVadis, Swiss Post obtained the “Gold” award. This puts it in the and living in harmony with nature. top 5 percent worldwide. – In its Annual Report, Swiss Post provides transparent and comprehensive information about sustainability aspects in accordance with the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. Take urgent Through its efforts and by raising awareness – Around 45 percent of all vehicles are powered by alternative drive action to combat about climate protection, Swiss Post is strengthsystems (gas-powered and electric vehicles): more than 6,000 electric climate change ening resilience and adaptability to climate-related three-wheeled scooters, 30 electric vans in letter and parcel delivery and its impacts risks and natural catastrophes. It systematically services and 61 hybrid and electric Postbuses. incorporates climate protection measures into – Swiss Post has signed up to the international initiative EV100 “100% its strategies and planning and helps to mitigate Electric Vehicles” and aims to use only electric vehicles for deliveries Goals 13.1, climate change. by 2030. 13.2 and 13.3 – By 2025, Swiss Post aims to carry out the majority of parcel deliveries in urban centers using e-vehicles. – Swiss Post aims to replace 90 percent of all fossil fuel-powered ­heating systems in its own buildings by 2030. – For new buildings and modernization projects, Swiss Post has been committed to the integrated and sustainable DGNB construction standard as adapted for Switzerland since January 2019. – Swiss Post has invested over 18 million francs from the Swiss Post climate fund in climate protection measures since 2010. Strengthen the Swiss Post is expanding the global partnership – Swiss Post maintains numerous partnerships for sustainable developmeans of implefor sustainable development and supports ment, including the UN Global Compact, Association for Environmentation and the exchange of knowledge to achieve the mentally Sound Energy, öbu (Swiss Business Council for Sustainable revitalize the sustainable development goals. It promotes Development), “Klimaplattform der Wirtschaft” (Climate Platform global partnership the maintenance of existing partnerships and for Business), RE100 (100% Renewable Electricity) and EV100 (100% for sustainable the development of new effective partnerships. Electric Vehicles). Goals 17.6 development – As part of the Swiss Red Cross’s “2 × Christmas” initiative, Swiss Post and 17.7 transports over 60,000 parcels free of charge. – In cooperation with second-hand shops, municipalities, major distributors and Texaid, it collects products and raw materials and feeds them back into the circular economy. Swiss Post enables the recycling or upcycling of used clothing in cooperation with the Swiss Red Cross and the disability organization BEWO. 6 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Universal standards 102 General Disclosures The General Disclosures describe the company and its main stakeholders and issues. They also outline Swiss Post’s structure and system limitations, upon which this report is based. Organizational profile 102-1: Name of the organization Swiss Post Ltd 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services Swiss Post offers financial and mobility services in addition to postal products and services. It also develops cross-market solutions, for instance in digital commerce. Swiss Post is proud to be able to serve all its private and business customers in Switzerland and to operate in a targeted manner abroad. Swiss Post operates six executive units: PostalNetwork, PostMail, PostLogistics, Swiss Post Solutions, PostBus and PostFinance. Its legal structure comprises the parent company Swiss Post Ltd and its strategic subsidiaries Post CH Ltd, PostBus Ltd and PostFinance Ltd. Swiss Post’s range of services includes the processing of logistics and communication consignments, secure electronic solutions, and financial and mobility services. Within the core business in its four markets, Swiss Post positions itself as a quality provider offering the best value for money. C ­ ross-market solutions create tailor-made customer benefits (e.g. in digital commerce). Swiss Post is constantly developing its products and services in line with the needs of business and private custo­mers. This involves consistently linking the physical and digital worlds, e.g. with cross-channel marketing campaigns or the digitization of incoming mail processing. Together with its customers, Swiss Post is increasingly developing solutions which connect elements right across the Group (e.g. working capital management as a combination of logistics and financial products). Swiss Post is one of the best-known brands in Switzerland. Thanks to its strong market presence, its brand values are well established among the Swiss population and business customers. The brand identity and strategy were again implemented and optimized in day-to-day operations in 2019. The current improvement measures aim to create a customer-oriented experience at all contact points with the Swiss Post core brand and the two flagship brands PostFinance and PostBus. One of the most visible optimizations is the website (www.swisspost.ch), which was enhanced in 2019. Synergy effects are also achieved and the brands are compellingly brought to life across all the points of contact through an interplay of content, form and timing that is closely coordinated between the many different communication tools. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Business activities”, pages 6–11 – Financial Report 2019, “Brands”, page 11 Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 7 – Social Disclosures 102-3: Location of headquarters Swiss Post Ltd Wankdorfallee 4 P.O. Box 3030 Berne Switzerland 102-4: Location of operations Swiss Post has its own branches in 21 countries. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Geographical segmentation”, pages 8–10 102-5: Ownership and legal form Swiss Post has been structured as a holding company since 26 June 2013. Swiss Post Ltd as the overall holding company is a company limited by shares subject to a special statutory regime solely owned by the Confederation. The organization chart on page 12 of the Financial Report shows the Group’s organizational units. The “Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures” section on pages 167–175 of the Financial Report outlines the shareholdings. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Group structure and shareholders”, page 62 102-6: Markets served References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Business activities”, pages 6–11 – Financial Report 2019, “Business performance”, pages 29–54 – Financial Report 2019, “Segment information”, pages 134–138 102-7: Scale of the organization References and related documents: – Annual Report 2019, “Five-year overview of key figures” table, page 69 – Annual Report 2019, “Key figures and strategic goals for 2017 to 2020” table and the “Markets and segments” section in the front flap of the Annual Report – Financial Report 2019, “Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures”, pages 167–175 102-8: Information on employees and other workers References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 102, “Headcount” and “Employment conditions” sections – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 203, “Jobs in the regions” section – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 404 8 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 102-9: Supply chain Swiss Post’s procurement organization is divided into three clusters which guide the technical aspects of procurement for the units. Cluster High-risk product groups (due to socio-economic and environmental risks) Non-exhaustive list ICT, services and products Hardware Clothing Advertising material and gifts Third-party products Vehicles, transport, maintenance Tyres Batteries Road-based goods transport by subcontractors Road-based passenger transport by subcontractors Real estate Cleaning products External cleaning services Orders involving subcontractors In 2019, 88 percent of the procurement volume was generated through suppliers from Switzerland. Swiss Post worked with around 28,600 suppliers from Switzerland and around 1,800 from abroad in 2019. The procurement volume amounted to 3 billion francs. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, “Supply chain” sheet – Swiss Post’s procurement strategy: www.post.ch/en/business/a-z-of-subjects/procurement-organization/procurement-policy – Responsible procurement: www.post.ch/en/about-us/company/responsibility/responsible-procurement 102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain References and related documents: – F inancial Report 2019, “Additions and disposals of subsidiaries”, pages 169–172 and “Additions and disposals of associates and joint ventures”, pages 173–175 102-11: Precautionary Principle or approach Swiss Post has adopted an economically, ecologically and socially responsible approach in order to ensure a better future. It is increasing the value of the company and contributing to sustainable ­development with forward-looking solutions. The precautionary principle is applied mainly in order to reduce or prevent negative effects on ­society and the environment. The corporate responsibility strategy is based on this principle. For Swiss Post, sustainability means ensuring an appropriate balance between economic success, environmental action and social responsibility, while taking account of the needs of current and future generations. This is the basis on which the company continues to develop its long-term and forward-looking corporate responsibility strategy and pick up on new trends at an early stage. To ensure its future viability, Swiss Post also operates a professional ideas management system for innovation, new business and sustainability. The relevant department provides methods and tools, as well as help and support for ideas and processes. It also brings selected external knowledge and partners into the company. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 9 – Social Disclosures 102-12: External initiatives Swiss Post has signed agreements with organizations including United Nations Global Compact, act Cleantech Agentur Schweiz, Fair Wear Foundation, the Environmental Monitoring and Measurement System run by the International Post Corporation and RE100. It is an active contributor to the “Confederation: exemplary in energy” group. References and related documents: – Partnerships: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/what-we-do 102-13: Membership of associations References and related documents: – Partnerships: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/what-we-do Strategy 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker See CEO statement in the Foreword. References and related documents: – Corporate responsibility charter: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/our-priorities – Annual Report 2019, “Strategy, responsibility and innovation”, pages 10–15 – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate responsibility strategy”, pages 23–26 – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en – Vision: www.post.ch/en/about-us/company/our-principles/vision?query=vision Ethics and integrity 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior References and related documents: – Vision: www.post.ch/en/about-us/company/our-principles/vision?query=vision – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en – Compliance management: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/compliancemanagement-system.pdf?la=en&vs=2 – Principles of leadership and cooperation (in German): www.post.ch/-/media/post/jobs-und-karriere/dokumente/grundsaetzefuehrung.pdf – Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility for Suppliers: www.post.ch/-/media/post/beschaffung/dokumente/sozial-ethik-kodex.pdf?la=en Governance 102-18: Governance structure The CEO and the seven members of Executive Management are elected by the Board of Directors. Each is responsible for the operational management of the unit assigned to them. The CEO represents Executive Management to the Board of Directors. The nine-member Board of Directors appointed by the Federal Council has a responsibility to the Federal Council to guarantee the uniform management of Swiss Post and its subsidiaries. The Board of Directors is responsible for implementing the strategic goals, for submitting reports to the Federal Council on their attainment and for providing the latter with the information it needs for verification purposes. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate governance”, pages 61–75 10 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholder engagement 102-40: List of stakeholder groups Swiss Post endeavours to take the concerns of its stakeholder groups into consideration. The main stakeholders relevant to Swiss Post are shown below (non-exhaustive list): Politics and society: – Federal Council, Parliament and regulatory authorities – Cantonal governments – Regional representatives and municipalities Business, industry and suppliers: – Business and industry associations – Competitors – Partner organizations in the value chain and suppliers Customers / general public: – Business customers – Private customer representatives Employee representatives: – Trade unions and other employee representatives – Employees 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements Employees with a collective employment contract are covered by collective agreements without exception. This applies to more than 85 percent of employees in Switzerland. Management employees are instead subject to a management contract. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 102, “Employment conditions” 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders The factors used as the basis for identification of the stakeholders include management of reputational risks, inclusion of second opinions and external views, increased opportunities for joint p ­ olitical advocacy, corporate and operational interests, and economic and diplomatic conventions. 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement Swiss Post operates in a complex environment of conflicting political and regulatory requirements, social acceptance and economic interests. This can be a tense environment, in which Swiss Post strives to maintain a dialogue in order to help shape opinion-forming and decision-making. To do so, it cultivates relationships with its stakeholders in Switzerland and abroad, and with international organizations within which it advocates its interests. Swiss Post’s experts ensure that key representatives from the worlds of politics, economics and society are informed directly of the company’s position on relevant issues, and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them. Views are exchanged in face-toface meetings or via institutionalized platforms. In addition, Swiss Post is looking to further anchor and expand communications in the different regions of Switzerland and has set up a dedicated ­organizational unit that offers the regions in French-speaking Switzerland, German-speaking Switzer­ land and Ticino direct contacts for media and political issues. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 11 – Social Disclosures Some of the ways in which stakeholders are involved include meetings and membership and participation in various organizations, institutions and initiatives. At the same time, the specialized Politics department, Corporate Center and the Human Resources and Communication units are in regular and intensive discussion with the groups listed under 102-40. This ensures that concerns are brought to Swiss Post’s attention at all times and that opinions and sentiments, particularly among employees and customers, can be gathered regularly and in a standardized procedure. Stakeholders are also involved via a stakeholder board (Salon Politique). The approach to stakeholders is presented to and approved by the decision-making bodies on an annual basis. The approach itself is confidential and is not published. In 2019, as part of the materiality analysis, 144 stakeholders were directly involved in identifying the material topics, along with 14 external experts and 34 management representatives. A detailed list of the stakeholder groups involved can be found under 102-40, and a description of the materiality process and the results under 102-46 and 102-47. 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised The current and future need for the transformation of Swiss Post as a link between the physical and digital worlds remains a key issue in the stakeholder dialogue, as does the customer-oriented ­ongoing development of the network of access points. This means great emphasis is placed on responsible management, compliance and governance. The importance accorded to and role played by Swiss Post in the public service in Switzerland is continually demonstrated in dialogue with the various groups. References and related documents: – Swiss Post and politics: www.post.ch/en/about-us/profile/swiss-post-and-politics – Swiss Post’s positions: www.post.ch/en/about-us/profile/swiss-post-and-politics#positionsReporting practice 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated financial statements The reporting boundaries for this Sustainability Report extend to Swiss Post Ltd (Post CH Ltd, PostBus Ltd), but do not include PostFinance Ltd. However, most quantitative indicators were collected for Swiss Post Ltd as a whole, i.e. including PostFinance Ltd. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures”, pages 167–175 – Financial Report 2019, “Group annual financial statements, Basis of accounting”, pages 84–89 102-46: D  efining report content and topic Boundaries In 2019, Swiss Post produced a new relevance matrix – based on the materiality analysis – as a robust basis for the new strategy period. This contains the three dimensions of stakeholder relevance, influence on sustainable development and business relevance. Taking account of the current sustainability context, the assessment was carried out in these three dimensions based on surveys and a series of expert interviews incorporating a total of 192 internal and external opinions. 12 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 102-47: List of material topics The aspects found in the focus and foundation areas in Post CH Ltd’s three-dimensional relevance matrix, which is set out in the “Management approach” section, are material for Swiss Post. The ­material topics identified serve as the basis for the development of the overall strategy and the CR priorities. They represent the content guidelines for Swiss Post’s Sustainability Report. The following list view assigns the topics in the relevance matrix to topic-specific GRI standards where appropriate: Material topics for Post CH Ltd Topic-specific GRI standards contained therein Digitization and data protection GRI 418: Customer Privacy Governance, compliance, reputation management GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 307: Environmental Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Protection and safety of entrusted goods Capacity to innovate and attention to consumer trends Customer dialogue and experience Growth, value creation and stable financial position GRI 201: Economic Performance Professional, effective employees GRI 404: Training and Education Corporate culture and responsible leadership Sustainable business strategy, risk and resilience management Public service Energy efficiency and climate protection GRI 302: Energy GRI 305: Emissions (greenhouse gases) Environmentally and socially acceptable products GRI 302: Energy and services Sharing economy and circular economy Environmentally and socially responsible GRI 204: Procurement Practices ­procurement GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment Occupational health and safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety Reduction of air emissions GRI 305: Emissions Freedom of association, operational notice GRI 202: Market Presence periods and minimum wages GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment Diversity, integration, equal opportunity GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Protection of human rights GRI 406: Non-discrimination Recruitment and employee benefits GRI 401: Employment Indirect economic contribution and regional GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts ­development 102-48: Restatements of information There are no restatements of information compared to the Integrated Annual Report for the prior year. 102-49: Changes in reporting Based on the materiality analysis carried out, the list of relevant topics was extended and adapted to current requirements and feedback from stakeholders. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 13 – Social Disclosures Report profile 102-50: Reporting period The content of this report refers to the financial year 2019 (1 January to 31 December 2019). 102-51: Date of most recent report The last Integrated Annual Report was published for the financial year 2018 on 7 March 2019. 102-52: Reporting cycle Annually. 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report E-mail: responsibility@swisspost.ch Tel.: +41 58 338 11 11 Media relations: +41 58 338 13 07 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards Core option. 102-55: GRI content index See table of contents at the beginning of this report. 102-56: External assurance Greenhouse gas performance is audited externally and includes: 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 and their basis, including 302-1, 302-2. References and related documents: – Assurance report on greenhouse gas performance: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/what-we-do 14 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 103 Management Approach The “Management Approach” section explains in more detail the issues considered material to the company, identifies their impact and assesses how each issue is addressed and promoted. 103-1: Explanation of the material topics and their Boundary Material topics for the report were determined using an internal and external stakeholder survey and presented in the three-dimensional relevance matrix for Post CH Ltd and PostBus Ltd in the focus and foundation areas. The material topics identified serve as a basis for the development of the overall strategy and the CR priorities. They represent the content guidelines for Swiss Post’s Sustainability Report. Post CH Ltd relevance matrix Relevance to sustainable development High Low Medium High Digitization and data protection Governance, compliance, reputation management Environmentally and socially acceptable Energy efficiency and climate protection products and services Protection and safety of entrusted goods Stakeholder relevance Environmentally and socially responsible procurement Sustainable business strategy, risk and resilience management Capacity to innovate and attention to consumer trends Reduction of air emissions Professional, Public service effective employees Health promotion and occupational safety Protection Customer dialogue and experience of human rights Corporate culture and ­responsible leadership Growth, value creation Sharing economy and stable financial position and circular economy Indirect economic contribution Freedom of association, and regional development operational notice periods Diversity, integration, and minimum wages equal opportunity Recruitment and employee benefits Low Low Business relevance High Low relevance Foundation Focus The relevance matrix shows the stakeholder relevance and business relevance in the two axes. The relevance to sustainable development is indicated by the size and colour of the respective circles. Nine topics of low relevance have been omitted and not examined in closer detail. 103-2 and 103-3: T  he management approach and its components; evaluation of the management approach The Corporate Responsibility (CR) department is responsible for coordinating and implementing the Group’s corporate responsibility strategy. It also helps the units to implement all material topics ­related Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 15 – Social Disclosures to sustainability. In cooperation with the Sustainability Technical Committee and specialist groups, it develops, implements and reviews the effectiveness of measures for the CR strategy. Members of management from each business and function unit sit on the Sustainability Technical Committee. The broad-based “Sustainability Network”, extending throughout the entire company, takes the initiative on corporate responsibility issues and discusses and tackles them. This is a vibrant c­ ommunity open to all employees, and it enjoys a great deal of popularity. All employees continually have the opportunity to submit their ideas for improving Swiss Post’s environmental and social efforts through the ideas management system and the PostVenture innovation competition, which was held again in 2019. Digitization and data protection Swiss Post adopts a far-sighted approach to the opportunities and challenges presented by digitization. It drives forward the continuous development of the core business as part of one of its strategic thrusts, in order to continue creating positive customer experiences. The focus is also on the physical-­ digital merger and use of data, as well as solutions for business customers. Swiss Post has also implemented measures to ensure its employees remain competitive on the labour market over the long term. As a result, the requirements for data protection are ever greater. Protection of customer, supplier and employee data has been part of the Code of Conduct for all employees and an integral part of Swiss Post’s compliance management system for a number of years (see also Management Approach: Governance, compliance, reputation management). The data protection officer monitors compliance with data protection provisions within Swiss Post Group from a technical and organizational p ­ erspective. Swiss Post has defined organizational and material measures as part of the “Data and information protection” programme, in order to minimize violations of the Federal Act on Data Protection and the associated risks. These measures focus on comprehensive data protection organization and various processes and ongoing training. Employees can report incidents to an anonymous reporting unit in the event of suspected infringements. Effectiveness and results The directives are reviewed on a regular basis and, if necessary, adapted to new developments in regulation, legal precedent, theory and internal Group developments as part of the digital transformation. In 2019, the data protection coordinators in the units were given access to more resources. This enables documentation to be kept up to date and allows data protection issues to be addressed more effectively in new projects. In 2019, Swiss Post did not receive any fines or non-monetary penalties and no proceedings were opened in connection with data protection breaches at Swiss Post. References and related documents: – Compliance management: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/compliancemanagement-system.pdf?la=en&vs=2 – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en Sustainable business strategy, risk and resilience management As its owner, the Federal Council expects Swiss Post to pursue sustainable and ethical principles in its strategy and lays down requirements to this end. Swiss Post has outlined its efforts in a corporate responsibility strategy. In the current strategy period from 2017 to 2020, Swiss Post is placing particular emphasis on the following five areas of action: responsible procurement, climate and energy, responsible employer, circular economy and corporate citizenship. The early identification of risks and opportunities and the ability to deal with them in a far-sighted and comprehensive manner are key factors in successful long-term business practices. The Board of Directors, as the most senior body, sets out all binding methodical and organizational standards in dealing with risks and opportunities. Swiss Post’s Group risk management corresponds to the applicable laws and the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance. It is based on COSO ERM (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission: Enterprise Risk Management) and the ISO standard 31000 and is a key element in the decision-making process as an integral part 16 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 of the management system. Group risk management not only covers potential impacts on the company’s financial situation but also – from the perspective of stakeholders – impacts on the reputation, compliance and integrity of the environment, employees and fellow human beings. Effectiveness and results Risk management is enhanced on a continual basis and now also covers non-monetary aspects, such as compliance, reputation, environment and people. The risk situation is reviewed half-yearly, and the results are presented annually to the Board of Directors and Executive Management in a comprehensive risk report. Swiss Post also reviews the current risk situation annually in its Financial Report. References and related documents: – Annual Report 2019, “Strategy, responsibility and innovation”, pages 10–15 – Financial Report 2019, “2020 Swiss Post strategy”, pages 16–22 – Financial Report 2019, “Risk report”, pages 55–59 Governance, compliance, reputation management The issue of compliance is one of the Board of Directors’ responsibilities and has a high priority at Swiss Post. Executive Management has set up a technical committee on the subject. This committee reports to Executive Management or the Board of Directors on a regular basis. The basic principles of respectful, appropriate and ethical cooperation – as the basis of compliance – are set out in the Code of Conduct, which is binding for all employees. The compliance portfolio defined by Executive Management and drawn up by the technical committee is the result of a comprehensive analysis of the risks arising from the violation of external and internal prohibitory and regulatory standards. This analysis is carried out periodically. The portfolio currently covers the topics of data and information protection, anti-corruption, public procurement law, anti-trust law, postal law and subsidy law. Compliance programmes are developed for each ­topic covered by the compliance portfolio, in which the measures required to minimize the risks of breaches of standards and regulations are defined for each topic. At the heart of these measures are the applicable substantive directives, clear communication, systematic training and appropriate controls. The compliance programmes are regularly reviewed in terms of their effectiveness and adapted if necessary. The compliance management system has been continually developed since 2016. An audit carried out by an external company in 2018 confirmed its appropriateness and effectiveness and validated the planned development stages. Monitoring is currently carried out in constant dialogue with all affected units and in the implementation of the measures for the applicable compliance topics. In addition, exposed units are ISO 9001and ISO 14001-certified and are therefore externally audited at least once a year. All management employees and selected technical specialists are trained and made aware of compliance issues via e-learning training courses, including learning assessments. The compliance management system is thoroughly documented and is accessible to all employees on the intranet. Executive Management and the Board of Directors are updated on developments and the current compliance risk situation in a status report every six months. It is possible for all employees and customers to report violations anonymously. Effectiveness and results The effectiveness of the compliance management system is reviewed regularly and any necessary modifications are made. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate governance”, pages 61–75 – Compliance management: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/compliancemanagement-system.pdf?la=en&vs=2 – Swiss Post’s anonymous reporting unit: www.swisspostcourage.ch – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 17 – Social Disclosures Protection and safety of entrusted goods The principles of security management are governed in a Board of Directors regulation at Swiss Post. Executive Management has committed to a systematic, risk-oriented approach to security by adopting the “Swiss Post security management” directive. This directive focuses on three main protection goals: protection of people, protection of the company and protection of tangible and intangible assets. The latter covers: – Protection of goods and money entrusted to Swiss Post for processing, including their physical data and information – Protection of Swiss Post’s infrastructure and resources, and preservation of know-how and competitive edge – Protection of Swiss Post’s good reputation and the public’s trust in the company – Protection of proprietary knowledge, technology, trade secrets and other intellectual property Each unit and subsidiary has its own security management system, draws up a risk analysis and imple­ ments appropriate security measures to effectively counteract identified risks. The Swiss Post Corporate Security department issues minimum requirements, monitors the units’ activities, reports on the current situation to Executive Management and makes recommendations on improving the situation. Capacity to innovate and attention to consumer trends Swiss Post is a large company but also agile, rapid and innovative: it identifies new business opportunities in a targeted manner and launches market-oriented projects and programmes to transform its core business as part of a vision of a digital world. Since 2014, the Development & Innovation Group unit has been bringing knowledge, expertise and new partners to Swiss Post. It creates networks and provides inspiration, breaks away from conventional thought patterns and looks beyond the obvious. Swiss Post wishes to use technology to identify new business opportunities and to shape the future. Swiss Post follows a clearly structured innovation process from the idea, through to the project and implementation geared to the market. This encourages employees to focus heavily on end users. During each innovation phase, Swiss Post provides support with specific resources, such as the BoostCamp or early Label. The early Label allows interested customers to test the products and services before their official launch and contribute to their success by submitting feedback. Swiss Post is keen to develop and test new business ideas and models in cooperation with other companies, startups and young talent. Innovation Management ensures that suitable partnerships come into being and that external ideas are picked up early and implemented as customer-oriented innovations. Through its PostVenture innovation programme, Swiss Post specifically seeks out fresh ideas to help drive forward its range of products and services in its strategic business development areas. Swiss Post enters into partnerships with young talent and entrepreneurial spirits who want to capture the market with new business models, and provides these young entrepreneurs with expert help in the implementation of interesting projects. With its corporate venturing programme, Swiss Post taps into additional know-how by acquiring interests in selected fledgling companies. In doing so, it focuses on minority interests to ensure that the startups retain their freedom and agility. Effectiveness and results Swiss Post is successfully deploying drone logistics on a commercial basis, transporting laboratory samples by drone quickly and securely between the Ospedale Civico and the Ospedale Italiano in Lugano. Swiss Post is also focusing on the digital future of public transport in Sion, where the automated SmartShuttle navigates without a driver through the old town. The small electric buses with 11 seats could in the future open up remote regions, car-free villages or city centers. Or they could offer a service at off-peak times when operation with a conventional bus is not economically viable. On company premises, at hospitals or at airports, the self-driving Postbus also offers a sustainable and cost-effective option for passenger transport. References and related documents: – www.swisspost.ch/innovation 18 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Customer dialogue and experience Creating positive experiences is the key to long-term and profitable customer relationships. Swiss Post’s customer experience management (CEM) involves the in-depth design of consistent and purposeful customer experiences for all contacts with people, technologies or systems. For this reason, we deliberately develop products, services and contact points from our customers’ perspective, because we can only create unique customer experiences if we understand our customers. The aims of CEM include greater customer retention and loyalty, to ensure that customers use a wide range of Swiss Post services. To remain successful in future, Swiss Post must stand out from its competitors and provide customers with a positive experience. To this end, we focus on the main customer experiences and on close, early involvement of customers in the design process. Customer experiences are also systematically surveyed and evaluated. This allows continuous improvement measures to be identified, so that customers enjoy a consistent Swiss Post experience across all contact points. Growth, value creation and stable financial position Swiss Post is meeting the challenges in its environment in the years 2017 to 2020 by implementing a transformation strategy. Its aim is to complete a transformation by 2020 that will enable it to offer solutions to meet the customer requirements of the future. Swiss Post’s strategy is based on its statutory mandate, the strategic goals set by the Federal Council and Swiss Post’s vision. The strategy consists of four strategic thrusts for achieving the specified targets (Swiss Post’s strategic goals). Swiss Post is considering growth options that could be achieved through new business models in seven growth and business development areas. Changing customer requirements are the basis for Swiss Post’s actions. Based on its capacities in the communication, logistics, financial services and passenger transport markets, Swiss Post is increasingly known for its integrated solutions and continues to be synonymous with module-based individual products and services. Swiss Post understands the world as interlinked and builds bridges between physical and digital channels. It wants to win over customers by offering them products that are both easy to access and easy to use, while creating a consistent customer experience across all its points of contact. This will enable it to develop and maintain a high-quality universal service. In order to implement its vision, Swiss Post’s actions are guided by its core values: “reliable”, “value-­ enhancing” and “sustainable”. Effectiveness and results Swiss Post’s 2017– 2020 strategy is based on our Group vision: “Simple yet systematic – Swiss Post.” Despite the successful implementation of measures such as the expansion of its parcel infrastructure and its physical access points over the past three years, Swiss Post is facing a number of challenges of a magnitude it has never faced in its long history. The declines in profit are exerting an i­ncreasingly negative impact on the Group, and its financial strength is decreasing. Swiss Post must therefore ­realign its strategy in the medium to long term in order to achieve its owner’s targets. An important success factor in this will be the achievement of a balance between the requirements of the market and the expectations of the public, employees and politicians. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “2020 Swiss Post strategy”, pages 16–22 – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate responsibility strategy”, pages 23–26 – Financial Report 2019, “Non-financial results of a material nature”, pages 48–54 Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 19 – Social Disclosures Energy efficiency and climate protection; reduction of air emissions The climate and energy goals are derived from the strategy, thrusts and goals. In particular, the Group goal is to increase CO2 efficiency by at least 25 percent by 2020 (base year 2010). The units can submit applications for financial support for pilot and flagship projects to the Executive Management Committee Innovation, New Business & Sustainability. Furthermore, the funds from the redistribution of the CO2 levy are earmarked for reinvestment in climate protection. In addition, the management systems of the operating units Real Estate, PostLogistics and Swiss Post Solutions are certified in accordance with ISO 14001 and are thus committed to continuous improvement. Effectiveness and results Swiss Post’s climate goal is geared to the long term and is in line with the objective of stabilizing global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius by 2100 compared to pre-industrial levels. Swiss Post is thus fulfilling its corporate responsibility to reduce CO2 emissions for the benefit of the environment and society, and, in turn, helping to alleviate the effects of climate change. In addition, Swiss Post seeks to anticipate the risks of future climate change and exploit the opportunities in this regard. Swiss Post is safeguarding its commercial success by pursuing the following priorities in reducing CO2 emissions: sufficiency, efficiency, substitution (replacing fossil fuel sources) and offsetting of CO2 emissions. With an improvement of 27.6 percent, Swiss Post reached and exceeded its Group target of increasing CO2 efficiency by 25 percent by 2020 (base year 2010) ahead of schedule at the end of 2019. This excellent achievement is also reflected in external ratings such as the Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS) run by the International Post Corporation (IPC), with Swiss Post registering a further improvement in its Carbon Management Proficiency Score and being awarded the gold rating for the fourth consecutive time in 2019. Many key figures class Swiss Post as one of the leading companies within the IPC – for example, with regard to the proportion of renewable electricity and the use of alternative drive technologies in its vehicle fleet. In the CDP Climate Change Rating, Swiss Post achieved the second-highest status of “A-” in 2019, maintaining its strong performance year-on-year. This means that it lies well above the industry a­ verage. References and related documents: – Annual Report 2019, “Strategy, responsibility and innovation”, Responsibility, page 14 – Financial Report 2019, “2020 Swiss Post strategy”, pages 16–22 – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate responsibility strategy”, pages 23–26 – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 – Environmental and climate protection: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/our-priorities –> Climate and energy Environmentally and socially acceptable products and services; circular economy Swiss Post offers a wide range of products and services which it constantly develops in an environmentally and socially acceptable manner. Swiss Post wants to promote and support a r­ esource-friendly and circular economy with its products and skills, and is setting up new strategic business areas and partnerships for this purpose. Swiss Post’s services help to increase the recycling rate of resources, thereby ensuring that consumption in Switzerland is more sustainable. Swiss Post also endeavours to ensure that its products are accessible to all. Effectiveness and results With regard to accessibility, Swiss Post has revamped its websites swisspost.ch and postfinance.ch, and these have been certified by the foundation “Access for all”. The websites provide voice output and can be used with a keyboard, while images are explained by alternative text. Videos are subtitled for people with hearing difficulties. In addition, the new branches have an accessible design, and many are currently being renovated. PostBus is also striving to improve accessibility through measures such as improvements to passenger information on screens, wheelchair lifts and ramps and by using low-floor buses where possible. 20 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Swiss Post uses energy-efficient and climate-friendly products (see 302-5) and is strongly committed to recycling selected reusable materials, repairing and reusing devices and work resources, and encouraging opportunities for sharing (known as the sharing economy). This enables Swiss Post to tap into new logistics potential. Examples of solutions within the circular economy include: – Swiss Post collects used Nespresso coffee capsules from customers’ homes for recycling. It takes back PET bottles, carrier bags and cardboard packaging when exchanging e-food orders (e.g. coop@home) and disposes of them correctly. – It collects used paper on behalf of municipalities and recovers everyday items and textiles for reuse and recycling in partnership with institutions such as Brocki or Texaid. – On behalf of Swisscom, Swiss Post collects disused Internet routers and enables them to be reconditioned and reused. – Anyone borrowing an item such as a drill on the Sharely platform can have it sent to them via the many access points Swiss Post offers. – Internal disposal processes are optimized. Swiss Post collects and recycles old Swiss Post clothing in cooperation with the Swiss Red Cross. – Swiss Post is conducting a pilot project in which old batteries from electric scooters are used as energy storage units in buildings with solar panels. References and related documents: – Annual Report 2019, “Strategy, responsibility and innovation”, Responsibility, page 14 – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate responsibility strategy”, Circular economy, page 25 – Annual Report 2019, “PostMail”, page 33 Environmentally and socially responsible procurement Responsible procurement has been incorporated into Swiss Post’s procurement strategy and is also one of the five areas of action in the corporate responsibility strategy 2017– 2020. In all product groups and along the entire Swiss Post value chain, social, ethical and environmental criteria play an important role, in particular procurement practices, child and forced labour, human rights and social and environmental assessment of suppliers. On its path to becoming a leading responsible procurement organization, Swiss Post prefers partners who base their business policy on a holistic approach. Unsustainable procurement involves risks along the entire value chain for people, the environment and Swiss Post alike. Suppliers must sign Swiss Post’s Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility or undertake to produce a more far-reaching code of their own. Among other things, the Swiss Post code calls for respect for human rights, the prohibition of child labour, adequate remuneration, and observation of Swiss Post’s ecological principles. It also contains contact details for complaints for clothing suppliers and must be displayed on-site in the relevant national language. Social and ecological criteria have been verified during audits in the transport sector since 2016. Given that in the clothing sector in particular the risks in terms of socially responsible procurement are high, Swiss Post has taken far-reaching measures in this area, becoming a member of the Fair Wear Foundation (FWF) in 2012. Since 2014, Swiss Post has been awarded Leader status every year. By becoming a member of the Fair Wear Foundation, Swiss Post is committed to strict inspection and sustainable implementation of social standards at its clothing suppliers. In low-risk countries, which account for 75 percent of the procurement volume, both social standards inspections and training on the Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility and the Fair Wear Foundation’s Code of Labour Practices are conducted at factories every three years by Swiss Post itself. In the high-risk countries of Bulgaria (20 percent) and Jordan (5 percent), the inspection work and training are carried out by the Fair Wear Foundation itself or by Better Work, a programme by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). Effectiveness and results The suppliers of key product groups have signed the Swiss Post Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility. Since 2017, all public invitations to tender and the procurement criteria catalogue have contained general corporate responsibility criteria and product group-specific criteria for each product group. Also since 2017, Swiss Post has been working with EcoVadis, an independent organization Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 21 – Social Disclosures where suppliers are assessed and state their position on their social and environmental business practices. This enables Swiss Post to carry out standardized risk analysis and assessment and to continue developing cooperation with its partners. The aim is for the most strategically important suppliers, of which there are around 240, to be assessed by 2020. As at end of 2019, this is already the case for 190 suppliers, covering 80 percent of strategic suppliers and more than 30 percent of the procurement volume. Swiss Post plans to integrate the findings into its Corrective Action Plans and to use them to develop measures to improve suppliers’ corporate responsibility performance. By the end of 2015, 100 percent of the Swiss Post procurement volume for work clothing had been inspected, and this inspection is repeated at least every three years. Swiss Post performs well: the work conditions at the production sites are good; the entire supply chain – from the material to the finished item of clothing – boasts full cost transparency. During the year under review, Swiss Post was notified of two incidents which were dealt with by agreement (see 409-1). At PostBus and PostLogistics, all subcontractors are audited in three-year cycles. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate responsibility strategy”, Responsible procurement, page 23 – Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility: www.post.ch/-/media/post/beschaffung/dokumente/sozial-ethik-kodex.pdf?la=en – Procurement strategy: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/procurement-policy#swiss-post-procurement-strategy – Responsible procurement: www.post.ch/en/business/a-z-of-subjects/procurement-organization/responsible-procurement – www.fairwear.org/brands/swiss-post Corporate culture and responsible leadership; professional, effective employees; diversity, integration, equal opportunity Swiss Post’s HR policy defines the rules for fair interaction in a spirit of partnership and lays down binding HR policy guidelines. At the same time, it sets out what Swiss Post expects as an employer from its management, its line managers and its employees in Switzerland and abroad. All employees have received the completely revised Swiss Post Code of Conduct. To ensure Swiss Post is successful now and remains so in future, it requires experienced and competent employees and managers. Using targeted solutions, concepts and tools in the field of cultural understanding as well as training and education opportunities, Swiss Post supports and enables its managers to allow their employees to develop in a professional, fair and successful manner. M ­ anagers have access to sophisticated and appropriate tools to record their employees’ performance, potential and behaviour and to support their individual development. Swiss Post attaches great importance to training and education opportunities for employees. At strategic level, the FutureSkills programme supports the development of skills in the digital transformation sphere and improves Swiss Post employees’ skills in line with future requirements. Swiss Post’s internal Job Center supports employees with retraining if required. Through its talent management, Swiss Post aims to secure the succession and appointment of key functions in the long term and to support employees with potential in a targeted manner. Promoting diversity is a key element in this. For example, Swiss Post is endeavouring to increase the proportion of women and Frenchand Italian-speaking employees in senior management roles. Talent m ­ anagement focuses on systematically identifying, developing and retaining highly talented and top-performing employees to ensure Swiss Post’s competitiveness. Swiss Post also wishes to enable its employees to contribute their wide range of talents, experience, personalities and requirements to the company, in order to enhance innovation and our attractiveness as an employer. Swiss Post supports equal opportunity and promotes mixed teams and accessibility for all. 22 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Effectiveness and results Swiss Post offers attractive employment conditions, competitive salaries, a modern infrastructure, contemporary working time models and a dynamic and progressive working environment. Flexible and location-independent models – such as part-time, mobile working and job sharing – are used by over half of employees. Swiss Post promotes work-life balance with 18 weeks of paid maternity leave, ten days of paternity leave, holiday entitlement above the Swiss average and a wide range of professional opportunities regardless of gender, age or background. The company supports external childcare by contributing over 1.5 million francs distributed across 1,000 applications. Swiss Post consistently advertises management positions with an employment level of 80 to 100 percent, with the particular intention of promoting part-time work and the percentage of women in management roles. With over 2,500 vacancies, apprenticeships or temporary job changes available each year, Swiss Post offers a wide range of career opportunities. In addition, Swiss Post offers many different training and education opportunities to maintain and improve the employability of its workforce. An attractive and diverse set of solutions, concepts and tools in the field of training and education enable skills to be developed in a targeted and effective manner. In terms of individual development, Swiss Post generally expects its employees to demonstrate personal responsibility, for which it provides them with internal courses and financial support. Almost 7 million francs in co-funding was provided for individual training opportunities in the year under review. A newly developed training programme for managers with a high degree of digital and modern forms of learning was rolled out in 2019 in all business units and has already been completed by over 460 employees. The ”reverse mentoring” initiative, also launched in the year under review, aims to improve digital skills. A younger mentor and an experienced mentee over the age of 40 engage in dialogue across units, generations and hierarchies. In cooperation with its social partners, a prevention programme for long-term future careers has been initiated. Swiss Post’s aim is to support staff and their life-long learning with organized team workshops, career counselling and promotion of digital skills. Swiss Post relies on diversity and mixed teams as a source of innovation and a means of meeting customer requirements in optimum fashion. In this way, it aims to harness the potential and opportunities of digitization and demographic development. Its internal networks MOSAICO and RAINBOW actively promote linguistic and cultural diversity in practice, as well as acceptance, tolerance and a discrimination-free corporate culture. In November 2019, Swiss Post signed the Charter for equal pay in the public sector. By signing, Swiss Post wants to make a stand on equal pay between women and men. In order to further reduce the unexplained salary difference of –2.2 percent, it wants to familiarize its managers with the topic and offers a reporting platform in conjunction with its social partners. References and related documents: – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en – Annual Report 2019, “Employees”, pages 60–67 – Financial Report 2019, “Human resources”, pages 49–52 – Employment conditions at Swiss Post: www.post.ch/en/about-us/a-z-of-topics/jobs-and-careers/ swiss-post-working-environment/employment-conditions-at-swiss-post – Diversity at Swiss Post: www.post.ch/en/jobs/jobs-and-careers/diversity-in-practice – Anonymous reporting platform: www.swisspostcourage.ch – See also indicators 404-1 and 404-2 in this report Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 23 – Social Disclosures Health promotion and occupational safety Ensuring the health and safety of employees is a key concern at Swiss Post. The company relies on a number of measures to preserve and increase employees’ working capacity in the long term. Workplace health management aims to promote and maintain employee health. It is essential to establish a healthy management and working culture based on appreciation, respect and transparency. The relevant management training courses are therefore at the very top of Swiss Post’s agenda for the next few years. The same applies to the prevention of absences and rapid reintegration after illness. These measures are supplemented by well-established health circles and ambassadors, possibilities for career reorientation and internal company counselling, which can help employees resolve private and professional conflicts and concerns neutrally and confidentially. Swiss Post also implements a number of measures to ensure that its increasingly ageing workforce remains healthy and employable. These include flexible models for retirement and the promotion of bridge employment and flexible working time models. Swiss Post is also strongly committed to supporting people with disabilities as part of social sustainability. Internships are offered to people with a partial ability to work, in order to improve their chances of finding a job on the regular labour market. From 2020, Swiss Post plans to step up its commitment, which is why it is taking part in the Inclusion Champion project run by the University of St. Gallen and the Federal Bureau for the E­ quality of People with Disabilities. This aims to ensure inclusion is put into practice to a greater extent at all of Swiss Post’s business units. Swiss Post runs a so-called operating group solution to guarantee safe jobs for all Swiss Post employees. This ensures compliance with all the legal requirements relating to occupational safety and health protection. The operating group solution has been agreed with the trade unions and certified by the relevant authorities. It is constantly verified during external inspections by cantonal labour inspectors and the Swiss National Accident Insurance Fund (Suva). It is implemented in the Group units’ occupational safety systems, which are managed and developed by trained occupational health and safety specialists (ASGS). These systems are also certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 at Real Estate Management and Services and PostLogistics. The relevant specialist units are coordinated by ­specialist groups, which meet on a monthly basis. Regular meetings of representatives are held in order to allow information to be exchanged between Swiss Post, the trade unions, external occupational health and safety specialists and the supervisory bodies. Annual system audits verify the effectiveness of the operating group solution, while the units carry out regular safety audits and training courses on their sites. Accident and illness figures are ­evaluated monthly, as well as being included in annual consolidated Group reporting. Effectiveness and results Presence management helps line managers to approach employees promptly in the event of repeated shortor long-term absences and to define measures (in association with HR consulting where appropriate) that allow employees to return to their original or a new workplace quickly and in an appropriate manner. The number of long-term absences has been reduced through this standardized process. To maintain the ability to work and employability, employees are reintegrated as quickly as possible after returning to work and their tasks are modified if necessary. Key indicators, such as the number of occupational accidents per 100 full-time equivalents and the number of lost days per occupational accident, are analysed at least once a year by the ASGS specialist units. Tripping and falling remains by far the most common cause of accidents, but targeted awareness-raising measures are having an effect. In 2017, after a thorough and independent review of the implementation of health management by Health Promotion Switzerland, Swiss Post received the “Friendly Work Space” label for the third time in a row. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, “Health management” sheet – Swiss Post’s commitment to its staff: www.post.ch/en/about-us/a-z-of-topics/jobs-and-careers/ swiss-post-working-environment/swiss-post-commitment – www.friendlyworkspace.ch 24 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Freedom of association, operational notice periods and minimum wages; recruitment and employee benefits In accordance with the provisions set out in the Postal Services Organization Act, Swiss Post negotiates the framework conditions for the relationship between company and employees with the contracting trade unions syndicom and transfair. The labour law principles governing Swiss Post staff are based on the Swiss Code of Obligations (with reference to the Employment Act, or the Working Hours Act for PostBus). The majority of employees have signed one of the current nine collective employment contracts (CECs), which are continually being developed in partnership and are accessible to the public. Two additional CECs are currently being negotiated. The cooperative relationship between employer and employee associations allows for consensual solutions. In conjunction with its social partners, Swiss Post seeks forward-looking solutions in the interests of customers, ­employees and the company. With regard to recruitment, Swiss Post focuses on positive customer experiences as a critical success factor, in order to ensure a high degree of quality and an optimal fit between applicants and job profile. It advertises vacancies in gender-neutral language and provides flexible working models as far as possible. References and related documents: – Employment conditions at Swiss Post: www.post.ch/en/about-us/a-z-of-topics/jobs-and-careers/ swiss-post-working-environment/employment-conditions-at-swiss-post – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en – Annual Report 2019, “Code of Conduct”, page 7 – Annual Report 2019, “Employees”, pages 60–67 – Financial Report 2019, “Human resources”, pages 49–52 Public service; indirect economic contribution and regional development The Federal Council expects Swiss Post to provide a high-quality universal service comprising postal services and payment transaction services throughout Switzerland. Swiss Post should offer a high standard of marketable, innovative products, services and solutions in both physical and electronic form in its core business in the communication, logistics, financial services and passenger transport markets. Within its operating confines, Swiss Post should pursue a corporate strategy committed to ethical and sustainable principles and take account of regional concerns in the various areas of the country in its organizational structure. Its human resources policy should be progressive and socially responsible, and its employment conditions attractive. In addition, Swiss Post must involve any community affected by the relocation or closure of a branch. As a government-owned company with a long social tradition, Swiss Post supports charitable projects and institutions, particularly in the corporate citizenship area of action of the corporate responsibility strategy. Swiss Post wants to contribute to solving social or environmental challenges and create added value for society. Effectiveness and results – With its “2 × Christmas” campaign for people in need in Switzerland and abroad, Swiss Post transports parcels free of charge to the Swiss Red Cross logistics center, where donations are sorted by Swiss Post employees and volunteers. – Santa Claus campaign: Swiss Post helps Santa Claus to answer letters from thousands of children each year. – “A second lease of life for Swiss Post clothes”: work clothing that is no longer used is collected and donated to the Swiss Red Cross; some items of clothing that can no longer be worn are made into bags or laptop covers. – Employees have a range of opportunities to volunteer, for instance by taking part in the “2 × Christmas” campaign, carrying out maintenance work on Swiss hiking trails or working on the energy education project “Each cell counts – schools generate solar power!” – In cooperation with Swisscom, Swiss Post is also the founder of the Museum of Communication in Berne. In 2019, the highly successful museum was awarded a prize by the Council of Europe for its major contribution to the understanding of European cultural heritage, promoting respect for human rights and democracy and improving visitors’ knowledge about current social issues. – Swiss Post supports young Swiss artists, for example by maintaining its own art collection. – Swiss Post supports foundations such as Pro Patria and Pro Juventute, as well as other projects and institutions with a focus on social, cultural or youth work, thanks to its postage stamp fund or the issue of stamps with a surcharge. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 25 – Social Disclosures References and related documents: – Annual Report 2019, “Strategy, responsibility and innovation”, Responsibility, page 14 – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate responsibility strategy”, pages 23–26 – Sponsorship overview: www.swisspost.ch/sponsoring – Support: www.post.ch/en/about-us/responsibility/social-sponsorship – Swiss Post position paper on the amendments to postal legislation: www.post.ch/en/about-us/profile/swiss-post-and-politics/postal-legislation – Swiss Post position paper on public service for Switzerland: Swiss Post’s universal service obligation: www.post.ch/en/about-us/profile/swiss-post-and-politics/public-service-for-switzerland 26 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 Specific standards 200 Economic Disclosures The economic disclosures include financial aspects, performance and risks, market presence and information on anti-corruption and competition. GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 201, “Financial result” and “Distribution of added value” sections 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change The scarcity of natural resources is raising awareness about environmental sustainability among customers, investors and legislators. Demand for sustainable products is on the rise. An optimum mix of energy efficiency and renewable energy is becoming a critical factor for companies seeking to combat escalating costs or, in certain cases, to gain new competitive advantages. A quantification of the financial consequences of climate change for Swiss Post is not seen as constructive, with Swiss Post instead focusing on capturing greenhouse gases and measures for the reduction of greenhouse gases. In addition, Swiss Post seeks to anticipate the risks of future climate change, exploit the opportunities in this regard and examine possible measures for adaptation to climate change. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Non-financial results of a material nature”, pages 52–54 201-3: Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans The Group’s own employee benefits institution, the Swiss Post pension fund, insures around 40,000 Swiss Post employees in Switzerland and pays 650 million francs in pensions to around 30,100 people each year. The level of cover stood at around 108 percent at the end of 2019. Swiss Post insures its employees with various pension plans in Switzerland. Pension benefits are based on the insured salary and retirement assets. On taking retirement, insurees can choose between drawing a lifetime pension or withdrawing a lump-sum capital payment. In addition to retirement benefits, employee benefits also include disability and survivors’ benefits, which are calculated as a percentage of the insured salary. Insurees also have the option of buying back pension benefits to improve their retirement situation, up to the regulatory maximum amount, or of withdrawing ­money early to purchase their home. The benefits paid by the Swiss Post pension fund exceed the statutory minimum level. The standard retirement age is 65. References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Staff pension plan”, pages 141–148 – Financial Report 2019, “Retirement planning, social security”, page 52 – Financial Report 2019, “Cover status”, pages 145–148 – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 201, “Pension fund” section – The rights and obligations of beneficiaries of the Swiss Post pension fund and the employer are governed by the employee benefit regulations: www.pkpost.ch/data/docs/de/1485/PKPostVSR-de-def-20130528.pdf Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 27 – Social Disclosures 201-4: Financial assistance received from government References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “State compensatory payments”, page 135 GRI 202: Market Presence 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage The main business locations are in Switzerland (84 percent of employees). Over 85 percent of these employees have employment relationships based on one of the current nine collective employment contracts, which were negotiated in detail with the contracting trade unions syndicom and transfair. These contracts usually contain binding salary bands and minimum wages for each level. Compliance with the salary bands is regularly checked as part of internal audits, and the minimum wage ­provided for in the collective employment contracts is around a fifth higher than the minimum wage legally stipulated in the Swiss cantons. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 102, “Employment conditions” section – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 202 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-2: Significant indirect economic impacts Swiss Post is a regionally anchored company. It is an important employer in mountain regions and other rural areas, offering more than 16,000 jobs – in delivery, in branches and in customer service. It makes its contribution to striking a balance between town and country and between ­economically stronger and weaker regions. Where major transformations to Swiss Post are required and in the customer-oriented ongoing development of the network of access points, Swiss Post involves key stakeholders early and intensively. To accommodate this, it is further expanding communication in the regions. GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption As a general rule, the risk of corruption in the postal business is not seen as elevated. The areas regarded as particularly exposed are Procurement and Sales. Employees in both areas have received thorough training, and the internal auditing department focuses on these areas during its audits. 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Extensive and recurring e-learning training courses, including learning assessments on the topic of compliance for management staff, have been held. These are compulsory. Swiss Post also has a binding set of rules regarding the acceptance and giving of gifts and other benefits. These rules are communicated. Employees in exposed functions are trained in depth. There are established processes for exceptions. 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There are no known cases. 28 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices In December 2017, the Competition Commission fined Swiss Post the sum of 22.6 million francs for allegedly granting discounts that are unlawful under anti-trust law to large-scale customers between 2009 and 2014. Swiss Post rejects the allegations and considers the sanction unjustified, and has appealed against the decision before the Federal Administrative Court. The inquiry opened by the Competition Commission in 2018, in which PostFinance is also involved, is currently in progress. The subject of the proceedings is a suspected boycott of mobile payment solutions provided by international providers, such as Apple Pay and Samsung Pay. PostFinance is satisfied it has not violated Swiss anti-trust law. Free and fair competition is a high priority for PostFinance. References and related documents: – Swiss Post press release: www.post.ch/en/about-us/media/press-releases/2017/swiss-post-rejects-comco-allegations – PostFinance press release: www.postfinance.ch/en/about-us/media/newsroom/press-releases/comco-investigationregarding-mobile-payment-solutions.html 300 Environmental Disclosures The environmental disclosures include data on energy requirements, emissions generated and environmental aspects in the supply chain. GRI 302: Energy 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization Swiss Post mainly uses procured energy produced by third parties. Energy consumption stands at 816 gigawatt hours. At 72 percent, fuels make up the largest share, followed by electricity at 17 percent and combustibles at 11 percent. The decline in energy consumption year-on-year is due to the sale of CarPostal France. The proportion of renewable energy sources stands at 21.6 percent. The entire three-wheeled delivery fleet is powered by electricity from renewable sources. This electricity has been obtained from renewable sources since 2008, and from “naturemade basic”-certified ­sources in Switzerland since 2013. 10 percent of this is “naturemade star”-certified eco-electricity produced from various small-scale power stations (hydro, solar and wind power stations) throughout Switzerland. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 302 302-2: Energy consumption outside of the organization The energy consumption outside Swiss Post is mainly due to goods transport by subcontractors and leased properties. It amounted to 561 gigawatt hours in the year under review, a fall of 3 percent year-on-year. This is mainly due to a reduction in goods transport by air in the year under review. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 302 Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 29 – Social Disclosures 302-3: Energy intensity Energy efficiency (the reciprocal of energy intensity) has increased by 34.1 percent since 2006. This means that Swiss Post has already surpassed the target of 25 percent by the end of 2020 set by the Confederation as part of the “Confederation: exemplary in energy” initiative for enterprises ­affiliated with the Confederation. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 302 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption In 2010, Swiss Post decided to use the annual funds from the redistribution of the CO2 levy on fuels for climate protection and energy efficiency measures in the “pro clima – We’re acting now” sustainability programme: since 2010, over 18 million francs from Swiss Post’s internal climate fund alone have been invested in measures such as electric and hybrid buses, electric delivery vans, electric charging infrastructure, biogas and biodiesel, replacement of fossil fuel heaters, LED lighting, awareness-­ raising and many other measures. Important measures for the reduction of energy consumption include: – Sustainable buildings: a. Swiss Post aims to replace 90 percent of all fossil fuel-powered heating systems in its own buildings in Switzerland by 2030. Swiss Post uses renewable heat sources and heats buildings with heat pumps while also obtaining hot water via solar collectors on the roofs, uses 10 percent biogas in gas-heated buildings and makes use of waste heat from the data centers. For new systems or replacements for systems in need of an overhaul, only systems that run using renewable energy sources are used. b. Energy-efficient construction and use of the very latest energy standards: since 1 January 2019, Swiss Post has been committed to the integrated and sustainable DGNB construction standard as adapted for Switzerland in its new buildings and modernization projects. The new Swiss Post headquarters in Wankdorf, Berne is DGNB-certified and has been awarded the highest label, platinum. The PostFinance headquarters is MINERGIE-ECO-certified. c. Energy optimization schemes: to save energy in buildings, Swiss Post relies on environmentallyand resource-friendly technologies, with more economical servers, PCs, notebooks and screens, and the use of virtualization technologies. This has significantly reduced the power consumption and the number of servers, and the power and cooling requirements at IT installations have fallen. – Use and production of renewable energies: a. All electricity is generated from 100-percent renewable “naturemade basic”-certified energy sources. At least 10 percent is high-quality “naturemade star”-certified green power. Most of Swiss Post’s own petrol stations offer 7-percent biodiesel. b. Swiss Post currently has 17 photovoltaic systems which produce over 7 GWh a year, equating to 5 percent of Swiss Post’s electricity consumption. The new regional parcel centers (Cadenazzo, Untervaz and Vétroz) will be equipped with photovoltaic systems, like Swiss Post’s other large sites. A total of 3 GWh of electricity will be produced there per year. The centers will consume half of the power themselves. – Vehicles: a. 45 percent of the energy-efficient vehicle fleet already uses alternative drive systems. All electric vehicles are powered by green electricity produced in Switzerland, which is sourced exclusively from ecological, small-scale hydropower plants, biomass plants, solar plants or wind turbines. b. 33 electric delivery vehicles are currently being used at Swiss Post for parcel deliveries. Depending on the manufacturer’s delivery capacity, 200 e-vehicles will be procured by 2020. By 2025, Swiss Post aims to carry out the majority of parcel deliveries in urban centers using e-vehicles. Swiss Post joined the international initiative “100% Electric Vehicles” (EV100) in January 2019. Alongside other companies, it is committed to making electromobility the norm by 2030. 30 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 c. Rail transport is used for carrying letter and parcel consignments between the sorting centers. Using combined transport, the yellow container is quickly and conveniently reloaded from trucks to carrier wagons and vice versa. This combined solution enables business partners to achieve a better eco-audit and lower transport costs, and the environment is spared thousands of vehicle kilometres on a daily basis. With 40 double-decker trucks for large shipments, Swiss Post transports up to 50 percent more freight than with the usual trucks. d. Optimization of routes and vehicle utilization. e. Training drivers to drive more efficiently with eco-driving techniques. – Employee mobility: d. Swiss Post staff benefit from attractive reductions on public transport, reducing energy consumption on their way to work: they receive a Half-Fare travelcard free of charge; those who prefer a GA travelcard receive a discount on a second-class pass. All trainees receive the GA travelcard free of charge. e. Employees use public transport for business trips. Free day-return tickets are available for this purpose. Anyone who cannot leave the car behind can choose from a fleet of passenger cars. Swiss Post employees can also use the vehicles from Mobility CarSharing Switzerland. f. Swiss Post encourages its employees to cycle to work; for example, by supporting the Pro Velo “bike to work” scheme. Employees also have free use of more than 1,200 bicycles and e-bikes from PubliBike. g. During the “Electromobility theme days”, employees at six locations throughout Switzerland had the opportunity to test the day-to-day suitability of electric vehicles from renowned manufacturers free of charge for several days. After more than 500 test drives, 60 percent of test drivers indicated that they would buy an electric vehicle when they next buy a car. 302-5: Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Examples of the use of energy-efficient and climate-friendly products: – With the “pro clima” shipment service introduced in 2009, Swiss Post customers can send their mail carbon-neutrally for a small surcharge. All addressed domestic letters and PromoPost consignments (2019: 2.8 billion consignments in total) are carbon-neutral. Swiss Post assumes the “pro clima” surcharges for CO2 offsetting and invests them in initiatives such as a Swiss Post offsetting project in Switzerland. – With ecological packaging such as the Eco PostPac made from recyclable card and the reusable Dispobox, resources can be conserved when packing consignments. – Thanks to Swiss Post’s 155 My Post 24 terminals, it is possible to collect or send parcels and registered letters around the clock. This can improve the first-time delivery rate and save additional trips. The terminal compartments can also be used as lockers. – In many cities in Switzerland, Swiss Post offers the bike sharing service PubliBike, promoting sustainable mobility and health. It also supports carvelo2go, the sharing platform for e-cargo bikes. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 31 – Social Disclosures GRI 305: Emissions 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Direct CO2 emissions amounted to 173,328 tonnes. At 90.5 per­cent, fuels make up the largest CO2 source, followed by combustibles at 6.9 percent and volatile emissions at 2.6 percent. Total emissions fell by 11 percent year-on-year. This is mainly due to the sale of CarPostal France in the year under review. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Indirect CO2 emissions from electricity consumption stood at 19,091 tonnes, remaining at the ­previous year’s level. This means they account for around 10 percent of direct GHG emissions. All electricity is generated from 100-percent renewable “naturemade basic”-certified energy sources. At least 10 per­ cent is high-quality “naturemade star”-certified green power. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions The remaining indirect CO2 emissions consist primarily of emissions from the fuel and energy-related upstream chain, and from transportation by subcontractors and commuter traffic. They stood at 216,364 tonnes, roughly equivalent to the sum of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 305-4: GHG emissions intensity CO2 efficiency measured by core services (e.g. number of consignments, number of transactions, customer frequency in branches, passenger kilometres, square metres) improved by 27.6 percent between 2010 and the end of 2019. This means that the target set for 2020 of a reduction of at least 25 percent was reached and exceeded ahead of schedule. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions In 2010, Swiss Post decided to use the annual funds from the redistribution of the CO2 levy on fuels for climate protection and energy efficiency measures in the “pro clima – We’re acting now” sustainability programme: since 2010, over 18 million francs from Swiss Post’s internal climate fund alone have been invested in measures such as electric and hybrid buses, electric delivery vans, electric charging infrastructure, biogas and biodiesel, replacement of fossil fuel heaters, LED lighting, awareness-­ raising and many other measures. The measures implemented to reduce energy consumption make a full contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, all addressed domestic letters and PromoPost consignments (2019: 2.8 billion consignments in total) are carbon-neutral. Swiss Post assumes the “pro clima” surcharges for CO2 offsetting and invests them in initiatives such as a Swiss Post offsetting project in Switzerland. 32 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 305-6: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Emissions of ozone-depleting substances originate primarily in the refrigerants used in air conditioning systems. They have been declining for many years and are now almost zero. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 305-7: Nitrogen oxides (NOXx), sulfur oxides (SOXx), and other significant air emissions Through the use of vehicles that comply with the latest emission standards and the use of l­ ow-sulphur heating oil, Swiss Post is trying to reduce NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. The volume of air pollutants generated by Swiss Post has been declining since 2010. References and related documents: –A  nnual Report key figures 2019, sheet 305 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations There were no cases of non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations in 2019. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria As of 2017, all new suppliers must state their position with respect to environmental and social award criteria in public service tenders, and this information is included in the award decisions. In the clothing sector, the basic requirement for taking on a new supplier is Oeko-Tex 100 ­certification, which ensures that a material is entirely free of environmentally hazardous chemicals. In addition, only FSC paper is procured as printing paper. 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken By 2020, all strategic suppliers will be reviewed according to ecological criteria using the EcoVadis system. The audit by EcoVadis has already been completed for 190 suppliers. The average score achieved is encouraging and is well above the EcoVadis benchmark. There are no known actual material negative environmental impacts in the supply chain, and the definition of specific measures with individual suppliers was not necessary during the year under review. In the event that measures are required in the future, they will be recorded and tracked in corrective action plans in accordance with the EcoVadis system. Swiss Post is responding to the potential negative effects identified by complying with more stringent standards such as Oeko-Tex 100, FSC, etc. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 33 – Social Disclosures 400 Social Disclosures The social information ranges from information on jobs, working and employment conditions, basic and advanced training and diversity to compliance and suppliers’ working conditions. GRI 401: Employment 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover The turnover rate fell to 5.1 percent in 2019, while there was a slight fall in headcount. The turnover rate is adequate by sector comparison. Compared to 2018, the number of new employee hires rose by 408 persons to a total of 3,324. This represents an increase of 14.0 percent. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 401, “Staff turnover and departures” section 401-3: Parental leave All employees, whether mothers or fathers, are entitled to paid parental leave beyond the statutory provisions in the event of birth or adoption and can apply for unpaid leave. Swiss Post also contributes around 1.5 million francs distributed across 1,000 applications towards external childcare, helping employees to achieve a good work-life balance. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 401, “Parental leave” section GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Employee representatives’ rights to participation in the event of operational changes are based on the law (Swiss Code of Obligations) and are also governed by each of the collective employment contracts (CECs) with the contracting trade unions syndicom and transfair. The minimum notice periods are based on the Swiss Code of Obligations. In cooperation with its social partners, Swiss Post endeavours to find future-oriented solutions that serve the interests of customers, employees and the company and engages in early and regular dialogue with relevant stakeholders via specialist and staff committees. In cases of restructuring involving more than 30 jobs, consultation processes are initiated for employees and cantons. The impact of unavoidable restructuring is cushioned by the redundancy plan negotiated with the trade unions. Working together with the social partners, Swiss Post has also initiated an extensive prevention programme for long-term future careers. As part of the programme, employees and managers are given the opportunity to address their own continuing professional development. In this way, Swiss Post supports them with life-long learning, which is becoming increasingly important. 34 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-1: W  orkers’ representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Under the Participation Act, staff committees can be formed at all locations with more than 50 employees at the request of the workforce. They deal with issues such as occupational safety and health protection. Staff committees are in place at more than 50 locations throughout Switzerland. In addition, each Group unit has appointed at least one designated contact person who is available to employees at all times for advice and questions concerning occupational and leisure time safety. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 403 403-2: T  ypes of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities All relevant information is collected and evaluated centrally using a reporting system. Tripping and falling are by far the most common cause of accidents. It is mainly the limbs that are affected. However, targeted awareness-raising measures are having an impact, and the rate of occupational accidents is comparatively low. There is a particular focus on the delivery service, as this is where most accidents occur. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 403 403-4: H  ealth and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions The operating group solution is being developed in agreement with the trade unions. Otherwise, occupational safety and health protection issues are discussed with the trade unions in the meetings of the specialist committees, which are in place at Group level, PostFinance, PostBus, PostMail, PostLogistics, Swiss Post Solutions and PostalNetwork and meet twice to four times per year. GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee To ensure Swiss Post is successful now and remains so in future, it requires competent employees and supports them in improving their skills. Firstly, Swiss Post provides internal training opportunities, and secondly, it encourages participation in courses run externally through individual training agreements. Almost 7 million francs in co-funding was provided for individual training opportunities in the year under review. More than 1,000 training opportunities (blended learning, class teaching, e-learning and self-tests) are available to employees on the internal learning management system. Over 1,100 team development events were held throughout Swiss Post in 2019. Swiss Post makes a major contribution to the training of young professionals over the long term. Around 1,900 apprentices (2018: 2001) completed training in 16 professions at the company. This represents around 6 percent of Group headcount in Switzerland. Of the apprentices who completed their training in 2019, just under 98 percent passed their qualification procedures (final examinations). The new ICT Operator career introduced in 2018 has proven successful and will continue to be offered in future. In 2019, the first graduates successfully completed the Bachelor’s degree in IT with integrated practical training (PiBS) – which was launched in 2015, partly at the initiative of Swiss Post – and found employment at Swiss Post. Swiss Post’s integration pre-apprenticeship in logistics (INVOL) represents a valuable contribution to the integration of refugees into the working world in two linguistic regions. References and related documents: – lehrstellen.post.ch Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 35 – Social Disclosures 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs In cooperation with the social partners, a prevention programme for long-term future careers has been initiated. Swiss Post supports staff and their life-long learning through organized team workshops, career counselling and the promotion of digital skills. Swiss Post’s internal Job Center supports employees with retraining if required. A new management course was rolled out in all business units in 2019 and has already been completed by over 460 employees. Almost 7 million francs in co-funding was provided for individual ­training opportunities in the year under review. References and related documents: – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 404, “Careers center” section 404-3: P  ercentage of employees receiving regular performance and career ­development reviews For the vast majority of the workforce, a meeting is held every year to assess performance and employee development. Over 60 percent of all employees also have a goal-setting meeting (around 34, 000 employees). Due to their lower level of employment (less than 20 to 40 percent, depending on the business unit), all other employees have a so-called management meeting. Swiss Post will replace the 20-year-old Focus process with DIALOG from 2020. By launching DIALOG, Swiss Post is focusing on team goals and an integral assessment of employees’ personal contribution to success. Regular feedback and strengths-oriented development are also part of this, in addition to targeted succession planning for key functions and people. GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees References and related documents: – Financial Report 2019, “Corporate governance”, pages 61–75 – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 102, “Gender distribution” section – Annual Report key figures 2019, sheet 405 405-2: R  atio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men The main business sites are located in Switzerland (84 percent of employees). More than 85 percent of these employees have employment contracts based on one of the current nine collective employment contracts, which were negotiated in detail with the contracting trade unions syndicom and transfair. These contracts contain binding salary brackets for every grade and provide for gender equality. The equal pay analysis carried out by an independent external company in 2019 produced good results. Taking into account the factors of education, professional experience and level of requirements, the unexplainable salary difference stood at –2.2 percent and is just below federal government’s tolerance threshold of +/–5 percent, as in previous years. For many years, Swiss Post has been against all forms of discrimination and committed to equal terms of employment. To further promote equal opportunities, Swiss Post signed the “Equal pay in the public sector” charter in November 2019. By signing, Swiss Post wants to make a stand on equal pay between women and men. Employees can now also contact the independent reporting unit www.swisspostcourage.ch if they suspect salary discrimination. 36 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken A discrimination-free working environment is an important prerequisite for healthy and satisfied employees. To avoid cases of discrimination, line managers are trained to address conflicts quickly and to involve HR and Social Service at an early stage. All employees receive the Swiss Post Code of Conduct with their employment contract. In several organizational units, the Social Counselling Service has provided training in respectful treatment and on the bullying and sexual harassment procedure. In the current year, more than 80 employees turned to Swiss Post Social Counselling Service due to bullying or sexual harassment. This led to internal investigations in six cases (three cases of suspected bullying, three cases of sexual harassment). Nine in-depth social audits were carried out in the units concerned due to tension or conflict at the workplace, poor atmosphere and/or poor performance. In all other cases, solution-oriented discussions, mediation and, where possible, amicable solutions were sought to resolve the disputes with the parties concerned. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1: O  perations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk Swiss Post employees are free to join trade unions. This right is governed by law in Switzerland. Staff committees may also be formed at all company locations with over 50 employees at the request of the workforce. Staff committees are in place at around 80 locations throughout Switzerland. By signing the Code of Ethics and Social Responsibility, Swiss Post’s suppliers undertake to protect the rights of employees, including freedom of association and protection of the right to organize. Outside the clothing sector, the risk of violation of freedom of assembly, child labour (408) or forced and compulsory labour (409) is considered low. In the clothing sector, all products are made in E­ urope and all suppliers are obliged to guarantee the freedom of association. GRI 408: Child Labor 408-1: O  perations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor At the Swiss Post business locations, no elevated risk level could be identified. There is a significant risk of child labour among the product groups in the clothing and footwear sectors, from which Swiss Post procures substantial volumes. The intensive cooperation with the Fair Wear Foundation and Better Work serves to reduce this risk. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards – General Disclosures – Management approach Specific standards – Economic Disclosures – Environmental Disclosures 37 – Social Disclosures GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1: O  perations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor At the Swiss Post business locations, no elevated risk level could be identified. In terms of suppliers, there is a risk in the IT product groups. Without exception, all of their suppliers are members of the Responsible Business Alliance, which monitors compliance with fair working conditions, including in audits for member companies. The risk in the clothing product group was counteracted in cooperation with the Fair Wear Foundation. Two incidents were reported to Swiss Post in the year under review and dealt with by agreement. In one case, reported by the Fair Wear Foundation, a supplier incurred substantial costs due to misunderstandings in production planning. Swiss Post assumed its responsibility as a client and contributed its share of the compensation and to the improvement of future communication. A second incident was identified by Ressources Humaines Sans Frontières. An EU supplier had used a recruitment agency to hire persons who had been enticed with false ­promises. After the case was raised, the supplier proved cooperative and reimbursed the agency fees to the recruited employees. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-1: O  perations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments At the Swiss Post business locations, no elevated risk level could be identified. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social criteria As of 2017, all new suppliers must state their position with respect to social and environmental award criteria in public service tenders, and this information is included in the award decisions. 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken By 2020, the 240 most important suppliers from a strategic perspective will be reviewed according to social criteria using the EcoVadis system. No significant, actual negative impacts are known and the determination and follow-up of specific measures with individual suppliers is carried out on an ongoing basis in the relevant corrective action plans in accordance with the EcoVadis system. Swiss Post responds to the identified potential negative effects in the clothing sector through its close collaboration with the Fair Wear Foundation and Better Work. Without exception, all suppliers of the IT product groups are members of the Responsible Business Alliance. 38 Swiss Post Sustainability Report 2019 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 418-1: S  ubstantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data In 2019, no proceedings were opened in connection with data protection breaches at Swiss Post. References and related documents: – Code of Conduct: www.post.ch/-/media/post/ueber-uns/dokumente/verhaltenskodex.pdf?la=en – Swiss Post’s anonymous reporting unit: www.swisspostcourage.ch GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1: N  on-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area See 205-1 and 206-1. Foreword What we have achieved Universal standards Specific standards – General Disclosures – Economic Disclosures – Management approach – Environmental Disclosures – Social Disclosures Publication details and contact Published by Swiss Post Ltd Wankdorfallee 4 P.O. Box 3030 Berne Switzerland Tel. +41 58 338 11 11 Media relations +41 58 338 13 07 www.swisspost.ch/responsibility For any questions about the Sustainability Report: responsibility@swisspost.ch Swiss Post Ltd Tel. + 41 58 338 11 11 Wankdorfallee 4 www.swisspost.ch P.O. Box 3030 Berne Switzerland
