Table of Contents UNGC Ten Principles ...................................................................................................................... 4 Statement from Chief Executive ................................................................................................. 5 About Mercato Metropolitano .................................................................................................... 6 United Nations Global Compact Principles ............................................................................. 8 Human rights principles ............................................................................................................. 8 1. Cookery classes............................................................................................................ 8 2. Food Security Planning ................................................................................................ 9 3. Gender Equality ............................................................................................................ 9 4. Support of Refugees ..................................................................................................... 9 5. Social Isolation and loneliness ................................................................................ 10 Labour principles....................................................................................................................... 11 Environmental principles......................................................................................................... 12 1. Provenance and traceability .................................................................................. 12 2. Healthy and sustainable eating.............................................................................. 13 3. Waste & energy management................................................................................ 13 4. Educating and promoting sustainable initiatives............................................... 14 Anti-corruption principles ....................................................................................................... 15 2 Overview of United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collectivte action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with demonstrating and building the social legitimacy of business and markets. Mercato Metropolitano became a member in 2019. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary initiative with two objectives: 1. To mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world 2. To catalyse action in support of broader UN objectives, such as the Millennium Development Goals. The UNGC is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation and collective action. 3 UNGC Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 4 Statement from Chief Executive 16th January 2020 H.E. Antonio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Mercato Metropolitano supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. The UN Global Compact and its principles underpins MM’s strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and we engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Mercato Metropolitano will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognise that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the Ten Principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the UN Global Compact COP policy. This includes: 1. A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. 2. A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the UN Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anticorruption). 3. A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Your Sincerely, Andrea Rasca Chief Executive Dreamer Mercato Metropolitano 5 About Mercato Metropolitano Mercato Metropolitano is a movement; a revolution in the relationship between city, its citizens and what they eat; a united nation of food – from growers, artisans and chefs through to distributors and consumers. The movement is united by a shared philosophy that food takes time, food should be healthy and living, food should be the beating heart of a community, food should bring a city to life. This is a new way of imagining food in cities all over the world that could have a radical impact on the world’s biggest social issues – food security, chronic diseases and climate change. In 2018 we developed the MManifesto in advance of our second anniversary, to help us define ourselves as a movement, what we advocate and how we work towards common goals within our community. Our MManifesto addresses the following: 1-RIGHT TO FOOD access to food People have an absolute right to food. This means every individual should have physical and economic access at all times to sufficient, adequate and culturally acceptable food that is produced and consumed sustainably and that also ensures food for future generations. 2FOOD SOVEREIGNTY choose your food We believe that people, not big corporations, should be at the heart of our food systems. This requires a shift from our current market-driven food system to a rights-based, democratic and participatory approach to food-making policies. We believe that this system will create scope for good, natural, artisanal, local and, when possible, organic food production to proliferate. 3PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT helping Mother Nature thrive We should work with the environment, not against it to ensure a bountiful supply of healthy, natural food. This means eliminating everything that harms the environment such as plastics, carbon emissions and waste. It also means promoting activities that help mother nature, such as the consumption of seasonal fruits and vegetables and urban gardens that enrich biodiversity. We believe that circular economy concepts such as recycling should play a key role in helping save the planet. 4FOOD AS IT SHOULD BE – keep it simple We believe in healthy, balanced diets based on food that is natural and simply prepared. This means that every product should aim to have no more than five ingredients and that every ingredient should be easy to understand. The basic rule is: if your grandma can't understand the ingredients, don't eat it. If you can't understand the ingredients, don't even touch it. 6 5CREATING COMMUNITY sharing common values We’re creating a community of people that share a passion for food as a catalyst for change. We believe that sharing food creates social cohesion and by doing so sustainably helps urban and rural communities grow stronger, together while helping mother nature thrive. This intense focus on a food as a catalyst for change has resulted in the revitalisation of neighbourhoods and community spirit. 6“SMALL IS BEAUTIFUL” protecting our heritage We want to protect small-scale artisanal food production as a fundamental pillar for delivering adequate food. This means helping small scale farmers and food artisans earn a dignified living from their craft so that future generations can continue to enjoy a rich variety of soulful food and rural communities are able to flourish. 7EDUCATING AND EMPOWERING CITIZENS improving our well-being We want to teach people to value food from a young age by involving them in food cultivation, preparation and consumption. People from all walks of life should have practical planting and cooking skills, as well as the ability to participate in decisions to improve the food system.* *A People’s Food Policy, Jun 2017 7 United Nations Global Compact Principles Human rights principles Mercato Metropolitano supports human rights consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In conducting its business operations, MM respects these rights and seeks to uphold, preserve and promote them. § MM works to embed human rights into the heart of our organisation, working in conjunction with our Human Resources and Community teams § MM works to ensure that we build fair and sustainable relationships, and respects and values the dignity, well-being and rights of employees § MM actively promotes an understanding of human rights values within its sphere of influence § MM communicates it expectations about Human Rights to all Trading Partners and other parts of the supply chain § MM surveys its Trading Partners to ascertain opportunities, diversity and renumeration for their staff Mercato Metropolitano supports UNGC’s Human Rights Principles via the following: 1. Cookery classes MM works closely with local schools in South London to deliver cookery classes designed to inspire, empower and educate children and their families to eat a healthy diet, using fresh, simple, easily accessible ingredients. Since opening in 2016, over 2500 children have attended a free class at MM. MM teaches children aged 2-5 years about healthy eating via the Rainbow Food Explorers Educator’s toolkit, an early years sensory based food literacy programme, The objectives of the programme are as follows: § Promotes the use of all the children’s senses to explore different fruit and vegetables § Teaching children to enjoy and be inspired by the sensory propertiesshape, colour, texture, sound etc § Support the repeated exposure of the children to a variety of fruit and vegetables, which has been proven to improve a willingness to eat them in the future § Encourages use of positive vocabulary associated with fruit and vegetables 8 2. Food Security Planning During 2019, MM was a key contributor to the London Borough of Southwark’s action plan to increase household food security. This plan was created against the backdrop of rising levels of families who were classified as “food insecure”, and the physical and physiological health issues associated with this. As a member of the Southwark Food Action Alliance (SFAA), MM worked with key stakeholders on the preparation of the plan, which received input from a wide variety of organisations and community representatives interested in the food security agenda. 3. Gender Equality In April 2018, MM launched a programme to address gender inequality in the food sector, via an online competition offering the following prize: § Use of a refurbished trading stand at Mercato Metropolitano with no entry fee or monthly rates and low commission rates. § Capital start up grant, § Assistance with PR, marketing and design § Assistance with financial planning, financial management systems and the creation of a business plan Nancy Nosel, the founder of Ze Spätzle Club, won with her traditional south-west German dish, spätzle. During 2019, Mercato Metropolitano has continued to support this business to grow, including moving to a larger trading space representing a move from incubation to acceleration mode. 4. Support of Refugees In 2019, MM launched Founders without Borders, a business incubator programme for refugee chefs. It is one of the many initiatives that MM has hosted to help support, empower and integrate refugees into their host communities. The 6-month programme offers continuous support and skills development across all areas of setting up a business – from communication skills and finance management to sustainable sourcing for ethical and nutritious cooking. The programme is based upon the following principles: § Food as a common language across borders – Across cultures, food is about coming together, sharing and a sense of community. MM believes that food facilitates the creation of a more cohesive society – a place where people from all walks of life break bread together and share new cuisines, cultures and ideas. § Opportunity, not charity is key for integration – Refugees are often skilled, talented and determined to make a positive contribution to their host economy. Mercato Metropolitano, together with its partners The Entrepreneurial Refugee Network (TERN), is empowering and supporting refugees in the community by providing much needed education, resources, facilities, and connections. 9 MM have also partnered with Migrateful, who work to empower and celebrate refugees and vulnerable migrants on their journey to integration by supporting them to run their own cookery classes. MM has hosted 51 Migrateful cookery classes since April 2018 with 21 different chefs attended by 560 participants. The benefits for the refugee chefs are as follows: § Wider social networks: Migrateful’s weekly sessions provide a support network, which is much appreciated by many, particularly by those who have come to the UK alone. § Improved English language and communication skills § Increased confidence: running the classes makes chefs feel more empowered and self-confident § A source of income § Opportunities to celebrate and share their culture 5. Social Isolation and loneliness MM works closely with local charities. One such example is the work we do with Age UK, to provide social activities for older residents, for example, free community lunches. These provide healthy, nutritious lunch for members of the community, whilst also addressing the social isolation and loneliness this group often experience. MM also provided free cookery classes for the group, to inspire and empower them to prepare simple meals at home. MM has also partnered with Hestia, who support adults and children in crisis around London. We have delivered several events in order to help address social isolation and loneliness in some of London’s most vulnerable families. 10 Labour principles Mercato Metropolitano supports UNGC’s Labour Principles via the following: Mercato Metropolitano is committed to encouraging diversity and eliminating discrimination in both its role as an employer and as a provider of services. Our aim is that our staff are truly representative of all sections of society and work in an environment where everyone is respected and able to perform to the best of their ability. Our policy is to provide equality and fairness for all in our employment and in our provision of services and not to discriminate on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, nationality, national origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or age. Mercato Metropolitano opposes all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination. It is our policy to provide a suitable environment for people with disabilities. All reasonable facilities will be provided for staff and volunteers with disabilities to perform their roles without difficulty or disadvantage. Mercato Metropolitano will not tolerate direct or indirect discrimination against any person on grounds of age, disability, gender / gender reassignment, marriage / civil partnership, pregnancy / maternity, race, religion or belief, sex, or sexual orientation whether in the field of recruitment, terms and conditions of employment, career progression, training, transfer or dismissal. It is also the responsibility of all staff in their daily actions, decisions and behaviour to endeavour to promote these concepts, to comply with all relevant legislation and to ensure that they do not discriminate against colleagues, customers, suppliers or any other person associated with Mercato Metropolitano. In November 2019, Mercato Metropolitano was proud to be accredited as a Living Wage employer and paying the London Living Wage. This has had a positive affect and uplift on pay. Our ethos is on supporting and involving the people in our local communities. We want to provide jobs to local people and opportunities for career progression across any area of the business. The Living Wage also shows a commitment to our Trading Partners, that we are serious about their work, it allows people to join the teams on a good wage which supports their lives. In the hospitality industry where turnover can be naturally high, there is an opportunity to invest in real talent and nurture their skills. 11 Environmental principles Mercato Metropolitano supports UNGC’s Environmental Principles via the following: As a London-based food market, Mercato Metropolitano is at the heart of many environmental challenges. Raising awareness among our customers by promoting seasonal and local products; reducing our carbon footprint by finding the best outcome for all our waste streams; helping smart agriculture to thrive by working with small-scale and responsible suppliers; all these values support UNGC’s Environmental Principles and can be found in our MManifesto: During 2019, MM created a number of policies for staff and Trading Partners which support the delivery of the Environmental principles. These include the following: § Sustainable Policy – as a sustainable and community market, we are proud of the values we share with all our stakeholders. The Sustainable Policy is a document summarising all standards expected at Mercato Metropolitano from our vendors and partners, whether it concerns food quality, ingredient sourcing, materials used, waste management or community involvement. § Sourcing Policy – ingredient sourcing is what Mercato Metropolitano is all about and we provide clear guidelines that every Trading Partner must follow. Each main food category has established quality standards, mostly related to British certifications and assurance schemes (Soil Association, L.E.A.F, Assured Food Standards). § Waste Policy – Mercato Metropolitano’s growth and expansion have led us to deal with continuously increasing volumes of waste. Managing our waste efficiently significantly reduces our environmental footprint and helps us reach our objective of carbon neutrality. Each Trading Partner is issued with our Waste Policy; the adherence to which is a contractual obligation. 1. Provenance and traceability At Mercato Metropolitano, we advocate a more sustainable approach to producing, procuring and consuming food in order to create more sustainable cities for the future. Our long-term goal is that MM and all its Trading Partners work exclusively with suppliers and partners that are internally approved. In 2019, we started centralising and consolidating orders with certified suppliers. We carefully select suppliers that share Mercato Metropolitano’s values yet can scale up to supply MM as it expands. These suppliers are audited for the traceability of the ingredients, their production methods and their environmental and animal welfare standards. This has enabled us to improve our carbon footprint by reducing the number of deliveries to the market, whilst negotiating better prices for our Trading Partners 12 Our key suppliers are as follows: § Taste Tradition – high quality, high animal welfare meat supplier from Yorkshire § James Knight – sustainable fish and seafood supplier in London § Proper Oils – sustainable operator delivering, collecting and recycling the cooking oil used in our markets § Sybron – a family-run cleaning and hygiene products company which are completely chemical free 2. Healthy and sustainable eating In 2019, a key area of focus has been circularity and seasonality. Achieving this has enabled MM to offer its customers a healthier offering and balance our environmental impact at the same time. We have reduced our volumes of waste across food and non-food products Adopting food circularity methods means we have reduced the amount of food waste by using perfectly good food that would have gone to waste. We launched a Circular Kitchen; our chefs prepare dishes using leftover ingredients from MM Grocery (vegetables, dairy, meat, etc). We also offer left over food to our Trading Partners, for them to include in their dishes. All MM staff are offered a free meal daily from the Circular Kitchen, saving in excess of 200 meals a week Seasonality refers to using ingredients that grow naturally, without the need of any artificial conditions. We launched a partnership with Riverford Organic, a F&V producer located in Devon, which enables us to focus on the purchasing seasonal, UK grown products. Working this way has enabled MM to reduce the carbon footprint of products sold in the market. 3. Waste & energy management As MM expands to new sites around London and ultimately across the globe, we are focused on managing waste and energy in the most efficient way. § We have partnered with Paper Round, a zero-to-landfill waste management company. They collect all our waste streams (food, compostable, mixed recycling, glass, general waste, paper and cardboard) and send them to their facilities. All streams are traceable and stay within UK for recycling, anaerobic digestion, composting or energy recovery. Paper Round also provide training to staff and vendors, as well as waste audits in our markets. We have improved our recycling rate up to 60%, about 20% above the UK average. § In November 2019, we installed an ORCA food digester in our loading bay. ORCA is an innovative food waste solution which breaks down food waste into a liquid residual. This system enables us to manage almost all our food waste on site and thus reduce our carbon footprint, as compared with sending the waste for anaerobic digestion externally. 13 § In Mercato Mayfair, our energy supplier is Green Network Energy. They provide us 100% renewable electricity, guaranteed by REGO (Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin) certification. Although natural gas is not renewable, Green Network Energy provides MM with a range of options for carbon offsetting, which is helping MM to reach our goal of becoming carbon neutral. 4. Educating and promoting sustainable initiatives § MM strives to raise awareness about the environmental issues by delivering and hosting classes, workshops and events. During 2019 we partnered with Waste and Resources Action Programme (WRAP) to deliver the Small change, Big Difference campaign – the project consisted of 30 cookery classes across London over 6 months, focused on healthy and sustainable eating, food waste prevention and recycling of unavoidable food waste. The objectives were the following: o To educate and inspire people to make their own packed lunches using commonly wasted food items (10 most wasted ingredients in UK) o To educate and inspire people to prepare foods with less meat and more fruit, vegetables, beans and pulses o To increase cookery skills and food waste prevention knowledge amongst our target audience o To raise awareness about food waste recycling and the difference between avoidable and unavoidable food waste Mercato Metropolitano hosted 4 free classes during July 2019 § In September 2019, Mercato Metropolitano celebrated its third anniversary by hosting WE Sustain. During this weekend, we hosted activities and panels to celebrate community and sustainability, entitled “The City We Want to Live In” Our WE Sustain weekend consisted of: o 5 panels that analysed the current global issues and possible solutions including “The city we want to live in”, “Smart urban regeneration”, “Where does all waste really end up?”, “A woman vision of the city” and “In support of entrepreneurs” o MM partnered with Food Chain to deliver a Feast Fairly event where our Trading Partners, created dishes based on “wonky” products, that have been rejected by retailers o A celebration of our community via a programme of workshops, cookery classes, Crafty Fox market (showcase of small independent artisans) and a free community lunch, which brought different parts of the community together. 14 Anti-corruption principles Mercato Metropolitano supports UNGC’s AntiCorruption Principles via the following: § Mercato Metropolitano is committed to not only avoiding bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption, but has developed concrete policies and programmes to address these risks § All MM’s agreements with Trading Partner’s (TP’s) suppliers and customers include our standard anti-corruption provisions, which we monitor and enforce with a zerotolerance approach, and in almost all cases lead to an immediate termination of a contract to which any MM company or entity is a party. § MM communicates its anti-corruption policies to all staff and includes it as part of its new staff induction programme § MM does not accept any third-party sponsorships in order to maintain the integrity of our markets § Our internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment, which are reviewed regularly. 15
