Communication on Progress 25 April 2020 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qualcomm Incorporated reaffirms our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Steve Mollenkopf Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 25 April 2020 Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles and Key Accomplishments Qualcomm is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse, throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our efforts are informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our full membership in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) and the UN Global Compact further augment our efforts. Working with other companies in these multi-industry groups provides us with an opportunity to share best practices and discuss challenges in developing companywide solutions to address human rights concerns. We conduct formal, third-party human rights impact assessments to determine and prioritize potential human rights risk across Qualcomm’s global operations and products. We conducted a company-level human rights impact assessment in 2016 and are planning a market-level human rights impact assessment in 2020. We have established a cross-functional human rights working group, who regularly review our policies and management practices and engage with external stakeholders. In addition, we conducted our annual legal and compliance risk assessment of our worldwide operations, which included the analysis, review and prioritization of company risks by a cross-functional team from our legal, compliance, finance, human resources and internal audit teams. Our Commitment to Human Rights details our commitment to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report summarizes progress made on our sustainability priorities and key accomplishments towards achieving our 2030 vision during fiscal 2019. Our corporate responsibility website features detailed information about our programs on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, as well as other topics, and provides opportunities for our stakeholders to contact us directly. Our Corporate Responsibility Policy articulates our corporate responsibility mission and overarching commitments to innovate responsibly. The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct serves as a reference guide for our everyday work, articulating our company values and helping us navigate potential ethical and legal situations that may arise. It highlights the laws, regulations, and internal policies employees must know and follow, and it describes our common responsibilities—to our customers and business partners, to our stockholders, to our communities and to one another. It covers a wide range of topics, including anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, proper recordkeeping, workplace safety and security, import-export controls, insider trading, the company’s expectations regarding treating each other with respect, ethical selection of suppliers, human rights, our environmental responsibility and more. We provide The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct training to all employees worldwide and require them to acknowledge that they’ve read, understand and will comply with this key overarching guide. In keeping with our open-door culture, we have a formal, third-party operated ethics hotline; our Business Conduct Hotline. The hotline is available for anyone, external or internal, to raise concerns, ask questions or seek guidance anonymously, to the extent permitted by local law. All stakeholders have the ability to raise concerns via either toll-free hotline or the Internet through the Business Conduct Hotline and all reports are addressed in 1-2 business days. Since its inception in 2006, Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ has collaborated with more than 650 stakeholders on 119 programs in 47 countries—benefitting more than 20 million people globally. These advanced wireless programs strengthen economic and social development with a focus on education, entrepreneurship, health care, the environment and public safety. To promote its long-term success, Wireless Reach is aligned with our broader Communication on Progress 25 April 2020 business goals as well as global government and policy agendas. Through our Wireless Reach program, we contribute to and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with a particular focus on SDG 9 which aims to build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Our policies, implementation efforts and outcomes related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact for the past year are detailed below. For more information on Qualcomm's commitments, please contact humanrights@qualcomm.com. Communication on Progress 25 April 2020 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Policies and Implementation Human Rights -The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct -Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Principle 1: Businesses should support and -Our Commitment to Human Rights respect the protection of internationally -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Policy proclaimed human rights; and Outcomes Principle 2: Make sure that they are not -2019 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report, including GRI complicit in human rights abuses. Content Index -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Website Labour Policies and Implementation Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the -The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct freedom of association and the effective -Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct recognition of the right to collective bargaining; -Our Commitment to Human Rights -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Policy Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of -Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action forced and compulsory labour; Outcomes Principle 5: The effective abolition of child -2019 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report, including GRI labour; and Content Index -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Website Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Communication on Progress 25 April 2020 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Policies and Implementation Environmental -The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct -Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct Principle 7: Businesses should support a -Our Commitment to Human Rights precautionary approach to environmental -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Policy challenges; -Our Environment, Health and Safety Policy Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote Outcomes greater environmental responsibility; and -2019 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report, including GRI Content Index Principle 9: Encourage the development and -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Website diffusion of environmentally friendly -Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ technologies. -Qualcomm Products -Qualcomm Solutions Policies and Implementation -The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct -Responsible Business Alliance Code of Conduct -Our Commitment to Human Rights Anti-Corruption -Qualcomm Sustainability Policy -Code of Ethics Principle 10: Businesses should work against -Corporate Governance corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Outcomes -2019 Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Report, including GRI Content Index -Qualcomm Corporate Responsibility Website
