Business Review and Annual Report ÄRDEN 19 IV 4 R 4 T S U –2 • IN 01 D 9 • 75 ON TI YE A A R E S R OF C VA L U E Business Review and Annual Report 2019 Contents BUSINESS REVIEW 4 Industrivärden at a glance 4 Company in brief 4 Highlights 2019 6 Industrivärden 75 years 8 Chairman’s message 9 CEO’s message 10 Asset management 12 Mission, objective, strategy and values 12 Business model 13 Investment activities 14 Active ownership 16 Sustainable approach 20 Value creation 24 Net asset value 24 Industrivärden’s stock 26 Key ratios, ten-year overview 28 Holdings 29 Portfolio structure 29 Sandvik 30 Volvo 31 Handelsbanken 32 Essity 33 Ericsson 34 SCA 35 Skanska 36 SSAB 37 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 39 Board of Directors’ Report 40 Administration of the Company 40 Corporate Governance Report 41 Board of Directors and Executive Management 46 Financial statements 48 Income statement 49 Balance sheet 50 Shareholders’ equity 51 Statement of cash flows 52 Notes to the financial statements 53 Proposed distribution of earnings 63 Auditor’s Report 64 Auditor’s opinion on the Sustainability Report 66 OTHER INFORMATION AND APPENDICES 67 Shareholder information and investor relations 68 Reporting and contact information 68 Annual General Meeting 2020 69 Definitions 70 GRI Index 71 The 2019 Annual Report submitted by the CEO and Board of Directors is presented on pages 39–63. The Sustainability Report is presented on pages 20–23 and 71–74. This publication is a translation of the Swedish original. ﻿ INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 3 Industrivärden at a glance Company in brief Industrivärden is a long-term asset manager with a concentrated portfolio of listed Swedish companies with good value potential. Shareholder value is created through a professional investment operation and active ownership aimed at contributing to the portfolio companies’ operational and strategic development and long-term value creation. The business model is based on Industrivärden’s relative The equities portfolio includes investments in Sandvik, strengths, including a long-term investment perspective, Volvo, Handelsbanken, Essity, Ericsson, SCA, Skanska and strong positions of influence, a well-developed ownership SSAB. These assets are judged to have long-term attractive model, depth of industrial knowledge and experience, fireturn potential with balanced risk. nancial strength and an extensive network. Industrivärden’s Many companies today are encountering an increasinfluence in its portfolio companies is based on sizable owningly complex business environment, growing competition ership positions and extensive reputation capital. and formidable challenges. This pertains to everything from In its ownership role Industrivärden strives to contribshifting macroeconomic conditions in their geographic marute to the portfolio companies’ work on establishing and kets to threats and opportunities borne out of tumultuous strengthening leading positions in their respective industries and tightly interwoven megatrends. This development is over time. Strong emphasis is put on clear leadership, focus creating growing opportunities for engaged and knowledgeand flexibility. Active ownership is exercised mainly through able owners that have a keen understanding of their portfolio involvement in nominating committee work, board repcompanies and the world around them. Having active ownresentation and continuous evaluation of the companies and ers that can set clear demands and be challenging – but also their boards, CEOs and company managements. The various support their portfolio companies – is therefore a distinct measures that are considered to enhance shareholder value competitive advantage that benefits both our portfolio comare defined in Industrivärden’s action plan, which serves as panies and us as asset manager. This is where our position of the foundation of the Company’s influence work. strength lies, with a professional organization and proven The long-term objective is to increase net asset value capacity to deliver favorable returns. It is our ambition to and thereby generate a total return for Industrivärden’s further develop this position. shareholders which over time is higher than the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s total return index (SIXRX). Equities portfolio SSAB SEK 1.5 bn 1% Skanska SEK 6.6 bn 6% SCA SEK 6.7 bn 6% Sandvik SEK 28.4 bn 24% Ericsson SEK 7.4 bn 6% Portfolio value on December 31, 2019: Essity SEK 20.2 bn 17% SEK 117 bn Volvo SEK 25.0 bn 21% Handelsbanken SEK 20.7 bn 18% 4 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Industrivärden as an investment High quality equities portfolio Long-term and sustainable perspective Exposure to a concentrated portfolio of quality Industrivärden’s long-term ownership perspective companies with good value potential through entails a natural focus on sustainable development leading positions in their respective industries. and long-term value creating measures in the portfolio companies. Active ownership With a foundation in strong positions of inCompetitive return fluence and substantial knowledge about the Industrivärden’s stock has generated a competiportfolio companies and the environments tive return over both the medium and long terms. they work in, Industrivärden makes an active contribution in their operational and strateLow management cost gic development by evaluating, making deIndustrivärden offers professional asset mands, influencing and providing support. management at a low cost. SEK M Net asset value 120,000 Net asset value consists of the market value of the equi100,000 ties portfolio less interest-bearing net debt. During the last ten-year period, net asset value including reinvested 80,000 dividend grew by an average of 12% per year, compared 60,000 with 12% for the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s total return index (SIXRX). 40,000 Net asset value on December 31, 2019, was SEK 259 20,000 per share. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Equities portfolio Net asset value SEK M Percent Net debt 20,000 50% A strong financial position provides financial flexibility 16,000 40% to take advantage of investment opportunities and support the portfolio companies over time. In recent years, 12,000 30% Industrivärden has reduced its gearing significantly in order to increase its financial flexibility. 8,000 20% As per December 31, 2019, interest-bearing net debt 4,000 10% was SEK 9 per share, corresponding to a debt-equities ratio of 3%. 0 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Interest-bearing net debt Debt-equities ratio Average annual return (%) as per Dec. 31, 2019 Industrivärden’s stock –5%-pts Industrivärden’s stock is listed on the Stockholm Stock 35% Exchange’s Large Cap list (Nasdaq OMX Nordic Stockholm). 30% During the last three-, fiveand ten-year periods, Industrivärden’s stock has generated higher returns than the +3%-pts +3%-pts Stockholm Stock Exchange. +1%-pt In 2019 Industrivärden’s Class C shares generated a 14% 15% 13% 12% 12% 11% total return of 30%, which is 5 percentage points below the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s total return index (SIXRX). 2019 3 years 5 years 10 years Industrivärden C Total return index (SIXRX) Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 5 Highlights 2019 Industrivärden • The total return was 30% for the Class A and Class C shares, compared with 35% for the total return index (SIXRX) Net asset value • Net asset value at year-end was SEK 259 per share, an increase (SEK per share) during the year of 32% and 35%, respectively, including reinvested dividend • The value of the equities portfolio, adjusted for purchases and sales, increased by SEK 26.1 billion to SEK 116.7 billion. The total return was 33% • During the year, shares were purchased in Volvo A for SEK 1.6 billion, Sandvik for SEK 0.5 billion, Skanska B for SEK 0.4 billion, Essity B for SEK 0.3 billion, SCA B for SEK 0.2 billion and Handelsbanken A for SEK 0.2 billion. In addition, shares were sold in Essity A for SEK 0.3 billion and in SCA A for SEK 0.1 billion. Shares in ICA Gruppen worth SEK 4.1 billion were delivered in connection Total return with the redemption of outstanding exchangeable, after which the (Industrivärden Class C) remaining shares were sold • The debt-equities ratio was 3%, a decrease of 4 percentage points during the year • The Board of Directors proposes an increase in the dividend to SEK 6.00 per share Value as per December 31 2019 2018 Proposed Total return, Industrivärden’s stock Class A shares (%) 30 –11 Class C shares (%) Total return index, SIXRX (%) 30 35 –9 –4 dividend (SEK per share) Equities portfolio Market value (SEK M) 116,750 92,170 Total return (%) 33 –8 Interest-bearing net debt Value (SEK M) –4,032 –6,601 Debt-equities ratio (%) 3 7 Net asset value Value (SEK M) 112,718 85,201 Net asset value per share (SEK) 259 196 Growth incl. reinvested dividend (%) 35 –9 Equity ratio (%) 96 91 Dividend Dividend per share (SEK) 6.00 5.75 Dividend growth (%) 4 5 6 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Portfolio companies Sandvik Volvo • Record year for earnings as well as • Record year with continued favorable margins and cash flow financial performance in all dimensions • Cost-cutting measures taken due to • Investments in increased flexibility and weaker market efficiency, and capacity adjustments in • New financial and sustainability targets weaker market situation • Internal separation of Sandvik • Numerous initiatives for stronger Materials Technology for increased future competitiveness, including independence and greater flexibility in electrification and automation • Concentration of business, among • Memorandum of Understanding to other things through sale of Varel and form strategic alliance in commercial a number of well-considered add-on vehicles with Isuzu Motors, in order acquisitions to create a combined heavy-duty truck • Strengthened financial position business for Isuzu Motors and UD • Stefan Widing new CEO on Trucks in Japan and across international February 1, 2020 markets Handelsbanken Essity • Higher income and slightly lower earn• Higher growth and profitability in ings for the year, but with earnings 2019 with base in implementation, growth during fourth quarter higher prices and volumes, lower • Carina Åkerström new CEO in costs and an improved product mix March 2019 • Numerous measures taken to boost • Strategic focus of operations on costand capital-efficiency profitable businesses where the • Targeted work with innovation, bank has clear strengths product development and • New, more concentrated Executive sustainability Management team • Action program for lower costs Ericsson SCA • Sales growth, margin expansion and • Continued profitable growth and investstrengthened cash flow ments in the future • Favorable development in next gen• Revaluation of company’s forest assets eration of mobile networks (5G), with unveils higher value several commercial rollouts and new • Startup of expanded Östrand pulp mill contracts in a number of geographic and completion of capacity investment markets in Munksund • Settlement reached with U.S. authori• Decision to expand kraftliner capacity ties on regulatory violations, with paythrough investment of SEK 7.5 billion ment of approximately SEK 10 billion in Obbola mill in penalties Skanska SSAB • Strengthened profitability in the con• Earnings improved in North America, struction operations and substanbut weakened sharply in Europe tial value creation within project • Adaptation measures to create greater development scope to maneuver in weaker market • Strategic plan for increased focus and situation simplified structure for improved profitability • Continued favorable performance in commercial property development Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 7 Industrivärden 75 years R IV ÄRDEN 19 4 T 4 The limited company Industrivärden was registered on February 21, 1944. The name, which means U S –2 • IN 01 “industrial values,” was chosen to signify the major value in the industrial companies that were transD 9 • ferred to this company that was newly formed by Handelsbanken. In the years that have passed, 75 ON operations have been successfully adapted to prevailing developments in the external business TI YE environment, and many changes have taken place. The ability to develop operations over time has A A R E S R OF C enabled Industrivärden to deliver competitive returns and has laid a solid foundation for the future. VA L U E 1940s Industrivärden is founded in 1944 by Handelsbanken to manage the shareholdings taken over by the bank during the economic crisis in the 1920s and ’30s. The equities portfolio consists of eight portfolio companies active primarily in forestry, power generation, textiles, steel and telecommunications, through Ericsson. 1950s In 1945 the Company is listed on the stock exchange and its In post-war Europe, demand for industrial products and input shares are distributed to Handelsbanken’s shareholders. components rises sharply. Against this background, Industrivärden strengthens its ownership positions in attractive portfolio companies and carries out new acquisitions in sectors such 1960s as forest products, gas and steel. SCA becomes a new portfolio Continued strong growth and extensive housing construction company. lead to investments in engineering and construction companies. Even though the five largest holdings account for most of the portfolio value, the equities portfolio becomes differentiated to include more than 60 portfolio companies and a num1970s ber of wholly owned subsidiaries. Falling productivity and growing international competition put demands on structural measures and stronger competitiveness. Industrivärden formulates a clear investment strategy with the ambition to exercise its ownership in a more structured way. Numerous, large structural and equity deals are carried out. 1980s The Company begins to build up a holding in Handelsbanken. The model for active ownership is developed, and in pace with this the equities portfolio is sharply concentrated at the same time that the unlisted holdings are gathered into a wholly 1990s owned industrial and real estate business. Consolidation of the wholly owned businesses continues, culminating in the formation of the industrial company Inductus, the industrial trading company Indutrade, and the property company Fundament. The equities portfolio is changed with 2000s the divestment of the holdings in PLM and AGA, new purchases A globalized capital market and mounting competition drive are made in SSAB and Sandvik, and the holding in Skanska is towards specialization. Industrivärden focuses on its area of doubled. strength: active ownership in large, listed companies. The portfolio is refined, whereby the remaining subsidiaries are sold. Industrivärden’s ownership strategy is further refined. 2010–2015 In the early 2010s Industrivärden becomes the largest shareholder in Volvo. Many industrial companies have suffered from the financial crisis in the early part of the decade, and focus is directed primarily on various measures in existing portfolio companies. 2016–2019 Growing competition in the capital market combined with greater polarization between active and passive management puts greater demands on asset managers. Against this background, in February 2016 Industrivärden presents a refined strategy for a strong asset management focus and active ownership coupled with increased financial flexibility. Today Industrivärden has capacity to conduct competitive asset management through active ownership. 8 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Chairman’s message Global growth remained stable in 2019, although at a slightly lower level than in 2018. During the year we noted a continued slowdown in Europe and China, while the U.S. economy performed well, with a continued strong job market. Concerns about the consequences of a Brexit decision had a negative effect on the U.K. economy. Geopolitical tensions fueled uncertainty in several parts of the world as did the trade conflict between the U.S. and China. However, in January 2020 an agreement (phase 1) was reached between the two countries, which gives hope for the future. The risk that the slowdown in many important economies would lead to a recession decreased during the fall. This had a positive effect on the stock markets and the still very low responsibility creates value. Greater dynamism is created in the compainterest rates. The full year 2019 was a strong one for the stock markets, nies, and decisions can be made closer to the market and customers. with large price increases on the world’s bourses. The Stockholm Stock The CEOs of our portfolio companies are all very highly qualiExchange reached a new all-time high and delivered a total return of 35%. fied and they have demonstrated an impressive level of commitment Industrivärden’s shareholders received a very favorable total reand undertaking. Our portfolio companies are among the leaders in turn in 2019. Net asset value rose sharply and reached new top levels. their respective industries. The conditions for continued positive deOur portfolio companies performed well given the conditions in their velopment are favorable and thus also for greater shareholder value respective industries. Many significant changes were carried out in the in Industrivärden. Moreover, our low level of overheads compared portfolio companies with the aim to strengthen their long-term comwith many other savings alternatives adds to our competitiveness. It is petitiveness and create shareholder value over time. Industrivärden’s the Board’s belief and ambition that we also in the future will be able ownership role is of great significance for the portfolio companies’ to give our shareholders a competitive return. long-term development. We exercise our ownership role on nomiIndustrivärden’s financial position has strengthened considernating committees and boards, but also in direct dialog with the comably in recent years. The debt-equities ratio is now 3%, which is well panies. Long-term and competent action from our side is essential within the target range of 0%–10%. The divestment of our shares in for creating continuity and the right conditions for the companies’ ICA Gruppen in 2019 contributed to this. Our cash flow after paying development. the shareholder dividend, but before new investments, is positive and I am happy to note that we have good cooperation and interaction totaled SEK 1.4 billion in 2019. This creates good conditions for us to with other major shareholders of the portfolio companies. The large continue investing without increasing our level of debt above our target Swedish institutions can be mentioned in particular. This contributes ceiling. to stability and predictability. The portfolio companies’ boards can Against the background of this positive development, the Board of make decisions that are right for the long term but perhaps do not have Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting an increase in the any effect in the near term. To be successful, company development dividend from SEK 5.75 to SEK 6.00 per share. requires, at its core, a long-term perspective. The Board’s role is imporDuring the past year, board work at Industrivärden has been tant and has grown increasingly meaningful in recent years. The worksuperb. We held nine meetings plus several meetings of the Compenload and responsibility have increased, among other things as a result sation and Audit Committees. The CEOs of a number of our portfolio of committee work and increasing regulation. The world we work in companies paid visits to our board meetings and presented their comis growing increasingly complex, which also puts higher demands on panies. Every meeting included a discussion on the general macroboard members. I can say with satisfaction that the boards of our porteconomic situation. We receive continual reviews of developments in folio companies are fulfilling their roles very well. the portfolio companies, and their financial position is reported on at The utmost important duty of a board is to appoint the right CEO. length. The significance of this cannot be overstated. The experiences from the Our CEO Helena Stjernholm is doing an outstanding job, and she last five years’ CEO appointments in our portfolio companies are good. has continued to adapt and strengthen our organization. In addition, But of course there are many other important decisions that boards through her important board roles in the portfolio companies she has have to deal with. For my part, I believe that leadership, decentralizadone a fine job and earned continued respect. On behalf of the Board I tion and financial position are a few of the most crucial ones. want to express a great and warm thanks to Helena and her team. I also A strong balance sheet allows a company to take advantage of want to thank the board members and management teams of the portbusiness opportunities while giving it resilience to weather tougher folio companies for their exceptionally good work during the past year. times. The organization can perform with greater self-confidence and Finally, also warm thanks to my colleagues on the Board for their strength, which affects its prospects for future development. The comfruitful cooperation. pany can more easily secure financing, and at more favorable terms. For Industrivärden’s part this reduces the risk of our investments while Stockholm, February 2020 giving our portfolio companies greater prospects to maintain stable Fredrik Lundberg and growing dividends over time. Decentralization with a broad base of Chairman of the Board Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 9 CEO’s message Industrivärden showed continued high activity in 2019, and a number of important steps were taken by the portfolio companies for increased value creation. The Stockholm Stock Exchange performed well, which is also reflected in Industrivärden’s return. After several years of work on strengthening our preconditions, we are now well equipped to generate a competitive total return over time. The global economy slowed in 2019, albeit with large transaction reduced our debt and increased our finanvariations between geographies and sectors. The econcial flexibility. For the full year the debt-equities ratio deomy continued to perform well in North America, while creased by 4 percentage points to 3%. With this as a starta slowdown transpired primarily in Europe and Asia. ing point, in 2019 we took advantage of opportunities on a Looking at various sectors, manufacturing showed slower number of occasions to increase our exposure to portfolio growth, while the service sector performed relatively well. companies that we believe have long-term attractive value Global GDP grew approximately 3% during the past year, potential. Add-on investments in our existing portfolio and for 2020 the IMF forecasts a slight recovery in GDP companies are always made after taking into account the growth of just under 3.5% owing to more favorable develassessed, corresponding return potential in investment alopment in a number of emerging economies. However, ternatives. In accordance with our strategy, today we have the major economies in the U.S., the euro area, China and a concentrated portfolio with sizable positions in a limited Japan, which together account for just under half of global number of companies. In terms of value the center of gravGDP, are expected to show weaker performance. ity in the portfolio lies in Sandvik, Volvo, Handelsbanken Despite an emergent economic slowdown in 2019 and and Essity but we also have large ownership stakes in weaker outlook for 2020, the stock market performed very Ericsson, SCA, Skanska and SSAB. well during the year, partly owing to the fact that the slowDuring the year we invested a net total of SEK 2.7 bildown turned out to be not as sharp or prolonged as previlion in our portfolio companies, of which SEK 1.6 billion ously feared. The Stockholm Stock Exchange (OMXSPI) in Volvo, SEK 0.5 billion in Sandvik, SEK 0.4 billion in gained 30%. The historically low real interest rates continSkanska and SEK 0.2 billion in Handelsbanken. We also ued to buttress the stock market. However, external areas carried out transactions in Essity and SCA, most of which of concern, such as rising geopolitical tension, trade barriwere made to shift Class A shares to Class B shares and ers and Brexit, resulted in periods of higher volatility. thereby create scope to maneuver and increase our equity During 2019 Industrivärden’s net asset value grew by stakes over time. SEK 63 per share to SEK 112.7 billion. This represents an In summary I can affirm that we have increased increase of 35% including reinvested dividend, which is on our room to maneuver and our opportunities to act both par with the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s total return inwith respect to increased equity stakes in our portfolio dex, which grew 35%. The greatest contributors were the companies and participation in any new issues in these shareholdings in Sandvik, by SEK 9.3 billion, correspondcompanies. ing to a total return of 49%, Volvo, by SEK 8.0 billion, or In recent years we have resolutely strengthened both 47%, and Essity, by SEK 6.1 billion, or 42%. The holdings in our ability to exercise a value-creating ownership role Handelsbanken, Ericsson and SSAB performed below the and our processes for evaluating the portfolio compatotal return index and thereby weighed down the portfolio nies. These are important development steps in a rapidly as a whole. changing world. We – like our portfolio companies – must Looking at generated shareholder value, the total recontinuously strengthen our ability to minimize risks and turn for Industrivärden’s stock in 2019 was 30% for both take advantage of opportunities arising out of changes in the Class A and Class C shares. This is a good achievement, the world around us, such as digitalization, electrification as we at the same time reduced our debt and thereby our and sustainability. For us as a long-term active owner it is financial risk. The difference in growth between net asset therefore natural that we put great emphasis on our portvalue and the share price reflects a wider discount to net folio companies’ ability to conduct their businesses in a asset value during the year. From a longer perspective as sustainable way and create value over time. This makes up well, our stock has performed well, with total returns for the very foundation of competitive companies and sustainthe Class C shares of 13% and 14% over the last threeand able growth in value. Even though our portfolio companies five-year periods, respectively. It is our genuine ambition are facing a number of different challenges, it is gratifyto further strengthen long-term value creation over time. ing that they have high ambitions, a clear focus and have 2019 was yet another eventful year. During the spring all made great progress in their work on conducting suswe sold our remaining ownership position in ICA Gruppen tainable business. Industrivärden is a knowledgeable and and can thereby look back on what was a very good deal resolute owner with significant influence in the portfolio for Industrivärden, with an average annualized total return companies’ governance and strategic development. Against of 22% during the holding period. At the same time, the this background I am happy to see the many steps taken 10 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review by the portfolio companies during the past year. I want to briefly comment here on the respective companies, but can also refer to the “Active ownership” section in the Annual Report, which describes developments in the respective portfolio companies over a longer period of time. Sandvik continued its efficiency improvement work and presented new financial and sustainability targets. Owing to a weaker market, the company has taken a number of measures to adapt its costs to lower volumes. During the year a number of structure measures were carried out, such as the sale of Varel and the start of the internal separation of Materials Technology. Sandvik has also strengthened its business areas through a number of well-considered smaller acquisitions. Stefan Widing took office on In recent years we have February 1, 2020, as new CEO. Volvo also carried out measures for greater flexibilresolutely strengthened both ity and efficiency while adjusting its capacity to a weaker market situation. Through successful development of opour ability to exercise a valueerations with improved profitability and a strong cash flow, creating ownership role and the company has managed to create substantial shareholder value. Volvo has its focus on the major transforour processes for evaluating mation that the automotive industry is facing, and in 2019 several initiatives were taken to strengthen its competithe portfolio companies tiveness, including in electrification and automation. At the end of the year the company announced that it had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the intent to esmill in Obbola. At year-end SCA changed the accounting tablish a combined heavy-duty truck business for Isuzu method for valuation of the company’s forest assets, recogMotors and UD Trucks in Japan and across international nizing substantial value. markets. At Skanska, the company has worked on implementaUnder the leadership of its new CEO, Carina Åkerström, tion of a strategic plan aimed at sharpening its focus and Handelsbanken is carrying out a focusing of its business simplifying its structure. Margins in the largest business on profitable areas in which the bank has clear strengths. stream, construction, have improved, while the commerIt has also launched an action program for lower costs. cial property development business had continued good This work is being driven under the direction of a new and performance. more concentrated executive management team. Finally, SSAB encountered more challenging condiEssity has taken a number of measures to boost its tions in 2019. The company is taking various adaptation costand capital efficiency, which together with a good measures to give it greater room to maneuver in a weaker capacity to execute, has laid the foundation for favoramarket situation and is continuing its work with the ambible financial performance. The company has a clear dition to produce fossil-free steel in the future. rection towards innovation, product development and Now that we have put our 75th year in operation besustainability. hind us, I can affirm that Industrivärden has established a Ericsson has strengthened its margin, and is growing strong position to conduct a successful asset management organically in its core businesses. The company has been business through active ownership. With a foundation successful in 5G – the next generation of mobile networks on Industrivärden’s organization and business model, a – with several commercial rollouts and new contracts. As a strong balance sheet and a portfolio of high-quality portresult of regulatory violations, a settlement was reached in folio companies, we have good conditions to continue cre2019 with the U.S. authorities, which among other things ating shareholder value. resulted in penalties totaling approximately SEK 10 billion. SCA has continued its targeted efficiency improveStockholm, February 2020 ment work at the time that it has worked with capacity inHelena Stjernholm creases for further growth and value creation. During 2019 CEO the expanded pulp mill in Östrand became operational, the investment in Munksund was completed, and the decision was taken on a substantial investment in the kraftliner Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 11 Asset management Mission, objective, strategy and values Business mission To conduct long-term value-creating asset management through active ownership. This mission is based on Industrivärden’s relative strengths, including a long-term investment perspective, strong positions of influence, a well-developed ownership model, depth of industrial knowledge and experience, financial strength and an extensive network. Objective The long-term objective is to increase net asset value and thereby generate a return for Industrivärden’s shareholders that exceeds the market’s required rate of return. Taking into account the risk profile of the portfolio’s investments, the shareholders are to be given a total return which over time is higher than the average for the Stockholm Stock Exchange. The total return for Industrivärden’s stock over time is presented on page 26. Strategy The business mission is carried out with a foundation in the Company’s investment activities and active ownership role. • The investment operations are built upon a structured process of continuous analysis and evaluation of existing and potential investment alternatives. The estimated return potential for existing investments is to be compared with the return potential for possible investment alternatives under evaluation, taking into account continuity and a long-term perspective. • Industrivärden shall conduct active ownership in the respective portfolio companies with a view to contribute to competitive growth in value over time. The forms of implementing this strategy are presented on pages 13–23. Values Operations shall be conducted with high integrity and a sustainable approach. The Sustainability Report is presented on pages 20–23. The Code of Conduct is available at www.industrivarden.net under the menu Corporate Governance. 12 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Business model Board of Directors Apart from its customary duties, the Board of Directors makes decisions on major investments, continuously Areas of operation monitors the portfolio companies’ performance and deAsset management is conducted in two areas of operation cides on matters related to the exercise of active owner– the investment operations and active ownership – which ship in the portfolio companies. Individual directors on are tightly interwoven. The investment operations aim Industrivärden’s board are represented on the portfolio to maximize Industrivärden’s long-term return through companies’ boards and participate actively in the portfolio divestments and alternative investments in new and excompanies’ board nomination processes. isting portfolio companies. The aim of active ownership is to contribute to long-term value creation in the portfolio Executive Management companies through significant positions of influence and The Executive Management handles the Company’s depth of knowledge about the companies and their busiday-to-day administration, which includes strategic, orness environments. ganizational and finance matters as well as control and The chosen business model entails a long-term perfollow-up, among other things. Members of the Executive spective with low portfolio turnover and a natural concenManagement participate actively in the asset management tration in large ownership stakes in a limited number of activities and can provide specialist expertise. Certain portfolio companies with distinct value potential that can members of the Executive Management also serve on be realized through active ownership. portfolio companies’ nominating committees and boards. Investment operations Active ownership Employees Professional and successful asset management requires competent and committed employees as well as an attracContinuous Analy s is tive and dynamic workplace. Major emphasis is therefore ve stment analysis Ac ti put on the recruiting process, competence development in lan on A np pla and a good company culture. Industrivärden’s ethical nts n values and ambitions as an employer are set out in the a n d t ra n s a c t i o lte st m e r Company’s Code of Conduct, which addresses areas such n a t E n t i r i ve i n ve e n t s as the work climate, diversity and business ethics. The i p ro l e employees’ total compensation shall be competitive and in e d i ve s t m io n s e rs h line with the going rate in the market. / cis wn De eo tiv Mar Ac Investment Committee g i n t ra n s a c t i o n s Eva l u ati o n The members of the Executive Management, together with representatives from the investment and analysis organization, form Industrivärden’s Investment Committee. Analysis The committee monitors activities on a continuing basis, Investment decisions as well as decisions to exercise makes investment decisions and adopts Industrivärden’s active ownership are based on extensive industrial and action plans for the exercise of active ownership in the financial analysis as well as on assessments by the Board portfolio companies. of Directors and management. This analysis forms the foundation for both investment decisions and action plans Investment and analysis organization to exercise active ownership. The action plans summarize The investment and analysis organization is organized into the strategic value drivers in the portfolio companies that company teams. Each team is led by a team manager, and Industrivärden believes to be most important during the employees are normally active on two to three teams. coming three to five years. See also pages 16–19. The company teams are responsible for the continuous monitoring of their respective portfolio companies, updating Organization Industrivärden’s action plans for exercising active ownership Structure and for conducting specific investigative projects related to Industrivärden has a professional and cost-efficient organstrategic issues in the portfolio companies. They also recomization that is characterized by high flexibility and short mend margin transactions in the portfolio companies as well decision-making channels. The organization has long as alternative investments and entire divestments. record of cumulative experience and pertinent compeIndustrivärden’s equity market function executes intence. Operations involve some 15 employees at the offices vestment decisions and supports the organization with in Stockholm plus eight board members and an extensive market and macro information. To generate excess returns, network. Internal work is project-oriented and based on smaller investments are also made to a limited extent in well-developed processes. listed Nordic companies where favorable return potential has been identified. Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 13 Investment operations Process Shareholdings Industrivärden’s business model entails sizable ownOn December 31, 2019, the investments in Industrivärden’s ership positions in a concentrated portfolio of listed equities portfolio consisted of sizable shareholdings in companies with favorable value potential. Over time Sandvik, Volvo, Handelsbanken, Essity, Ericsson, SCA, the respective investments shall contribute to increased Skanska and SSAB. The portfolio’s current composition net asset value with a view to generate a total return for and historical development over time are shown in the adIndustrivärden’s stock that is higher than the average for jacent tables and charts. Further information about the rethe Stockholm Stock Exchange. Industrivärden therefore spective portfolio companies is presented on pages 30–37. has a company focus rather than an index focus. The long-term ownership perspective entails a natuInvestment activities 2019 ral focus on sustainable development and long-term During the year, shares were purchased in Volvo A for SEK value-creating measures in the portfolio companies. 1.6 billion, Sandvik for SEK 0.5 billion, Skanska B for SEK The investment operations are built upon a struc0.4 billion, Essity B for SEK 0.3 billion, SCA B for SEK 0.2 tured process of continuous analysis of existing and billion and Handelsbanken A for SEK 0.2 billion. In addialternative investments with focus on the respective intion, shares were sold in Essity A for SEK 0.3 billion and in vestments’ long-term return potential. This analysis is SCA A for SEK 0.1 billion. grounded in Industrivärden’s investment criteria. On May 15 the exchangeable bond in ICA Gruppen maTowards the goal of achieving Industrivärden’s longtured after bondholders in 2019 called for redemptions of term objectives, every individual portfolio investment SEK 4.1 billion in exchangeables. During the second quarter shall over time contribute to a total return that is higher of 2019 the remaining shares in ICA Gruppen were sold. than the average for the Stockholm Stock Exchange. The active ownership strategy conveys a longer investment horizon. The return potential for investments in the portInvestment criteria folio companies is therefore continuously evaluated with Company a time horizon of three to five years. Major emphasis is • Listed Nordic companies put on comparisons with the estimated return potential • Proven business model for investment alternatives, taking into account continu• Strong market positions ity and a long-term perspective. • Clear potential for profitable growth With a base in Industrivärden’s analysis, transaction Ownership position plans for future share purchases and sales are continu• Significant influence: at least 10% of votes and repously updated. These plans cover margin transactions in resentation on nominating committee and board existing portfolio companies as well as divestments of entire holdings or investments in new portfolio companies. Return potential • Long-term attractive return potential that can be realized through active ownership • Good balance between risk and reward Breakdown of shareholdings Percent SEK billion 100 120 Previously divested holdings 80 ICA Gruppen 90 SSAB Skanska 60 Ericsson 60 SCA 40 Essity Handelsbanken 30 20 Sandvik Volvo 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Shareholding breakdown, % Total value, SEK billion 14 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Shareholdings Composition of equities portfolio 12/31/2019 2019 Net purchases Ownership, % Market value Share of (+)/net sales Holding No. shares Capital Votes SEK M SEK/share value, % (–), SEK M Sandvik 155,400,000 12.4 12.4 28,384 65 24 482 Volvo A 154,600,000 1,598 7.4 24.1 25,023 57 21 Volvo B 3,600,000 – Handelsbanken A 204,900,000 10.3 10.5 20,674 48 18 189 Essity A 34,000,000 –288 9.5 29.2 20,150 46 17 Essity B 32,800,000 285 Ericsson A 86,052,615 – 2.6 15.1 7,430 17 6 Ericsson B 1,000,000 – SCA A 33,785,290 –98 9.7 29.0 6,660 15 6 SCA B 34,575,273 215 Skanska A 12,667,500 – 7.4 24.3 6,598 15 6 Skanska B 18,500,000 351 SSAB A 44,334,933 4.3 11.8 1,456 3 1 – Other 374 1 0 173 Equities portfolio 116,750 268 100 2,906 Share of ownership over five years 12/31/2019 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Ownership, % Ownership, % Ownership, % Ownership, % Ownership, % Capital Votes Capital Votes Capital Votes Capital Votes Capital Votes Sandvik 12.4 12.4 12.1 12.1 11.8 11.8 11.8 11.8 11.8 11.8 Volvo 7.4 24.1 6.9 22.2 6.7 22.0 6.7 21.7 6.7 21.3 Handelsbanken 10.3 10.5 10.4 10.6 10.1 10.3 10.0 10.2 10.2 10.3 Essity 9.5 29.2 9.5 29.9 9.5 29.8 – – – – Ericsson 2.6 15.1 2.6 15.1 2.6 15.1 2.6 15.1 2.6 15.2 SCA 9.7 29.0 9.5 29.7 9.5 29.7 9.5 29.7 10.0 29.6 Skanska 7.4 24.3 6.9 23.9 6.9 23.9 6.9 23.9 7.1 24.1 SSAB 4.3 11.8 4.3 11.8 11.4 18.2 11.4 18.2 10.7 17.7 ICA Gruppen – – 7.0 7.0 10.3 10.3 10.3 10.3 10.5 10.5 Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 15 Active ownership Process Continuous evaluation and influence Active ownership aims to contribute to the portfolio comIndustrivärden’s investment and analysis organization panies’ strategic development and long-term value crecontinuously evaluates the portfolio companies’ governation. Industrivärden’s influence is grounded in sizable ance, operations and development. Work is conducted ownership stakes, strong positions of trust, representafrom an overarching ownership perspective with focus on tion on nominating committees and boards, and depth the portfolio companies’ boards and management teams, of knowledge about the companies and their business financial development and matters such as strategy, marenvironments. Industrivärden strives to help the portfoket position, efficiency and capital structure. An analysis lio companies establish and strengthen leading positions consists of a broad, business environment perspective in their respective industries over time. Major emphaand covers everything from customers, competitors and sis is put on clear leadership, focus and flexibility. Active market to key megatrends such as digitalization, new maownership is exercised mainly through involvement in terial technology and long-term sustainable development. nominating committee work, board representation and A keen understanding of these trends is highly important continuous evaluation of the companies and their boards, for being able to assess the portfolio companies’ long-term CEOs and company managements. The various measures value potential as well as the opportunities and challenges that are considered to create the most value over time are they face. defined in Industrivärden’s action plan, which serves as In this way the investment and analysis organization the foundation of the Company’s influence work. builds a foundation of deep, fact-based knowledge about In its role as active owner, Industrivärden adds value the respective portfolio companies and their business through: environments. • Engaged ownership through representation on nomiWith a foundation in this analysis, an action plan for nating committees and boards, with substantial knowlvalue creation is continuously updated, which summaedge and an ability to evaluate, make demands, influrizes the strategic value drivers that Industrivärden conence and provide support siders to be most important for value creation during the • A long-term and sustainable perspective with focus on coming three to five years. The aim is to identify and decompetitive growth in value over time scribe various opportunities for value growth and well as • Owner collaborations through consensus on key issues strategic measures for realizing this value. with other owners Industrivärden communicates its views of the com• Resources in the form of financial strength and an pany and its management primarily with the chairman of extensive network the company’s board. An ongoing dialog is also conducted with the respective companies’ CEOs and other senior executives. Nominating committee representatives and board members with ties to Industrivärden Industrivärden’s nominating Board members with Portfolio company committee representatives Role ties to Industrivärden Role Sandvik Fredrik Lundberg Chair Helena Stjernholm Member Volvo Bengt Kjell Chair Helena Stjernholm Member Handelsbanken Helena Stjernholm Chair Pär Boman Chairman Fredrik Lundberg Vice Chairman Essity Helena Stjernholm Chair Pär Boman Chairman Ericsson Karl Åberg Member Helena Stjernholm Vice Chairman SCA Karl Åberg Chair Pär Boman Chairman Skanska Helena Stjernholm Chair Fredrik Lundberg Member Pär Boman Member SSAB Lars Pettersson Chair Bengt Kjell Chairman 16 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Nominating committee work and board composition It is of central importance that the portfolio companies’ boards have the combined competence and experience required to handle the respective company’s current situation and long-term ambitions. Industrivärden therefore puts strong emphasis on participating and exercising influence in the portfolio companies’ board nomination processes. With a foundation of extensive knowledge about the portfolio companies and their respective business environments along with a keen understanding of their long-term challenges and opportunities, Industrivärden can contribute to their board nomination work. Industrivärden’ nominating committee representatives consist of board members and members of the Executive Management. Good access to qualified board members is a central success factor. Against this background, Industrivärden works actively to identify suitable individuals and maintain the Company’s network. Industrivärden invests in companies active in various sectors and with varying needs, which requires a broad network of individuals with various types of expertise and experience. to have ties to Industrivärden. They are to have a current and clear picture of the value-creating Board representation measures that have been identified in the respecIndustrivärden exercises influence through representative portfolio companies. Against this background, tion on its portfolio companies’ boards. Industrivärden’s Industrivärden’s actions plans for the portfolio board members and members of the Executive companies are discussed on a regular basis within Management who serve as AGM-elected directors for Industrivärden’s board. Where needed, investigative Industrivärden’s portfolio companies are considered assignments are also conducted on specific matters. Active ownership in brief Portfolio company Influence process Industrivärden Network Nominating committee representatives • Expertise and Nominating committee Recommendations for board members experience in Board of Directors analysis Decides on ownership strategy Directors of the and active ownership portfolio company • Suitable Board of Directors with ties to individuals in Industrivärden nomination process Specific views Analysis and Investigative action plan assignments Evaluation Dialog Management Organization Initiates and updates analysis and action plan, and evaluates portfolio company Other major shareholders Collaboration of portfolio company Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 17 Active ownership in practice Following are a few examples of significant activities for longIn its capacity as active owner, Industrivärden engages itself term value creation that the respective portfolio companies have in the portfolio companies’ strategic development. Against the taken during the last five-year period, where Industrivärden has backdrop of the Company’s business model, this concerns mainly played an active role. The total return for the companies’ shares matters pertaining to the portfolio companies’ boards and manhas been compared with the STOXX Europe 600 total return secagement teams, financial development and matters such as strattor index. For a more detailed description of the respective portegy, market position, efficiency, capital structure and more. folio companies’ businesses and development, see pages 30–37. Sandvik Corporate governance measures • Developed strategy • Election of Johan Molin as Chairman in 2015 • Consolidation and decentralization of operations • Appointment of Björn Rosengren as CEO in 2015 and • Focusing of business and refinement of company structure Stefan Widing as CEO in 2019 Result Strategic measures • Stronger financial position, higher earnings and improved profitability • Adoption of new financial and sustainability targets • Initiation of internal separation of Sandvik Materials Technology • Capitalization of growth opportunities in core businesses, such as Stock’s relative return 5 years: +9 percentage points yearly through acquisitions Total return: 22% per year vs. • Efficiency improvement through continuous improvements SXNP TR (Industrial Goods & Services Index): 13% per year Volvo Corporate governance measures • Organizational changes with decentralization and faster • Appointment of Martin Lundstedt as CEO in 2015 decision-making processes Strategic measures • Focusing of business and simplification of company structure • Clear transformation towards future transport needs, such as in Result electromobility • Stronger financial position and higher profitability • Organic growth through increased customer focus and development of service business • Improved flexibility, productivity and efficiency through continuous Stock’s relative return 5 years: +4 percentage points yearly improvements Total return, Class A shares: 17% per year vs. • Developed strategy and new financial targets SXNP TR (Industrial Goods & Services Index): 13% per year Handelsbanken Corporate governance measures • Successful development of business in UK and the Netherlands, • Election of Pär Boman as Chairman in 2015 and of savings business • Appointment of Carina Åkerström as CEO in 2019 • Good adaptation to regulatory changes and increased capital requirements • Appointment of new and more concentrated executive management team Result Strategic measures • Higher earnings and stronger platform for value-creating growth • Focusing of business and stronger cost focus • Strategic initiatives for business development, digitalization Stock’s relative return 5 years: +1 percentage point yearly and efficiency improvement Total return, Class A shares: 1% per year vs. SX7P TR (Banks Index): 1% per year Essity Corporate governance measures • Formation of the company as part of the refinement and split of for• Election of Pär Boman as Chairman in 2016 mer SCA Group into two listed companies, with heightened focus on the core businesses • Appointment of Magnus Groth as CEO in 2016 Result Strategic measures • Clear cost reductions • Structural measures for higher costand capital efficiency • Stronger innovation and sustainability focus • Successful acquisition and integration of BSN medical, Stock’s relative return 2 years: +9 percentage points yearly active in wound care and compression therapy Total return, Class A shares: 19% per year vs. • Adoption of new financial targets SXQP TR (Personal & Household Goods Index): 9% per year 18 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Ericsson Corporate governance measures Result • Appointment of Börje Ekholm as CEO in 2017 • Stronger financial position and improved earnings • Election of Ronnie Leten as Chairman in 2018 • Strong cost reductions Strategic measures • Strengthened positions and regaining of technical leadership • Focused strategy for higher profitability through strengthening of efficiency and competitiveness • Implementation of new organization and company structure, Stock’s relative return 5 years: –14 percentage points yearly and new targets Total return, Class A shares: 2% per year vs. SX8P TR (Technology Index): 15% per year SCA Corporate governance measures • Formation of the company as part of the refinement and split of former • Election of Pär Boman as Chairman in 2015 SCA Group into two listed companies, with heightened focus on the core businesses • Appointment of Ulf Larsson as CEO in 2017 • Revaluation of the company’s forest assets unveils higher value Strategic measures Result • Efficiency improvement through continuous improvements • Tangible cost reductions • Strengthened focus on innovation with base of forest raw material • Capacity investments in paper mills in Obbola and Munksund • Investment in doubling of production capacity at Östrand pulp mill Stock’s relative return 2 years: +2 percentage points yearly with leading cost efficiency Total return, Class A shares: 6% per year vs. SXPP TR (Basic Resources Index): 4% per year Skanska Corporate governance measures • Successful growth in commercial property development with • Election of Hans Biörck as Chairman in 2016 distinct sustainability profile • Appointment of Anders Danielsson as CEO in 2018 Result • Implementation of new management organization • Stronger financial position with reduced risk in construction business and higher earnings from property development Strategic measures • Extensive restructuring to focus the business, improve profitability and reduce project risks • Reduction of central costs Stock’s relative return 5 years: –5 percentage points yearly • Decentralization measures and refinement aimed at increasing Total return, Class B shares: 9% per year vs. operational efficiency SXOP TR (Construction & Materials Index): 14% per year SSAB Corporate governance measures • Completion of new issue in 2016 in challenging market situation • Election of Bengt Kjell as Chairman in 2015 Result Strategic measures • Stronger financial position and improved earnings • Continuous efficiency improvement work for industry-leading profitability • Participation in HYBRIT, an initiative for fossil-free steel production Stock’s relative return 5 years: –10 percentage points yearly • Implementation of successful growth initiative in high-strength steel Total return, Class A shares: 0% per year vs. and developed service offering SXPP TR (Basic Resources Index): 11% per year Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 19 Sustainable approach investment perspective results in a natural involvement in pective d bus i ness ethi p e rs Goo cs the portfolio companies’ strategic development. By helping i ty an bil tai na dc to develop long-term competitive companies, Industrivärden lea contributes to growth in value over time and sustainable develc re a t i n g s u s r co r p opment, which benefits the communities in which the portfolio orate gov companies are active. ue ern Industrivärden’s operations are conducted in accordance Val an with Company’s Code of Conduct and policies. Through active ce ownership Industrivärden works to ensure that its values and ethical guidelines will also permeate the companies in which it ye e s Att ra is an active owner. Industrivärden’s Code of Conduct has been plo cti em adopted by the Board of Directors and is revised yearly. ve wo d rkp itte In short, it stipulates that: la ce with co m m • good business ethics and clear corporate governance with a genuine sustainability perspective contribute to long-term Industrivärden’s view of sustainability value creation and sustainable development in society, Industrivärden’s view of sustainability is based on the • the workplace shall be distinguished by openness, receptiveCompany’s mission to conduct long-term value-creating asset ness and mutual respect, management through active ownership. From an overarch• the Company repudiates all forms of discrimination and being perspective, Industrivärden has the greatest sustainability lieves that diversity in all its forms enhances knowledge, dyinfluence through its role as an active owner in its portfolio namism and the quality of operations, and companies. In addition, Industrivärden conducts sustainability • the Company shall apply and integrate the ten principles of work in its own operations, where focus is on being a responthe UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, sible employer. The active ownership role and a long-term anti-corruption and the environment. Stakeholder analysis Focus Inform • Be an active, responsible owner that contributes to • Business ethics well-governed companies for sustainable develop• Anti-corruption ment of society • Industrivärden’s influence in the areas of human • Be a long-term sustainable investment that delivers a rights, health and safety in the portfolio companies competitive return • Industrivärden’s influence on climate work in the • Develop strategic sustainability work with clear goals portfolio companies going forward that contribute to Agenda 2030 • Taxes • Be an attractive employer with openness, diversity and competence development in focus • Report and reduce the Company’s carbon footprint high materiality medium Sustainability focus Industrivärden’s sustainability-related focus areas have been • Shareholders and potential investors identified and concretized based on an materiality anal• Other major owners of the portfolio companies ysis. This analysis is based on Industrivärden’s opportuni• The portfolio companies ties to influence through its ownership role, a materiality • Industrivärden’s employees perspective, and ongoing stakeholder dialogs. As part of the • Authorities, legislative bodies and NGOs materiality analysis, the following main stakeholders have been identified and engaged: 20 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Global initiatives and guidelines based on Industrivärden’s framework for its sustainability As guidance in its sustainability work, analysis, which covers the portfolio companies’ organizaIndustrivärden adheres to global initiatives tions, structures, risk management, utilization of value-cresuch as Agenda 2030, the OECD Guidelines ating opportunities and communication. The portfolio for Multinational Enterprises, the ILO’s companies shall have the boards, leadership, organizations eight fundamental conventions and the UN and resources needed to integrate sustainable business and Global Compact. In addition, since 2015 annual progress thereby long-term value creation in their business models, reports are submitted to the Global Compact in the areas of processes and product offerings. Industrivärden shall be a human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. well-informed and demanding owner with a clear sustainaThe Business Review and Annual Report make up Industribility perspective that contributes to sustainable developvärden’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) to the ment of its portfolio companies. UN Global Compact and provide an account of how the Company is contributing to Agenda 2030 and the global Good starting point for sustainable value creation Sustainable Development Goals. Industrivärden’s portfolio companies have generally made great progress in capitalizing on the value created by longAgenda 2030 and the Sustainable term sustainable business and measure up well in various Development Goals comparisons with their industry peers. Following are a The business sector plays a crucial role in the achievement few examples of sustainability work currently being conof the 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set ducted by the portfolio companies. forth in Agenda 2030. With a base in Industrivärden’s business, its influence opportunities in the portfolio companies Sandvik and a completed materiality analysis, the following goals Sandvik Coromant’s production unit in Gimo, Sweden, has are in focus. From an influence perspective, SDGs 8, 9, and been officially included in the World Economic Forum’s 12 apply for Industrivärden’s portfolio companies within network of manufacturing “lighthouses” that are techthe framework of active ownership. SDGs 5 and 13 pertain nological leaders in the fourth industrial revolution with mainly to Industrivärden’s own operations. See the tables the citation that it “has created a digital thread through on pages 22–23. its production processes that has significantly raised labor productivity.” All members of the network keep humans Active ownership and sustainability at the heart of innovation and have Industrivärden puts strong emphasis on ensuring that its agreed to share their knowledge with other manufacturing portfolio companies have a sustainable approach in all asbusinesses. pects of their operations. This leads to competitive companies, enables growth in value and promotes sustainable deVolvo velopment in society. Particular emphasis is put on material Volvo Trucks’ two first fully electric Volvo FL Electric vesustainability risks and sustainability-related opportunities hicles have now been put into operation in Gothenburg. from risk mitigation and value creation perspectives. The The absence of engine noise and emissions is contributing portfolio companies are active in widely diverse industries to a better work environment and a quieter, cleaner urban and are in different stages of development. They therefore environment. During the second half of 2019 series proface different challenges and opportunities. From an overall duction of the FL Electric and its powerful sister model perspective it is Industrivärden’s expectation that they: FE Electric began for the European market. • view sustainability as a key strategic issue, • integrate sustainability aspects in their business modHandelsbanken els, business cultures, strategies, processes and product Handelsbanken launched its Hållbar Global Obligation offerings, (“Sustainable Global Bond”) fund, which includes bonds • comply with applicable laws, rules and generally issued specifically to fund improvements in the enviaccepted principles for sustainable business, ronment, climate, poverty, or any of the other global • continuously improve their sustainability work with supSustainable Development Goals. In 2019 Handelsbanken’s port of relevant guidelines and measurable goals, and exclusion strategy for funds, called Criteria, added canna• communicate their sustainability work and the way in bis as a new exclusion criterion. which they contribute to long-term sustainable development in the communities in which they work. Essity At year-end 2018 Essity’s climate targets were approved Industrivärden’s sustainability analysis makes up an inby the Science Based Targets Initiative, a scientific tegral part of the fundamental analysis of the respective method that certifies that an organization’s climate tarportfolio companies. Any influence initiatives are congets are in line with the Paris Agreement. In February ducted within the framework of Industrivärden’s business 2019 Essity was included in RobecoSAM’s Sustainability model, which is described on pages 13–19. This analysis is Yearbook 2019 – a list of the top performing companies in performed from an overarching owner perspective and is their respective sectors. Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 21 Ericsson Skanska During 2019 Ericsson began the commercialization of During 2019 Skanska increased its focus on safety issues. 5G. The changeover to 5G has great potential to not only Skanska Safety Week, one of the world’s biggest safety develop energy-efficient solutions for mobile networks, events in the private sector, was carried out in May by but also to help various sectors in society to reduce their 250,000 people to spotlight and increase the employees’ environmental impact. An obligatory web-based program knowledge about workplace safety. Skanska’s business for countering corruption was launched in 2018, and more processes include measures to support and drive human than 88,000 employees have now completed the training. rights globally, local legislation and the company’s Code of Conduct. SCA In SCA’s 2018 Annual Report the company reported its carSSAB bon footprint for the first time. The footprint is positive and SSAB has taken yet another step in the transition towards corresponds to the carbon footprint of Sweden’s total truck carbon dioxide free steel production. In Oxelösund the and domestic air traffic. During 2019 SCA was also an initicoking plants and blast furnaces will be replaced with an ative-taker to ISO 14008, a new standard designed to help electric arc furnace. The application for a new operational companies monetarily value and manage their environmenpermit was submitted during the year, and the plan is that tal impact costs. the electric arc furnace will be fully operational in 2025, thereby reducing carbon dioxide emissions by nearly 90%. Sustainability goals and activities: active ownership Goal • Be an active, responsible owner that contributes to long-term successful portfolio companies for the benefit of sustainable development in society • Be a long-term and sustainable investment that offers a competitive total return which over time is higher than the average for the Stockholm Stock Exchange (SIXRX) Activities • Analyze and continuously monitor all portfolio companies in accordance with Industrivärden’s integrated sustainability analysis • Formulate action plans for the respective portfolio companies and exercise influence in accordance with Industrivärden’s business model • Engage in dialogs with prioritized stakeholders in order to solicit views for further development of Industrivärden’s sustainability work Agenda 2030 • Sustainable economic growth is a central pillar in the work on contributing to the development of responsible and successful companies that can create competitive value over time • Promotion of sustainable industrialization and innovation is a clear focus of the portfolio companies and is encouraged within the framework of active ownership. By taking advantage of sustainability-related development opportunities, the companies can stay at the forefront in their respective business areas • Sustainable consumption and production is a strategic perspective that is integrated in the portfolio companies’ business models. The companies offer long-term sustainable and efficiently manufactured products and services that contribute to sustainable production and consumption. As a long-term owner Industrivärden views this as a prerequisite for their ability to compete over time Own operations Industrivärden’s employees Industrivärden shall serve as a model and work with a clear Industrivärden shall be a workplace in which the employees sustainability focus both in its own operations and in the enjoy their work, feel good and can develop. Toward this end, portfolio companies. Proactive sustainability work shall be evaluations are continuously conducted of performance and an integral part of the daily activities that are conducted by development opportunities for all employees. In addition, a approximately 15 employees at the office in Stockholm. The continuous dialog is conducted on matters related to the workCEO has overarching responsibility for Industrivärden’s place, forms of cooperation and personal development. All sustainability work, and the Head of Sustainability has funcemployees have undergone training in the Company’s view of tional responsibility for internal collaboration and external value creation and how set goals are to be implemented. This communication on sustainability issues. Team managers are includes set policies for the environment and climate, diversity responsible for the integrated sustainability analysis in the and gender equality, anti-corruption and the Code of Conduct. respective portfolio companies. Industrivärden believes that better results are achieved at a workplace characterized by gender equality and diversity. 22 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Environmental and carbon through offsets. To be able to monitor and compare footprinting work the Company’s carbon footprint, Industrivärden has Even though Industrivärden’s organbeen conducting carbon footprint reporting since 2010 ization is small, the Company shall within the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) frameserve as a good example by minimizing its own environwork. Greenhouse gas emissions for 2019 have been mental impact and carbon footprint. Industrivärden has calculated using the market-based method of the GHG an ambition to reduce its own footprint over time and Protocol and are shown in the GRI Index on pages compensates for its actual greenhouse gas emissions 71–74. Sustainability goals and activities: own operations Goal • Measure and follow up Industrivärden’s environmental impacts and carbon footprint • Be an attractive employer with competence development, openness and diversity in focus, and attract, recruit and retain competent employees Activities • Report Industrivärden’s carbon footprint to the CDP and compensate for the Company’s footprint through offsets • Implement processes for broadened competence and diversity • Further train all employees on the sustainability strategy, Code of Conduct and policy documents • Conduct employee performance reviews with special attention paid to the work environment and competence development Agenda 2030 • Diversity and gender equality are important issues both in Industrivärden’s own operations and in the portfolio companies since they strengthen the organizations’ capabilities • Having a high ambition with respect to climate issues is important both in Industrivärden’s own operations and in the portfolio companies since it is a prerequisite for sustainable value creation Financial results Launch of new framework for analysis of Favorable financial performance and financial strength anti-corruption are necessary prerequisites for Industrivärden to be able Industrivärden has been participating since 2016 in to create long-term value for its shareholders and pursue SISD (Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development), its strategy of supporting the portfolio companies over a collaboration project conducted under the auspices of time. During the last three-, fiveand ten-year periods, the Swedish International Development Cooperation Industrivärden’s stock has generated a higher total return Agency (Sida). The aim is to obtain knowledge and than the Stockholm Stock Exchange. The financial posishare experiences. Within the framework of the project tion has strengthened. During 2019 Industrivärden’s net Industrivärden is part of a work group focusing on asset value grew from SEK 85.2 billion to SEK 112.7 billion anti-corruption, which is a key issue under the UN’s at year-end. Industrivärden’s Class A and C shares generSustainable Development Goal 16: Peace, Justice and ated total returns of 30% including reinvested dividend. A Strong Institutions. During 2019 a framework for support dividend of SEK 5.75 per share was paid to the shareholdof the analysis of companies’ work with anti-corruption ers, or SEK 2.5 billion in total. was launched. Development of sustainability work 2019 More in-depth stakeholder dialogs Full application of developed Industrivärden is interested in and receptive to expecsustainability analysis tations on its operations by actors in its business enviIn 2017 Industrivärden launched a new framework for its ronment. Against this background a continuous dialog is sustainability analysis in order to strengthen its knowlconducted with the Company’s stakeholders to learn about edge about, its analysis of and influence opportunities in their perspectives and share knowledge. The stakeholder sustainability-related matters. This developed analysis dialog provides important support in the development of was then integrated in the operational activities with full sustainability work, and in 2018 and 2019 it was broadapplication in 2019. The framework and work processes ened with respect to target groups and levels. In addition, are being continuously developed as an integral part of Industrivärden participates in various public forums and Industrivärden’s business model. presentations conducted under the sustainability theme – in part to emphasize the importance of active owners for sustainable development in society and in part to further a dialog, gather views and learn from others. Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 23 Business review Value creation Net asset value Industrivärden’s long-term goal is to increase net asset During 2019 net asset value grew by 35% including reinvalue and thereby generate a return for Industrivärden’s vested dividend, compared with 35% for the Stockholm shareholders that exceeds the market’s required rate of Stock Exchange’s total return index (SIXRX). During the return. last fiveand ten-year periods, net asset value including Net asset value is a measure of the shareholders’ total reinvested dividends grew by an average of 13% and 12% net worth in the Company, defined as the market value of per year, respectively, compared with 11% and 12%, respecthe equities portfolio less interest-bearing net debt. Net tively, for the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s total return asset value at year-end 2019 was SEK 112.7 billion (85.2), index (SIXRX). or SEK 259 per share (196). Composition of equities portfolio and net asset value 12/31/2019 2019 Net purchases Total return, Ownership, % Market value Share of (+)/net-sales holding Holding No. shares Capital Votes SEK M SEK/share value, % (–) SEK M SEK M % Sandvik 155,400,000 12.4 12.4 28,384 65 24 482 9,346 49 Volvo A 154,600,000 24,458 1,598 7.4 24.1 57 21 8,037 47 Volvo B 3,600,000 565 – Handelsbanken A 204,900,000 10.3 10.5 20,674 48 18 189 1,665 8 Essity A 34,000,000 10,251 –288 9.5 29.2 46 17 6,056 42 Essity B 32,800,000 9,899 285 Ericsson A 86,052,615 7,349 – 2.6 15.1 17 6 779 12 Ericsson B 1,000,000 82 – SCA A 33,785,290 3,375 –98 9.7 29.0 15 6 1,985 42 SCA B 34,575,273 3,285 215 Skanska A 12,667,500 2,682 – 7.4 24.3 15 6 2,387 58 Skanska B 18,500,000 3,916 351 SSAB A 44,334,933 4.3 11.8 1,456 3 1 – 164 12 Other 374 1 0 173 62 Equities portfolio 116,750 268 100 2,906 30,481 33 Interest-bearing net debt –4,032 –9 Net asset value 112,718 259 Debt-equities ratio 3% Growth in net asset value Development of net debt SEK M SEK M Percent 120,000 20,000 50% 100,000 16,000 40% 80,000 12,000 30% 60,000 40,000 8,000 20% 20,000 4,000 10% 0 0 0% –20,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Interest-bearing net debt Debt-equities ratio Equities portfolio Interest-bearing net debt Net asset value 24 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Equities portfolio Financing The equities portfolio is made up of large shareholdings A strong financial position provides financial flexibility to in portfolio companies in which Industrivärden exercises take advantage of investment opportunities and support the long-term active ownership. On December 31, 2019, the portfolio companies over time. equities portfolio had a value of SEK 116,750 M (92,170), corresponding to SEK 268 (212) per Industrivärden share. Gearing policy The value of the equities portfolio, adjusted for purIndustrivärden’s gearing policy is that the debt-equities chases and sales, increased by SEK 26.1 billion to SEK ratio shall be in the range of 0%–10%, but may periodi116.7 billion. The total return was 33%. Changes in owncally exceed or fall below this interval. ership shares in the portfolio companies over time are shown in a table on page 15. Interest-bearing net debt Interest-bearing net debt amounted to SEK 4.0 billion at Cash flow year-end 2019 (6.6), corresponding to SEK 9 per IndustriInvestment activities värden share. The debt-equities ratio at year-end 2019 was During the year, shares were purchased in Volvo A for 3% (7%). SEK 1.6 billion, Sandvik for SEK 0.5 billion, Skanska B for The debt portfolio consists primarily of an MTN proSEK 0.4 billion, Essity B for SEK 0.3 billion, SCA B for gram and commercial paper. During the first quarter of SEK 0.2 billion and Handelsbanken A for SEK 0.2 billion. 2019 a new bond of SEK 1.0 billion was issued within the In addition, shares were sold in Essity A for SEK 0.3 bilframework of the existing MTN program. The loan perlion and in SCA A for SEK 0.1 billion. During the second tains mainly to refinancing and has a tenure of three years. quarter of 2019 the remaining shares in ICA Gruppen No part of Industrivärden’s financing is conditional upon were sold. any covenants. Dividends paid and received Matured exchangeable The 2019 Annual General Meeting resolved to pay a diviOn May 15, 2019, the exchangeable bond of SEK 4.4 billion dend of SEK 5.75 (5.50) per share, or SEK 2,502 M (2,394) in ICA Gruppen that was issued in 2014 matured. During in total. During 2019 dividends received from portfolio the redemption period in 2019, bondholders called for companies totaled SEK 4,093 M (3,764). Industrivärden’s redemption, whereby shares in ICA Gruppen were delivdividend policy is presented on page 26. ered. See Note 19 on page 59 for further information. Management cost Credit rating Industrivärden’s management cost in 2019 amounted to S&P Global Ratings has assigned Industrivärden a credit SEK 115 M (121). The management cost corresponded rating of A+/Stable/A–1. to 0.10 % (0.13%) of the equities portfolio’s value on December 31, 2019. Contribution analysis, total return Percent SEK M Skanska Sandvik Sandvik Volvo Volvo Essity Essity SCA Skanska SIXRX SCA Portfolio, total Handelsbanken Ericsson Ericsson SSAB Handelsbanken SSAB 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 25 Industrivärden’s stock Industrivärden’s stock During the last ten-year period the average annual total reIndustrivärden’s Class A and Class C shares are listed turn for Industrivärden’s Class A and C shares was 14% and on the Stockholm Stock Exchange (Nasdaq OMX Nordic 15%, respectively, compared with 12% for the total return Stockholm), Large Cap segment. At year-end 2019 Industriindex (SIXRX). During the same period, the MSCI World värden’s market capitalization was SEK 100 billion. Trading Index generated an annualized total return of 10%. volume in Industrivärden shares in 2019 totaled SEK 74 billion (36), corresponding to a turnover rate of 28% (19%) Total return over time, Industrivärden for the Class A shares and 104% (82%) for the Class C shares. Average daily trading volume was approximately Index 298,000 Class A shares and approximately 686,000 Class 400 C shares. Slightly more than half of trading was conducted 350 on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. 300 Industrivärden’s Class A and Class C shares had stand250 ard deviations of 16.3% and 16.4%, respectively, and beta values of 1.12% and 1.10%, respectively, for the full year 200 2019. 150 100 Shareholders and share structure 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Industrivärden has approximately 88,000 (80,000) shareholders. Foreign shareholders’ share of the capital Industrivärden C Total return index, SIXRX amounts to 21% (20%). A significant majority of the number of shareholders consists of private persons, while a significant share of the capital is owned by institutional Dividend policy owners such as pension and asset management compaIndustrivärden’s dividend policy is that the Company shall nies, and foundations. generate a positive cash flow before portfolio changes and At year-end 2019 the share capital totaled SEK 1,088 after dividends paid, in order to build investment capacM, distributed among 435,209,877 registered shares with a ity over time and be able to support portfolio companies share quota value of SEK 2.50. Each A-share carries entiwhen needed. The dividend is to be well-balanced with tlement to one vote, and each C-share carries entitlement respect to the goals, scope and risk of operations. to 1/10 of a vote. All shares carry equal entitlement to the Company’s assets, earnings and dividends. Proposed dividend The Board of Directors has proposed that the 2020 Share structure Annual General Meeting declare a dividend of SEK 6.00 (5.75) per share, for a total dividend of SEK 2,611 Share Class No. shares No. votes Capital, % Votes, % M (2,502). The dividend yield on December 31, 2019, A (1 vote) 268,183,340 268,183,340 61.6 94.1 was 2.6% for the Class A shares and 2.7% for the Class C C (1/10 vote) 167,026,537 16,702,635 38.4 5.9 shares. Total 435,209,877 284,885,993 100.0 100.0 Employee ownership Return Industrivärden encourages its employees to make perIn 2019 the price of Industrivärden’s Class A shares insonal investments in Industrivärden shares, as this aligns creased by 26.6%, from SEK 183.20 to SEK 232.00, and the the interests of the Company’s employees with other price of the Class C shares increased by 26.1%, from SEK shareholders. The long-term incentive programs adopted 179.20 to SEK 225.90. The highest price paid for the Class by the Annual General Meeting make up part of the emA and C shares was SEK 234.80 and SEK 228.30, respecployees’ total compensation and also aim to increase emtively, and the lowest price paid was SEK 181.60 and SEK ployees’ ownership of shares in the Company. Information 177.50, respectively. The total return for the Class A and C on the incentive programs and on shareholdings of board shares was 30%, compared with 35% for the total return members and members of the Executive Management is index (SIXRX). provided on pages 46–47 and in Note 7 on page 55. 26 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Conversion of A-shares to C-shares Shareholder structure At the 2011 Annual General Meeting a share conversion clause was added to Industrivärden’s Articles of AssociaNo. shares No. shareholders Capital, % tion in the aim of giving shareholders greater flexibility. 1–500 66,739 2 Shareholders have the right at any time to request conver501–1,000 8,749 2 sion of Class A shares to Class C shares. During 2019, 117 1,001–5,000 9,365 5 Class A shares were converted to Class C shares. 5,001–10,000 1,367 2 10,001–15,000 386 1 Investor relations 15,001–20,000 222 1 Industrivärden’s investor contacts and analysts who 20,001– 742 87 monitor the Company are presented on page 68. Source: Euroclear. Trading per marketplace Largest shareholders 12/31/2019 Capital, % Votes, % Other 4% L E Lundbergföretagen 17.1 23.8 Aquis 3% Handelsbanken Pension Foundation 7.1 10.8 Cboe CXE 5% Jan Wallander and Tom Hedelius Foundation 6.3 9.7 Spiltan Funds 3.1 0.8 Cboe BXE 8% Vanguard 2.5 2.1 Fredrik Lundberg incl. companies 2.3 3.1 Norges Bank Investment Management 2.2 1.8 Stockholm SCA Pension Foundation 2.1 3.2 Stock Exchange Essity Vorsorge-Treuhand 2.1 3.2 48% Handelsbanken Pension Fund 2.0 3.0 Essity Pens. Found. sal. empl. & foremen 1.9 3.0 BlackRock 1.5 0.6 OTC 31% AFA Insurance 1.5 0.2 Alecta Pension Insurance 1.4 1.1 Pertains to Class C shares. Source: Bloomberg. XACT Funds 1.2 1.0 Source: Industrivärden and Holdings. Key ratios, dividend and return 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Dividend/share, SEK 6.00 5.75 5.50 5.25 5.00 6.25 5.50 5.00 4.50 4.00 Dividend growth, % 4 5 5 5 neg 14 10 11 13 33 Dividend yield Class C shares, % 2.7 3.2 2.7 3.1 3.4 4.6 4.5 4.6 5.5 3.4 Total return Class C shares, % 30 –9 22 21 11 16 18 37 –28 48 Share price at 31 Dec., Class C shares, SEK 225.90 179.20 202.50 169.80 145.10 136.10 122.30 107.70 82.10 118.00 Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 27 Key ratios – ten-year overview 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Net asset value Equities portfolio market value (SEK M) 116,750 92,170 107,289 94,250 81,835 83,062 77,992 68,077 56,903 71,092 total return (%) 33 –8 17 20 4 8 20 22 –23 31 net purchases/sales (SEK M) –1,163 –3,252 103 –834 –1,894 1,561 –1,389 1,114 4,461 2,547 Interest-bearing net debt value (SEK M) –4,032 –6,601 –10,930 –11,481 –12,648 –14,632 –17,094 –18,248 –16,780 –13,401 debt-equities ratio (%) 3 7 10 12 15 18 22 27 29 19 Net asset value value (SEK M) 112,718 85,201 96,299 82,769 69,056 68,345 60,898 49,829 40,123 57,691 value per share (SEK) 259 196 221 191 160 158 155 129 104 149 growth incl. reinvested dividends (%) 35 –9 18 23 5 9 24 29 –28 37 Industrivärden’s stock Number of shareholders 88,000 80,000 75,000 69,000 63,000 60,000 54,000 48,000 49,000 49,000 Industrivärden’s market capitalization value (SEK M) 99,950 79,062 90,570 76,201 66,434 60,638 50,357 42,461 33,069 46,090 value per share (SEK) 230 182 208 176 154 140 129 110 86 119 Number of shares outstanding total (thousands) 435,209 435,209 435,209 432,341 432,341 432,341 391,769 386,271 386,271 386,271 of which, Class A-shares (thousands) 268,183 268,183 268,184 268,185 268,185 268,186 268,530 268,530 268,530 268,547 of which, Class C-shares (thousands) 167,026 167,026 167,025 164,155 164,155 164,155 123,239 117,740 117,740 117,723 Dividends paid value (SEK M) 2,611 2,502 2,394 2,285 2,162 2,702 2,282 1,950 1,738 1,545 value per share (SEK) 6.00 5.75 5.50 5.25 5.00 6.25 5.50 5.00 4.50 4.00 dividend growth (%) 4 5 5 5 neg 14 10 11 13 33 dividend yield, Class C-shares (%) 2.7 3.2 2.7 3.1 3.4 4.6 4.5 4.6 5.5 3.4 Total return, Industrivärden shares Class A-shares (%) 30 –11 20 17 15 13 23 33 –25 40 Class C-shares (%) 30 –9 22 21 11 16 18 37 –28 48 Total return index, SIXRX (%) 35 –4 9 10 10 16 28 16 –14 27 MSCI World (%) 28 –8 23 8 0 6 27 17 –5 12 Other key ratios Earnings per share (SEK) 68.56 –19.14 35.76 38.05 7.18 12.62 31.16 28.50 –40.51 38.50 Management cost (% of portfolio value) 0.10 0.13 0.10 0.12 0.17 0.18 0.17 0.18 0.18 0.13 Dividends received (SEK M) 4,093 3,764 2,786 3,078 3,184 2,984 2,504 2,391 2,403 1,379 Shareholders’ equity (SEK M) 112,528 85,142 95,880 82,129 67,850 67,406 59,280 48,378 39,140 56,327 Equity ratio (%) 96 91 88 86 82 80 75 71 69 79 Values and calculations pertain to the respective year-end. Values for the years 2010–2012 have not been recalculated according to the principle for investment entities. 28 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Business review Holdings Portfolio structure The equities portfolio is made up of large shareholdings portfolio, adjusted for purchases and sales, increased by in eight portfolio companies with strong market positions 28% during the year, compared with the Stockholm Stock and in which Industrivärden exercises long-term active Exchange’s market index (OMXSPI), which gained 30%. ownership. At year-end 2019 the portfolio companies had Dividends received from portfolio companies during combined sales of SEK 1,200 billion and operations in the year amounted to a combined total of SEK 4,093 M more than 180 countries. A significant share of the equi(3,764). The portfolio’s total return, i.e., growth in value inties portfolio is exposed to the industrial equipment, comcluding reinvested dividends, was 33%, compared with 35% mercial vehicles, banking and consumer products sectors. for the total return index (SIXRX). At December 31, 2019, the equities portfolio had Further information about the equities portfolio is a market value of SEK 116,750 M (92,170), or SEK 268 presented on pages 14–15. (212) per Industrivärden share. The value of the equities Value breakdown Dividends received Total return on 12/31/2019 2019 shareholdings 2019 Sandvik SEK 28.4 bn (24%) Volvo SEK 1,462 M (36%) Sandvik SEK 9,346 M (49%) Volvo SEK 25.0 bn (21%) Handelsbanken SEK 1,116 M (27%) Volvo SEK 8,037 M (47%) Handelsbanken SEK 20.7 bn (18%) Sandvik SEK 655 M (16%) Essity SEK 6,056 M (42%) Essity SEK 20.2 bn (17%) Essity SEK 384 M (9%) Skanska SEK 2,387 M (58%) Ericsson SEK 7.4 bn (6%) Skanska SEK 183 M (4%) SCA SEK 1,985 M (42%) SCA SEK 6.7 bn (6%) SCA SEK 117 M (3%) Handelsbanken SEK 1,665 M (8%) Skanska SEK 6.6 bn (6%) Ericsson SEK 87 M (2%) Ericsson SEK 779 M (12%) SSAB SEK 1.5 bn (1%) SSAB SEK 67 M (2%) SSAB SEK 164 M (12%) ICA Gruppen SEK 22 M (1%) Machinery (heavy trucks and industrial equipment) 46% Banking 18% Consumer products 17% Sector breakdown Communication systems 6% 12/31/2019 Paper and forest products 6% Construction and technology 6% Metal and mining 1% Sector breakdown according to GICS level 2. Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 29 Sandvik is a high-tech global engineering group with sales for optimizing customers’ productivity. Sandvik Mining and in more than 160 countries, offering products and serRock Technology (SMRT) supplies equipment, tools, service and vices that enhance customer productivity, profitability and technical solutions to the mining and construction industries. sustainability. Application areas include rock drilling and rock cutting, crushing Operations are organized into three business areas and are and screening. Sandvik Materials Technology (SMT) manufacconducted in 19 product areas that are entirely responsible for tures advanced stainless steels, special alloys and other high pertheir own operations. The product areas have their own areas formance materials. of focus to secure leading global positions and be number 1 or 2 Sandvik has a long history of successful, value-based sales in their respective industries. They deliver solutions mainly to with focus on customers’ processes and efficiency improvement the mining, engineering, automotive, energy, construction and opportunities. The company’s strengths include unique experaerospace segments. The Sandvik Machining Solutions (SMS) tise in materials technology, extensive knowledge about indusbusiness area specializes in manufacturing tools and tooling trial processes, close customer cooperation and high capacity systems for advanced metal cutting and offers digital solutions for innovation. 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares 155,400,000 152,300,000 Market value, SEK M 28,384 19,243 Share of votes, % 12.4 12.1 24% of Share of capital, % 12.4 12.1 portfolio value Total return, SEK M Active ownership position since 1997 9,346 –2,182 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 103,238 100,072 SEK M SEK M Earnings after financial items (adj.), SEK M 17,982 17,795 125,000 20,000 Earnings per share (adj.), SEK 11.12 10.39 100,000 16,000 Debt-equity ratio, net, % 18 20 75,000 12,000 Dividend per share, SEK 4.50 4.25 50,000 8,000 Share price on December 31, SEK 182.65 126.35 25,000 4,000 Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Votes, % Capital, % Net sales Earnings after financial items Industrivärden 12.4 12.4 Alecta Pension Insurance 6.6 6.6 Growth in value Swedbank Robur Funds 4.4 4.4 Sandvik’s stock Index BlackRock 2.8 2.8 300 AMF Insurance & Funds 2.6 2.6 Vanguard 2.5 2.5 200 L E Lundbergföretagen 2.4 2.4 SEB Funds 2.3 2.3 100 Norges Bank Investment Management 1.8 1.8 Nordea Funds 1.4 1.4 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Holdings. Total return Total return index (SIXRX) CEO: Stefan Widing, since February 1, 2020 Chairman: Johan Molin www.sandvik.com 30 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers segments in mature as well as emerging markets. Trucks are sold of trucks, construction equipment, buses, and marine and inunder the Volvo, Renault Trucks, Mack and UD brands, under dustrial engines. The Group also provides complete solutions the Eicher brand by an Indian joint-venture company, and under for financing and service. the Dongfeng brand by a Chinese joint-venture company. The Operations are global, with sales in 190 countries. The vision Volvo Group also sells construction equipment under the Volvo is to be the world’s most desired and successful provider of susand SDLG brands. In addition, the Group manufactures and sells tainable transport solutions. The business model builds upon the buses and, through Volvo Penta, engines for marine and industrial company’s strong brands, leading innovative ability and first-class applications. service network aimed at providing competitive, reliable and The company conducts concerted innovation work in the effective products and services that create value for customers. areas of electrification, automation and connectivity to meet Business is conducted under several leading brands, which enafuture needs for transport solutions. bles the Group to penetrate many different customer and market 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 154,600,000 142,600,000 Class B-shares 3,600,000 3,600,000 21% of Market value, SEK M 25,023 16,988 portfolio value Share of votes, % Share of capital, % 24.1 7.4 22.2 6.9 Total return, SEK M 8,037 –4,857 Active ownership position since 2009 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 431,980 390,834 SEK M SEK M Earnings after financial items, SEK M 46,832 32,148 500,000 50,000 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 17.64 12.24 400,000 40,000 Debt-equity ratio, net, % –29.3 –25.7 300,000 30,000 Dividend per share, SEK 13.001 10.001 200,000 20,000 Share price on December 31, SEK: 100,000 10,000 Class A-shares 158.20 116.20 0 0 Class B-shares 156.90 115.95 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1) Of which, extra dividend of SEK 7.50 per share (5.00). Net sales Earnings after financial items Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 Growth in value Votes, % Capital, % Volvo’s stock Index Industrivärden 24.1 7.4 300 Geely Holding 15.0 7.9 AMF Insurance & Funds 5.0 3.3 200 Alecta Pension Insurance 4.8 4.3 AB Volvo 4.4 4.5 100 Norges Bank Investment Management 4.0 1.6 AFA Insurance 2.7 1.1 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Swedbank Robur Funds 2.0 4.7 Total return, Class A Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund (AP4) 1.8 0.9 Total return index (SIXRX) BlackRock 1.6 4.8 Source: Holdings. CEO: Martin Lundstedt Chairman: Carl-Henric Svanberg www.volvogroup.com Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 31 Handelsbanken offers high-quality financial services to private this highly effective business model, Handelsbanken has achieved and corporate customers in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, competitive profitability, a strong financial position, high customer the UK and the Netherlands. The bank has a local presence and satisfaction and leading market positions. The business is growing nationwide branch networks in its respective home markets. internationally in pace with establishment and development of the Handelsbanken has a decentralized work approach based on business model in selected markets. the core principle that responsibility for each customer rests with the Handelsbanken is run with long-term stable finances, low risk local branch where the customer lives or does business. This enables tolerance, low costs and focus on achieving the highest level of capclose and enduring customer relationships that are characterized by ital efficiency possible. A sustainable, keen ability to create value for availability, simplicity and a high standard of service. The branches customers, shareholders, employees and other stakeholders is a censet locally adapted priorities with respect to their customer catetral component in Handelsbanken’s work on running a modern and gories and product areas. Handelsbanken is developing its service sustainable bank. For many years Handelsbanken has had an indusoffering for digital platforms as well as the local customer meeting, try-leading position with respect to customer satisfaction, loan losses, which complement each other. Through consistent application of cost effectiveness and profitability. 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 204,900,000 202,900,000 Market value, SEK M 20,674 19,945 18% of Share of votes, % 10.5 10.6 portfolio value Share of capital, % Total return, SEK M 10.3 1,665 10.4 –1,356 Active ownership position since 1980 Key data 2019 2018 Income and earnings Income, SEK M 44,564 43,770 SEK M SEK M Earnings, SEK M 21,796 22,013 50,000 25,000 Earnings per share, SEK 8.65 8.93 40,000 20,000 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio, % 18.5 16.8 30,000 15,000 Dividend per share, SEK 5.50 5.50 20,000 10,000 Share price on December 31, SEK: 10,000 5,000 Class A-shares 100.90 98.30 0 0 Class B-shares 103.40 101.20 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Income Earnings Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 Votes, % Capital, % Growth in value Industrivärden 10.5 10.3 Handelsbanken’s stock Index Oktogonen Foundation 10.3 10.2 200 BlackRock 3.0 2.9 150 Baillie Gifford & Co 2.7 2.7 L E Lundbergföretagen 2.6 2.5 100 Vanguard 2.3 2.3 50 Swedbank Robur Funds 2.1 2.1 Fidelity Investment Management 1.9 1.9 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 First Eagle Investment Management 1.6 1.6 Total return, Class A JP Morgan Asset Management 1.6 1.5 Total return index (SIXRX) Source: Holdings. CEO: Carina Åkerström Chairman: Pär Boman www.handelsbanken.com 32 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review Essity is a leading global hygiene and health company that profitable market positions and improving or leaving low-performdevelops, produces, markets and sells products and sering positions, Essity works to improve profitability. vices in the areas of Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and Operations are global, with sales in some 150 countries. The Professional Hygiene. product offering covers a wide range of areas including inconValue is created by developing leading hygiene and health tinence products, feminine care products, baby diapers, wound products that enhance people’s well-being and quality of life. The care, compression therapy and orthopedics, professional hygiene, innovation process plays a central role in Essity’s strategy. It is toilet paper and paper towels. Sales are made under own brands, based on current trends, customer and consumer insight, new of which several are global leaders, as well as under retailers’ technology, new business models and Essity’s ambition to conprivate labels. Essity has a strong brand portfolio with globally tribute to a sustainable and circular society. Essity works with leading brands, such as TENA and Tork, and other brands such as digitalization in all parts of operations, such through online sales JOBST, Leukoplast, Libero, Libresse, Lotus, Nosotras, Saba and and development of digital solutions for customers and consumers. Tempo. The company has a strong position in many emerging Through continuous efficiency improvement and focus on growing markets, including China, Latin America and Russia. 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 34,000,000 35,000,000 Class B-shares 32,800,000 31,800,000 17% of Market value, SEK M 20,150 14,550 portfolio value Share of votes, % Share of capital, % 29.2 9.5 29.9 9.5 Total return, SEK M 6,056 –584 Active ownership position since 2016 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 128,975 118,500 SEK M SEK M Earnings after financial items, SEK M 13,040 9,602 150,000 20,000 Earnings per share, SEK 13.12 11.23 120,000 16,000 Debt-equity ratio, net, % 81 99 90,000 12,000 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 5.75 60,000 8,000 Share price on December 31, SEK: 30,000 4,000 Class A-shares 301.50 218.00 0 0 Class B-shares 301.80 217.60 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales Earnings after financial items Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 Votes, % Capital, % Growth in value Industrivärden 29.2 9.5 Essity’s stock Index Norges Bank Investment Management 6.8 3.6 160 AMF Insurance & Funds 4.2 3.4 120 MFS Investment Management 2.7 5.0 Oktogonen Foundation 2.1 0.4 80 Skandia Mutual Life Insurance Company 1.8 0.7 40 Swedbank Robur Funds 1.7 3.1 T. Rowe Price 1.6 3.0 0 2017 2018 2019 BlackRock 1.4 2.6 Total return, Class A Vanguard 1.4 2.5 Total return index (SIXRX) Source: Holdings. CEO: Magnus Groth Chairman: Pär Boman www.essity.com Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 33 Ericsson is a global telecommunications company that proOther. Networks develops hardware and software for operators vides infrastructure, services and software to customers in the of radio and transport networks as well as solutions for the next telecom industry and other sectors in more than 180 countries. generation of mobile networks (5G). Customers’ needs to be able The company delivers value-added to customers by continuto handle a growing volume of data with maintained quality and ously developing its offering with focus on customers’ priorities in unchanged costs are creating momentum for 5G, where Ericsson the key areas of efficiency, the digital experience and new revenue has a leading position. Digital Services provides IT systems, core streams. This work is based on Ericsson’s strengths: technology networks and infrastructure that help telecom operators meet leadership, product-led solutions, global scale and skill. These the challenges they are facing in the ongoing digital transformafactors have enabled a strong position in technology and services, tion, including cloud-based virtual networks. Managed Services which is illustrated by substantial investments in research and offers operational and optimization services for communications development and the market’s strongest patent portfolio of some networks and IT systems for operators. The Emerging Business & 45,000 granted patents. Other segment invests in strategic growth opportunities based on Ericsson’s business is conducted in four segments: Networks, 5G and IoT. Digital Services, Managed Services and Emerging Business & 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 86,052,615 86,052,615 Class B-shares 1,000,000 1,000,000 6% of Market value, SEK M 7,430 6,738 portfolio value Share of votes, % Share of capital, % 15.1 2.6 15.1 2.6 Total return, SEK M 779 2,227 Active ownership position since 1944 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 227,216 210,838 SEK M SEK M Earnings after financial items, SEK M 8,762 –1,463 250,000 40,000 Earnings per share, SEK 0.67 –1.98 200,000 24,000 Debt-equity ratio, net, %1 –42 –41 150,000 8,000 Dividend per share, SEK 1.50 1.00 100,000 –8,000 Share price on December 31, SEK: 50,000 –24,000 Class A-shares 85.40 77.40 0 –40,000 Class B-shares 81.56 77.92 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1) Excl. pensions and leasing. Net sales Earnings after financial items Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 Growth in value Votes, % Capital, % Ericsson’s stock Index Investor 22.5 7.2 200 Industrivärden 15.1 2.6 150 Cevian Capital 5.0 8.4 Handelsbanken Pension Foundation 2.9 0.5 100 AMF Insurance & Funds 2.7 2.3 50 Swedbank Robur Funds 2.3 3.9 AFA Insurance 2.1 0.7 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 PRIMECAP 2.0 3.5 Total return, Class A Vanguard 2.0 3.1 Total return index (SIXRX) BlackRock 1.8 3.0 Source: Holdings. CEO: Börje Ekholm Chairman: Ronnie Leten www.ericsson.com 34 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review SCA is a leading forest and forest products company that owns categories, use innovation to develop new business opportunities, 2.6 million hectares of environmentally certified forestland and continuously improve efficiency. in northern Sweden, and 30,000 hectares of forestland in Operations are organized in four segments. The Forest segEstonia and Latvia, making up the largest private forest holdment manages SCA’s forestland, of which 2 million hectares are ings in Europe. used for timber production for SCA’s forest industries. Roughly an With this unique resource as a foundation, SCA has developed equal amount of timber that is harvested from its own forests is a well-invested and resource-efficient industry designed to generpurchased from other forest owners. The Timber segment includes ate the highest possible value from the forest, where the entire tree five sawmills in Sweden, wood processing units with planing mills is used to create value. The company’s products include solidin Sweden, the UK and France, and distribution and wholesale opwood products, pulp, kraftliner, publication papers and renewable erations. The Pulp segment produces sulfate pulp and chemi-therenergy. SCA creates value and contributes to a circular society by momechanical pulp (CTMP), which is made at the Östrand pulp providing customers sustainable products based on raw material mill. The Paper segment produces containerboard in Obbola and from responsibly managed forests and a resource-efficient value Munksund, and publishing papers in Ortviken, which are used for chain. The strategy is to focus on selected markets and product magazines, catalogs and advertising brochures. 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 33,785,290 35,000,000 Class B-shares 34,575,273 31,800,000 6% of Market value, SEK M 6,660 4,688 portfolio value Share of votes, % Share of capital, % 29.0 9.7 29.7 9.5 Total return, SEK M 1,985 –1,243 Active ownership position since 1950 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 19,591 18,755 SEK M SEK M 20,000 4,000 Earnings after financial items, SEK M 3,577 3,973 Earnings per share, SEK 4.05 5.21 15,000 3,000 Debt-equity ratio, net, % 12.5 18.0 10,000 2,000 Dividend per share, SEK 2.00 1.75 Share price on December 31, SEK: 5,000 1,000 Class A-shares 99.90 71.50 0 0 Class B-shares 95.00 68.72 2016 2017 2018 2019 Excl. the effect of changed accounting method for valuation of forest assets. Net sales Earnings after financial items Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 Growth in value Votes, % Capital, % SCA’s stock Index Industrivärden 29.0 9.7 200 Norges Bank Investment Management 9.6 7.2 AMF Insurance & Funds 7.4 11.1 150 Handelsbanken Pension Foundation 3.4 1.4 100 Swedbank Robur Funds 3.0 5.5 50 Alecta Pension Insurance 2.4 4.4 Aberdeen Standard Investments 2.3 1.0 0 2017 2018 2019 Skandia Mutual Life Insurance Company 1.6 1.1 Total return, Class A Vanguard 1.5 2.5 Total return index (SIXRX) Handelsbankens Pension Fund 1.3 0.7 Source: Holdings. CEO: Ulf Larsson Chairman: Pär Boman www.sca.com Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 35 Skanska is one of the world’s leading construction and proproject development. Residential Development develops housing ject development companies, focused on selected home marfor sale primarily to private home buyers. Commercial Property kets of the Nordic countries, other European countries and Development initiates, invests in, develops, leases out and sells the U.S. commercial property projects. Supported by global trends in urbanization and demographSkanska’s operations are based on the premise that value is ics, and by being at the forefront in sustainability, Skanska offers created in the thousands of projects carried out every year. The competitive solutions for both simple and the most complex company’s overarching aspiration is to create industry-leading assignments. Operations are conducted through three business shareholder value by being the customers’ preferred partner and streams: Construction, Residential Development and Commercial the industry’s most attractive employer, by taking a value-driven Property Development. Construction is Skanska’s largest busiapproach to sustainable solutions, by continuing to develop inness stream and involves construction of buildings, industrial ternal collaboration, and by continuously improving operational facilities, infrastructure and housing. The Construction operaefficiency. tions generate cash flow that can be invested in value-creating 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 12,667,500 12,667,500 Class B-shares 18,500,000 16,343,995 6% of Market value, SEK M 6,598 4,091 portfolio value Share of votes, % Share of capital, % 24.3 7.4 23.9 6.9 Total return, SEK M 2,387 –629 Active ownership position since 1987 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 176,782 170,494 SEK M SEK M Earnings after financial items, SEK M 7,725 4,863 200,000 10,000 Earnings per share, SEK 15.46 9.55 160,000 8,000 Debt-equity ratio, net, % 14.9 –11.0 120,000 6,000 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.00 80,000 4,000 Share price, Class B-shares, on December 31, SEK 211.70 141.00 40,000 2,000 Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Votes Capital, % Net sales Earnings after financial items Industrivärden 24.3 7.4 L E Lundbergföretagen 12.5 4.8 Growth in value AMF Insurance & Funds 3.3 4.6 Skanska’s stock Index Swedbank Robur Funds 2.8 4.0 200 Alecta Pension Insurance 2.7 3.8 BlackRock 1.9 2.7 150 Vanguard 1.8 2.5 100 Skanska AB 1.4 2.0 50 Norges Bank Investment Management 1.3 1.9 Carnegie Funds 1.1 1.6 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Holdings. Total return, Class B Total return index (SIXRX) CEO: Anders Danielsson Chairman: Hans Biörck www.skanska.com 36 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Business review SSAB is a highly specialized global steel company driven by products lighter and increase their strength and lifespan. In close customer relationships. the Nordic market SSAB is the market leader in strip, plate and SSAB develops high strength steels and provides services tubular products as well as in construction solutions. In North to enhance the performance of customers’ products, which America SSAB is the leading producer of plate. In the long term enables sustainable products with clear competitive advanSSAB is working to change over to fossil-free steel production tages. The overall goal is to attain industry-leading profitabiland has plans as the first steel company in the world to offer ity and generate stable cash flows. This is achieved by ensuring customers fossil-free steel by 2026. that SSAB has a leading position in high strength steels and SSAB is structured across three steel divisions: SSAB value-added services on a global scale, and by being a market Special Steels, SSAB Europe, and SSAB Americas, and two leader in its home markets. SSAB is a leading producer in the subsidiaries: Tibnor and Ruukki Construction. global market for advanced high-strength steels and quenched & tempered steels. SSAB’s steels and services helps to make end 2019 2018 Industrivärden’s shareholding Shareholding, no. shares: Class A-shares 44,334,933 44,334,933 Market value, SEK M 1,456 1,352 1% of Share of votes, % 11.8 11.8 portfolio value Share of capital, % Total return, SEK M 4.3 164 4.3 –359 Active ownership position since 1994 Key data 2019 2018 Net sales and earnings Net sales, SEK M 76,485 74,941 SEK M SEK M Earnings after financial items, SEK M 1,572 4,403 80,000 7,500 Earnings per share, SEK 1.04 3.45 64,000 5,500 Debt-equity ratio, net, % 19 18 48,000 3,500 Dividend per share, SEK 1.50 1.50 32,000 1,500 Share price, on December 31, SEK: 16,000 –500 Class A-shares 32.85 30.49 0 –2,500 Class B-shares 30.52 24.92 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Net sales Earnings after financial items Largest shareholders December 31, 2019 Votes, % Capital, % Growth in value Industrivärden 11.8 4.3 SSAB’s stock Index Government of Finland 9.8 12.6 200 LKAB 3.6 2.3 Lannebo Funds 2.8 1.0 150 Vanguard 2.3 2.3 100 Norges Bank Investment Management 1.8 2.2 50 Swedbank Robur Funds 1.8 3.5 Invesco 1.1 1.3 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Folksam 1.1 1.1 Total return, Class A BlackRock 1.0 1.0 Total return index (SIXRX) Source: Holdings. CEO: Martin Lindqvist Chairman: Bengt Kjell www.ssab.com Business review INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 37 38 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report Annual Report 2019 The Board of Directors and CEO of AB Industrivärden (publ), corporate identity number 556043-4200, herewith submit the annual report for the 2019 fiscal year for the Group and Parent Company. The Company’s Sustainability Report is presented on pages 20–23 and 71–74 in Industrivärden’s business review and Annual Report for 2019. The Board of Directors’ registered office is in Stockholm, Sweden. Board of Directors’ Report 40 Administration of the Company 40 Corporate Governance Report 41 Board of Directors and Executive Management 46 Financial statements 48 Income statement 49 Balance sheet 50 Shareholders’ equity 51 Statement of cash flows 52 Notes to the financial statements 53 Proposed distribution of earnings 63 Auditor’s Report 64 Auditor’s opinion on the Sustainability Report 66 Annual Report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 39 Board of Directors’ Report Administration of the Company Operations Expected future performance Industrivärden is an asset management company that Industrivärden has a strong financial position with good invests in listed Nordic companies. By exercising active flexibility, a proven business model for long-term value ownership, Industrivärden contributes to the portfocreation through active ownership and sizable shareholdlio companies’ strategic development and long-term ings in large, well-managed companies with good future value creation. Operations are conducted by the Parent opportunities. Company AB Industrivärden (publ), where the wholly owned subsidiaries have a supporting function. Sustainability Report The asset management operations are based on a sustainImportant events able approach. The Sustainability Report is presented During the year shares were purchased for SEK 1.6 billion on pages 20–23 and 71–74 and is separate from the 2019 in Volvo A, SEK 0.5 billion in Sandvik, SEK 0.4 billion in Annual Report. Skanska B, SEK 0.3 billion in Essity B, SEK 0.2 billion in SCA B and SEK 0.2 billion in Handelsbanken A. In addiIndustrivärden’s stock tion, shares were sold for SEK 0.3 billion in Essity A and The number of shares outstanding in Industrivärden on SEK 0.1 billion in SCA A. Shares in ICA Gruppen worth December 31, 2019, was 435,209,877, of which 268,183,340 SEK 4.1 billion were delivered in connection with the rewere Class A shares and 167,026,537 were Class C shares. demption of the outstanding exchangeable, whereby the During 2019 117 Class A-shares were converted to Class remaining shares were sold. C-shares. Financial development Return Net asset value The total return was 30% for both the Class A and Class Net asset value on December 31, 2019, was SEK 259 per C shares, compared with 35% for the total return index share, an increase of 35% during the year including rein(SIXRX). vested dividend. Guidelines for compensation Equities portfolio of senior executives The value of the equities portfolio, adjusted for purchases For information on compensation of senior executives and and sales, increased by SEK 26.1 billion to SEK 116.7 bilongoing long-term incentive programs, see Note 7 on page lion. The total return was 33%. The composition and per55. The guidelines for compensation of senior executives formance of the equities portfolio are presented on page adopted by the 2019 Annual General Meeting are outlined 24 and in Note 11 on page 57. in the same note. The Board of Directors’ recommendation for guidelines for resolution by the 2020 Annual Interest-bearing net debt General Meeting is presented on pages 44–45. Interest-bearing net debt on December 31, 2019, was SEK 4.0 billion (6.6). The debt-equities ratio was 3% (7%). Proposed distribution of earnings According to the Parent Company balance sheet, earnings Parent Company totaling SEK 61,476 M are at the disposal of the Annual The Parent Company’s income after financial items General Meeting. The Board of Directors proposes that at December 31, 2019, was SEK 19,846 M (–5,007). these earnings be distributed as follows: Payment of a divShareholders’ equity was SEK 63,627 M (46,233). idend to the shareholders of SEK 6.00 per share, or a total SEK 2,611 M. The balance to be carried forward next year Risks and uncertainties is SEK 58,865 M. The Board’s complete proposal for disIndustrivärden’s material risks consist of equities risk and tribution of earnings is provided on page 63. to a smaller extent a few financial and operational risks. See Note 26 on page 61. 40 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report Corporate Governance Report Shareholders Nominating Committee General Meeting Auditors Board of Directors Compensation Committee Audit Committee CEO and Executive Management Governance documents and internal control Corporate governance structure Shareholders Good corporate governance is of major importance for mainAs per December 31, 2019, Industrivärden had approximately taining correct, transparent and trust-instilling management and 88,000 shareholders. Two shareholders each hold more than 10% control. Industrivärden’s corporate governance is conducted on of the number of votes: L E Lundbergföretagen owns 23.8% of the basis of laws, the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s Rule Book the number of votes, and the Handelsbanken Pension Foundation for Issuers (www.nasdaqomxnordic.com), the Swedish owns 10.8% of the number of votes, in the Company. For further Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”) (www.bolagsstyrning.se) information on the ownership structure, see pages 26–27. and other applicable external rules and regulations. Among the internal governance documents that Industrivärden’s corGeneral meetings porate governance is based on are Industrivärden’s Articles The shareholders’ influence over Industrivärden’s affairs is of Association, the instructions and Rules of Procedure for exercised at general meetings of shareholders, which are the the Board of Directors, the Board’s committees and the Chief Company’s highest governing body. Class A shares carry entitleExecutive Officer (CEO), and various policies and guidelines for ment to one vote, and Class C shares carry entitlement to onethe Company’s operations and organization. tenth of a vote. Apart from what is prescribed by law regarding The foundation for Industrivärden’s corporate governthe shareholders’ right to participate at general meetings, the ance is made up of the central company bodies: the general Articles of Association prescribe that notification shall be made meeting of shareholders, the Nominating Committee, the Board within a period of time stated in the AGM notice. of Directors and its committees, the CEO and the auditor. At At the AGM, resolutions are made concerning recommendathe Annual General Meeting (AGM), which is held within six tions and proposals set forth by the Nominating Committee, the months after the end of the fiscal year, the shareholders elect the Board and the shareholders, and other legally ordained matters Board of Directors and auditor. The Board of Directors appoints are addressed. Among other things, the income statement and the CEO. The auditor reviews the annual report and the Board’s balance sheet are adopted, a decision is made regarding the divand CEO’s administration. The Nominating Committee is tasked idend, the Board of Directors and auditor are elected and their with, among other things, recommending board members, the fees are set, a decision is made on whether to discharge the direcChairman of the Board and the auditor for election at the AGM. tors and the CEO from liability, and the guidelines for compensaThrough the Articles of Association the shareholdtion of senior executives are adopted. ers have stipulated the object of the Company’s business, the At the AGM on April 17, 2019, the following resolutions were minimum and maximum number of board members, and made, among others: the forms of conducting general meetings of shareholders. • To pay a dividend of SEK 5.75 per share Industrivärden’s Articles of Association and further informa• To re-elect all board members tion about the Company’s corporate governance model are pro• To elect Deloitte AB as new auditor vided on Industrivärden’s website under the menu Corporate • To adopt the guidelines for compensation of senior executives Governance. • To approve a long-term share savings program for This Corporate Governance Report for the 2019 fiscal year Industrivärden employees has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Further information on Industrivärden’s 2019 AGM is available and the Code, and has been examined by the Company’s auditor. on Industrivärden’s website under the menu Corporate Governance. During 2019 Industrivärden did not depart from the Code. Industrivärden’s 2020 Annual General Meeting will be held on April 24, 2020. For more information, see page 69 and Industrivärden’s website under the menu Corporate Governance. Annual Report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 41 Nominating Committee Board of Directors The Nominating Committee is responsible for performing the The Board’s role, composition and fees duties prescribed to it by the Code, and as a drafting body shall The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for Industridraw up recommendations for, among other things, election of the värden’s organization and administration, and plays a central role members of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board and in Industrivärden’s business model for exercising long-term active auditor, and for directors’ and the auditor’s fees, for decision by ownership. It is responsible for, among other things, the Company’s the Annual General Meeting. strategy, matters involving major purchases and sales of securities, In accordance with the resolution for the Nominating formulation and application of the methods for active ownership, Committee made by the 2011 AGM, which applies until further noand overarching ownership matters concerning the portfolio comtice, the Chairman of the Board is assigned the task of contacting panies. The Articles of Association stipulate that the Board shall four shareholders from among the largest registered shareconsist of a minimum of three and a maximum of nine directors. holders in terms of votes in Euroclear Sweden AB’s printout The Board’s composition, the directors’ attendance at board and of the shareholder register as per the last business day in committee meetings, and directors’ fees are shown in the table beAugust, who each appoint one representative who is not low. For a more detailed presentation of the board members, see a director on the Company’s board, to form together with page 46 and Industrivärden’s website, under the menu Corporate the Chairman of the Board a Nominating Committee for Governance. the time until a new Nominating Committee has been apThe Nominating Committee’s reasoned statement ahead of pointed. The Nominating Committee appoints a committhe 2019 AGM certifies that in formulating its recommendations tee chair from among its members. The composition of for members of the Board of Directors, the Nominating Committee the Nominating Committee shall be made public not later relied on Rule 4.1 of the Code as its diversity policy. The goal of the than six months before the next AGM. No fee is payable for policy is that the Board shall have a suitable composition in respect work on the Nominating Committee. If a member leaves of the Company’s operations, phase of development and conditions the Nominating Committee before its work has been comin general, distinguished by a diversity and breadth of expertise, expleted, and if the Nominating Committee is of the opinion perience and backgrounds. The 2019 AGM resolved to elect board that there is a need to replace the departing member, the members in accordance with the Nominating Committee’s recomNominating Committee shall appoint a new member. Any mendation, entailing that eight directors were elected, of whom changes in the Nominating Committee’s composition shall three are women and five are men. be made public immediately. The composition of Industrivärden’s board meets the The Nominating Committee’s composition ahead of the 2019 Code’s requirement for independent directors. The Nominating AGM and the Nominating Committee’s report is available on Committee’s assessment regarding the directors’ independence conIndustrivärden’s website under the menu Corporate Governance. ditions ahead of the 2019 AGM is outlined in the table below. The Nominating Committee ahead of the 2020 AGM has the The Board has appointed an audit committee and a compenfollowing composition: Mats Guldbrand (L E Lundbergföretagen), sation committee tasked with conducting preparatory work for Stefan Nilsson (Handelsbanken Pension Foundation and others), audit and compensation matters, respectively, for decision by the Mikael Schmidt (SCA and Essity Pension Foundations and others), Board. The aim of the committees is to take a more in-depth look Bo Damberg (the Jan Wallander and Tom Hedelius Foundation at, streamline and quality-assure the Board’s work on these matters. and others), and Fredrik Lundberg (Chairman of the Board of The committees are described in more detail below. Industrivärden). Mats Guldbrand has been appointed as committee chair. Attendance, fees and independence conditions Board members elected at the 2019 Annual General Meeting Role Independent in relation to Attendance at meetings The company Audit Compensation and Executive Major Audit Compensation Decided fee Name Role on Board Committee Committee Management shareholders Board Committee Committee 2019, SEK 000s Fredrik Lundberg Chairman Member Chair x 9 3 3 2,060 Pär Boman Vice Chairman Chair – 9 3 – 1,240 Christian Caspar Director Member – x x 9 3 – 620 Bengt Kjell Director – – x x 9 – – 620 Nina Linander Director Member – x x 9 3 – 620 Annika Lundius Director – Member x x 9 – 3 620 Lars Pettersson Director – Member x 8 – 3 620 Helena Stjernholm Director – – x 9 – – – Total 6,400 42 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report The Board’s work the Chairman’s work on the Board was evaluated with him not being The Board’s duties are laid out in the Rules of Procedure (incl. the present. The conclusions of these evaluations and discussions were CEO’s instruction), which are adopted yearly at the statutory board that the board work was considered to work very well, which was remeeting. The Rules of Procedure and the CEO’s instructions regulate ported on to the Nominating Committee. and structure the Board’s duties during the year, clarify internal decision-making processes and prescribe the division of responsibility visAudit Committee à-vis the CEO. The Audit Committee serves a in preparatory and oversight role with In addition to the Rules of Procedure, the Board adopts a number respect to the Company’s risk management, governance and control of governance documents for the Company’s operations. For further over financial reporting. The committee maintains regular contact with information, see the subheading “Internal control over financial reportthe auditor to ensure that the Company’s internal and external reporting” on page 45. Every board meeting is conducted in accordance with ing meet the requirements placed on a listed company, monitor the an agenda that has been distributed to the directors along with relevant effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, documentation. All board decisions are based on extensive documentastay informed about the audit of the annual report and consolidated tion and are made following a discussion that is led by the Chairman of financial statements, and to discuss the scope and focus of the audit the Board. Minutes are recorded of board meetings by the Company’s work with the auditor. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews and General Counsel. oversees the auditor’s impartiality and independence, issues guideIn addition to the statutory board meeting, which is held in conlines for which other services than auditing may be procured from the junction with the AGM, the Board normally meets eight times per year Company’s auditor and, where applicable, handles procurement of (regular meetings, including meetings in connection with the publicaservices from the auditor. The auditor reports on its observations to the tion of interim and year-end reports). Extra board meetings are conAudit Committee on a regular basis. vened when necessary. In 2019 the Board held a total of nine meetings. The Audit Committee held three meetings in 2019. The Company’s The regular board meetings cover a number of set agenda points. auditors participated at all three meetings, of which the departing auThese include, among other things, a report on the financial result of ditor PricewaterhouseCoopers AB participated at one meeting, and the operations, the development of net asset value and performance of the new auditor elected at the 2019 AGM, Deloitte AB, participated at two equities portfolio, and on equity transactions that have been carried out. meetings. The members of the Audit Committee are listed in the table Reporting also includes a description of the portfolio companies’ peron page 42. No fees have been paid to the board members for their work formance and macroeconomic conditions. In addition, a special review on the committee. is normally conducted of one or more of the portfolio companies and of potential investments or divestments. Industrivärden’s action plans Compensation Committee for the portfolio companies are also updated on a continuous basis and The Compensation Committee has a preparatory role ahead of the are presented to the Board. Through representation on the portfolio Board’s decisions on matters concerning principles for compensacompanies’ boards and nominating committees, Industrivärden’s board tion and other terms of employment for the CEO and senior execumembers and executive management play a central role in exercising tives, and evaluates variable compensation program for members of active ownership. Senior executives of Industrivärden participate at the Executive Management, application of the compensation guideboard meetings to give presentations on specific matters. During 2019, lines for senior executives that the AGM decides on, and applicable within the framework of active ownership and as in earlier years, a compensation structures and compensation levels in the Company. significant part of the Board’s work consisted of hearing presentations The Compensation Committee held three meetings in 2019. The from members of the Executive Management covering Industrivärden’s members of the Compensation Committee are listed in the table on more in-depth view and action plan for a couple of the portfolio compapage 42. No fees have been paid to the board members for their work on nies, and discussing and evaluating these action plans. the committee. Each year the Board evaluates Industrivärden’s financial reporting and makes demands on its content and structure to ensure it maintains CEO and Executive Management a high level of quality. In connection with the board meeting that deals The CEO is responsible for Industrivärden’s operating activities in with the annual financial statements, the Board of Directors’ Report, accordance with the objectives and strategies set by the Board of the proposed distribution of earnings and the year-end report, the Directors as well as in accordance with the division of responsibilities Company’s auditor submits a report on its observations and assesslaid out in the CEO’s instructions. The CEO’s duties include, among ments from the performed audit. other things, leading and structuring the investment and analysis operations, deciding on share transactions, preparing action plans, and reEvaluation of the Board’s work sponsibility for personnel, finance and business administration matters. The Board’s work is evaluated yearly in a structured process conThe CEO organizes the operations and appoints the senior executives ducted under the direction of the Chairman of the Board. The 2019 who make up Industrivärden’s Executive Management. Other members evaluation was conducted by means of a questionnaire that each of the Executive Management support the CEO in her assignment. The board member was requested to complete, in the aim of gaining CEO makes regular presentations to the Board of Directors on the peran idea about the directors’ views on, among other things, how the formance of operations in order to facilitate well-informed board deciboard work has been conducted and which measures can be taken to sions. The Board continuously evaluates the CEO’s work by monitoring improve the board work as well as which matters the directors feel performance of the operations based on set goals, and a comprehenshould be given more attention and in which areas it could possibly sive evaluation is performed yearly. For a more detailed presentation be suitable to have additional expertise on the Board. The results of of Industrivärden’s CEO and Executive Management, see page 47 and this evaluation were reported and discussed by the Board. In addition, Industrivärden’s website under the menu Corporate Governance. Annual Report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 43 Compensation compensation to the CEO is fulfilled. The Board thereafter sets the Directors’ fees CEO’s compensation. The CEO is responsible for assessing the fulfillThe 2019 AGM resolved on directors’ fees in accordance with the ment of criteria for payment of short-term variable cash compensatable on page 42. tion for other senior executives. Short-term variable cash compensation shall not be pensionable. Compensation of senior executives 2019 The Board shall have the opportunity pursuant to law or The guidelines for compensation of senior executives that were agreement, with the restrictions that may arise out of such, to fully adopted by the 2019 AGM and information on compensation of senor partly rescind variable cash compensation paid out on incorrect ior executives in 2019 are provided in Note 7 on pages 54–55. grounds. Pension benefits, including disability insurance, (Sw. sjukGuidelines for compensation of försäkring) shall be defined contribution solutions to the extent senior executives 2020 that the executive is not covered by a defined benefit pension under The Board of Directors recommends that the 2020 AGM resolve compulsory collective contract provisions, and shall entitle the execin favor of the following guidelines for compensation of senior utive to receive a pension from 60 or 65 years of age, depending on executives. the position. For the CEO and other senior executives, premiums and These guidelines pertain to Industrivärden’s CEO and other other costs related to defined contribution pensions may amount to a members of the Executive Management. The guidelines are to be combined maximum of 40% of the fixed annual cash salary, dependapplied for compensation agreed upon, and changes made to aling on the position. ready agreed upon compensation, after the guidelines have been Other benefits may include, among other things, life insurance, adopted by the 2020 AGM. Compensation decided by the AGM is health insurance (Sw. sjukvårdsförsäkring), a car benefit and a wellnot covered. ness benefit. For the CEO, such benefits may amount to a maximum Compared with the guidelines decided upon by the 2019 AGM, of one (1)% of fixed annual cash salary, and for other senior executhe proposal below has been updated to meet the requirements aristives they may amount to four (4)% of fixed annual cash salary, ing out of implementation of the EU’s Shareholder Rights Directive. depending on the position. In addition to the above, the general meeting of shareholdThe guidelines’ promotion of the Company’s business ers may – independently from these guidelines – decide on e.g., mission, long-term interests and sustainability share-based and share price–related compensation. Since 2012 the The Company’s business mission is to be a long-term asset manager Company has established share-based incentive programs approved and active owner of listed Nordic companies. The mission, objectives by general meetings, of which the 2017–2019 programs are currently and strategy are presented in more detail on Industrivärden’s website in effect. The programs cover all employees and require a personal www.industrivarden.net. shareholding and holding period of three (3) years. The outcome Successful and sustainable execution of the Company’s mission, is based on performance targets that are related to the long-term objectives and strategy for capitalizing on the Company’s long-term growth in Industrivärden’s share price. Approved share-based inceninterests requires that the Company can recruit and retain qualified tive programs are presented in more detail on Industrivärden’s webemployees. The guidelines contribute to this by ensuring that senior site www.industrivarden.net. executives can be offered a going-rate, competitive total compensaFor notice of termination served by the Company, the notice petion package that is commensurate with their responsibilities and riod may be a maximum of two (2) years. Fixed cash salary paid durauthority. ing the notice period and severance pay may together not exceed an amount corresponding to two (2) years’ fixed cash salary. For notice Types of compensation, etc. given by the executive, the notice period may be a maximum of six Compensation shall be in line with the going rate in the market and (6) months, without any right to severance pay. competitive, and be related to individual performance as well as the Additionally, compensation may be payable for any non comCompany’s development. Compensation may consist of the following pete obligation. Such payment shall compensate for possible loss components: fixed cash salary, short-term variable cash compensaof income and shall only be paid to the extent the former executive tion, pension benefits and other benefits. lacks entitlement to severance pay. Compensation shall amount to a Short-term variable cash compensation may amount to a maxmaximum of 60% of fixed cash salary at the time notice was served, imum of 50% of the executive’s fixed annual cash salary. The comunless other terms apply under stipulations of a compulsory collecpensation shall be coupled to fulfillment of individual criteria that tive agreement. It shall be paid during the time the noncompete obliare set yearly and that are evaluated according to the executive’s gation applies, which shall be a maximum of 12 months after the end work contribution and performance. The criteria may be financial or of employment. nonfinancial, or they may consist of individually adapted quantitative or qualitative goals. The criteria shall be formulated so that they Decision-making process for setting, revising have a clear coupling to value creation for the Company and promote and implementing the guidelines the Company’s business mission and sustainable execution of the The Compensation Committee’s duties include conducting preparaCompany’s long-term interests. tory work for board decisions on proposed guidelines for compenFulfillment of criteria for payment of short-term variable sation of senior executives. The Board shall draw up a recommencash compensation shall be measured during a period of one year. dation for new guidelines at least every fourth year and present the The Compensation Committee is responsible for assessing the exrecommendation for decision by the Annual General Meeting. The tent to which the criteria for payment of short-term variable cash guidelines apply until new guidelines have been adopted by a general 44 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report meeting. The Compensation Committee shall also monitor and evalmanagement. These frameworks, together with internal, formal uate variable compensation programs for members of the Executive process descriptions, are well-established and known by the pertiManagement, application of guidelines for compensation of senior nent employees. executives and applicable compensation structures and compensation Relevant governance documents adopted by the Board of levels in the Company. Directors include, among others, the CEO’s instructions, which In the preparatory work for the Board’s recommendation on stipulate the division of responsibility between the Board and the these compensation guidelines, salary and terms of employment for the CEO, and the Investment and Finance Policy, which lays out the Company’s other employees have been taken into account, whereby frameworks for investments in financial instruments, financing and information on the employees’ total compensation, the components of management of financial risks. Decision-making channels, authority their compensation and the increase in their compensation and rate of and responsibility at the operational level are defined in more detail growth over time have made up part of the Compensation Committee’s by the CEO in Investment Rules, the Risk Policy and Authorization and Board’s decision-making documentation in evaluating the fairness Instructions. of the guidelines and the limitations that arise out of these. The Compensation Committee’s members are independent in Risk assessment relation to the Company and Executive Management. In the Board’s Industrivärden continuously identifies, assesses and manages risks handling of and decisions on compensation-related matters, the CEO for material errors in the financial reporting. This process is funand other members of the Executive Management are not present to damental for ensuring that the financial reporting is reliable. The the extent they are the subject of the matters at hand. Company’s assessments and measures are reported on a regular basis to the Audit Committee. Risk management is described in more detail Departures from the guidelines in Note 26 on page 61. The Board may decide to temporarily depart from the guidelines entirely or partly if in an individual case there are special reasons for Control activities doing so and a departure is necessary for safeguarding the Company’s Industrivärden has established a number of different control activities long-term interests or to ensure the Company’s financial soundness. aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the measures taken to prevent The Compensation Committee’s duties include conducting preparamaterial errors in the financial reporting. Relevant control and monitory work for the Board’s decisions on compensation matters, which toring activities make up an integral part of Industrivärden’s business, includes decisions to depart from the guidelines. decision-making and accounting processes. The Board of Directors continuously evaluates the financial reAuditor porting that is received in connection with board meetings and which The Annual General Meeting appoints the Company’s auditor yearly. covers the equities portfolio, gearing and other important condiThe auditor audits the annual report, the bookkeeping and the Board’s tions. The Audit Committee carries on a continuous dialog with the and CEO’s administration of the Company, and reports to the Annual Company’s auditor on the scope and quality of the Company’s financial General Meeting. reporting. At the 2019 AGM, Deloitte AB was elected as new auditor for a Against the background of Industrivärden’s operations, organiterm lasting through the 2020 AGM. The chief auditor is Hans Warén zational structure and how the financial reporting in other respects is (born 1964), Authorized Public Accountant, who has been active as an organized, in 2019 the Board did not find a need for a dedicated audit auditor since 1987. In addition to his assignment for Industrivärden, in function in the form of internal audit. 2019 Hans Warén was chief auditor, for among other things, the listed Internal control activities concerning the financial reporting are companies Axfood, Castellum, Trelleborg, Gunnebo and Lindab. described in more detail in Note 26 on page 61. In 2019 the Company’s auditor reviewed the half-year report and year-end report, and audited the annual report and consolidated Information and communication financial statements. The auditor has submitted written as well as oral Industrivärden’s communication of external information is regureports to the Audit Committee and the Board. The auditor’s report for lated by an Information Policy that is adopted by the Company’s 2019 is provided on pages 64–66, and the auditor’s fee is shown in Note board. In addition, internal guidelines are in place to ensure in8 on page 56. formation security, and correct and reliable communication of information. Internal control over financial reporting Control environment Monitoring Internal control at Industrivärden aims primarily to ensure a corIndustrivärden’s board and management continuously evaluate the rect valuation of outstanding equity positions as well as effective effectiveness and quality of internal control over financial reporting. and reliable controls in the reporting of purchases and sales of Management reports on the Company’s operational and financial shares and other securities. development to the Board on a regular basis in connection with Industrivärden’s control environment is built upon a clear forthcoming interim reporting, and board and Audit Committee division of duties and responsibilities between the Company’s meetings. Between such occasions, reporting is conducted as various bodies and functions, a sound corporate culture and transneeded. The Company’s auditor reports its observations to the parent operations. Relevant policies and guidelines are decided on Audit Committee on a continuing basis. and evaluated on a continuing basis by the Company’s board and Annual Report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 45 Board of Directors FREDRIK LUNDBERG (1951) PÄR BOMAN (1961) CHRISTIAN CASPAR (1951) BENGT KJELL (1954) Chairman of the Board since 2015 Vice Chairman since 2015. Director since Director since 2011 Director since 2015 Director since 2004 2013. Engineering and Business/Economics B.Sc. Econ. B.Sc. Econ. B.Sc. Eng., B.Sc. Econ., Honorary Ph.D. in degree. Honorary Ph.D. in Economics Director of Stena, Benteler International Chairman of SSAB. Vice Chairman of Economics, Honorary Ph.D. in Technology Chairman of Handelsbanken, Essity AG and Goodgrower SA. More than 30 Indutrade and Pandox. Director of President and CEO of and SCA. Director of Skanska. Former years of experience from leading positions Amasten. Former acting President and L E Lundbergföretagen. Chairman of President and CEO of Handelsbanken. at McKinsey & Company. former Executive Vice President of Holmen and Hufvudstaden. Vice Chairman Shareholding: Closely related legal entities Shareholding: Own 1,000 Industrivärden. President of AB Handel of Handelsbanken. Director of 10,000 och Industri, partner of Navet. L E Lundbergföretagen and Skanska. Shareholding: Own 25,000 Active in L E Lundbergföretagen since 1977. Shareholding: Own 8,190,000, closely related natural person 20,000 and closely related legal entities 77,600,000* NINA LINANDER (1959) ANNIKA LUNDIUS (1951) LARS PETTERSSON (1954) HELENA STJERNHOLM (1970) Director since 2014 Director since 2014 Director since 2015 Director since 2016, President and CEO B.Sc. Econ., MBA LL.M. M.Sc. Eng., Hon. Ph.D. since 2015 Chairman of Awa Holding. Director of Former Deputy Director General of the Chairman of KP Komponenter A/S. M.Sc. Business Administration Telia Company and Castellum. Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Director of L E Lundbergföretagen, Vice Chairman of Ericsson. Director of Co-founder and former partner of Stanton Legal Director and Financial Counselor in Indutrade, Husqvarna and Festo AG. Sandvik and Volvo. Former partner and Chase International. Prior to this she the Swedish Ministry of Finance, and CEO Former President and CEO of Sandvik, Chief Investment Officer at IK Investment served in executive positions at Vattenfall of Insurance Sweden. and previously held executive positions in Partners. Prior to this she served as a and Electrolux. Shareholding: Own 2,554, closely related the Sandvik Group. strategic consultant at Bain & Company. Shareholding: Own 23,950, closely related legal entities 1,500 Shareholding: Own 5,000 Shareholding: Own 64,000, closely natural person 8,000 related natural person 1,000 and 75,000 call options Holdings as per February 14, 2020. The information is published annually in conjunction with the publication of the Company’s Corporate Governance Report/Annual Report and notice of Annual General Meeting, and at other times in connection with major changes. *Pertains to holdings in L E Lundbergföretagen (75,600,000) and Förvaltnings AB Lunden (2,000,000). 46 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report Executive Management HELENA STJERNHOLM (1970) KARL ÅBERG (1979) JAN ÖHMAN (1960) President and CEO since 2015 Head of Investment and Analysis Chief Financial Officer M.Sc. Business Administration Organization Economics degree Vice Chairman of Ericsson. Director of M.Sc. Business Administration Industrivärden employee since 2019 Sandvik and Volvo. Industrivärden employee since 2017 Professional experience: CFO at IPCO and Professional experience: Former partProfessional experience: Partner and Indutrade, several leading positions at ner and Chief Investment Officer at IK company head at Zeres Capital, partner at Sandvik and Boliden. Investment Partners. Prior to this she CapMan, various roles at Handelsbanken Shareholding: Own 2,000 served as a strategic consultant at Bain Capital Markets. & Company. Shareholding: Own 5,200 Shareholding: Own 64,000, closely related natural person 1,000 and 75,000 call options SVERKER SIVALL (1970) JENNIE KNUTSSON (1976) Head of Corporate Communications and General Counsel Sustainability LL.M. M.Sc. Business Administration Industrivärden employee since 2015 Industrivärden employee since 1997 Professional experience: Legal Counsel Professional experience: Head of Investor at Industrivärden and Legal Associate at Relations for Industrivärden and Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå. Investment Controller at AstraZeneca. Shareholding: Own 3,000 Shareholding: Own 15,000 Annual Report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 47 Financial statements 48 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual report Income statement Group Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Dividend income from shares 2 4,093 3,764 2,403 1,753 Change in value of shares, etc. 3 25,983 –11,954 17,588 –6,623 Management cost 6, 7, 8 –115 –121 –115 –121 Operating income 29,961 –8,311 19,876 –4,991 Financial income 5 1 3 1 3 Financial expenses 5 –32 –22 –31 –19 Income after financial items 29,930 –8,330 19,846 –5,007 Tax 9 –93 – – – Net income for the year 29,837 –8,330 19,846 –5,007 Earnings per share, SEK 68.56 –19.14 Statement of comprehensive income Net income for the year 29,837 –8,330 19,846 –5,007 Items that are not to be reclassified in the income statement Actuarial gains and losses pertaining to pensions 51 –14 51 –14 Comprehensive income for the year 29,888 –8,344 19,897 –5,021 Annual report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 49 Balance sheet Group Parent Company Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 Dec. 31 SEK M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 10 14 11 14 11 Equities 11, 14 116,750 92,170 36,908 31,483 Shares in associated companies 11, 12, 14 – – 30,657 20,371 Shares in subsidiaries 13, 14, 28 – – 1,735 1,735 Total non-current assets 116,764 92,181 69,314 53,600 Other current receivables 15 191 273 149 778 Cash and cash equivalents 56 786 – 10 Total current assets 247 1,059 149 788 TOTAL ASSETS 117,011 93,240 69,463 54,388 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 1,088 1,088 1,088 1,088 Other capital contributions/Statutory reserve 1,063 1,063 1,063 1,063 Retained earnings 80,540 91,321 41,630 49,089 Net income for the year 29,837 –8,330 19,846 –5,007 Total shareholders’ equity 112,528 85,142 63,627 46,233 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 16 2,255 2,059 2,255 2,059 Provision for pensions 17 68 111 68 111 Deferred tax liability 9 93 – – – Other non-current liabilities 44 36 44 36 Total non-current liabilities 2,460 2,206 2,367 2,206 Current interest-bearing liabilities 18 1,932 1,325 3,390 1,250 Exchangeable bond 18, 19 – 4,069 – 4,069 Other current liabilities 20 91 498 79 630 Total current liabilities 2,023 5,892 3,469 5,949 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 117,011 93,240 69,463 54,388 Information about the Group’s pledged assets and contingent liabilities is provided in Note 21. 50 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual report Shareholders’ equity Group Total shareOther capital Retained Net income holders’ SEK M Share capital1 contributions earnings for the year equity Shareholders’ equity as per adopted balance sheet at December 31, 2017 1,088 1,063 78,174 15,555 95,880 Net income for the year – – – –8,330 –8,330 Actuarial gains and losses pertaining to pensions – – –14 – –14 Total comprehensive income – – –14 –8,330 –8,344 Transfer of previous year's net income – – 15,555 –15,555 – Dividend to shareholders – – –2,394 – –2,394 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 1,088 1,063 91,321 –8,330 85,142 Net income for the year – – – 29,837 29,837 Actuarial gains and losses pertaining to pensions – – 51 – 51 Total comprehensive income – – 51 29,837 29,888 Transfer of previous year’s net income – – –8,330 8,330 – Dividend to shareholders2 – – –2,502 – –2,502 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 1,088 1,063 80,540 29,837 112,528 Parent Company Total shareStatutory ­Retained Net income holders’ SEK M Share capital1 reserve earnings for the year equity Shareholders’ equity as per adopted balance sheet at December 31, 2017 1,088 1,063 39,375 12,121 53,647 Net income for the year – – – –5,007 –5,007 Actuarial gains and losses pertaining to pensions – – –14 – –14 Total comprehensive income – – –14 –5,007 –5,021 Transfer of previous year’s net income – – 12,121 –12,121 – Dividend to shareholders – – –2,394 – –2,394 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2018 1,088 1,063 49,089 –5,007 46,233 Net income for the year – – – 19,846 19,846 Actuarial gains and losses pertaining to pensions – – 51 – 51 Total comprehensive income – – 51 19,846 19,897 Transfer of previous year’s net income – – –5,007 5,007 – Dividend to shareholders2 – – –2,502 – –2,502 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AS PER DECEMBER 31, 2019 1,088 1,063 41,630 19,846 63,627 1) As per December 31, 2019, there were 435,209,877 shares outstanding, of which 268,183,340 were Class A shares and 167,026,537 were Class C shares. The share capital amounted to SEK 670.5 M for the Class A shares and SEK 417.6 M for the Class C shares. The share quota value is SEK 2.50. 2) The dividend in 2019 was SEK 5.75 per share. Annual report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 51 Statement of cash flows Group Parent Company SEK M Note 2019 2018 2019 2018 Operating activities Dividend income from shares 2 4,093 3,764 2,403 1,753 Management cost paid –155 –137 –155 –138 Other items affecting cash flow –36 –106 –36 –106 Cash flow from operating activities before financial items 3,902 3,521 2,212 1,509 Interest received 1 1 1 0 Interest paid –25 –19 –25 –20 Other financial items –6 –11 –6 –11 Cash flow from operating activities 3,872 3,492 2,182 1,478 Investing activities Purchases/sales of shares 4, 14 1,163 3,252 1,638 3,819 Cash flow from investing activities 1,163 3,252 1,638 3,819 Financing activities Loans raised 3,155 3,983 2,999 3,700 Amortization of debt –6,426 –8,026 –6,426 –8,022 Investments 8 –134 8 –134 Change in financing of subsidiaries – – 2,091 713 Dividend paid –2,502 –2,394 –2,502 –2,394 Cash flow from financing activities –5,765 –6,571 –3,830 –6,137 NET CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR –730 173 –10 –840 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 786 613 10 850 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 56 786 0 10 Information on the Group’s interest-bearing net debt is provided in the table on page 61. 52 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual report Notes to the financial statements Amounts in millions of Swedish kronor (SEK M) unless stated otherwise. Note 1. Accounting policies Issued stock options Option premiums received are booked as a liability and are deducted from premiums paid upon repurchase. If an issued option expires withConformity with norms and laws out being exercised, the premium is recognized as income. Upon exerThe consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformcise of an issued option, the premium increases the exercise price upon ity with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the sale of shares or reduces the exercise price upon the purchase of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as endorsed by shares. the EU. In addition, Swedish Financial Reporting Board recommendaOn the balance sheet date, the fair value of issued options is detertion RFR 1, Supplementary Reporting Rules for Groups, has been apmined, and the difference between the fair value and provisioned preplied. The annual report for the Parent Company has been prepared in miums is recognized in income. The outstanding options are carried on accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and with application the balance sheet as other non-current liabilities. of RFR 2 – Accounting for Legal Entities. New or revised IFRSs and interpretations from the IFRS Interpretation Cash and cash equivalents Committee (IFRIC) have not had any effect on the Group’s or Parent Cash and cash equivalents include – in addition to cash and bank balCompany’s result of operations or position. ances – short-term financial investments with remaining terms of less than three months. Principles of consolidation Industrivärden is classified as an Investment Entity and as such does Property, plant and equipment not consolidate certain subsidiaries. Property, plant and equipment is reported at cost less accumulated Subsidiaries that serve in a supporting function for the Parent depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation is recognized on Company are consolidated in accordance with the acquisition method. a straight-line basis over the asset’s estimated useful life, which estiSubsidiaries and associated companies that are investments (portmated to be three to five years. Estimation of an asset’s residual value folio companies) are not consolidated, but are measured at fair value and useful life is done yearly. through profit and loss and are presented under the item Equities. For further information, see Notes 11 and 28. Employee compensation Pensions Parent Company reporting The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension The Parent Company reports shares in subsidiaries at cost, while associplans. Costs for defined contribution pension plans are expensed in ated companies and other holdings are carried at fair value. The capital pace with payment of premiums. Defined benefit pension plans with gain or loss generated upon the sale of shares is calculated accordingly. Alecta are reported as defined contribution plans, since insufficient information is available to report these as defined benefit plans. No Functional currency and presentation currency current employees have defined benefit plans. The pension liability reThe financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which fers to defined benefit pension obligations, calculated annually for the is the Parent Company’s functional currency and also the presentation Group in accordance with IAS 19 with the assistance of an independent currency for the Parent Company and Group. actuary. All changes in the pension liability are recognized immediately when they arise. Service and interest costs are recognized in the income Foreign currency statement, while remeasurements such as of actuarial gains and losses Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional curare recognized in other comprehensive income. rency using the exchange rate in effect on the transaction date. Assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated to the functional curLong-term incentive programs rency using the exchange rate in effect on the balance sheet date. Industrivärden’s current long-term incentive programs are cash-settled programs in which the employees can invest a certain portion of their Dividend income from shares fixed annual salary in Industrivärden stock, and after three years receive Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive the dividend performance and matching shares, provided that they are still emhas been determined. ployed. For more information about the programs, see Note 7. The cost of the programs is allocated over their respective terms and is reported Financial instruments in the income statement under the item Management cost. The liability Financial assets and liabilities are classified in the following categories: for the programs is remeasured at fair value in connection with each financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost, and financial book-closing. Industrivärden has entered into a share swap agreement assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit and loss. The to limit the cost. The share swap is remeasured on a continuing basis at classification is based on the Group’s business model and the assets’ fair value, and the change in value is reported in the income statement contractual terms. under the item Management cost. Industrivärden recognizes continuing changes in value of listed shareholdings and equity derivatives in the income statement. Other Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognized as per the Unless specified otherwise, all amounts stated are rounded off to the transaction date. For further information, see Notes 3 and 4. nearest million kronor (SEK M), which means that tables and calculations do not always sum up. In text and tables, figures between 0 and Exchangeable bond 0.5 are reported as 0. The exchangeable bond, which is issued in SEK, consists of a host contract in the form of a bond and an issued option to either repay the loan with shares in ICA Gruppen or in cash. The host contract was initially measured at fair value and thereafter at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Change in value of shares, etc. is reported in the income statement as: • Continuous measurement of the option at fair value • Indexing of the loan at nominal value over its term • Transaction costs that are allocated over the term of the bond ANNUAL REPORT INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 53 Note 2. Dividend income Note 4. Net purchases (+) and sales (–) Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sandvik 655 517 651 517 Volvo 1,598 560 1,598 489 Volvo 1,462 604 1,401 580 Sandvik 482 653 482 493 Handelsbanken 1,116 1,488 – – Skanska 351 – 351 – Essity 384 384 – – Handelsbanken 189 680 – – Ericsson 87 87 87 87 SCA 117 – – – SCA 117 100 – – ICA Gruppen –4,069 –2,060 –4,069 –1,896 Skanska 183 239 183 239 Essity –3 – – – SSAB 67 118 59 108 SSAB – –3,025 – –2,855 ICA Gruppen 22 227 22 221 Other 173 –60 – –50 Total 4,093 3,764 2,403 1,753 Total –1,163 –3,252 –1,638 –3,819 Note 3. Change in value of shares, etc. Note 5. Financial income and expenses Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial income 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sandvik 8,659 –2,618 8,597 –2,595 Interest income 1 3 11 31 Volvo 6,437 –5,336 6,181 –5,108 Total 1 3 1 3 Handelsbanken 541 –2,774 – – Essity 5,604 –969 – – Group Parent Company Ericsson 692 2,102 692 2,102 Financial expenses 2019 2018 2019 2018 SCA 1,855 –1,326 – – Interest expenses –23 –20 –232 –172 Skanska 2,157 –841 2,157 –841 Other financial expenses –9 –2 –8 –2 SSAB 105 –457 93 –395 Total –32 –22 –31 –19 ICA Gruppen –371 356 –371 341 1) There is no intra-Group interest income in the Parent Company. Other 65 –4 – – 2) Of which, intra-Group interest expenses of SEK –1 M (–1). Stocks 25,744 –11,867 17,349 –6,496 Exchangeable bond Note 6. Average number of employees Option portion’s change in value 371 –53 371 –53 2019 2018 Indexing – –33 – –33 Number of Of whom, Number of Of whom, Age group Transaction costs –3 –9 –3 –9 employees women employees women Other, net –129 8 –129 –32 –30 2 1 2 – Total 25,983 –11,954 17,588 –6,623 30–50 10 5 9 5 50– 3 1 4 2 Total 15 7 15 7 All employees in the Group are employed by the Parent Company. Note 7. Wages, other compensation and social security costs 2019 2018 Of which, Of which, Directors’ Wages and other Social pension Directors’ Wages and other Social pension fees compensation security costs costs fees compensation security costs costs Parent Company 6 41 28 10 6 45 34 14 Executive Management’s compensation and pension costs for 2019 Base salary Variable salary Incentive program Other benefits Pension costs CEO Helena Stjernholm 10.81 4.3 1.6 0.1 4.3 Other members of the Executive Management (4 persons) 10.1 4.2 0.8 0.2 3.2 Total 20.9 8.5 2.4 0.3 7.5 1) The Company’s cost amounts to SEK 7.2 M after deducting SEK 3.6 M for directors’ fees paid by the portfolio companies. 54 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Note 7. Wages, other compensation and social security costs, cont. Directors’ fees and executive compensation shareholders and Industrivärden’s employees. In the outstanding proThe Nominating Committee, which has been appointed in the manner grams, a maximum of 17,961 matching shares and 62,352 performance decided by the Annual General Meeting (AGM), submits recommendashares may be granted. Grants of matching shares and performance tions for directors’ fees to the AGM. Fees were issued to the Chairman shares require continued employment at the time of the match. In adof the Board and other directors in accordance with an AGM resolution. dition, grants of performance shares are conditional upon an average A fee of SEK 2.1 M (2.0) was issued to the Chairman of the Board, and a annual total return for Industrivärden’s Class C shares during the threefee of SEK 1.2 M (1.2) was issued to the Vice Chairman. A fee of SEK 0.6 year lock-in period that is equal to or higher than the SIXRX index, and M (0.6) was issued to each of the other directors. Total fees paid to the full grants of performance shares require an average annual total return members of the Board of Directors in 2019 amounted to SEK 5.8 M (5.6). for Industrivärden’s Class C shares during the three-year lock-in period No fees are paid for committee work. that exceeds the SIXRX index by 2 percentage points per year. The cost Compensation of the CEO and other members of the Executive of incentive programs in 2019 was SEK 0.0 M (0.8). The total liability for Management is based on the guidelines adopted by the 2019 AGM. The the programs is SEK 3.4 M (4.2). Compensation Committee submits a recommendation to the Board on the CEO’s compensation and draws up, in consultation with the Long-term incentive program 2019 CEO, criteria for compensation for the other members of the Executive The 2019 AGM resolved to offer a long-term incentive program for a Management. maximum of 20 employees in the Industrivärden Group. During 2019, 13,058 shares were bought within the program, which can qualify for CEO and members of the Executive Management a maximum grant of 6,529 matching shares and 22,821 performance The CEO was paid a base salary of SEK 10.8 M (10.4). The Company’s shares. cost is reduced by SEK 3.6 M for directors’ fees paid by portfolio companies for 2019. Variable salary for 2019, which is based on the Board’s Long-term incentive programs 2017 and 2018 annual evaluation, amounted to SEK 4.3 M (4.2), which will be paid out The 2017 and 2018 incentive programs include a total of 22,864 purin 2020. The earned portion in the current incentive program amounted chased shares, which can qualify for grants of a maximum of 11,432 to SEK 1.6 M (1.9). The incentive program that expired in 2019 resulted in matching shares and 39,531 performance shares. grants of 13,873 (17,196) Industrivärden Class C shares to the CEO, corresponding to a value of SEK 2.9 M (3.2). The cost of defined contribution Long-term incentive programs 2016 pension premiums was SEK 4.3 M (4.2). Other benefits pertain to a comThe 2016 incentive program expired in October 2019. In connection pany car, etc. In the event the Company serves notice of termination of with this, a total of 20,310 Industrivärden Class C shares were granted the employment contract, a two-year notice period applies. For notice for a value of SEK 4.3 M. The value was calculated based on the price of given by the CEO, a six-month notice period applies. Industrivärden Class C shares on the grant date. The other four (three) members of the Executive Management together received base salaries of SEK 10.1 M (7.0). The other members of Guidelines for compensation of senior executives decided by the 2019 AGM the Executive Management are entitled to long-term and short-term Compensation paid to the CEO and other members of the Executive variable salary. Short-term variable salary for 2019 amounted to SEK Management shall consist of a base salary, a variable salary, other ben4.2 M (2.8), which will be paid out in 2020. The outcome is based on efits and pension. The total compensation should be competitive and the achievement of individually set goals. The vested portion of the in line with the going rate in the market, and shall be commensurate ongoing incentive program amounted to SEK 0.8 M (0.6). The incenwith the executive’s responsibilities and authority. The variable salary tive program that expired in 2019 resulted in grants of 2,756 (3,696) portion consists of a short-term variable salary component (yearly) and Industrivärden Class C shares to the other members of the Executive a long-term variable salary component. The short-term variable salary Management, for a value of SEK 0.6 M (0.7). The combined cost of decomponent is based on individual performance, shall have a cap, and fined contribution pension premiums was SEK 3.2 M (2.2). Other bennever exceed 50% of base salary. The long-term variable salary comefits pertain to company cars, etc. In the event of the Company service ponent is based on the long-term performance of the Company’s stock notice of termination of an executive’s employment contract, a one or and shall have a cap. None of the variable components shall be pensiontwo-year notice period applies. For notice given by the executive, a sixable. Upon termination of an executive’s employment contract by the month notice period applies. Company, a maximum two-year notice period applies. No severance pay should be payable. Pension benefits shall be defined-contribution soluLong-term incentive programs tions in all essential respects and give the members of the Executive The incentive programs are part of a competitive total compensation Management the right to receive benefits from 60 or 65 years of age, package in which the employee has the opportunity to receive matchdepending on their position. The Board may depart from these guideing shares and performance shares after three years, subject to investlines if there are special reasons for doing so in individual cases. ment of part of the employee’s base salary in Industrivärden shares. The program aims to encourage Industrivärden’s employees to increase CEO’s acquisition of call options (related-party transaction) their ownership of shares in the Company and thereby further emphaIn 2016 the CEO purchased 75,000 call options for the same number size long-term shareholder value. The incentive program is expected to of Industrivärden Class C shares from L E Lundbergföretagen at a preincrease Industrivärden’s opportunities to recruit and retain competent mium of SEK 12 per share. The options expire on February 26, 2021, with employees as well as the participants’ interest in and commitment to an exercise price of SEK 151 per share. The transaction was carried out Industrivärden’s business and development. Against this background, at market terms based on the Black & Scholes pricing model for call the program is judged to have a positive impact on Industrivärden’s options. continued development and thereby be beneficial for both the ANNUAL REPORT INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 55 Note 8. Auditors’ fees Group Parent Company The tax rules for investment companies entail that the Parent Company, as an intermediary, has the opportunity to avoid a taxable surplus by 2019 2018 2019 2018 paying a dividend. Tax-loss carryforwards are deductible and may be Deloitte accumulated in order to be deducted from future taxable surpluses. Audit assignment 0.7 – 0.7 – The Parent Company does not report deferred tax assets for tax-loss carryforwards, since the purpose of taxation of investment companies Auditing activities in addition is that the intermediary will not be taxed. 0.0 – 0.0 – to audit assignment Total 0.7 – 0.7 – In recent years the concentration of equities in Industrivärden’s portfolio in terms of value has increased. Industrivärden informed the Swedish Tax Agency of this condition during the second quarter of 2019 to PricewaterhouseCoopers obtain clarity about whether Industrivärden is to be taxed as an investAudit assignment – 0.7 – 0.7 ment company or as a conventionally taxed company. During the third quarter of 2019 the Swedish Tax Agency notified that Industrivärden Auditing activities in addition will continue to be taxed as an investment company. to audit assignment – 0.1 – – Total – 0.8 – 0.7 Note 9. Taxes Note 10. Property, plant and equipment Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax – – – – Accumulated cost Deferred tax1 –93 – – – Opening value 14 14 14 14 Total –93 – – – Investments 9 – 9 – Closing cost 23 14 23 14 1) Pertains in its entirety to deferred tax on temporary differences that do not affect cash flow. The total deferred tax liability amounts to SEK 93 M (–). Accumulated depreciation Opening depreciation –3 –2 –3 –2 Tax calculation Depreciation for the year –6 –1 –6 –1 Parent Company Closing depreciation –9 –3 –9 –3 2019 2018 Book value 14 11 14 11 Market value of equities portfolio on January 1 51,854 62,119 Less: business-related shares –46,538 –62,119 Basis for standardized income 5,316 0 Standardized income 1.5% 80 0 Dividends received 2,403 1,753 Management cost, net financial items, etc. –172 –147 Dividend paid out1 –2,6112 –2,502 Taxable income –300 –896 Tax-loss carryforwards from previous years –10,048 –9,152 Accumulated tax-loss carryforward –10,348 –10,048 1) Payment is made during the following year, in accordance with an AGM decision. 2) Proposed by the Board of Directors. According to the Income Tax Act, the Parent Company is classified as an investment company. The main principles concerning taxation of investment companies are that dividends received and interest income are taxable, while dividends paid, interest expenses and management costs are tax deductible. In addition, capital gains on sales of shares are tax exempt, but in return, a standardized level of income, which amounts to 1.5% of the market value of the equities portfolio at the start of the fiscal year, is taxed. The basis for calculating the standardized level of income does not include business-related shares, by which is meant unlisted shares as well as listed shares in which the holding corresponds to at least 10% of the number of votes. In order for listed shares to be excluded from the standardized income calculation, they must have been held for at least one year. 56 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Note 11. Equities 2019 2018 Portfolio companies Number of shares Share of capital, % Share of votes, % Market value1 Market value1 Sandvik 155,400,000 12.4 12.4 28,384 19,243 Volvo A 154,600,000 24,458 16,570 7.4 24.1 Volvo B 3,600,000 565 417 Handelsbanken A 204,900,000 10.3 10.5 20,674 19,945 Essity A 34,000,000 10,251 7,630 9.5 29.2 Essity B 32,800,000 9,899 6,920 Ericsson A 86,052,615 7,349 6,660 2.6 15.1 Ericsson B 1,000,000 82 78 SCA A 33,785,290 3,375 2,503 9.7 29.0 SCA B 34,575,273 3,285 2,185 Skanska A 12,667,500 2,682 1,786 7.4 24.3 Skanska B 18,500,000 3,916 2,305 SSAB A 44,334,933 4.3 11.8 1,456 1,352 ICA Gruppen – 4,440 Total, portfolio companies 116,376 92,034 Other 374 136 Group’s holdings of equities 116,7502 92,170 Less: associated companies (see Note 12) –30,657 –20,371 Less: non-consolidated companies –374 –136 Less: holdings owned via subsidiaries –48,811 –40,180 Parent Company’s holdings of equities, excluding shares in associated companies and subsidiaries 36,908 31,483 1) The market value corresponds to the book value. 2) The Group’s total cost as per December 31, 2019, was SEK 46,552 M. Note 12. Shares in associated companies Parent Company Shareholders’ Income Share of Share of No. shares, Reg. no. Domicile equity after tax capital, % votes, % million Market value Volvo 556012-5790 Gothenburg 141,678 36,495 7.1 23.2 152 24,059 Skanska 556000-4615 Stockholm 33,021 6,054 7.4 24.3 31 6,598 Total 30,657 Note 13. Shares in subsidiaries Parent Company Reg. no. Domicile Share of capital, % No. shares Shareholders’ equity Book value Industrivärden Invest AB (publ) 556775-6126 Stockholm 100 1,000 21,266 330 Industrivärden Förvaltning AB 556777-8260 Stockholm 100 1,000 28,116 1,010 Investment AB Promotion 556833-0525 Stockholm 100 100,000 984 395 Floras Kulle AB 556364-8137 Stockholm 100 10,000 16 0 Total 1,735 ANNUAL REPORT INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 57 Note 14. Change in equities Group Equities 2019 2018 Opening value 92,170 107,289 Disposals at sales value –4,455 –5,144 Purchases 3,292 1,892 Change in value 25,744 –11,867 Closing value 116,750 92,170 Parent Company Shares in associated Shares in Equities companies subsidiaries Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening value 31,483 36,288 20,371 25,831 1,735 1,752 53,589 63,871 Disposals at sales value –4,069 –4,914 – – – – –4,069 –4,914 Purchases 482 656 1,949 489 – – 2,431 1,145 Change in value 9,011 –547 8,338 –5,949 – – 17,349 –6,496 Other – – – – – –17 – –17 Closing value 36,908 31,483 30,657 20,371 1,735 1,735 69,300 53,589 Note 15. Other current receivables Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest-bearing receivables 167 177 125 133 Receivables from subsidiaries – – – 551 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 9 6 9 6 Other current receivables 15 90 15 88 Total 191 273 149 778 Note 16. Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 MTN program 2,255 2,059 2,255 2,059 Total 2,255 2,059 2,255 2,059 Maturity dates Group Parent Company for loans 2019 2018 2019 2018 2020 – 800 – 800 2021 1,255 1,259 1,255 1,259 2022 1,000 – 1,000 – Total 2,255 2,059 2,255 2,059 Measurement of interest-bearing liabilities at fair value as per December 31, 2019 would increase non-current interest-bearing liabilities by SEK 13 M (9). 58 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Note 17. Provision for pensions The Group’s total reported pension costs amount to SEK 10 M (14). Group Interest on pension obligations of SEK 2 M (2) is reported in the income statement as Financial items. For 2020, the Group’s pension costs are Actuarial assumptions 2019 2018 estimated to be approximately SEK 10 M. Discount rate1, % 1.2 1.6 Future salary increases, % – – Defined contribution plans Defined contribution plans include retirement pensions, disability penAnticipated inflation, % 1.9 1.9 sions and family pensions, and entail payment of premiums on a regular basis during the year to independent legal entities. 1) Swedish home mortgage bonds are used as a benchmark for the discount rate with a duration corresponding to the pension obligation. Defined benefit plans Industrivärden’s defined benefit plans include retirement pensions, disability pensions and family pensions, and ordinarily entail an obligation Note 21. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities to pay lifetime benefits. No current employees have defined benefit plans. Group Parent Company The pension obligation as per December 31, 2019, was SEK 127 M 2019 2018 2019 2018 (170), the value of plan assets was SEK 59 M (59), and the net pension Equities – 16 – 16 liability was SEK 68 M (111). Total – 16 – 16 Note 18. Current interest-bearing liabilities Contingent liabilities in the Group amount to SEK 0 M (0). Contingent liabilities in the Parent Company amount to SEK 0 M (0). Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Note 22. Obligations to former CEOs Commercial paper 900 500 900 500 MTN program 800 750 800 750 The Group’s non-current interest-bearing liabilities include SEK 67 M Exchangeable bond – 4,069 – 4,069 (110) in pension obligations and similar benefits for former CEOs. Other 232 75 1,6901 – The corresponding amount for the Parent Company is SEK 67 M (110), as shown in the item Provision for pensions in Note 17. Total 1,932 5,394 3,390 5,319 1) Of which SEK 1,687 M consists of liability to Group companies. Note 23. Related-party transactions Market valuation of interest-bearing liabilities as per December 31, 2019, would increase current interest-bearing liabilities by SEK 1 M (3). Transactions with subsidiaries Certain transactions have been made with wholly owned subsidiaries, such as rents for premises at market terms. Note 19. Exchangeable bond Transactions with associated companies In 2014 an exchangeable bond of SEK 4.4 billion was issued as part of Dividends have been received from listed associated companies. the continuous refinancing of the equities portfolio. The exchangeable bond consisted of a host contract in the form of a bond and an issued option to either repay the loan with shares in ICA Gruppen or in cash. The loan was issued with a premium of approximately 38% to ICA Note 24. Significant assessments and estimations Gruppen’s share price at the time and carried no interest. During the first half of 2019, the remaining bondholders called for redemption corresponding to SEK 4.1 billion, whereby the shares in ICA In preparation of the financial statements, the Executive Management Gruppen were delivered. The exchangeable bond matured on May 15, 2019. has determined that there are no significant areas that rely on large assessments and estimations that affect reported amounts. Note 20. Other current liabilities Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Option portion of exchangeable bond – 371 – 371 Other derivatives – 4 – 4 Accounts payable, trade 4 3 4 3 Other current liabilities 4 4 4 4 Payable to subsidiaries – – – 146 Other accrued expenses 83 116 71 102 Total 91 498 79 630 ANNUAL REPORT INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 59 Note 25. Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities per category December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Fair value through Fair value through profit and loss Amortized cost Total profit and loss Amortized cost Total Assets Equities 116,750 – 116,750 92,170 – 92,170 Other current receivables – 167 167 88 177 265 Cash and cash equivalents – 56 56 – 786 786 Total assets 116,750 223 116,973 92,258 963 93,221 Liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities – 2,255 2,255 – 2,059 2,059 Other non-current liabilities 44 – 44 36 – 36 Current interest-bearing liabilities – 1,932 1,932 – 5,394 5,394 Other current liabilities – – – 375 – 375 Total liabilities 44 4,187 4,231 411 7,453 7,864 In accordance with IFRS 13, financial instruments are carried at fair valuation model which uses input data that are directly or indirectly obvalue based on a 3-level hierarchy. The classification is based on the servable in the market. Input data used in the valuation models include input data used in the valuation of the instruments. interest rates, volatility and dividend estimates. Instruments in Level 3 Instruments in Level 1 are valued at quoted prices for identical inare valued using a valuation technique based on input data which are struments in an active market. Instruments in Level 2 are valued in a not observable in a market. Financial instruments measured at fair value December 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Equities 116,376 – 374 116,750 92,034 – 136 92,170 Derivatives, etc. – – – – – 88 – 88 Total assets 116,376 – 374 116,750 92,034 88 136 92,258 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Derivatives, etc. – 44 – 44 – 36 – 36 Current liabilities Option portion of exchangeable bond – – – – – 371 – 371 Derivatives, etc. – – – – – 4 – 4 Total liabilities – 44 – 44 – 411 – 411 60 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Interest rate risk Note 26. Risk management Interest rate risk is the risk that the financing cost will vary due to changes in market interest rates. The financial instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk consist of loans with variable interest rates. General Swap agreements may be used to adjust the length of fixed interest The types of financial risks that the Industrivärden Group encounters in periods and capital durations. The interest rate swap agreement of SEK its business consist primarily of equities risk and – to a limited extent – 750 M that was in effect at the start of 2019 has expired, and no new other financial risks, such as interest rate risk and liquidity risk. agreements was entered into. At year-end most of the Group’s loans Industrivärden’s financing and management of financial risks are carried variable interest rates. conducted in accordance with guidelines set by the Board of Directors. The average capital duration as per December 31, 2019, was 2 months (4). Equities risk Based on net debt and the capital duration at year-end, a change in Equities risk pertains mainly to share price risk, which is the entirely the market interest rate by 1 percentage point would have affected indominant risk in Industrivärden’s operations. By share price risk is come after financial items in 2019 by approximately +/– SEK 25 M. meant the risk of a decline in value caused by changes in prices in the Industrivärden has low gearing, also with limited interest rate risk. stock market. Industrivärden’s role as a long-term and active owner should reduce the relative equities risk in the portfolio companies and Counterparty risk thus also in Industrivärden’s portfolio. A change in the price of all listed Counterparty risk is the risk of a party in a transaction with a financial shareholdings in Industrivärden’s equities portfolio by one percentage instrument not being able to meet its obligations and thereby causing point would have affected the market value of the equities portfolio on loss to the other party. December 31, 2019, by +/– SEK 1.2 billion. Industrivärden’s internal rules and guidelines prescribe that approved counterparties have high credit ratings, which is why counterInterest-bearing net debt as per December 31, 2019 party risk is considered to be low. 2019 2018 Operational risk Exchangeable bond – 4,069 Operational risk is the risk of incurring a loss due to defects in internal MTN program 3,055 2,809 routines and systems. Industrivärden’s risk management rests on a foundation of internally adopted guidelines and rules, and of policies Commercial paper 900 500 adopted by the Board of Directors. Provision for pensions 68 111 Other interest-bearing liabilities 232 75 Internal control Against the background of the share price risk described above, the Total interest-bearing liabilities 4,255 7,564 most important control process in Industrivärden’s business consists of Less: the continuous monitoring of value exposure in the equities portfolio. Interest-bearing receivables –167 –177 Industrivärden’s internal control is therefore primarily focused on ensuring the reliability of valuations of outstanding equity and derivative Cash and cash equivalents –56 –786 positions and of the reporting of purchases and sales of shares and Total 4,032 6,601 other securities. According to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board is responsible Maturity structure for internal control. The instructions regulating the division of duties Maturity structure for undiscounted, contracted interest-bearing liabetween the Board and the CEO lay out investment rules for equities bilities and derivative instruments with negative market values as per and derivative instruments as well as a finance policy. Decision-making December 31, 2019: channels, authority and responsibility are defined by a set of investment rules and by a risk policy. 2020 2021 2022 2023Industrivärden has a specially appointed investment committee Interest-bearing liabilities1 1,935 1,250 1,000 – consisting of members of the Executive Management and representatives from the investment and analysis organization. The Investment Derivative instruments – – – 44 Committee makes decisions on investment matters on a regular basis Total 1,935 1,250 1,000 44 within the framework of the CEO’s mandate and continuously monitors decisions made and whether they have been executed correctly. 1) Excluding pension provisions of SEK 68 M (111). Minutes are recorded of Investment Committee meetings. Other processes with a bearing on the financial reporting are reguFinancing risk lated by Industrivärden’s Insider Policy and Information Policy. Financing risk is the risk that financing of the operations’ capital need at Industrivärden’s greatest risk consists of value exposure in the eqany given time will be impeded or more costly. uities portfolio. The predominant risk in work processes pertains to Industrivärden’s interest-bearing net debt amounted to SEK 4,032 M potential errors in the accounting and reporting of equity transactions. (6,601) on December 31, 2019. Under a Medium-Term Note (MTN) proIndustrivärden continuously assesses the risks in the handling of equity gram Industrivärden has the opportunity to issue bonds in Swedish krotransactions and affect the structure of internal risk control. nor (SEK) or euros (EUR) up to a framework amount of SEK 8.0 billion, Control activities pertaining to the equities portfolio include, among of which SEK 3.1 billion was utilized as per December 31, 2019. other things, approval of all business transactions, follow-up to ensure In addition, within a commercial paper framework of SEK 3.0 billion, that equity transactions are in accordance with decisions made, and Industrivärden has utilized SEK 0.9 billion as per December 31, 2019. checks to make sure that the value of purchases and sales of shares and The average capital duration, excluding pension provisions, was 13 of underlying shares in derivative transactions is within the scope of esmonths (9). The table above shows the maturity structure of financial tablished exposure limits. liabilities. In addition to raised loans of SEK 4.0 billion, the Group has contracted long-term loan promises of SEK 3 billion and short-term loan-promises in the form of an overdraft facility of SEK 500 M. Industrivärden has a strong financial position, and its financing risk is Note 27. Events after the balance sheet date considered to be very low. The credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s has assigned the Group a long-term rating of A+/Stable outlook and short-term ratings of A-1 and K-1. With these high ratings combined with No events of significant importance have taken place after the balance an equity ratio of 96% (91%), Industrivärden has great financial flexibility. sheet date. ANNUAL REPORT INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 61 Note 28. Group companies No. shares Share of capital, % Holdings in subsidiaries Domicile Country 12/31/2019 2019 2018 Industrivärden Invest AB (publ)1 Stockholm Sweden 1,000 100 100 Nordinvest AB Stockholm Sweden 42 100 100 Fastighets AB Östermalm Stockholm Sweden 1,000 100 100 Cultus KB Stockholm Sweden – 0.01 0.01 Industrivärden Förvaltning AB1 Stockholm Sweden 1,000 100 100 Investment AB Promotion1 Stockholm Sweden 100,000 100 100 Floras Kulle AB Stockholm Sweden 10,000 100 100 Cultus KB Stockholm Sweden – 99.99 99.99 1) The subsidiaries serve in a supporting function for the Parent Company and are consolidated in the Group in accordance with the acquisition method. Other companies are not consolidated in the Group, but are measured at fair value. 62 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Proposed distribution of earnings The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 6.00 The Board of Directors and CEO certify that the Annual per share (5.75). The proposed dividend corresponds Report has been prepared in accordance with generally to 4.1% of the Parent Company’s equity and 2.3% of the accepted accounting principles, that the consolidated Group’s equity. Of shareholders’ equity, 53%, or SEK 33.9 financial statements have been prepared in accordance billion in the Parent Company, and 62%, or SEK 70.2 bilwith the International Financial Reporting Standards relion in the Group, is attributable to market valuation of ferred to in European Parliament and Council of Europe assets and liabilities. The Board is of the opinion that the Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of July 19, 2002, on appliproposed dividend is well balanced in view of the obcation of International Financial Reporting Standards, jectives, scope and risks of the business as well as with that disclosures herein give a true and fair view of the respect to the ability to meet the Company’s future obliParent Company’s and Group’s financial position and regations. The total amount to be paid out according to the sults of operations, and that the statutory Administration proposed dividend, based on the number of shares outReport provides a fair review of the Parent Company’s standing, is SEK 2,611 M (2,502). and Group’s operations, financial position and results of According to the Parent Company balance sheet, operations and describes material risks and uncertainties earnings totaling SEK 61,476 M are at the disposal of the facing the Parent Company and the companies included in Annual General Meeting. the Group. The Board of Directors and CEO propose that the The Group’s and Parent Company’s earnings and posiearnings be disposed of as follows: tion in general are shown in the income statements, balance sheets, statements of changes in shareholders’ equity, To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 6.00 per share, statements of cash flows and notes to the financial statetotaling SEK 2,611 M ments. Adoption of the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance carried forward SEK 58,865 M Income Statements and Balance Sheets will take place at SEK 61,476 M the Annual General Meeting on April 24, 2020. Stockholm, February 7, 2020 Fredrik Lundberg Pär Boman Christian Caspar Chairman Vice Chairman Director Bengt Kjell Nina Linander Annika Lundius Director Director Director Lars Pettersson Helena Stjernholm Director CEO Director Our Audit Report was submitted on February 14, 2020 Deloitte AB Hans Warén Authorized Public Accountant ANNUAL REPORT INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 63 Auditor’s Report To the general meeting of the shareholders ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulof AB Industrivärden (publ), corporate filled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these identity number 556043-4200 requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in This is a translation of the Swedish language original. In the the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been proevents of any differences between this translation and the vided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parSwedish original, the latter shall prevail. ent company or its controlled companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Report on the annual accounts sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. and consolidated accounts Opinions Key audit matters We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our accounts of AB Industrivärden (publ) for the financial year professional judgment, were of most significance in our au2019, except for the corporate governance statement on pages dit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the 41–45. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the concompany are included on pages 39–63 in this document. text of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the In our opinion, the annual accounts have been preannual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2019 and its fiAccounting for listed investments nancial performance and cash flow for the year then ended Description of risk in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consoliA substantial portion of Industrivärden’s total assets is emdated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the bedded in the holdings in listed investments. The total carAnnual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material rerying value of listed investments amounted to SEK 116,376 spects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December million as of December 31, 2019. 2019 and their financial performance and cash flow for the In a portfolio of listed investments such as the one held year then ended in accordance with International Financial by Industrivärden, there normally are several consideraReporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the tions regarding the accounting and valuation that need to Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not include the corbe determined for a fair valuation in accordance with IFRS. porate governance statement on pages 41–45. Industrivärden’s principles for accounting for listed The statutory administration report is consistent with the investments are described in Note 1 on page 53 and detailed other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. disclosures regarding listed investments are included in We therefore recommend that the general meeting Note 11 and the detailed description in Note 24 in section of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance Measurement of financial instruments on page 60. sheet for the parent company and the group. Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and Our audit procedures consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to: the additional report that has been submitted to the parent • We have obtained an understanding of the accounting company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit and valuation process and tested key controls. Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. • We have evaluated Industrivärden’s controls for obtaining prices and volumes from external sources and we Other information have verified prices and volumes to external sources. The audit of the annual accounts for the financial year 2018 • We reviewed disclosures relating to valuation of listed was performed by another auditor who submitted an audiinvestments to verify compliance with IFRS. tor’s report dated 15 February 2019, with unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual accounts. Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Basis for opinions This document also contains other information than the We conducted our audit in accordance with International annual accounts and conslidated accounts and is found Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auon pages 1–19, 24–38 and 68–70. The Board of Directors diting standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under and the Managing Director are responsible for this other those standards are further described in the Auditor’s information. Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated company and the group in accordance with professional accounts does not cover this other information and we do 64 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this A further description of our responsibility for the auother information. dit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is In connection with our audit of the annual accounts available on Revisorsinspektionen’s website: https://www. and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/ the information identified above and consider whether rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description is part of the the information is materially inconsistent with the annual auditor’s report. accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained Report on other legal and in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise regulatory requirements appears to be materially misstated. Opinions If we, based on the work performed concerning this inIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolformation, conclude that there is a material misstatement of idated accounts, we have also audited the administration this other information, we are required to report that fact. of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of AB We have nothing to report in this regard. Industrivärden (publ) for the financial year 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors We recommend to the general meeting of shareholdand the Managing Director ers that the profit to be appropriated in accordance with The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are rethe proposal in the statutory administration report and that sponsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentaDirector be discharged from liability for the financial year. tion in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with Basis for Opinions IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the We conducted the audit in accordance with generally acManaging Director are also responsible for such internal cepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilicontrol as they determine is necessary to enable the prepaties under those standards are further described in the ration of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of that are free from material misstatement, whether due to the parent company and the group in accordance with profraud or error. fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated acwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with counts, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director these requirements. are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disis sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our close, as applicable, matters related to going concern and opinions. using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board Responsibilities of the Board of Directors of Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate and the Managing Director the company, to cease operations, or have no realistic alterThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for native but to do so. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proThe Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the posal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether Board of Directors’ responsibilities and tasks in general, the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements among other things oversee the company’s financial reportwhich the company’s and the group’s type of operations, ing process. size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity Auditor’s responsibility and position in general. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about The Board of Directors is responsible for the compawhether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts ny’s organization and the administration of the compaas a whole are free from material misstatement, whether ny’s affairs. This includes among other things continudue to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that ous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted designed so that the accounting, management of assets and in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatea reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or age the ongoing administration according to the Board of error and are considered material if, individually or in the Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the comthe economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these pany’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. management of assets in a reassuring manner. Annual Report INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 65 Auditor’s responsibility The auditor’s examination of the Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, corporate governance statement and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corpois to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable rate governance statement on pages 41–45 has been predegree of assurance whether any member of the Board pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. of Directors or the Managing Director in any material Our examination of the corporate governance staterespect: ment is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omisstandard RevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corsion which can give rise to liability to the company, or porate governance statement. This means that our exam• in any other way has acted in contravention of the ination of the corporate governance statement is different Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in of Association. accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We beappropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby lieve that the examination has provided us with sufficient our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree basis for our opinions. of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with A corporate governance statement has been prepared. the Companies Act. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but second paragraph points 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will law are consistent with the other parts of the annual acalways detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liacounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance bility to the company, or that the proposed appropriations with the Annual Accounts Act. of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. Stockholm 14 February 2020 A further description of our responsibility for the Deloitte AB audit of the administration is available on RevisorsinspekSignature on Swedish original tionen’s website: https://www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ Hans Warén rn/showdocument/documents/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar. Authorized public accountant pdf. This description is part of the auditor’s report. Deloitte AB was appointed auditor of AB Industrivärden (publ) by the general meeting of the shareholders on 17 April 2019 and has been the company’s auditor since 17 April 2019. The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory Sustainability Report To the general meeting of the shareholders an audit conducted in accordance with International of AB Industrivärden (publ), corporate Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing identity number 556043-4200 standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. sustainability report on pages 20–23 and 71–74, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm 14 February 2020 Our examination has been conducted in accordance Deloitte AB with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinSignature on Swedish original ion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This Hans Warén means that our examination of the statutory sustainabilAuthorized public accountant ity report is different and substantially less in scope than 66 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Annual Report Other information and appendices Other information and appendices INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 67 Shareholder information and investor relations Reporting All interim reports, annual reports, press releases and more are available on Industrivärden’s website www.industrivarden.net. Printed copies of interim reports and annual reports are distributed to shareholders and other interested parties upon request. Annual Report 2019 This publication constitutes the Annual Report for AB Industrivärden (publ). Printed copies of the Annual Report will be distributed to shareholders and others upon request. The Annual Report is also available in digital form on the Company’s website. Financial calendar 2020 Interim report January–March April 7 Annual General Meeting, Stockholm April 24 Interim report January–June July 7 Interim report January–September October 6 Orders and subscriptions Financial reports and press releases can be ordered individually or by subscription by registering at www.industrivarden.net, by email at info@industrivarden.se, or by phone at +46-8-666 64 00. Contact persons Queries from shareholders, investors and others can be directed to: • Sverker Sivall, Head of Corporate Communications and Sustainability email ssl@industrivarden.se or by phone +46-8-666 64 19 • Jan Öhman, CFO email jon@industrivarden.se or by phone +46-8-666 64 45 Equity analysts who monitor Industrivärden The following equity analysts monitored Industrivärden as per February 20, 2020: • ABG Sundal Collier, Derek Laliberté, +46-8-566 286 78, derek.laliberte@abgsc.se • AlphaValue, Jorge Velandia, +33-1-70 61 10 56, j.velandia@alphavalue.eu • Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Philip Middleton, +44-20-7996 1493, philip.middleton@bofa.com • Danske Bank, Johan Sjöberg, +46-8-568 805 35, johan.sjoberg@danskebank.se • DNB, Joachim Gunell, +46-8-597 91 201, joachim.gunell@dnb.se • Handelsbanken, Magnus Råman, +46-8-701 17 27, mara14@handelsbanken.se • Kepler Cheuvreux, Markus Gustafsson, +46-8-723 51 19, mgustafsson@keplercheuvreux.com • Nordea, Hugo Fredriksson, +46-10-156 96 08, hugo.fredriksson@nordea.com • SEB, Ramil Koria, +46-70-432 96 74, ramil.koria@seb.se Contact information AB Industrivärden (publ) Box 5403 SE-114 84 Stockholm Website: www.industrivarden.net Email: info@industrivarden.se Switchboard: +46-8-666 64 00 68 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Other information and appendices Annual General Meeting 2020 Time and place The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2 p.m. on Friday, April 24, 2020, at the Grand Hôtel in Stockholm, Vinterträdgården, (entrance at the corner of Stallgatan/Blasieholmsgatan). The doors will open at 1 p.m. Notification of attendance Notification shall be made not later than April 20, 2020: • using the digital form on Industrivärden’s website www.industrivarden.net, • by phone at +46-8-402 92 86, or • by mail to AB Industrivärden, “AGM 2020,” c/o Euroclear Sweden AB, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. Shareholders who wish to participate in the AGM must be listed in the shareholder register maintained by Euroclear Sweden as per April 18, 2020. A shareholder whose shares are registered in a nominee’s name, in order to have the right to participate in the AGM, must request that the nominee registers the shares in the shareholder’s own name in the shareholder register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. Such registration may be temporary. The shareholder must inform the nominee well in advance of April 18, 2020, at which time such registration must have been carried out. Since the record date, Saturday, April 18, 2020, is not a Swedish business day, Euroclear Sweden’s publication of the shareholder register for the AGM will pertain to the immediately preceding business day, i.e., Friday, April 17, 2020. This means that shareholders who wish to participate in the AGM must be listed and directly registered in the shareholder register on Friday, April 17, 2020. Dividend The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 6.00 per share. The last day to buy shares that carry entitlement to the dividend is April 24, 2020, entailing that Industrivärden shares will be traded ex-rights on April 27, 2020. Provided that the AGM resolves in favor of the proposal, it is expected that dividends will be sent out by Euroclear Sweden on May 4, 2020. Other information and appendices INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 69 Definitions Change in value of shares Market’s required rate of return For shares held at both the start and end of the year, the Risk-free interest (return on government bond) plus a risk change in market value consists of the difference in value premium (excess return to compensate for the higher risk between these two points in time. For shares sold during in an equity investment). the year, the change in market value consists of the difference between the sales price of the shares and their value Market value of equities portfolio at the start of the year. For shares acquired during the The value of the equities portfolio based on market prices year, the change in market value consists of the difference on the balance sheet date. between the cost of the shares and their value at the end of the year. Net asset value The market value of the equities portfolio less Debt-equities ratio interest-bearing net debt. Interest-bearing net debt in relation to the market value of the equities portfolio. Net asset value including reinvested dividend To calculate the development of net asset value before diviDividend yield dends paid out, the dividends paid out by the Company are Dividend per share in relation to the share price on the recalculated to take into account the performance of the balance sheet date. listed portfolio. This gives a measure of how net asset value would have developed if Industrivärden had not paid any Earnings per share dividend. Net income for the year divided by the total number of shares outstanding. Total return, shares Change in the share price taking into account reinvested Equity ratio dividends. The total return is compared against the return Shareholders’ equity as a share of total assets. index (SIXRX), which indicates the price development including reinvested dividends for stocks listed on the Interest-bearing net debt Stockholm Stock Exchange. Interest-bearing liabilities and pension liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing receivables. Total return, shareholding Change in value of a shareholding included reinvested dividend. Reported only for the current reporting period. 70 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Other information and appendices GRI Index Industrivärden’s sustainability report follows the most dialogs were continued on a regular basis in 2018 and 2019, recent version of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the updated analysis forms the basis of which disclosures Standard, core level, with Financial Services sector suppleare reported in this sustainability report. Industrivärden adment. This is Industrivärden’s third sustainability report heres to sustainable business practices by adopting a clear produced in accordance with the GRI framework and sustainability perspective in its investment decisions and draws from the GRI principles regarding content and qualexercise of active ownership. The portfolio companies’ susity. The report pertains to Industrivärden’s own operations tainability reports are available on the respective companies’ in 2019 (January 1–December 31, 2019). The ambition is to websites. report yearly. The GRI report and Index describe Industrivärden’s Industrivärden’s operations are conducted by sustainability work based on the GRI Standards. The report approximately 15 employees at the Company’s head offices in consists of the information below including the references Stockholm. During 2017 stakeholder dialogs were conprovided as well as the information reported in the 2019 ducted with a subsequent materiality analysis to identify the Annual and Sustainability Report, on Industrivärden’s webhighest priority issues in the area of sustainability. These site, and on cdp.net according to the respective GRI Index. GRI Standards Index, core level, financial services sector supplement General disclosures In Industrivärden’s In Industrivärden’s Comments Sustainability Report Annual Report (page) (page) 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Outside back cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products 4–5, 12–19 and services 102-3 Location of headquarters Outside back cover 102-4 Location of operations Outside back cover 102-5 Ownership and legal form 26–27, 41–45 102-6 Markets served 29–37 102-7 Scale of the organization 12–19, 49–50, 54 102-8 Information on employees 12–13, 54 All employees are active at the head offices in and other workers Stockholm. Data does not include any consultants and advisors. Industrivärden is a small company with approximately 15 employees. Apart from regulatory requirements, we therefore do not disclose information that can be coupled to individual persons. 102-9 Supply chain Purchases of goods and services are made for the office activities in Stockholm. Suppliers are expected to comply with well-respected ethical business principles. 102-10 Significant changes to the No major changes during the year. organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle The precautionary principle is adhered to with or approach respect to assessments and management of sustainability risks in the portfolio companies and new investments. Industrivärden is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, whose environmental risks cover the precautionary principle. 102-12 External initiatives 21–23 UN Global Compact, CDP and Global Reporting Initiative. The Company’s Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the ILO Fundamental Conventions. Other information and appendices INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 71 General disclosures In Industrivärden’s In Industrivärden’s Comments Sustainability Report Annual Report (page) (page) 102-13 Membership of associations 21 Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Centre for Business and Policy Studies (SNS), Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA), Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development (SISD). 2. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior 9–11 decision-maker 3. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, 20–23 12 and norms of behavior 4. Governance 102-18 Governance and Board of Directors 41–45, 46–47 The CEO has overarching responsibility for sustainability work, which is an integral part of the Company’s operations. Team managers are responsible for sustainability analyses of the respective portfolio companies. The Head of Sustainability has functional responsibility for sustainability-related issues and processes. The Board of Directors is responsible for the Company’s sustainability report. 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 20 A compilation of our most important stakeholder categories is presented on www.industrivarden.net. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements All employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting 20 The process for identifying and defining the most stakeholders important stakeholder categories is presented on www.industrivarden.net. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 20, 23 Further information on the stakeholder dialog is engagement presented on www.industrivarden.net. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20 A materiality analysis and compilation of priority issues is presented on www.industrivarden.net. 6. Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 57, 62 The report covers the Parent Company and all financial statements subsidiaries. 102-46 Defining report content and topic 53 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics/sustainability 20–23 issues 102-48 Restatements of information This is Industrivärden’s third sustainability report in accordance with GRI. 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes have taken place since the preceding report. 102-50 Reporting period 39 102-51 Date of most recent report This is Industrivärden’s third sustainability report in accordance with GRI. The most recent annual report with sustainability information was published on February 21, 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle 71 102-53 Contact point for questions 68 Head of Corporate Communication and regarding the report Sustainability, Sverker Sivall, ssl@industrivarden.se 72 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Other information and appendices General disclosures In Industrivärden’s In Industrivärden’s Comments Sustainability Report Annual Report (page) (page) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 71 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 71–74 102-56 External assurance 64–66 The auditor has given a statement on the statutory sustainability report. Significant information is also included in the Company’s Board of Directors’ report, which is reviewed by Industrivärden’s auditor. Material issues GRI 200: Economic GRI 201: Economic performance 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 12–14, 16–17 201-1 Direct economic value generated 23 49–52, 55, 58 and distributed GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 12–14, 16–17 205-1 Operations assessed for risks 20–23 No material risks have been identified in the related to corruption Company’s own operations. Questions related to the Company’s sustainability analysis are addressed on a continuing basis within the framework of active ownership. 205–2 Training in anti-corruption 22–23 All employees receive training in the annually policies and procedures revised Code of Conduct, which covers all aspects of corporate social responsibility in accordance with the Global Compact’s 10 principles, including anti-corruption. Through Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development (SISD), Industrivärden participates in a work group that develops analysis models for anti-corruption. GRI 300: Environment GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 12–13 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 23 Scope 1 emissions in 2019 amounted to 18 tonnes CO2e (0) (fuel for leased company cars) www.cdp. net: Industrivärden, CC 6.1 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions 23 Carbon footprint in 2019 was 17 tonnes CO2e (Scope 2) (18) in Scope 2 (energy consumption and district heating) www.cdp.net: Industrivärden, CC 6.3. 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions 23 Carbon footprint in 2019 was 27 tonnes CO2e (30) (Scope 3) in Scope 3 (business travel, publications and office material) www.cdp.net: Industrivärden, CC 6.5. GRI 400: Social GRI 401: Employment 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 See also the Company’s Code of Conduct. 401-1 New employee hires and The Company has 14 employees. Employee employee turnover turnover for new hires is 7% (13%), and 13% departures (33%). One man in age group 50newly hired. 401-3 Parental leave During the period one man and one woman were on parental leave. One man and one woman returned to work after parental leave during the reporting period. Health and safety 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 403-2 Types of injury and rates of No occupational injuries during the period. Average injury, and absenteeism absenteeism relative to total working time was 2%. Other information and appendices INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 73 General disclosures In Industrivärden’s In Industrivärden’s Comments Sustainability Report Annual Report (page) (page) GRI 400: Training and education 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 404-1 Average hours of training per year The average number of hours per employee was 16. per employee 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving All employees receive regular evaluations about regular performance and career their performance and career development. development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 12–13 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies 42, 46–47, 54 and employees GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 12–14, 16–17 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and Industrivärden has not been assessed any fines or regulations in the social and other sanctions. economic area Sector-specific standards, Financial Services 103-1 – 103-3 Sustainability governance 20–23 FS 6 Percentage of the portfolio for 29 All of the portfolio companies are listed on Nasdaq business lines by specific region OMX Nordic Stockholm. FS 10 Percentage and number of Sustainability issues are addressed in all portfolio companies held in the institution’s companies within the framework of Industrivärden’s portfolio with which the reporting analysis and influence activities. organization has interacted on environmental or social issues 74 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 Other information and appendices Notes INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 75 76 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 77 Layout and production: Grepp Kommunikation AB – 1728 Photos: Thomas Kjellberg, Christian Roosvall, and others. English translation: Joseph Brennan, NewStart Communications LLC Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet – February 2020 78 INDUSTRIVÄRDEN 2019 AB Industrivärden (publ) | Reg. no. 556043-4200 | Box 5403 | SE-114 84 Stockholm, Sweden Phone +46-8-666 64 00 | www.industrivarden.net | info@industrivarden.se
