UN Global Compact Affinity Private Wealth: Communication on Progress, April 2020 This is Affinity Private Wealth’s second Communication on Progress and outlines how the business is aligned with the ten principles and the ways we intend to develop our activities, in support of the framework provided by the UN Global Compact. PAGE 2 UN Global Compact Table of Contents Statement of our continued support and commitment to the UN Global Compact 4 and its Ten Principles What is the UN Global Compact? 5 Affinity at a glance 6 Human rights policies, processes and operations (Principles 1 and 2) 7 Labour standards policies, processes and operations (Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6) 8 Environmental policies, processes and operations (Principles 7, 8 and 9) 9 Anti-corruption policies, processes and operations (Principle 10) 11 Case Study 12 Making a impact 13 Contact us 14 PAGE 3 UN Global Compact Statement of our continued support and commitment to the UN Global Compact and its Ten Principles To all our stakeholders, I am pleased to reconfirm Affinity Private Wealth’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information using our primary channels of communication. Yours faithfully, David Stearn, Chief Executive Officer April 2020 PAGE 4 UN Global Compact What is the UN Global Compact? The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was launched in 2000, to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with demonstrating and building the social legitimacy of business and markets. Affinity Private Wealth became a signatory of the UNGC in April 2018. The Global Compact is a purely voluntary initiative with two objectives: 1. To mainstream the ten principles in business activities around the world; 2. To catalyse action in support of broader UN objectives, such as the Sustainable Development Goals. The UNGC is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and provide a space for innovation and collective action. PAGE 5 UN Global Compact Affinity at a glance We are an independent wealth management company, enabling clients to align values with their wealth. We provide advice, structuring and investment solutions; including guidance on charitable giving and investing sustainably. Our ethics and values – the intangibles that count – are at the core of everything we do. We were the first Jersey firm to become a UN Global Compact participant, consistent with our commitment to sustainability. To us, this means making economic prosperity long lasting, more socially inclusive and less dependent on the exploitation of finite resources and the natural environment. The UN Global Compact Ten Principles form the foundation for a set of corporate commitments which we define in our Ethical Charter. This provides an overarching framework for guiding discretionary decision making and establishes a set of behaviours, guided by core values. Act in our clients’ Be transparent, Think creatively Partner with best interests at caring and and be solution clients to make all times responsive orientated their lives simpler Who are our stakeholders? All our employees, clients, shareholders, regulators, auditors, partners, suppliers and our local community. PAGE 6 UN Global Compact Human rights 1 2 Principle Principle Businesses should support and respect the Make sure that they are not complicit in protection of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses human rights As employers, we strive to build a diverse, inclusive and equitable workplace, where our people can grow. We provided training on diversity and inclusion led by The Diversity Network Jersey, including presentations attended by all employees raising awareness around unconscious biases. Affinity has been awarded Charter status by the Jersey Good Business Council, an initiative that highlights, celebrates and encourages the contribution of businesses on the island to building a better community and a better world. This attainment recognises our contribution and responsibility to the “Five Areas of Good Business” assessed by the Council, focusing on: clients, people, environment, the local community & society and supply chain. We were only the 5th company in Jersey to receive Charter status and one of our directors has subsequently joined the JGB Council. We have reviewed our staff handbook and amended policies, introducing an extended period of paid leave in the circumstances of the death of a child and breastfeeding breaks for new parents. Affinity has been accredited with meeting the requirements of The Living Wage Foundation. Measurement of outcomes Our female/male employee ratio has risen from 0.4:1 in 2018 to 1:1 in 2019. PAGE 7 3 UN Global Compact Principle Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the Labour standards right to collective bargaining We operate a health & well-being programme for Principle 4 staff, partnering with local practitioners (yoga instructors, nutritionists, MIND Jersey, The elimination of all forms of forced and physiotherapists etc.) to promote sustainable compulsory labour working practices and engender a culture of good physical and mental health. 5 Principle All employees at Affinity have completed a half-day mental health awareness training course and we The effective abolition of child labour now have two certified Mental Health First Aiders. We value and listen to our staff, undertaking an annual Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) and 6 Principle engaging in focus groups to discuss the outcomes Eliminate discrimination in respect of and implement change. employment and occupation A new initiative was introduced this year: the Snooze Card. Any member of the team considered to have gone ‘above and beyond’ in their role can be Measurement of outcomes nominated by their peers. Awarded quarterly, the winners receive a morning off work. In the annual EOS, 78% responded that the company fosters a spirit of continuous development and 85% stated. that they make Affinity offers paid internships, good use of their skills and abilities at Affinity which provide a structured period of work experience. In 2019, we invested an average of £1,468 per employee for training and wellbeing. We support the Jersey Finance “Life in Finance” initiative. PAGE 8 UN Global Compact Environment 7 8 Principle Principle Businesses should support a precautionary Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility In the summer of 2019, we sponsored Go Wild 9 Principle Gorillas – a campaign based in Jersey, organised by Encourage the development and diffusion Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust (DWCT), to fund of environmentally friendly technologies a new gorilla enclosure at Jersey Zoo. The campaign comprised of an art trail of 40 uniquely designed, large fiberglass gorillas placed across Jersey’s streets, parks and open spaces. Affinity Affinity donates a portion of the fees collected donated £5,000 to sponsor the gorilla Día de la through managing the Sustainable Strategy to the Extinción, which sold for £14,000 at auction. A DWCT. Donations to date are in excess of £6,000. further £600 was raised by Affinity staff through various fundraising activities. Measurement of outcomes Through 2019, Affinity has sought to raise The assets in the Sustainable Strategy have awareness of environmental issues and delivered increased from c.US$6.5m in January 2019 to presentations to the Government of Jersey, the c.US$15.7m in December 2019. Parish of St Helier, local schools and a tertiary education provider, BPP. The presentations covered In 2019, we released our inaugural Impact the UN Sustainable Development Goals and how Report. This provides our investors with an insight Affinity has developed a discretionary managed to the positive contributions their capital has Sustainable Strategy – using this to mobilise made towards the UN’s Sustainable Development investor capital towards listed entities whose Goals. products and/or services are helping to contribute towards the attainment of the goals. PAGE 9 UN Global Compact Environment continued 7 8 Principle Principle Businesses should support a precautionary Undertake initiatives to promote greater approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility 9 As a founding sponsor of the Jersey Evening Post’s Principle ecoJersey initiative, staff, friends and family have Encourage the development and diffusion volunteered in countryside and coastal clean-ups of environmentally friendly technologies across the island. Our janitorial products are now eco-friendly and bleach free, whilst still ensuring health and safety guidelines are met. Measurement of outcomes Affinity’s office is powered by Jersey Electricity. As members of EcoActive, we continue to increase 94% of the electricity is imported from guaranteed our recycling routines. Alongside recycling plastic low carbon sources. Of this, 38% is from hydro and bottles, paper, cardboard, glass, metals and 62% is from nuclear sources. batteries, in 2019, we started segregating The Affinity Charity Committee was established in compostable materials. 2019. Two charities, nominated and selected on a We now recycle Nespresso coffee capsules, saving yearly basis, will receive a donation funded by the approximately 3,600 from landfill each year. firm. Furthermore, a discretionary budget is set aside to sponsor Affinity staff in their charitable endeavours. All employees are entitled to volunteer up to 8 paid hours per year, to help local charities. PAGE 10 UN Global Compact Anti-corruption We operate within a financial crime framework which 10 Principle Businesses should work against all identifies, mitigates and manages the risks we face forms of corruption, including whereby our products and services might be involved in, or used to facilitate, financial crime. extortion and bribery The framework and associated policies and procedures cover a wide range of duties, including; Affinity is regulated and supervised by the Jersey Financial Services Commission (“JFSC”), which Money laundering, fraud and terrorist financing includes the prevention and detection of money laundering and terrorist financing. The JFSC Policy/regulatory environment undertook an onsite examination in August 2019 in relation to the role of the Money Laundering Reporting Verifying the identity of clients and appropriate Officer and there were no findings identified. record keeping of related documents Managing higher risk client relationships Measurement of outcomes We actively engaged with our Reporting of suspicious activities Regulator and for the 8th consecutive year received a clean audit from our auditors, BDO. PAGE 11 UN Global Compact Case study; Jersey Good Business Charter The Jersey Good Business Charter (JGBC) is a new initiative that highlights, celebrates and encourages the contribution of Businesses in Jersey to building a better community and a better world. The Charter Mark is awarded by the JGB Board to businesses that meet a series of standards, demonstrating they are serious about their approach to business ethics and corporate social responsibility. Specifically, measuring the impact of the business on its people, supply chain, community, future generations and the planet. Affinity submitted its application for Charter status 16 May 2019. This was assessed by and then presented to the JGB Board and Council. We achieved Charter status 24 July 2019, receiving the following citations: “The Good Business Council were full of admiration for Affinity’s pioneering efforts at contributing to the local community. But they felt very strongly that the most crucial and distinctive aspect of what Affinity is doing is the kind of culture that they are striving to create both internally, but also the cultural influence that they are beginning to have on the wider sector.” – JGB Council “I know that the Jersey Good Business Council have been examining applications with great seriousness and rigour, looking for strong evidence of credible commitment to the principles of good business in each of the five areas of the Charter. For Affinity to come out on the other side as a Charter Awardee is a significant achievement of which your whole business should be proud.” – JGB Board Chairman, Brendan McMahon PAGE 12 UN Global Compact Making a impact PAGE 13 UN Global Compact Contact us Thank you for taking the time to read this communication We welcome and encourage questions and feedback Russell Waite and Julia Warrander Russell Waite Julia Warrander E: russell@affinitypw.com E: julia@affinitypw.com T: +44 1534 828482 T: +44 1534 828481 @affinitypw @AffinityPW @affinitypw Affinity Private Wealth is a trading name for APW Investors Limited and Affinity Trust Limited, which are both regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission. Registered office 24 Seale Street, St Helier, Jersey JE2 3QG. This document is for discussion purposes only and is not an advertisement and does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy shares in any fund. This document has been provided to you in a private and confidential manner and may not be reproduced or disseminated to third parties without prior written consent. This document concerns certain investment strategies and does not purport to disclose details about any particular existing investments. This document is accordingly provided for informational purposes only and does not constitute investment advice. This document does not give exhaustive details about the parties, structures or investment processes. The information herein is not intended to provide, and should not be relied upon for, accounting, legal or tax advice or investment recommendations. Please consult independent tax, legal, accounting or other advisors in the course of assessing any strategies mentioned in this document. Risk Warnings Affinity Private Wealth does not guarantee the performance of any investments. The price of investments may go up or down and the investor may not get back the amount invested. Your income is not fixed and may fluctuate. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future results. The value of the investment involving exposure to foreign currencies can be affected by exchange rate movements. We remind you that the levels and bases of, and reliefs from, taxation can change. PAGE 14
