SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2019 FULL REPORT Oded Eran, Chairman of the Board for the last three and a half years, passed away close to the date of publication of this report. Oded was an inspiring leader a brilliant legal mind, a beacon of values, and a lover of mankind. Oded's contribution to the advancement of the extensive activities of Bank Hapoalim to benefit the society and economy of Israel was invaluable. With great love and admiration, we dedicate the 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report to his memory, his values, and his way of life. May his memory be a blessing. 4 Introduction 20 Responsible 36 Promotion of Action to Benefit Growth and Customers Financial Inclusion 52 Value-Creating 60 Action to Benefit 72 Responsible Innovation Society and the Supply Chains Community 78 Responsible Action 98 Responsible 114 Corporate to Enhance Employees’ Action to Governance, Ethics, Capabilities and Protect the Compliance, and Well-being Environment Information Security for our customers, with special attention the unique human tapestry of our team. unprecedented global crisis; we cannot to senior-citizen customers who may We are proud to be the leaders in social know when or how it may end. When need assistance with the transition to the action again this year, together with a the coronavirus outbreak began, we banking world of tomorrow. We expanded diverse multitude of partners. In 2019, made preparations in order to maintain the Poalim Digital Independence project we chose to increase our activity in the business continuity and robustness, while this year, providing thousands of senior area of the promotion of accessibility and protecting the health of our employees citizens with knowledge and tools for use empowerment of people with disabilities, and customers. Throughout this period, of the digital channels, through courses based on the belief that this is not only our we ensured professional responsiveness held free of charge at training centers obligation as a business but also a moral and ready availability to our customers, and bank's branches across Israel. imperative. We submitted an Accessibility and developed products and services The ambition to provide meaningful value Report, summarizing our extensive action adapted to their needs. In recognition to our customers requires us to map the in this area, to the Commissioner of Equal of the financial implications of the crisis unique needs of different communities Rights for Persons with Disabilities at the for small businesses, we offered these and sectors, in order to provide a response Ministry of Justice; the report is the first of businesses special benefits to support adapted to each group and help them its kind in Israel, and our aim is to lead and them during this time. We also expanded grow and thrive. Accordingly, our branches encourage other business organizations service through the direct channels for are extensively distributed in Arab and to create impact and change in this area. all of our customers. At the same time, as Chairman and CEO of the bank letter the ultra-orthodox (Haredi) communities, offering targeted and adapted products This year, our commitment and activities aimed at empowering people with part of our long-standing commitment to the community, we led a series of and services. disabilities earned us the Dov Lautman processes to assist in the national effort The annual corporate responsibility report helping them successfully navigate a Bank Hapoalim leads and encourages The climate crisis is another challenge to Diversity in Business Award. to combat the virus, through extensive of Bank Hapoalim for 2019 summarizes a competitive and dynamic environment innovation, in the Israeli economy in which we are committed. We continue Our extensive activity in the various areas support for hospitals, medical staff at the significant year of social, environmental, and creating growth opportunities for general and in the banking system to work to reduce the environmental of corporate responsibility has earned the forefront of the struggle, and population and economic activity. The report reflects them. Accordingly, we launched our in particular, viewing technological impacts and carbon footprint of the recognition of both local and international groups hurt by the effects of the crisis. the bank's belief that while maintaining Expansion Package for business owners, development as an opportunity to launch bank, while leading the banking system in rating agencies, positioning us on a par We would like to thank each and every excellence in our business, we also have which consists of banking benefits advanced, groundbreaking financial financing for projects helping to promote with the world's leading banks in this field. one of the bank's employees, our the obligation and the privilege to create alongside education in professional skills products and services and improve service green environments and renewable The bank remains committed to the ten customers, and all of the partners in added value for the society, community, from various content areas, including for our various customers. This year, we energies. principles of the United Nations Global our work and in our mission. As always, and environment in which we operate. We e commerce. We were pleased to learn were the first in the Israeli banking system We see human capital as a key component Compact (UNGC) and to the promotion and all the more so in this challenging are proud of the impact of our community that this year’s Marketest survey again to introduce an application allowing of the bank's ability to continue to flourish. of selected objectives within the United time, we are determined to stand by our and environmental activities this year, named Bank Hapoalim the leading bank users to open an account directly from Bank Hapoalim works continually to Nations Sustainable Development customers, in every business or financial which had a beneficial effect on hundreds in the promotion of small businesses and their mobile devices. We developed nurture and develop its human capital. The Goals (SDG's), which target sustainable decision; to offer them professional, of thousands of people and on a wide creation of offers best suited to them. a service in which bank guarantees bank employs thousands of employees development for communities and for devoted guidance in growth processes range of businesses and communities Beyond our commitment to deliver a can be issued digitally, with electronic nationwide, including from population future generations. for themselves and their businesses; and across Israel. high-quality professional response to signatures, at any place and time. We also groups under-represented in the job Our resolve to stand by our customers to work to create a robust, sustainable In 2019, we continued to work to realize our customers, we are also dedicated expanded our payment revolution, as the market. The volunteering spirit of the in every decision takes on even greater infrastructure for the economy, society, our commitment to our customers: to the promotion of astute financial bit application grew to allow payment bank’s employees, who take part in a wide significance during times of crisis. At and environment of Israel. ‫״‬With You in Every Decision‫״‬. Within behavior for everyone in Israel. In 2019, to selected businesses and receipt of range of community activities, reflects this writing, we are emerging from an this effort, we adapted our value we expanded the activities of the insurance payments. Our leadership in offers to significant milestones such as Financial Growth Center, which offers digital innovation saves our customers weddings, buying a home, retirement, knowledge and tools for deeper financial and the general public precious time, and more. We promoted innovation in understanding, through thousands of while also benefiting the environment. products and services to benefit small lectures, nationwide, open to the general During this digital revolution, we have and mid-sized businesses, aimed at public free of charge. insisted on personal treatment and service Oded Eran Dov Kotler Chairman of the President and CEO Board of Directors 4 5 Corporate responsibility at Bank Hapoalim This is the thirteenth report by Bank Hapoalim for its stakeholders, endeavors in several main areas: digital literacy for senior demonstrating the bank's continuing dedication to corporate citizens, empowerment of people with disabilities in Israel, and responsibility over the course of many years. In 2019, we continued advancement of social mobility and employment in peripheral to create business opportunities while promoting social and regions. In addition, the bank’s Financial Growth Center offers Values of the bank environmental benefits; maintain a continual, proactive dialogue workshops on astute financial behavior for private individuals between the bank and its stakeholders – its customers, its and small businesses, free of charge, open to customers of all employees, and the public; and promote initiatives to benefit banks nationwide. the society and community of Israel. These activities contribute In 2019, we promoted responsible investment at the bank, in to progress on a substantial number of the UN Sustainable view of the growing awareness of this area around the world Development Goals (SDG's), as reflected in this report. and among institutional investors in Israel. For the first time in While this report summarizes the activities of the bank in 2019, the banking system in Israel, we added ESG ratings of global in view of the coronavirus crisis, we have also chosen to include actions initiated by the bank for its stakeholders in order to stand equities to our customer advisory systems; we also developed targeted financial products to allow our customers to take part Our mission Our core values by them during this challenging period. As an organization with in the advancement of social and environmental causes. We Helping people, communities, a broad impact on the economy as a whole and on the general accord high importance to responsible investment, and we will and businesses achieve Customer centricity public, we recognize that the bank’s commitment to action continue to pursue progress in this area in the coming years. well-being and thrive. Acting in partnership to rooted in corporate social responsibility is especially significant during a crisis. We hope that you find the description of our extensive and varied activities in this report informative and interesting, benefit the customer In view of the success of the implementation at the bank of a and we invite you to share suggestions and new ideas to help business concept founded on the principles of creating shared us enhance our social and environmental impact through the Our role Professionalism value and building trust with all stakeholders, we decided to decentralize the units of the Stakeholder Relations Division, creation of shared value for the bank and the community. If you have any suggestions in this area, please contact Mrs. Sharon To enable people to make Staying curious, learning, as part of the organizational change performed at the bank Alaluf, Head of Corporate Social Responsibility at Bank Hapoalim, sound financial decisions. We and adding value in early 2020, and integrate them as an inherent element of at sharon.alaluf@poalim.co.il. offer guidance to customers, ongoing operations. Most of these units now report to the We would like to thank all of the employees and managers, Human Resources Division, as they continue their extensive at every level of the bank’s work, who endeavor every day to businesses, employees, and Fairness and responsibility work and deep commitment to the promotion of social and realize the shared values of the bank and the community and communities in any important Choosing worthy action environmental values. who helped create this report. The social action of the bank is decision, helping them make focused on several areas that astute choices, achieve Humanity and caring are congruent with the bank’s core capabilities and give full progress, evolve, and live Being respectful, listening, expression to the strengths of better lives. and showing empathy the bank and its employees. Most of the activities are led by the Social Banking Center, Our promise to our customers Initiative and innovation which promotes initiatives and partnerships with social We are with you in Driving the bank and and business impact, focusing every decision. its customers forward on leadership of nationwide Ronit Meiri Naama Halevy-Peer Sharon Alaluf Head of Organizational Head of Social Head of Corporate Change Management Banking Center Social Responsibility Human Resources Division Human Resources Division Human Resources Division 6 7 Corporate responsibility in numbers 2019 Responsible ValueResponsible action to action to benefit creating enhance employees’ customers innovation capabilities and well-being 8,162 2.5 3.8 million employees from every part of Israeli society and from every region of Israel million downloads 54% customers in Israel of bit (by customers of all banks) the leading payment 215 1,210 application in Israel Responsible action to 7 95% of the management protect the environment tier at the bank consists of women 53,681 6.4 accessible accessible ATMs NIS branches and self-service minutes costumers' Diversity Award nationwide; 40% located stations the time necessary to open a bank account, at any place satisfaction The bank won the Dov Lautman Diversity in Business Award for its in socially and/or geographically peripheral nationwide; 45% located in and time, through the Poalim from the bank's website actions towards inclusion of employees learning days billion peripheral regions Open application with disabilities in its workforce and for bank employees through in credit granted for projects promoting regions raising public awareness to this issue various channels the protection of the environment Promotion of growth and financial inclusion Action to benefit society and the community Responsible supply chains 50% reduction in the carbon footprint 20K 95% over of the bank over the last decade; 43.9 NIS 9% reduction in 2019 participants in financial conduct workshops of the Financial Growth Center for the general million in social and community of purchasing is from suppliers who are located and employ workers in Israel 62 million pages investments in 2019 of paper saved annually due to public, free of charge digital document retention and the Poalim via Email service 30K 10 71% 3.69 NIS NIS senior-citizen customers First Place million 161,110hours of small and million First Place received knowledge, tools, in the banking system in promotion of small donated through the bit application to various nonvolunteering micro suppliers in purchasing in 2019 from (Platinum Plus category) in Maala ratings 71% of all the bank's suppliers are suppliers who primarily employ of corporate responsibility performance, and skills to master digital businesses in Israel (based profit organizations and by bank employees for small and micro businesses workers with disabilities of all companies in Israel competence on Marketest survey) social causes the community 8 9 COVID-19 Responsible action for our stakeholders; coming through this together When the coronavirus outbreak began, Bank Hapoalim made preparations in order to maintain business continuity and robustness, while protecting the health of our employees and customers. Throughout this period, we took care to maintain professional responsiveness and ready availability for our customers; develop products and services adapted to the needs of this time; expand the service delivered through our direct channels; and offer business clients targeted loans and special benefits to support them during the crisis. Within the long-standing commitment of the bank to the community, we led a series of processes aimed at assisting the national effort to combat the virus and support population groups harmed by the effects of the coronavirus crisis. ‫הסניף הנייד של בנק הפועלים בביקור במרכזי דיור מוגן‬ Customers Employees Community ◆ Branches opened with scheduled appointments, to maintain safety rules. ◆ Expanding the transactions available through direct channels expanded. ◆ Non of the employees was put on an un paid ◆ Assistance for medical and health-care services ◆ Call-center staffing increased. leave (with the exception of employees who ◆ NIS 750,000 donated to fifteen hospitals for coronavirus wards; 570 food asked for it). packages delivered to medical teams. Private customers Self-employed and ◆ Appropriate system access provided to employees working from home. ◆ Joining the resource development effort for Magen David Adom emergency services: a donation button developed in the Bit application ◆ Loan payment deferral via digital channels business customers ◆ A safe and hygienic work environment. and a donation of NIS 0.5 million by the bank. Option to defer 3 payments on existing loans through the bank's website, ◆ Loan fund for self-employed customers ◆ Continuous communication with employees; ◆ A donation of NIS 200,000 to Yad Sarah and United Hatzalah for without fees. (in collaboration with Lahav ) regular updates through the Portal to Go emergency medical equipment. ◆ Mortgage payment deferral Immediate loans via digital channels of up application and messages. ◆ Support and assistance for population groups hurt by the crisis (elderly For a three-month period, through bank's website or call center. to NIS 10,000 for self-employed customers. ◆ Dedicated human-resources call center responds people, Holocaust survivors, families in financial distress) ◆ Services for customers aged 70+ ◆ State-backed loans to employees’ questions and needs during ◆ NIS 1 million donated for collaborations with community organizations. ◆ Dedicated call center with rapid human response; mobile branch visits Rapid approval track. this period. ◆ 3,500 food packages delivered to elderly people and people in need. assisted-living facilities and day centers. ◆ Range of credit solutions for self◆ Content area established for employees, ◆ Mahpilim Mehalev (Multiplying from the Heart) – An initiative led with ◆ Bank cards sent to elderly allowance recipients via courier. employed and business customers presenting a range of sources for remote community partners to raise donations from the public through the bit ◆ Online course developed for senior-citizen customers; pamphlet with Loans with special terms and an option to personal enrichment and development. application; donations were doubled and transferred to people in need. instructions on the use of the digital channels distributed to these defer payments by up to 6 months. ◆ Well-being activities to uphold morale and ◆ Guidance for non-profits and community organizations customers. ◆ Assistance hotline for small businesses healthy lifestyles during lockdown: enrichment ◆ Providing tools for navigation of the crisis through the Erech Laderech ◆ Deposits designed for turbulent markets and self-employed customers lectures via Zoom, including special activities for program. Calm Track savings plans and Flexible Track deposits. Lahav experts answer businesses’ children of employees; subscriptions to digital ◆ Young Managers of Tomorrow – An innovative free online course for ◆ Good Cause Savings: the bank matches the interest received by the questions in real time on the Onlife platforms for workouts and good nutrition given children by the Financial Growth Center. customer on the deposit with a donation to people in need. Facebook page. to employees. ◆ Individual response to questions from the public on family economics – ◆ Digital loans with special terms ◆ Business call center ◆ Proactive contact with all retirees of the bank An expert call center established in a collaboration of the Financial “Getting Through This Together” loans with preferred interest rates and an Human response to any question or and assistance for them where necessary, Growth Center, the non-profit organization Paamonim, and the Reshet option to defer payments by up to 3 months. problem. through bank volunteers. 13 television network. 10 11 Introduction Stakeholder dialogues and listening to stakeholders Stakeholder Selected dialogue and listening channels in 2019 Benefit Customers Different stakeholders have different Within the process of listening to its with the baseline measurement from Regulators, • Meetings and lectures for the exchange of knowledge and insights with representatives of expectations for the bank, according to stakeholders, the bank examined public 2018. The bank accords high importance government government and municipal agencies. Joint projects aimed at addressing environmental and their unique characteristics and diverse sentiment towards the bank and trust to continued measurement of sentiment Growth and Financial Inclusion agencies, and local social issues are promoted in this context. needs. Ultimately, it is the bank's in the bank, and the impact on the and trust in the coming years, in order authorities •  Collaboration with the Bank of Israel and the Association of Banks on various initiatives to benefit stakeholders who grant it its social public of its routine conduct and of to attain further improvement. the public, such as in the area of financial education, Shlishi Beshleikes (“Tuesdays in Suspenders”) license to operate (SLTO); this social the social and environmental processes Concurrently, the bank continued to discounts for senior citizens, and more. license is continually under challenge under its leadership. Towards that end, maintain and conduct ongoing dialogue • Promotion of accessibility, in cooperation with the Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities in the business environment in which a unique index of sentiment and trust with stakeholders through the various Commission at the Ministry of Justice. the bank operates. Accordingly, and was developed at the bank, factoring in channels developed over the years. The Community and •D  ialogue and collaboration with a wide range of non-profits and social organizations working in order to build and strengthen the full scope of perceptions, feelings, following are selected examples of key environmental to promote various causes. Value-Creating Innovation public trust over time, the bank and emotions towards the bank among groups of stakeholders and the nature organizations • Collaborations with companies in areas such as recycling, energy efficiency, solar energy, wind accords high importance to listening customers as well as the general public. of this dialogue in 2019 (further details energy, water treatment, etc. to stakeholder expectations and to The results of this measurement in 2019 regarding the dialogue channels and •  Knowledge sharing and collaboration with approximately fifty non-profits and social organizations continuously addressing the challenges indicated higher trust and positive outcomes are presented throughout working in the area of diverse human capital and employment of population groups underthey present. sentiment towards the bank, compared this report). represented in the labor market, in order to promote diverse employment at the bank. Academia • Dialogue with managers and professors at universities and colleges, including the Technion, Tel Society and the Community Aviv University, the College of management, and the Interdisciplinary Center. Stakeholder Selected dialogue and listening channels in 2019 CSR community • Contact and professional dialogue with Israel's leading business organizations and CSR managers. • Maala – shared discussion and mutual assistance in facing professional problems and challenges. Customers and the • The Customer Insight Center reflects the voice of the customer to the management of the bank, • Lectures on CSR at relevant venues (courses, academic institutions, conferences, etc.). general public on a regular basis, as it emerges from customer-bank interactions in aggregate. • Meetings with customers at the Usability Lab in the Innovation Division. The lab tests bank The dialogue and listening processes were used to derive strategic focus areas for the various groups of stakeholders. products prior to launch and throughout the life of the product, in order to ensure that the These focus areas are included in the work plans of the bank for the coming years (some are reflected in the Looking Responsible Supply Chains products optimally meet customer needs. Ahead sections of this report), with the aim of responding optimally to needs, further improving positive sentiment, and • Israel Business Trail – a one-month journey across Israeli communities, to visit hundreds of small strengthening and solidifying the trust-based relationship between the bank and its stakeholders. and mid-sized businesses. • A wide range of digital empowerment meetings and workshops for senior citizens. • Direct interaction at the bank's extensive network of branches. • The bank's Customer Council. About the report and material reported topics • Active dialogue channels maintained on four social networks: Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and This CSR report refers to the calendar in alignment with our strategic approach. at the core of the bank's strategy for year 2019. This report was prepared Material topics are defined as areas of the coming years: innovation. The topic Employees’ Capabilities Telegram. Employees • Evaluation and development sessions held with all employees of the bank. in compliance with the Sustainability activity in which we have a significant “Developing products and services to • An organizational climate survey to examine the level of employees' sense of connectedness Report Standard (SRS) of the Global impact on our various stakeholders in promote sustainability and examining and satisfaction. Reporting Initiative (GRI), at the most the areas of CSR and sustainability, within environmental risks in financing” has • The organizational portal and the Portal To Go application. advanced level of transparency (In and outside the bank. been split into two topics, due to the • Monthly roundtable meetings of employees with the CEO, and informal meetings of employees Accordance: Comprehensive). The material topics presented in this importance of each of these issues for the with members of the board of management. We have reported on our impact and report are the product of prolonged bank as a financier. The topic title “Serving Protecting the environment • The annual report conference, broadcast live to all employees of the bank. activities in the areas of sustainability continuous dialogue by the bank with a a diverse clientele and promoting sectors • Visits to branches by members of the board of management throughout the year. and CSR since 2007, in compliance wide range of stakeholders, in addition of the economy” has been changed to with the recognized GRI international to topics identified as material for local “Serving a diverse clientele and promoting Suppliers • Conferences for the bank's suppliers, attended by hundreds of suppliers from various fields reporting guidelines. According to the and international analysis and rating financial inclusion,” as this phrasing (consulting, transportation, construction, printing, sales promotion, office supplies, food, and more). GRI guidelines, we are required to focus organizations. The material topics better summarizes and describes the • Communication of the bank's CSR values to the general population of suppliers of the bank our report on the topics most material in this report are the same as those actions taken by the bank to increase through periodic letters and the code of ethics for suppliers. to our activity, while including the presented in the bank’s last report, for the accessibility of financial products and expectations of our various stakeholders, 2018, with the addition of one new topic services for all of its customers. Corporate Governance 12 13 Introduction List of material topics for sustainability reporting at Bank Hapoalim ◆ Training and individual development – Presentation of the area of ◆ Examination of environmental risks in financing – Management of The material topics in this report represent the topics important to the stakeholders of the bank. As each group of stakeholders training and learning at the bank. environmental risks when granting financing for projects. perceives each of the material topics somewhat differently, and naturally accords greater importance to topics by which it is ◆ Reduction of environmental impacts – Management of the ◆ Corporate governance and ethics – Presentation of the structure Benefit Customers affected, a decision was made to refrain from presenting a hierarchical division of topics in the report. Instead, the list of the protection of the environment at the bank: responsible consumption and activity of the board of directors; instilling ethics at the bank. topics found toBank Hapoalim be material Stakeholders for both the bank and its stakeholders is presented without ordering by importance. of resources (energy and paper); reduction of environmental impacts ◆ Prevention of corruption – The bank's commitment to the prevention Bank Hapoalim Stakeholders Bank Bank Hapoalim Hapoalim Stakeholders Stakeholders and carbon footprint. of corruption and money laundering; presentation of the activity ◆ Development of products and services to promote sustainability of the bank's compliance unit. Sustainability and CSR International perception Review of CSR reports in Local and protect the environment – Investment in infrastructures, the bank’sInternational Sustainability and CSR • perception Sustainability and CSR peer group and International Local BDO survey of products, and services with environmental value. Growth and Financial Inclusion Review of CSR reports in NewSustainability aspects and • and CSR perception at leading International foreign banks Local stakeholders’ the bank’s Review CSR group of peer reportsand in BDO Local survey of expansionNew aspects implemented New aspects expansion New perception of aspects existing • and • at the and of existing aspects and Review the Aspectstheraised at • of at leading bank’s bank’s leading with international CSR foreign peer in dialogue foreign ESG banks at leading foreign • reports banks group peer group and and banks in ++ expectations BDO reportsBDO of survey of stakeholders’ survey of in the stakeholders’of expectations bankingstakeholders’ sector The bank views business continuity as an important, critical topic, but it is reported extensively in the bank's financial statements, making bank Focus over expansion aspects expansion aspects aspects on bank bank • the years of existing implemented of implemented over the years bankimplemented overof activity over the at the existing theyears • the years at the at the Aspects analysis Aspects Aspects with • analysis International raised organizations with international raised in dialogue raised •• in dialogue international study with international analysis • ESG in dialogue organizations ESG ESG organizations + reports in theof expectations •expectations reports in banking Key aspectsreports based banking banking the sector in the • sector on the Maala rating sector of its presentation in this report unnecessary (for details regarding this topic, and in particular about business continuity at the bank during the coronavirus outbreak, see p. 75 in the annual financial statements of the bank for 2019). The topic of dialogue with employees, which •• based variousFocus units relevant to by GRI on stakeholders’ analysis organizations Key aspects • on activity • of the International expectations of reports • • study Keythe on aspects Maalabased rating each Focus aspect various on activity units of the relevant to inby GRI International this on stakeholders’ sector International study Key aspects based is not defined as material in the GRI standard, is presented in this report within the topic of the promotion of an appropriate work Focus on activity of the expectations by ofstudy GRI on stakeholders’reports on the Maala rating on the Maala rating various units each relevant aspect to various units relevant to each aspect by GRI expectationsthisstakeholders’ in on sector of reports expectations of reports environment. As the bank is an office-based organization rather than an industrial organization by nature, its impact on the environment each aspect in this sector in this sector as a result of the operational aspect of the organization is insignificant, in contrast to its role in financing infrastructure and industrial Value-Creating Innovation projects; the bank has therefore continued to scale back the environmental section of the report, while expanding the sections on the List of material List of material aspect development of products and services with social and/or environmental added value and on environmental risk management in financing. aspects Listreflecting of material representingListstakeholders’ of material aspect strategic List focus of areas combined expectations ofaspect List and the of material aspects depth reflecting material of List List sustainability of material of representing reports stakeholders’ in theaspect material aspects strategic aspects reflecting focus areas reflecting representing combined representing stakeholders’ expectations stakeholders’ of implementation banking industry Material topics map strategic and focus the depth areas focus of combined expectations combined sustainability reports in theof costumers strategic areas expectations of and depth of the depth and the implementation of sustainability sustainability reports banking reports in in the industry the implementation Material aspects banking industry implementation banking industry overlapping Material aspects 1. Promotion of astute financial behavior for costumers. Material aspects Society and the Community between stakeoverlapping Material aspects 2. Serving a diverse clientele and promoting holders’ overlapping expectabetween stakeoverlapping Economic tions andbetween stakeprioritizaholders’ expectafinancial inclusion between stakeholders’ tion based tions on and expectathe prioritiza3. Innovation holders’ expectauence (Value creati tions and prioritizaand considerations ofon the l inﬂ on tion based tions prioritizaterna tie r) 4. Information security and privacy tion the tion based on bank considerations based the on the of Ex considerations 5. Accessibility the bank of considerations of the bank the bank 20 14 in Supply-chain: ernal ﬂuence Responsible Supply Chains Material reporting topics Int 5 42 6. Responsible supply-chain management A table showing the connections between the topics material to the bank, presented here, and the topics defined in the GRI standard 173 11 appears on p. 137. 7 12 16 10 13 9 4 Community ◆ Promotion of astute financial behavior for customers – Providing ◆ Responsible supply-chain management – Embedding social 20 15 11 9 7. Expansion of spheres of influence information, products and tools, and individually adapted service and responsibility and sustainability considerations in purchasing 3 8. Investment in the community 16 8 advice. Financial education and literacy for various customer segments. processes. ◆ Innovation – Leading and encouraging innovation in the Israeli ◆ Expansion of spheres of influence – Direct and indirect influence Employees Employees’ Capabilities economy in general, and in the banking system in particular. In an on the economy and society of Israel and on various stakeholders, En 7 vir l 9. Promotion of appropriate work environments evolving and complex digital world, the bank is continually reinventing with the presentation of the bank's activity in the public sphere. on cia 10. Promotion of diversity, equal opportunities, and itself, while maximizing meaningful value for its customers. ◆ Investment in the community – Promotion of the policies of Poalim n So transparency ◆ Serving a diverse clientele and promoting financial inclusion – for the Community and Poalim Volunteers for management of me 10 6 11. Training and individual development Accessibility and service targeted to specific customer segments, the bank's social action and engagement, its donation policy, and tal including small and mid-sized businesses, senior citizens, the Arab employee volunteering. Environment Protecting the environment community, and the ultra-orthodox community; establishing a ◆ Promotion of appropriate work environments – Development and 12. Reduction of environmental impacts service concept; implementation and measurement of excellence in promotion of human capital at the bank; instilling fair policies on 13. Developing products and services to promote service; and presentation of the various service channels (branches, remuneration and benefits, well-being, and caring for employees, sustainability and protect the environment website, mobile, etc.). in various aspects of the work environment and of their lives; intra14. Examination of environmental risks in financing ◆ Information security and privacy – Management of information organizational communication channels; and partnership with security at the bank and instilling principles for the protection of customers' privacy. ◆ employees in organizational and professional processes at the bank. Promotion of diversity, equal opportunities, and transparency – Ethic Accessibility – Actions to promote physical accessibility and Promotion of gender and sector equality, prevention of discrimination, 15. Corporate governance and ethics Corporate Governance ◆ 16. Prevention of corruption empower people with disabilities, aimed at their inclusion in society and promotion of diverse employment. and in the workforce. 14 15 Introduction Benefit Customers Bank Hapoalim and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainable Relevance to the activity of Examples of activities The Sustainable Development Goals for the bank in its business and social the goals on which it would focus based Development Goals the bank (detailed in the report) (SDGs) consist of seventeen goals and 169 actions, with all of its stakeholders. on two parameters: the bank's ability to secondary goals for the closure of global As one of the largest financial entities have an impact on each goal, and the Within its community engagement, • Hundreds of scholarships are granted to students at academic development gaps by 2030. In September in Israel, the bank's routine activity relevance of each goal to its business. the bank invests resources in a range institutions throughout Israel; the bank’s Poalim for Success Growth and Financial Inclusion 2015, Israel joined 192 members of the contributes to the realization of some These parameters were rated based on of educational initiatives, and in fund grants scholarships to students in peripheral regions. United Nations in adopting a resolution of the global objectives for sustainable both present and potential activities. donations of cash and cash equivalents • Hundreds of workshops and extensive digital content on to take part in realizing these goals. development. Among other means, As part of its commitment to this issue, to educational and cultural institutions. astute financial behavior are offered free of charge to the There is broad international consensus the bank achieves this by making the bank also supports the Sustainability The bank also conducts extensive general public through the 'Financial Growth Center'. that achieving the goals will require financial services accessible, financing Compass, an Israeli social project Ensure inclusive and educational activity on the subject of • Resources invested in education, with an emphasis on collaboration among the public, business, renewable-energy and infrastructure modeled on the global SDG Compass equitable quality astute financial behavior. financial education. and civil sectors. The SDGs refer to issues projects, investing in the community, project. The goal of the Sustainability education and promote • Read and Succeed activities aimed at boosting reading Value-Creating Innovation including reduction of inequalities, and promoting financial education. Compass is to adapt the seventeen lifelong learning and writing skills among children, in the Arab and the ultraeducation, infrastructures, economic Initiatives and actions of the Bank that development goals to Israeli society opportunities for all orthodox communities. growth, fighting climate change, and more. contribute to the realization of the in general, and to the Israeli business The bank grants credit for investment • Financing for various infrastructure projects in Israel, and Helping people, businesses, and global goals on a local level are described sector in particular. in infrastructures, development, and for projects promoting sustainability and protection of communities thrive and grow is a priority extensively in this report. The bank chose construction in Israel. This investment is the environment. crucial to economic growth and to the • Development of innovative financial products, led by the Objectives chosen as focus areas by the bank improvement of services accessible to Innovation Division at the bank, such as the bit application, Society and the Community the population in the areas of welfare, which has led the payment revolution in Israel and is used Sustainable Relevance to the activity of Examples of activities Build resilient education, and health care. by customers of all banks. Development Goals the bank (detailed in the report) infrastructure, promote • Managing environmental risks in financing and credit for As a leading financial entity, the bank • Ensuring the accessibility of banking services for the entire inclusive and sustainable infrastructure and real-estate projects in order to ensure makes financial services accessible, population of Israel, with an emphasis on populations suffering industrialization and foster sustainable development. while providing advanced knowledge from a lack of access to full banking services. innovation and tools for astute financial behavior • Guidance and financial tools for small businesses through Responsible Supply Chains to its customers. The bank is also a major targeted credit funds, financing solutions for small and midThe bank's involvement in leading • Over NIS 2.4 billion invested in financing of various renewableemployer in the Israeli economy, and sized businesses, tools to assist financial management, and financing solutions for its customers energy projects, including solar energy, wind energy, and contributes indirectly to employment tools to support growth, including workshops targeted to for projects in the areas of renewable pumped storage. Promote sustained, in wider spheres (through financing, small businesses at the Financial Growth Center. energy and energy efficiency is highly • The bank won a tender to operate a state-backed fund inclusive and sustainable suppliers, support for the community, • For several years, the bank has operated the Erech Laderech important to the feasibility of such granting loans for energy efficiency at businesses. economic growth, full and etc.). Initiative, in which dozens of non-profit organizations receive projects. productive employment tools for fundraising and the creation of an income-generating Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Employees’ Capabilities and decent work for all arm, in order to ensure that they can survive over the long term and are capable of serving their beneficiaries in the sustainable and modern community. energy for all • Approximately 95% of the bank’s purchasing is “blue and white” ( made in Israel). Access to water and sanitation is an • Financing of 80% of water desalination plants in Israel. essential challenge for sustainable • Financing of operators of waste treatment facilities, mainly The bank works to adapt financial tools • Promotion of employment of workers from population groups development today. The bank is a producing water used in agriculture. This significantly reduces and services for diverse audiences, characterized by underemployment. Protecting the environment leader in financing of water desalination the quantity of wastewater flowing into the ocean, and including senior citizens, the Arab • Making banking services accessible, and initiating programs and waste treatment facilities in Israel. contributes to the reduction of marine pollution. community, the ultra-orthodox and solutions for financial inclusion. community, people with disabilities, • Extensive educational and communications activity for Ensure availability and more. The bank also promotes various customer segments and population groups, aimed at and sustainable diverse employment among its promoting astute financial behavior for the bank's employees management of water Reduce inequality within employees and in the supply chain. and customers, and for the general public in Israel. and sanitation for all and among countries • Various activities to promote social mobility and employment Corporate Governance in peripheral regions, as a key element of social banking activity. 16 17 Introduction Additional goals promoted by the bank in its routine activities for stakeholders ESG ratings – CSR performance of Bank Hapoalim from the perspective Benefit Customers Sustainable Examples of activities (detailed in the report) Development Goals of local and international analysts Capital-market analyst s, both Analysis Bank Hapoalim Rating1 Growth and Financial Inclusion • The bank establishes baseline salaries and benefits according to the employee's position and rank, regardless of gender. internationally and in Israel, include ESG firm score (environmental, social, and governance) • 54% of the bank's management tier are women. components in their evaluations of 64.9 • The bank runs unique training programs, in collaboration with non-profit organizations, for the performance of business firms and Bloomberg ESG 99th percentile in the world's women entrepreneurs, aimed at providing participants with the financial skills and knowledge organizations. Investors around the banking sector. Achieve gender equality and they need to start their own businesses (examples include the programs A Business of Your world have shown growing interest in Disclosure Score empower all women and girls Own, in the Arab community; Future Enterprises; and Jasmine). ESG aspects over recent years and have • The bank has set the goal of increasing the representation of women in the management tier, Value-Creating Innovation used this information to make investment and aspires to 50% representation of women in senior management by 2023. decisions. • Mortgages granted for residential real-estate construction, including unique mortgage products Bank Hapoalim maintains ongoing tailored to the Arab community. • Targeted loans for private and business customers for the purchase of solar-energy systems to produce electricity from renewable energy sources. dialogue with local and international analysis firms that examine ESG metrics, RobecoSAM (S&P Global) 59 68th percentile in global banking sector and provides continual responsiveness to analysts’ inquiries. The bank accords Society and the Community Make cities and human high importance to this dialogue, for two Sustainalytics Risk score 85th percentile in 23.2 settlements inclusive, safe, main reasons: global banking sector resilient and sustainable 1. Dialogue with international analysts who are in routine contact with (medium risk level) • A green purchasing policy, under which environment-friendly purchasing alternatives for corporations all over the world offers products and services are examined. the bank valuable insights regarding Management • Mapping the various types of waste generated by the bank's activity, and examining the score 48.3 leading trends in the global corporate environmentally safest ways of treating the waste. Responsible Supply Chains responsibility field and material issues • Responsible waste collection and removal, including collection of electronic waste and for the banking sector. Ensure sustainable construction waste, recycling of bottles and cans, and responsible collection of disused 2. An examination of the bank's scores consumption and production pharmaceuticals. on the various rating scales allows patterns ongoing mapping of gap analysis in the management of corporate MSCI2 AA 86-99th percentile in global banking sector responsibility issues and promotes Adoption of responsible initiatives and transparent reporting constant improvement of performance Employees’ Capabilities on the various parameters. 45 The bank is committed to its partnership which consists of all of the public companies Voluntary reporting system on The bank is ranked first of with organizations working towards rated by Maala and traded on the TASE. greenhouse-gas emissions in Israel The bank examines its performance Vigeo Eiris 34 banks in the regional sustainability and CSR, and has adopted In 2010, Bank Hapoalim was one of the from a broad perspective, aligned with ratings (Middle East international standards of responsible UN Global Compact first organizations to join the voluntary the standards defined in this field for Africa), and 645th of 4,842 conduct: During 2010, Bank Hapoalim joined system for recording greenhouse-gas the global financial sector, in order to companies in the index Protecting the environment this UN initiative aimed at promoting emissions. This system is a joint initiative understand its position relative to banks Maala economic development that is of the Ministry of Environmental worldwide. Towards that end, reviews of 1. Ratings are as received from the analysis firms as of the period in which the bank was reviewed during Bank Hapoalim joined Maala in 2006 as a beneficial for the community and for Protection and the Manufacturers’ the bank by analysts and key international 2019, and are therefore subject to change. member of the organization’s business future generations. Since then, the Association. The bank updates this data metrics are compared. leadership. In the Maala ratings for 2019, bank has ensured that the principles and reports to the ministry annually. 2. The use by Bank Hapoalim of any MSCI ESG research LLC or its affiliates ( MSCI ) DATA, and the use of MSCI the bank earned the top ranking of all of the compact are implemented in logos trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement, recommendations , or information providers, and are provided 'as is' and without warranty. MSCI names companies in Israel and of all banks, placing its activities. The sustainability report and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI. in the Platinum Plus category. The bank also serves as a COP (Communication Corporate Governance also appears on Maala's stock-market index, on Progress) for the Global Compact. 18 19 Responsible Action to Benefit Customers The Ori family Introduction Benefit Customers Being there for our customers in every decision and milestone Personalized service and advising Growth and Financial Inclusion Bank Hapoalim is committed to providing In 2019, the bank focused on improving and expanding The bank offers private and business customers personalized As awareness of this type of investment has grown globally, it is meaningful value to its customers, by combining service for four types of milestones: divorce, weddings, service in the areas of credit, mortgages, and investments. also rising among institutional investors in Israel. Bank Hapoalim personal human service with technological death of a relative, and moving to a new home. Targeted has chosen to promote this approach to its customers, both innovation, and aspires to be the first place they packages were created for each milestone, with the aim of Financial investment advising by reflecting the ESG scores of global equities in its advisory making it possible to provide customers with meaningful Hundreds of advisors nationwide provide private and business systems and by developing targeted financial products. turn for anything related to a financial decision. service and value while maintaining the necessary customers of the bank who have signed advising agreements3 For the first time in the banking system in Israel, interested To realize this ambition, the bank has designed Value-Creating Innovation sensitivity to the crucial juncture in their lives. In 2020, with tailored investment advice, based on familiarity with their customers can receive investment recommendations on global value offers and service packages relevant to the bank plans to continue to expand service packages needs, preferences, and goals. The advisors use an advanced equities with high ESG ratings in investment advising sessions. significant milestones in customers’ lives, in the for additional milestones. investment advising system called Advisor, which provides This opportunity was introduced in June 2019. understanding that financial decisions made by decision-support tools and extensive information to help The bank also launched three unique, exclusive savings plans customers at these vital crossroads may have Tools and products to promote build the investment portfolio best suited to the customer. In 2019, the bank launched the Smart Advice service within the with a positive social and environmental impact: ◆ Poalim Accessibility Deposit As part of the bank's focus far-reaching implications for their future and the astute financial behavior capital-market application and on the bank's website. The system on social action to benefit people with disabilities, the bank Society and the Community future of the people around them. Alongside the formulation of the service, product, and allows customers who have signed an advising agreement to developed a deposit, in collaboration with JDC Israel, allowing information packages tailored to the milestones, in the receive personalized investment recommendations, through customers to save and earn interest while contributing to a In 2019, the bank launched a strategic effort to map types of crucial ambition to stand by the customers when they need their mobile devices or the website. good cause. The bank donates an amount equal to the interest junctures in customers’ lives. These are moments in which the course to make financial decisions, the bank has developed a accrued on the deposit to the development of innovative of a person’s life changes significantly, in a way that requires making series of tools and products supporting astute financial social services for people with disabilities. and executing decisions in the financial sphere. The process consisted behavior. These encompass both services provided in ◆ Green Deposit A product developed by the bank in of an investigation of customer journeys, interviews and focus groups, person by bankers at the branches and advising centers, Smart Advice service won collaboration with the non-profit environmental organization Responsible Supply Chains leading to the delineation of meaningful crucial junctures including and digital tools available to customers at any place and the 2020 Product of the Year Zalul, allowing customers to save while promoting a green moving to a new home, a wedding, the birth of a child, divorce, time, such as: environment. The bank donates an amount equal to the illness, death of a relative, beginning a new job, and leaving a job. It ◆ The bank's website The website offers a wide range Award Consumers’ Choice, interest accrued on the deposit to Zalul, for a joint venture also became clear that there was a need for a service methodology and the development of products and tools to provide a unique of possibilities for accessible, immediate account management online. In addition to the presentation of in the Investments category. with the Israel Association of Community Centers, aimed at reducing the use of plastic tableware in preschools in response to customers in financial crisis. routine information regarding customers’ accounts, the peripheral regions. For each of the milestones, the bank set the goal of formulating website offers various tools for improved management ◆ ESG Structured Deposit A deposit tracking the Responsible investments Employees empowerment three types of packages, offering customers products and services of their finances, such as dynamic comparisons of income performance of ten global equities with high ESG ratings, relevant to that situation and helping them make the financial to expenses, alerts when approaching the limit of a credit Investments examined based on environmental, social, and with a contingent bonus derived from their performance decisions that are right for them: facility, and a feature for setting and tracking goals. governance (ESG) parameters have gained momentum over a predefined period. ◆ Service package An ordered methodology for ways of delivering ◆ Poalim UP A set of services and products designed worldwide over the last few years. At the end of 2018, total service and tailored treatment for customers confronting a milestone, to help customers with smart management of their global investments in this area reached USD 30 trillion; they In addition to encouraging responsible investment among its including the provision of information and practical tools for bankers. monthly budget, according to their income and financial remain on a continual rapid upward trend. More and more customers, the bank includes investments in its own proprietary Within this process, bankers received training in identifying customers goals. The service includes various digital budgetinvestors today want to be certain that their money is exerting portfolio in ETFs tracking global equities with high ESG ratings, Protecting the environment who may be at a crucial juncture in their lives, and providing service management tools. a positive impact and is not causing negative effects, through and performs impact investments in companies promoting with the necessary sensitivity to these customers, rooted in the ◆ Save & Go Customers of the bank can transfer money investment in companies that promote social and environmental social and environmental values. realization that they may need special attention and that it may into savings using the account management application, values or through investment in financial assets with a social take longer than usual to address their needs. and set up reminders to perform recurring transfers. and environmental impact. ◆ Product package Products to support customers’ needs at Customers can choose when the reminders are displayed: milestones in the areas of credit, deposits and planning. periodically, or, using a feature that supports both savings ◆ Information and Knowledge package – Relevant lectures and and a more athletic lifestyle, after the customer walks workshops offered by the Financial Growth Center. a specified number of steps. Corporate Governance 3. Subject to the provisions of the Law for Regularization of the Occupation of Investment Advising, Investment Marketing, and Investment Portfolio Management, 1995. 22 23 Introduction Customer Insight Center Benefit Customers ◆ Improved service for senior citizens – This effort encompassed comprehensive Pension advising services pension clearing house, thorough them, and to receive detailed, upinvestigation of the needs of senior citizens, including identification of the challenges Bank Hapoalim has developed a package investigation of their financial needs and to-date monthly information about The Customer Insight Center serves they face in coping with the new digital world. Based on insights derived from this of professional pension advising services the presentation of various solutions savings products, insurance coverage, as a hub for knowledge, analysis, and process, attendants were stationed at branches to provide these customers with designed to offer guidance to customers to meet future needs. The bank also the amounts deposited in their plans, measurement, using an advanced guidance on the use of the bank's digital tools, and mobile branch services were Growth and Financial Inclusion of all banks at crossroads they encounter offers advisory services for retirement and retirement forecasts. integrative approach to distill key initiated (see details in the section “Senior citizens”). while working, ahead of retirement, and planning, which include the examination ◆ Poalim Advisor for pensions – An insights arising from routine quality of ◆ Branch mergers – Comprehensive service and guidance is provided to both customers post-retirement. of possible tax solutions, aimed at advanced advisory system for pensions service surveys, internal service surveys, and bankers at merging branches; customer satisfaction is monitored approximately ◆ Pension advising and retirement finding the optimal combination of a is available to the bank's advisors. The complaints from the public, social media, six months after the transition to the new branch. planning centers – The bank has 22 monthly allowance and a lump sum for system presents customers’ pension and in-depth processes through dialogue pension advising centers at branches the retiree to receive, based on each portfolios and allows examination of with the various stakeholders, including of the bank across Israel. The pension customer's needs. their various pension needs, and to employees of the bank. These insights Empowering Customers Together Value-Creating Innovation advisors offer professional, objective ◆ Presentation of pension portfolios on adjust planning accordingly. are regularly analyzed and translated into This project, launched in 2019, is aimed at supporting service at branches with large advice andduring the advisor y the bank's website – Customers can policies, actions, and suitable value offers. numbers of walk-in customers. Managers and employees from several head-office process, customers benefit from the use this feature to track their pension units visited branches during afternoon hours to individually assist and guide use of information drawn from the portfolios and any changes made to customers on using the digital channels and familiarize them with the available Key processes to options. This effort allows bank headquarters employees to meet customers, provide assistance, listen, and gain insights from the interactions which they can improve customer later reflect to the relevant functions within the bank, in order to achieve improved Enhanced value for customers as Society and the Community service in 2019 processes and services. ◆ Scheduled appointments with part of the service concept bankers – To improve the customer experience as well as the banker's experience, a transition from walk-in Service experience measurement The service experience is continuously sampled on a daily basis, with results submitted to service to appointment-based service the Service Department for further processing and study. Service is measured through Responsible Supply Chains B a n k H a p o a l i m v i e w s c o nt i n u a l is underway. Customers can schedule an various means, including focus groups, telephone surveys, social-media surveys, customer improvement of service as the key to appointment with a banker at a branch, councils, and more. In 2019, opportunities for listening to customers expanded through its business growth. The bank strives The service concept of the bank is derived from in advance, at the time most convenient satisfaction surveys sent via text message closely following service experiences at to deliver the best possible service for them, through various channels branches and at the call center. experience to its customers, while the strategic approach of enhancing value for (website, application, and call center). upholding the values of humanity customers. To achieve this, the bank believes ◆ Poalim Business Call Center – To and caring, fairness and responsibility, increase availability to customers, a it is vital to listen to customers’ expectations Employees empowerment professionalism and initiative, and dedicated line for small businesses has Costumers' satisfaction with the service, 2019* simplicity. In recognition of the complexity of the financial arena in which it operates, and needs, regularly and continuously, through been established within the Poalim by Telephone call center, offering access to the bank also aspires to provide service various advanced platforms. information and transactions in a wide 8.69 that creates a differentiated customer range of areas. 8.47 8.29 experience. ◆ New self-service stations installed 7.94 allowing various banking transactions 7.5 Protecting the environment In 2019, the bank heard from hundreds of thousands of customers, through a range of (see details in the subsection “Poalim waiting experience at the branch channels. Several organizational moves were implemented as a result, with the aim of Self-Service”). Fairness and responsibility improving internal and external service. Professionalism and initiative Simplicity Humanity and caring Corporate Governance * A comparison to previous years is not shown, due to a change in measurement methodology in 2019. 24 25 Introduction 2019 planning vs. execution Service offering for corporate banking customers Benefit Customers LOOKING AHEAD The Corporate Banking Division operates centers exclusively serving mid-sized and large 2019 plans Status businesses. Of the twelve business centers, six are dedicated to growing commercial businesses. The centers offer a professional and personal service experience in all areas Growth and Financial Inclusion Creation of an advanced customer experience through service tracks matched to customers’ needs and preferences.  Completed • Expansion of the range of banking, with an emphasis on professional solutions matched to customers’ needs. of transactions available The service offering at these branches was developed based on a comprehensive during calls to the Poalim study of customers' needs and expectations, and delivers service adapted to each Strengthening customer relationships through a leading service experience  and guidance during financial decisions; establishment of personal and Completed by Telephone call centers; type of client in the mid-sized and large business segment. continued guidance and business consulting centers for customers, where they can schedule The multi-channel instruction for customers on appointments. the use of the digital tools and Value-Creating Innovation Coordination of customer service by complexity level, using the most services of the bank.  banking center suitable form of banking; easier identification of customers in the various Completed • Expansion of services offered channels and redirection of calls to targeted call centers. via e-mail. Poalim by Telephone is a multi-channel center offering comprehensive banking services millon in a convenient, available form. The center allows customers to receive information customers are active and perform a range of account transactions, receive technical support for the bank's users of the Poalim by Branches Society and the Community website and mobile applications, schedule mortgage advising meetings at branches, Telephone service receive in-principle mortgage approvals in certain cases, and receive information about existing mortgages. The interactive voice response (IVR) system for information As part of its aspiration to operational Specializations within the and transactions is available 24 hours a day. This service is also offered in Arabic and The branch network of excellence and efficiency, Bank Hapoalim retail branch network Russian, and allows all customers, including people with disabilities and senior citizens, the bank is the most continues to examine the deployment of to receive professional services without having to visit a branch. The contact center its branch network and merge branches ◆ Pension advising centers – The bank has also responds to customers’ written communications through Facebook, in Hebrew extensive in Israel, with Responsible Supply Chains where necessary, while maintaining the 22 pension advising centers nationwide. and Arabic, and via e-mail sent by customers through the bank's website. 215 retail branches. leading branch network reach in the banking The purpose of these centers is to millon The bank has branches system. Ten branches were merged in 2019, provide professional advisory services New features at the contact center in 2019: calls were received on located across Israel, of with guidance and support for customers for retirement, as part of the effort to ◆ Expansion of the IVR to Arabic and Russian; the IVR system in 2019, which approximately 40% at the merged branches: work processes secure the financial future of all of the ◆ Personalized information for customers via IVR; of which 3 million calls were adapted to the characteristics of bank's customers. ◆ Service in Arabic on the bank’s Facebook page; are in peripheral regions. the customers; relevant information ◆ High-tech units – The bank has ten units ◆ Rapid voice response, in compliance with the law mandating human response to a proceeded to a human response Employees empowerment was sent by mail; and digital literacy specializing in the high-tech industry, customer within six minutes; conferences were held for customers, aimed at expanding services offered to ◆ Issuance of passwords and user codes to customers through IVR; with an emphasis on the senior-citizen start-ups and mature technology firms. ◆ In-principle approvals for some types of new mortgage applications. segment. A dedicated call center was also ◆ Cash specialist departments – The bank established for customers experiencing has 42 branches serving customers who branch mergers; the distribution of selfconduct activity in cash. service stations was increased; the number ◆ Mishkan representative offices – The 2019 planning vs. execution LOOKING AHEAD Protecting the environment of attendants available to help use the bank's 87 Mishkan offices assist and guide 2019 plans Status digital channels of the bank increased; customers through the important process Launch of a service for and service was supported by the mobile of buying a home. The mortgage network  scheduling a meeting with Completed • S ervice via chatbot. branch, at scheduled times and according to of the bank grew and improved in 2019, need. Concurrently, the bank is continually to adapt to evolving market needs and a banker at a branch through •O  pening a call center specifically working to expand the services provided to the demand and changes in the realthe call center. for Mishkan customers, by its branch network. estate industry. Launch of a dedicated call authorized to grant in-principle line for business clients.  Completed mortgage approvals. Corporate Governance 26 27 Introduction Accessibility for customers Benefit Customers In order to ensure that the bank remains accessibility. Self-service devices adapted with disabilities accessible over time, accessibility features for people with disabilities are marked with are regularly monitored and issues are an accessibility symbol, and Step Hear voice remedied as necessary, through several instruction systems have been installed to About one and a half million people with physical, mental, and/or cognitive disabilities Every accessible functions: easily guide customers to the accessible Growth and Financial Inclusion live in Israel, or approximately 18% of the Israeli population4. Bank Hapoalim views branch has: ◆ Branch employees and managers devices. Accessible self-service deposit accessibility for people with disabilities as an essential value and as its obligation as perform ongoing monitoring of stations are also available for business a business, integral elements of its approach to service and social responsibility. In ◆ Convenient accessible entry; accessibility status according to clients. These devices allow customers to addition to the actions taken to ensure that the bank’s buildings and services are ◆ Accessible parking; where there are no parameters established by accessibility enter the amount of their deposit using an accessible, the bank is committed to doing its part to make Israel a country that parking spaces owned by the bank, the managers at the bank, in collaboration accessible application and deposit checks removes obstacles from the path of people with disabilities. Accordingly, the bank local municipality has been contacted via with the Access Israel Foundation. and cash into the automated station, during works to improve quality of life for people with disabilities and the way they are treated, official mail to request accessible parking; ◆ Maintenance supervisors at the bank and after the opening hours of the branch. Value-Creating Innovation mainly through collaborations and projects aimed at raising awareness, developing ◆ Accessible passages – wide and visit each of its locations (branches The accessible devices can also be operated technological products, and promoting employment of people with disabilities (for obstacle-free; and head-office buildings) twice a year by people with vision impairments: display further reading, see the chapters concerning employees and community). ◆ Signage in compliance with legal to check the physical accessibility of and print fonts can be enlarged, and requirements; buildings, accessories, and furniture. earphones can be used to receive voice ◆ Accessible furniture; ◆ Mehalev – The Israeli Center for instructions. These devices can also be Accessibility and empowerment for people with disabilities are ◆ Accessible Restrooms; Accessibility in Communication operated using an accessible physical crucial issues, in the eyes of the bank, and an integral part of the ◆ At least one accessible ATM; performs an annual examination of keyboard. Instructions are provided in four Society and the Community bank's service concept. ◆ Branches with more than one floor have the proper functioning of accessibility languages: Hebrew, English, Russian, and elevators, wheelchair lifts, or elevating devices installed at the branches, Arabic. By the end of 2019, all of the bank's The bank takes action to realize the basic right of every customer platforms; actively testing the devices and self-service stations were fully accessible. with a disability to receive the full range of offered services, as ◆ Accessible service stations for the replacing batteries as necessary. independently as possible, while protecting human dignity. various types of service, in each department of the branch, compliant ◆ In projects involving system changes or renovation of the bank's branches Accessibility of Poalim banking services with accessible service regulations and or buildings, an internal and/or external Responsible Supply Chains The bank has an obligation, derived both from regulation and from the standards it equipped with the following devices: accessibility official ensures that through the bank’s Selfhas voluntarily adopted, to adapt and create dedicated solutions for various types of ◆ adapted desks and accessible chairs accessibility is maintained in the new disabilities, in order to enable all customers to receive optimal service. Accessibility processes are performed routinely and continuously, including physical accessibilization with handles, and an accessible waiting area. planning. digital channels Service of buildings as well as accessibilization of technological means, information, services, and products for the customers and employees of the bank. The accessibility process is based on dialogue conducted by the bank with relevant stakeholders, regulatory ◆ Inductive Loopset – A system designed to improve dialogue with customers who have auditory As part of the process of maintaining the accessibility of the bank's premises, bank employees can use an application Technological innovations, which are an integral part of the service offering for customers, allow access to the full range Employees empowerment Self-service stations nationwide allow agencies, and professionals in this field, and guided by the Access Israel Foundation. impairments, allowing them to hear to report a problem or lack of physical of products and services, at any place customers to carry out a broad range of only the banker through a hearing aid, accessibility; reports are conveyed directly and time, through telephone call centers transactions, 24 hours a day. Customers are without superfluous background noise. to the relevant party. or through a computer or smartphone, ◆ Step Hear – An active voice guidance increasingly using the self-service channels Accessibility of branches and buildings using advanced, convenient interfaces. to perform transactions previously conducted through bankers. The bank As of the end of 2019, all of the bank's premises, except two branches, are accessible. system providing voice instructions for people with visual impairments, Accessible ATMs and Accessibility of these channels represents a leap forward in possibilities for people with has 1,210 ATMs and self-service stations, The Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities Commission at the Ministry of Justice has to help them locate branch entrance self-service devices disabilities to consume banking services Protecting the environment more than any other bank in Israel. ATMs been apprised accordingly. Due to an unforeseen delay in the receipt of construction doors and accessible ATMs. in ways convenient to them. The bank's offer cash withdrawals, balance inquiries, permits from local authorities and municipalities, full accessibilization has not yet been ◆ Call Hear – A device designed to alert for customers with website, including marketing content and cash and check deposits, payments into certain deposits, and more. The ATMs are completed at two branches; approval proceedings are in progress with local authorities. An expanded emergency program has been implemented as an interim solution at the banker stationed at the accessible service desk of the branch that a vision impairments banking services, is in compliance with the requirements of the Israeli standard accessible to people with disabilities, and these buildings, with the guidance of the Access Israel Foundation. The emergency customer with vision impairment is All of the bank's locations where selfat Level AA, Grade 2. offer service in four languages: Hebrew, program includes establishment of accessible stations in each department, for every at the entrance to the branch and in service devices are available, have been Arabic, English, and Russian, across the type of service, on the accessible ground floor of the branch; accessible restrooms; need of assistance. adapted for physical and technological self-service station network. and accessible entryways and passages. Corporate Governance 4. According to data of the Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities Commission, Ministry of Justice, 2018. https://www.gov.il/he/departments/publications/ reports/2018_statisticstbt. 28 29 Introduction Benefit Customers Benefits, services, and ◆ Fee discounts; Banking products ◆ Targeted loans with preferred terms Accessible service self-test products available to ◆ Card-free cash withdrawals via text for the purchase of various types of customers with disabilities messages sent to the customer’s to encourage equipment designed to assist customers Since 2018, the bank has conducted an annual voluntary self-test of the quality of service mobile phone. with disabilities and their families. provided by the bank to customers with disabilities. The decision to perform a service ◆ Accessibility of information to accessibility in Israel ◆ Poalim Accessibility social deposit – self-test was made in the understanding that the process of instilling accessibility at Growth and Financial Inclusion customers: Several steps were taken in 2019 to raise A unique deposit introduced by the a large organization is exceptionally complex, and based on a genuine desire to ensure ◆ Reading forms aloud – At the customers’ awareness of the accessibility bank in 2019, in collaboration with JDC that implementation is successful on the practical level and takes the full range of needs customer's request, a banker at a features at the bank: As part of the bank’s commitment Israel, allowing customers to save in a of people with disabilities into account. The test is conducted with the assistance of branch will read the relevant forms ◆ Accessibility features were posted on to the promotion of accessibility in deposit while contributing to the JDC’s external testers with various disabilities who visit the branches of the bank as “mystery” aloud. Audio files of long forms have also the bank's website; Israel, dedicated banking products Homecoming program, which supports customers, as well as experiencing the service offered by the call center and through been uploaded to the bank's website; ◆ Accessibility features were presented have been developed in the areas community inclusion of people with the digital channels. ◆ Accessible mail – Customers who find at conferences of relevant non-profit disabilities. Over 1,000 customers have The key findings are presented to the board of management of the bank and to the of credit and savings, and additional Value-Creating Innovation it difficult to read mail received from organizations, such as the Access Israel chosen this deposit, enabling the bank management of the Retail Banking Division, and embedded in cross-division work plans. the bank can contact their branch, Foundation, AKIM, and the Center for banking products have been adapted, to donate NIS 200,000 to benefit people or a banker at Poalim by Telephone, the Blind; to meet the needs of people with with disabilities. Following the self-examination process, four branches won Excellence in and ask for the document to be read ◆ Three informational videos on disabilities and of businesses seeking Accessibility certificates. Where flaws and difficulties in implementing accessibility aloud to them; accessibility were posted on the bank's ◆ Translation into sign language – On Facebook page and played on plasma to become accessible. Training the employees were discovered, training sessions on this subject were held at the branches and branch employees met with the Head of Accessibility of the bank. complex financial subjects that require screens at bank branches. The videos of the bank to provide Society and the Community extensive discussion, a meeting can summarize the services adapted to The bank developed the Accessibility be held at the branch in the presence customers with visual impairments, Toolbox for businesses, consisting of adapted service to of a sign-language interpreter; ◆ Accessible print – At the customer's hearing impairments, and physical impairments. videos explaining how to adapt and improve the service experience for people people with disabilities request, forms will be supplied with disabilities, and a targeted loan with At an organization serving millions of in accessible print or in Braille, in preferred terms for making businesses customers, training and instruction of 2019 planning vs. execution LOOKING AHEAD coordination with the relevant branch. accessible. Through these efforts, the bank employees to provide accessible service International Day Responsible Supply Chains ◆ Accessible conferences – The bank helps small businesses comply with legal are a core element in the process of 2019 plans Status rigorously ensures full physical of Persons with accessibility requirements, while gaining embedding accessibility. The bank accords accessibility at its large conferences, Disabilities the added value of a wider audience. high importance to employees’ familiarity Development of a targeted • Submission of the in addition to accessibility aids for with the range of challenges faced by  loan with preferred terms for Completed Accessibility Report people with hearing impairments, such The bank marks this day in people with disabilities, alongside the accessibilization of private to the Commissioner as amplification devices, transcription, recognition of the importance Value offers for private various solutions available for the provision of Equal Rights homes and purchases of assistive and sign-language interpreters; of supplying accessible, adapted customers of accessible service. A dedicated content for Persons with equipment and mobility devices. Employees empowerment ◆ Skipping the line – The bank’s personal ser vice to custom er s with ◆ Mortgages for people with disabilities area has been established on the bank's Disabilities at the service system offers a Direct Reception disabilities and the aspiration Until 2018, people with life-shortening portal for this purpose, with comprehensive, Inclusion of people with disabilities function for people with disabilities, to raise awareness of this issue. disabilities were not eligible for current, regularly updated information  in advertising campaigns of the Completed Ministry of Justice. • Completion of full who are exempt from waiting in line; During the day, bankers were mortgages in Israel, due to the refusal on accessibility and adapted tools at the bank. This move puts people with accessibility at all ◆ Priority in line at the Poalim by directed to videos on accessible of insurance companies to provide bank; fundamentals of service for people disabilities on center stage, raising premises of the bank. Telephone call center – Customers service on the organizational them with coverage. Bank Hapoalim with disabilities; and information about awareness and exhibiting the with disabilities have priority in line portal, and informational videos led an initiative, drawing in the banking the accessibility of the bank's website. All diversity of Israeli society. Protecting the environment at the call center. They also have the on the various accessibility means system, the Israel Insurance Association, employees of the bank also participate in option of using a voice signature, so available at the bank were posted and the state, which resulted in eligibility training on this subject through tutorials, Continued activity to encourage that they do not need to remember on the bank's Facebook page and for housing loans in amounts of up to live instruction, and practice through  businesses to promote accessibility Completed and enter a password; displayed on plasma screens at NIS 1 million for this population. This simulations at the Poalim Campus. The and offer credit products with ◆ Mail-to-fax service – Customers with the branches of the bank. Bankers program is backed by state guarantees innovative simulation setup improves preferred terms for that purpose. disabilities can send instructions and who serve customers wore stickers to subsidize insurance premiums for employees’ familiarity with the accessibility documents to the bank by attaching a saying, “I'm proud to provide eligible borrowers. means available at the bank, demonstrating file to an e-mail, as a substitute for the the use of accessible desks, Inductive Corporate Governance accessible service.” fax service or the call center; Loopset devices, and Call Hear devices. 30 31 Introduction Benefit Customers Responding to complaints Distribution of complaints handled, by subject and requests Growth and Financial Inclusion g) sin 11% ou (h The bank considers customer satisfaction to be of the The department operates in accordance 14% it ed Current Cr utmost importance, and places a devoted team of bankers with Proper Conduct of Banking Business tio n accounts at customers’ disposal at the Ombudsman Department Directive 308A of the Bank of Israel, which ma Credit or Inf to respond to any complaints or requests they may took effect on April 1, 2015. The directive (general) 5% n cu r re n cy have. The Ombudsman Department handles inquiries formalizes the obligation of a banking ig Fo re 4% Value-Creating Innovation 17% and complaints received through the bank's website corporation to address customers' inquiries 3% ies and via mail or fax. Inquiries received at the Poalim by in a fair, reliable, and efficient manner, Securit Telephone call center, on the bank's Facebook page, or and is designed to provide uniform rules Quality of service 2% at a branch that are not fully resolved, for any reason, are for addressing and reporting inquiries 2% Deposits and savings also referred to the Ombudsman Department for further care. Addressing complaints is an important focus for the throughout the banking system. The directive establishes detailed rules 13% Other various parts of the bank; extensive effort is invested with regard to the existence of the 29% Society and the Community in providing an accurate and appropriate response to unit, the ombudsman at its head, the Means of payment complaints within a reasonable timeframe, while applying ombudsman's authority, the procedure for lessons learned and continually improving processes. processing customer complaints (including Every case is examined in depth and treated according timeframes), and detailed reporting to the to the values of fairness and responsibility, protection of board of directors, management, the public, privacy, reliability, and transparency. The service compact and the Banking Supervision Department. on customer communications is displayed to customers Responsible Supply Chains at the branches of the bank, on the bank's website, and In 2019, the Ombudsman Department at self-service stations. processed 8,706 inquiries (complaints and requests), versus 8,391 in 2018 (a 4% increase). This included 6,840 complaints, a 1.5% increase compared with the number of Available Banking Compact Inquiries with wider implications beyond The banking system has established a compact for appropriate treatment of women who have experienced complaints in 2018. the specific customer, such as recurring abuse and are staying in shelters or halfway houses. The compact was formulated by the Banking Supervision incidents at various units, or gaps in Department, in light of the understanding that women in this situation struggle to manage their finances, Employees empowerment Percentage of justified complaints: Due procedures or in organization-wide to a change in internal work processes and that in the absence of solid financial guidance they may remain financially dependent on abusive pertaining to the categorization of partners. To implement the compact and assist these women, the bank has appointed liaison staff to be processes, are presented to the business complaints, principles for classification of available to them in order to manage their accounts, with full confidentiality. The service includes ensuring functions at the bank for learning and that state allowances to which the women are entitled are at their disposal, and assisting them in dealing a complaint as justified were updated and improvement of the relevant procedures broadened. 1,058 complaints were classified with joint accounts, obtaining reliefs on payments, spreading out payments on debts, and more. Taking and processes. as justified in 2019, or approximately 15% of this values-driven commitment to the next level, the bank holds financial growth workshops at shelters, Protecting the environment total complaints, versus 445 (7%) in 2018. offers individual guidance to women, and conducts holiday activities for the women and their children. The Ombudsman Department handled 79 inquiries in 2019 involving assistance for women who have experienced abuse, in areas such as opening accounts, granting loans, and more. Services were expanded, Additional information which includes inquiries received at the Banking Supervision Department, is in a pilot program, to several community centers for abuse victims. available in the department's annual report. In 2019, Bank Hapoalim hosted the periodic conference of the member organizations of the Available Banking Compact dedicated to assistance for women who have experienced abuse. The conference concerned the importance, in terms of values and social issues, accorded by the banks to caring for this population in an empowering manner, while offering the women tools and guidance on astute financial behavior. Corporate Governance 32 33 Introduction Social networks Benefit Customers Bank Hapoalim is active on five social high satisfaction from users, is provided networks: LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, by Arabic-speaking bankers. Instagram, and WhatsApp, in order to Growth and Financial Inclusion maintain trust-building dialogue with customers and the public, through: In 2019, the bank launched Poli – ◆ Providing a rapid, accessible, available, an innovative bot offering service advanced service experience; through WhatsApp. The bot can ◆ Adding value by posting relevant, varied, help customers locate branches enriching content; and ATMs and provide currency ◆ Listening to internal and external exchange rates, simply and quickly. k Value-Creating Innovation conversations regarding the bank and Poli is available to customers of all formulating business insights. banks, 24 hours a day and seven days a week. The bank created 250 posts on its Facebook The bank has Standing by our customers during the coronavirus outbreak page in 2019, about digital empowerment 147,000 social and innovation, financial growth, new media followers, products and services, community Society and the Community as the end of 2019 activities of the bank, and more. The Bank Hapoalim Facebook page With the bank's activities scaled back according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and the serves as a platform for service and 2019 – planning vs. execution Banking Supervision Department, the bank emphasized on maintaining maximum availability to dialogue with customers and the customers and accessibility of all banking services. Core branches opened for scheduled appointments general public. Hundreds of posts and 2019 plans Status to maintain safety measures and call-center staffing expanded to provide high-availability messages are received on the page responsiveness. New digital banking options were added, and services and products adapted each day. Communications are handled specifically to customers’ needs during this period were developed. Responsible Supply Chains by a designated team, which responds Launch of the Poalim page and provides professional service within on Instagram.  Completed minutes. Salient topics raised on social Loan payment deferral Mortgage payment Services for customers media are passed on to professional Introduction of a bot in the functions at the bank and to the Customer  new WhatsApp business Completed via digital channels deferral aged 70+ Insight Center, with the aim of improving Option to defer 3 For a period of three Dedicated call center application. This service payments on existing months. For further with rapid human service and processes. will allow rapid response to loans through the bank's information, see the response; mobile branch Employees empowerment messages and tracking of website, without fees bank's website visits assisted-living Facebook in Arabic statistical data regarding facilities and day centers inquiries. Bank Hapoalim is the first and only Israeli bank to introduce an ArabicDeposits designed for Digital loans with Expansion of the language Facebook page. The content  collaboration with the Completed turbulent markets special terms on the page parallels the Hebrew page, Financial Growth Center Calm Track savings “Getting Through it plans and Flexible Together” loans with Protecting the environment with adaptations to the activity and to reach additional online information most relevant to Arab society. Track deposits preferred interest rates and communities. Service on the page, which has drawn an option to defer payments by up to 3 months Corporate Governance 34 35 Dr. Lior Haviv, Winwork CEO Promotion of Growth and Financial Inclusion 36 37 Introduction Promotion of Growth 93% 40 over a ~ Benefit Customers million people of participants and Financial Inclusion have viewed digital content on the Financial Growth Center website, in Hebrew and Arabic in the lectures expressed very high satisfaction with the activity and the content learned, and said bank employees were trained to become part of the center’s team of instructors Financial inclusion refers to the access of private individuals and business owners to financial products and services responsive 2,400 and adapted to their needs, and delivered to them in a responsible and sustainable manner. Access to financial services facilitates they would recommend the Financial ~ 280 Growth and Financial Inclusion the management of people’s everyday affairs and helps individuals, families, and business owners plan ahead and make informed Growth Center’s lectures to a friend financial decisions for the long term. ~ digital learning 50 A study by the World Bank5 indicates that countries with broad financial inclusion have lower rates of social and gender inequality, people and that access to digital financial services constitutes a higher level of financial inclusion, which should be aspired to as a goal. content participated in lectures and workshops items are available to the general public education within collaborations of the Financial on the Financial Growth Center website, lesson plans Growth Center with social non-profits With the aim of providing meaningful value to its customers and making financial services and including articles, videos, tutorials, and 50 Enriching Parents financial responsibility and organizations, including Winwork, Value-Creating Innovation products accessible to all customers, the bank mapped the unique needs of various communities and more, on subjects such as household education lesson plans for firstto ninthBekol – Organization of Hard of Hearing sectors, in order to deliver an adapted response to each and help them grow and thrive, while making expense management, financial education grade students are available on the center's People in Israel, Learn to Succeed, Amit knowledge on astute financial behavior accessible to the entire population of Israel. for children, pensions, the capital market, website. Over 5,000 students participated La’Derech, Shetaltem Nigunim, Educating for mortgages, business management for the in the lessons, within a collaboration with Excellence, ELEM Youth in Distress, the Israeli self-employed, and more the Key Books Foundation Volunteer Association, Amanina, and more Financial Growth Center Society and the Community 2019 – planning vs. execution The Financial Grow th Center was Adler Institute, TOOT Communication LOOKING AHEAD established at the Poalim Campus in and Results, the Israel Financial Institute, 2019 plans Status 2018, as a hub for learning and acquiring and other organizations and non-profits. Creation of strategic collaborations, such as partnership with the Israel knowledge and tools supporting astute  Association of Community Centers, to extend the nationwide reach of Completed • Creation of partnerships financial behavior. The services of the Important collaborations to further the activity as far as possible and gain exposure to various audiences over K Financial Growth Center are offered to the the Financial Growth Center’s vision of with academia to expand across Israel. the impact of financial Responsible Supply Chains general public nationwide free of charge. outreach to a broad audience across Expansion of the digital content offered on the Financial Growth Center The materials at the center were developed Israel in 2019 included:  website, including the introduction of an Arabic-language website, Completed education in Israel. with the academic oversight of Professor Zvi Eckstein, formerly deputy governor ◆ The Israel Association of Community Centers – lectures at community people development of online courses, and more. • Expansion of the range of digital content and activities of the Bank of Israel, based on research centers nationwide. participated in more than 550 Increased exposure to new audiences, such as National Service (Sherut  offered, to expand spheres and surveys of public attitudes towards ◆ ALD College – a collaboration aimed lectures and conferences held Leumi) members, senior citizens, soldiers newly discharged from the Completed of influence. economic issues, aligned with significant at providing knowledge and tools for across Israel, on a wide range of IDF, and more. Employees empowerment financial crossroads such as the growth of a astute financial behavior to IDF soldiers subjects adapted to different family, taking a mortgage, career changes, in combat roles nearing completion of audiences, such as personal pension planning, and more. their military service. Financial Growth and household budget Special activities of the Financial Growth Center during the time of the Coronavirus The work of the Financial Growth Center Center instructors held preparatory management, setting financial is conducted through advanced digital courses for hundreds of soldiers, boundaries for children, first learning tools on a dedicated website; inteaching them to make sound financial steps in management of a person lectures by top speakers; interactive decisions in civilian life. business, recommended steps Protecting the environment learning through family games; lesson ◆ Expansion of the sphere of influence in buying a home, and more. Young Managers of Tomorrow – Two An expert hotline created Production and plans for elementary and middle-school of the center through TTT (Train the ~70% of lectures are designed innovative online courses for children in a collaboration of the distribution of students; and collaborations with nonTrainer) programs. The center trains for households, while ~30% are by the Financial Growth Center, offered Financial Growth Center, focused content profits, business organizations, and more. instructors and volunteers at various for small businesses. free of charge. The courses are taught Paamonim, and the Reshet on astute financial The activities of the center are rooted non-profit organizations, with the aim by top business and financial experts, 13 television network, behavior during the in cooperation with professionals within of expanding its sphere of influence as in collaboration with social non-profits providing individual crisis, on the Financial and outside the bank, including the they pass on the knowledge and tools and organizations. Thousands of children responses to questions Growth Center nonprofit organization Paamonim, the they have acquired. participated in the courses, which were from the public on website and through Corporate Governance also offered in Arabic. household economics. various media. 5. https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/financialinclusion/overview 38 39 Introduction Promoting the growth of small Comprehensive A p p r o x i m a t e l y 7, 0 0 0 p e o p l e participated in activities targeted to ◆ Small Business Competition – The competition was held for the twelfth Benefit Customers and mid-sized businesses professional guidance and adapted tools and small businesses. The Financial Growth Center also held focused conferences, such as a lecture on preparing a business time in 2019, in collaboration with the Ynet website. Hundreds of small businesses in a wide range of fields NIS services for the summer months, attended by entered as contestants, sharing the Financing solutions more than 130 business owners who stories behind their businesses with the , In accordance with the needs of small sought to learn about sound financial public. For the first time this year, past Growth and Financial Inclusion The bank grants credit to small businesses businesses, the bank has initiated a range management of a seasonal business. participants were invited to participate as part of its overall credit portfolio, which of innovative services and information ◆ Poalim Small Business Success in the launch of the competition is the largest in the Israeli banking system, conduits, available through the direct Mentors Several small businesses by sharing their experiences and billion loans and through designated funds. channels and digital platforms: representing a variety of areas of insights with readers. Nine businesses The total balance of credit From the inception of the fund to ◆ Poalim Business Fund – A credit fund ◆ Extensive deployment of expert activity and economic sectors were were chosen as finalists, of which granted to the smallthe end of 2019, the bank granted for small businesses, in collaboration business bankers – In addition to the selected from among the bank's three were social businesses. Winning business sector as at the 4,026 loans in a total amount of with Clal Insurance, at a volume of bank’s business departments, eighty customers to participate in a process businesses received media coverage on Value-Creating Innovation end of 2019 is NIS 29.6 billion6 NIS 1.324 billion through the fund approximately NIS 8 billion. The goal of retail-banking branches have been aimed at supporting their growth and Ynet, a monetary grant, and business the fund is to support small and middeclared dedicated branches offering financial robustness. The businesses consulting and guidance from the bank. sized businesses that find it difficult to an especially broad range of solutions received individual professional Recognizing that the small and midHowever, the thriving e commerce obtain credit in the ordinary course of for small and mid-sized businesses. mentoring and guidance from senior sized business sector is the backbone arena and the transition to a “platform business. The bank thereby helps many ◆ Poalim Business application – An executives and branch managers of and driving force of the Israeli economy, economy”7 come with complex challenges; Israeli small businesses grow, develop, account-management application the bank, over a period of six months. the bank has worked for many years to flourish in this competitive landscape, and create new jobs in Israel. 600 loans designed for business owners. Society and the Community to maximize meaningful value and business owners must become familiar with were granted through the fund in 2019, ◆ Expansion Package – Designed for promote innovation in services and a range of tools, from different content in a total amount of NIS 190 million. small businesses aspiring to grow Israel Business Trail products adapted to its evolving trends areas, and adapt to consumer tastes of the The bank also has a joint loan fund and develop (e.g. through transition The Small Business Trail event, held and needs. moment. The bank considers it part of its for industry with the Manufacturers' to e commerce, exports, opening a for the second time in 2019, was a role to make a range of tools appropriate Association – the Manufacturers' new branch, acquiring equipment, month-long journey across Israeli to the challenges of the times accessible Association Fund, and with the Korat and more). This value offer includes communities, aimed at empowering to business owners, and to develop value Foundation, offering microfinance loans a range of banking benefits, as well small businesses and boosting A Marketest Responsible Supply Chains offers contributing to the growth of small with special terms for micro-businesses, as external banking services such as public visibility of the wide range e commerce is emerging as and mid-sized businesses in Israel. at a volume of NIS 1 million. financing solutions with preferred of businesses in this country and survey conducted in January 2020 one of the most significant ◆ Instant Credit for Businesses – This terms, business guidance meetings, the people behind the businesses. drivers transforming business quick and simple service is available to subsidized Export Institute services During the month, a Business Trail Collaboration practices and creating with Amazon customers at any time through a brief procedure on the bank's website, via for relevant customers, consulting by leading e commerce experts, and more. Patrol consisting of bank advisors named Bank growth opportunities for Hapoalim the and external consultants visited businesses that previously In a collaboration formed by Bank mobile, or at the branches. The bank ◆ Business management tools and hundreds of Israeli businesses to leading bank in Employees empowerment operated only in brick-andHapoalim with the world’s largest thereby provides an immediate solution knowledge from the Financial Growth provide tools for astute financial mortar spaces. The bank ecommerce platform, the bank has for small businesses, allowing continued Center – The Financial Growth Center behavior. The Financial Growth sees the growth potential of developed a value offer targeted routine operations and rapid decisionhas offered more than 1508 lectures Center held dozens of workshops the promotion of e commerce, and its value small businesses to small and mid-sized businesses making at significant crossroads in the nationwide for business owners, in in towns along the Business Trail for small businesses, which that work with Amazon or wish to life of the business. addition to a website rich in content on managing a business in a world are now able to expand their local and global activities do so, while offering benefits to holders of the bank’s credit cards for businesses, including dozens of digital guides on managing a successful where the rules of the game are in Israel, and the bank offering changing. This project culminated more easily Protecting the environment who make purchases on the site business. Workshops were held on in three main events in various during large sale events. starting a business, managing budgets, marketing and sales, and more, with parts of Israel, in collaboration with local authorities, designed the best adapted special emphasis on knowledge to empower small businesses. The offers for this and tools for entering the world of e commerce, such as opening an online Business Trail and the participating small businesses gained extensive sector. store, digital marketing, and social media exposure and public response. media community management. Corporate Governance 6. Not including Isracard liabilities of 1.6 billion NIS. 7. P latform economy – The economic arena is in transition from competition over the best product to competition over the best platform, offering customers a wide range of services and products through a single, user-friendly interface in ways that make their lives easier and simpler. 8. Cumulatively since mid-2018. 40 41 Introduction Benefit Customers 2019 planning vs. execution 2019 plans Status LOOKING Supporting senior citizens Establishment of a dedicated call center to allow business customers  AHEAD Poalim Digital Stages of the digital empowerment process: Appleseeds Academy, and Machshava Tova; representatives of business firms; Growth and Financial Inclusion to gain available, professional service via telephone and perform a wide Completed range of transactions, including when their branch is closed. • Realization of additional Independence Listening and CEOs of non-profits; and more. The forum provides fertile ground for consultation, processes to provide expert Poalim Small Business Success Mentor – Guidance and mentoring for small businesses to support growth and financial robustness.  guidance to small businesses Bank Hapoalim aspires to operational mapping needs promotion of causes, and cross-sector Completed excellence and the adoption of innovative collaborations, as needed. taking their first steps in the technologies to serve all of its customers. The digital empowerment process began Continuation of the Israel Business Trail project, with an emphasis on digital space. accessible businesses, and expansion to additional businesses. Completed However, the bank recognizes that senior with listening and learning about the needs Developing comprehensive citizens may need focused support in the of the senior-citizen population segment, support and education for Value-Creating Innovation transition from traditional banking to through focus groups and questionnaires, senior-citizen customers the banking of tomorrow . The bank has a review of research in Israel and overseas, resolved to provide responsible assistance tours of elderly residential care facilities The bank has developed a comprehensive to senior citizens, aimed at enhancing their and senior-citizen population centers, and system of instruction, support, and digital independence in all areas, thereby individual meetings with senior citizens at opportunities to gain experience improving their quality of life. bank branches and at the mobile branch. adapted to the needs of its senior-citizen During this dialogue, bank representatives customers: Society and the Community encountered a broad range of patterns of ◆ Senior citizen digital literac y use of digital means, engendering several instruction centers The bank offers The Poalim Digital key insights: its senior-citizen customers extensive Independence project, ◆ Difficulties were identified in proficiency courses, free of charge, consisting of launched in 2018, was with the digital language, especially on ten to sixteen three-hour sessions expanded in 2019 to reach smartphones, which impaired senior (according to the customer’s level of thousands of senior citizens. citizens’ sense of confidence and knowledge). Participants gain a range of Supporting business clients and selfResponsible Supply Chains This effort, led by the Social personal independence; digital life skills, such as use of e-mail and Banking Center, involves ◆ The lack of digital language proficiency search engines; online consumerism; employed customers during the time of the multi-sector cooperation led to growing dependence on relatives, safe browsing; exercising rights and coronavirus (business, public, and third usually children and grandchildren; use of government services; access to sector), including the Ministry ◆ Digital language offered an opportunity information and services in the areas of Social Equality, JDC Eshel, for connection with the younger of health care, leisure, transportation, business partners, elderly generations; and entertainment; and more. In recognition of the financial ramifications of the crisis for small businesses, the bank residential care facilities and Employees empowerment ◆ The most significant worry was the fear The courses are taught by professional offered various targeted loans and special benefits to support them during this period: day centers, specialized nonof malicious use of personal information instructors, in small groups of up to profits such as Machshava and online fraud. twenty participants, in order to allow Tova and Appleseeds Loan fund for self-employed State-backed loans Range of credit solutions individual hands-on experience in a Academy, and more. customers (in collaboration with Rapid approval for self-employed and learning-promoting environment, while Lahav) Immediate loans of up to NIS track business customers Establishing the also creating a supportive community 10,000 via digital channels for selfLoans with special terms intersegmental forum and a wider network of relationships. Protecting the environment employed customers and an option to defer The bank established an intersegmental Initially, fifteen instruction centers payments by up to 6 forum, designed as a coalition of partners opened in social and geographical Assistance hotline for small businesses Business call months and amplifiers promoting digital literacy peripheral regions in Israel. In view of senior citizens through sharing of of the success of this project and and self-employed customers center knowledge, insights, technologies, and demand for the courses, the activity Lahav experts answer businesses’ Human response questions in real time on the Onlife to any question more. Leading organizations in this field expanded to many additional locations Facebook page or problem in Israel are part of the forum, including nationwide. A total of 45 digital literacy the Ministry of Social Equality; the instruction centers opened in 2019, Corporate Governance non-profit organizations Unistream, serving hundreds of senior citizens. 42 43 Introduction Benefit Customers 435 Service adapted for 30,000 ◆ Digital Cafe The Digital Cafe and using clear language. The videos ◆ Activities at residential elderly care over component of this initiative consisted of are embedded in the instructional facilities During the year, digitalinstructional sessions on online banking materials, and cover a range of topics: banking instruction sessions were held senior citizens instructional held in an informal setting, over cake and ◆ The advantages of online banking; at dozens of residential care facilities ◆ Dedicated rapid call center – The bank Growth and Financial Inclusion sessions coffee. The meetings were hosted by ◆ Online banking – where to begin; and day centers for the elderly across has introduced a call line exclusively for senior citizens branches of the bank for senior-citizen ◆ How the bank protects its customers Israel. The sessions consisted of a customers above the age of seventy, received knowledge, for senior-citizen customers during afternoon hours. The online; lecture entitled, “Digital and Financial which provides a rapid human response tools, and skills for digital customers of the bank Digital Cafe offered customers a glimpse ◆ How to recover a password; Glimpses,” followed by individual by a banker, within approximately competence, which will were held in 2019, free of of the digital universe and supplied ◆ Keeping track of a bank account; practice in areas such as safe browsing, ten seconds. This is an extended serve them in every area of charge, in Hebrew, Arabic, them with instructional materials, a ◆ How to deposit checks at an ATM; use of WhatsApp, orientation on implementation of the Senior Citizens their lives. and Amharic user ID and password, and information ◆ How to track credit-card transactions; YouTube, and more. On Good Deeds Law, which mandates the provision Value-Creating Innovation and digital tools to help them practice ◆ How to order checkbooks on the Day, hundreds of bank employees of public services without queues for 3,000 over Surveys conducted among the basic account-management activities. bank's website; volunteered to provide individual customers above the age of eighty. 65 Digital Cafe meetings were held ◆ How to download the account instruction to approximately 400 ◆ Mobile branch – The mobile branch of thousands of customers who across Israel in 2019, with approximately management application; elderly residential care facility tenants. the bank visits 32 towns across Israel participated in the instructional fifty participants each. ◆ How to deposit checks using the ◆ Nationwide collaboration between to deliver banking services to remote programs indicate: senior-citizen 95% ◆ Written digital-banking user guides for application. the Bank of Israel and the banking communities, or to people who have customers of the bank beginners At senior-citizen customers’ system In the first phase of this difficulty reaching the bank's branches, Society and the Community participated in Digital request, guides written in simple, userTo v i e w t h e v i d e o s , s c a n t h e project, lectures for senior citizens and to supply mobile-banking services Cafe meetings friendly language were prepared, in code or search for “Poalim Digital on digital banking empowerment to the general population during order to introduce customers to the bank’s digital platforms. The user guides Independence” on the Bank Hapoalim YouTube channel. were given by representatives of the bank across Israel. In the second emergencies. On each month, the mobile branch visits nineteen residential of participants present information on the use of the phase, senior citizens were invited to care facilities and day centers for the expressed satisfaction bank's website, application, and ATMs; visit branches of the bank during the elderly. The branch is fully accessible to and stated that they would they are distributed free of charge months of June and July for individual people with disabilities and equipped recommend the program Responsible Supply Chains at bank branches nationwide and are instruction and practice in the use of with a wide range of devices and to a friend. 800 over available for download on the bank’s digital services. adapted furniture for the convenience 97% K website. The hard-copy user guides make this ◆ Summer Youth program Within the ambition to instill values of giving and of customers who use a wheelchair. ◆ Assistance for senior-citizen views information accessible in a convenient helping others among adolescents, customers by at tendant s at The bank's instructional and user-friendly form, with large approximately 300 bank employees' branches of the bank – Attendants Digital instruction for the videos have been print accompanied by illustrations and general public children, aged 15-18, were employed have been stationed at branches of of participants Employees empowerment images explaining how to perform during summer vacation, with full the bank that tend to serve an elderly viewed more than stated at the end of the common account-management ◆ Parent Days Six Parent Days were financing by the bank, to individually clientele, to assist and guide these 800,000 times. program that they knew how actions, such as viewing information held over the course of the year, in instruct 2,500 senior citizens on digital customers, and to provide information on transactions and balances, ordering which employees from various divisions banking at branches of the bank. Five and digital empowerment through to avoid Internet fraud, a checkbook, depositing a check, and invited their parents and other senior six-day sessions of this project were familiarization and experience with compared with 6% at the more. Approximately 100,000 copies of citizens from their families to a digitalheld during the summer vacation. the direct channels. beginning of the program the user guide were distributed in 2019. banking event at the bank. Participants Protecting the environment ◆ Instructional videos The bank has gained closer familiarity with the bank produced sixteen instructional videos where their loved ones work, enjoyed LOOKING AHEAD in which senior-citizen presenters enriching lectures on digital banking 2019 planning vs. execution demonstrate various actions using the and avoiding Internet fraud, and 2019 Plans Status digital channels, step by step, simply experienced digital banking in person. • E xpansion of the Poalim Digital Independence initiative. Expansion of the Poalim Digital Independence  initiative to all geographical deployment of Israel. Completed • E xpansion of mobile branch services. Corporate Governance 44 45 Introduction Benefit Customers Supporting growth in the Arab community Growth and Financial Inclusion Bank Hapoalim supports the development Guidance in buying Activities to benefit of the Arab community and considers it to have great potential for growth, which, a home and taking a Arab students when realized, will contribute to higher mortgage ◆ Scholarships – In order to encourage productivity and quality of life for the A research report on the mortgage market higher education, the bank has created Value-Creating Innovation population of Israel as a whole. published by the Bank of Israel in 2017 collaborations with several non-profit indicated that the Arab sector accounted organizations in the Arab community, Supporting senior-citizen for only 2% of this market. The bank within which approximately 150 customers during the time of the subsequently began an in-depth study scholarships were granted in 2019 to coronavirus The bank is active in a variety of the causes and factors of this situation, students in this sector; in return, the of areas of life in the Arab and identified concerns in Arab society students volunteered in the community. community, with the aim of over a long-term mortgage on a family For example, fifty students were granted Society and the Community bolstering the many positive home, arising from a lack of awareness of scholarships in a collaboration of the developments underway the available options for financing. These bank with the non-profit organization in this sector, while taking concerns may lead to the selection of Amanina. The students also received a holistic view of all the short-term financing options that impede knowledge and tools for household challenges and barriers it repayment and can lead to financial and budget management, and volunteered confronts. The activity of the social difficulties. to mentor and guide 100 families in the bank includes developing The bank therefore prepared a large-scale Arab community on astute financial Three mobile branches of A call center A user guide for targeted value offers and Responsible Supply Chains effort, in 2019, to promote and improve behavior. In a similar collaboration with the bank delivered banking dedicated to senior senior citizens on adapting all services to the the accessibility of mortgages in the Arab the Nazareth Foundation, students services to residential care citizens (customers the use of digital Arabic language, alongside community, encompassing: received scholarships and volunteered facilities and day centers for aged 70+) and people tools was produced extensive reach of the branch ◆ Production of explanatory materials to guide high-school students in the the elderly across Israel with disabilities was and distributed with network, with 27 branches in opened national newspapers in Arabic; eleventh grade on astute financial Arab towns and 15 additional ◆ Establishment of a dedicated mortgage behavior. branches in mixed towns. unit at the Nazareth branch of the bank, ◆ Assistance in preparing for higher Senior citizens are the population most vulnerable to the coronavirus; they have therefore Employees empowerment consisting of employees from the Arab education – In a collaboration with been directed to isolate at home, and to stay away from their children and grandchildren. This community, primarily serving residents the non-profit organization Kav has led to increased dependence of this group on technological means for the consumption Special activities are also conducted to of northern Israel; Mashve and the psychometric testing of services and products, including banking services. During the crisis, digital means also support the financial development of ◆ E x p la n ato r y a n d in s tr u c tio n a l preparation institution Infinity, the became the principal channel for maintaining relationships with friends and family and students, women, small-business owners, conferences on mortgages held for bank aided approximately 600 highrelieving loneliness. Accordingly, as part of the Poalim Digital Independence initiative, the and more. customers; school graduates with comprehensive bank invited its senior-citizen customers to take advantage of their time isolating at home to ◆ A first-of-its-kind conference for preparation for higher education. improve their digital skills, by participating in a course through the bank’s YouTube channel Protecting the environment professionals in the area of mortgages This program included a subsidy for on digital financial management. The course consists of sixteen short instructional videos in the Arab community, aimed at raising a psychometric testing preparatory demonstrating, simply and clearly, how to carry out a range of banking activities without awareness of barriers and solutions; course, lessons in spoken Hebrew (as leaving the house. The videos drew approximately 800,000 views. The bank also continued to ◆ Improvement and expansion of terms a way of overcoming language barriers hold digital literacy courses, using Zoom. of a unique product offering a solution in education), and individual counseling for cases in which a home is purchased on selection of the course of study best or built on land with multiple owners suited to each student. (according to the Ottoman Law). Corporate Governance 46 47 Introduction Benefit Customers ◆ Joint program with Bokra The collaboration with Women in Israel, is aimed at supporting the inclusion of LOOKING 2019 planning vs. execution Bokra, a well-known and popular Arabic website, was Arab women in employment and business. Eighty women 2019 plans Status AHEAD formed in order to gain familiarity with the needs of participated in the program in 2019, receiving training Arab students and provide suitable solutions for them. and education in various areas related to the foundation, Growth and Financial Inclusion Launch of the Financial Growth Center website The host of the online show visited college campuses to development, and management of a business, including in Arabic.  Completed talk with students about the financial challenges they individual guidance from leading lecturers in this field. • Continued proactive activity face. This collaboration continued in 2019, expanding to ◆ Activity to support the growth of small and midin the area of housing finance Opening a Facebook page for the bank in the additional academic institutions. sized businesses Quarterly comprehensive meetings  Arab sector, including service responses in Arabic. Completed solutions, promotion of small were held with businesspeople in Arab towns in 2019, to businesses, and encouragement Bank Hapoalim is the first Israeli bank Promoting economic growth of provide tools and knowledge and promote their financial growth. The bank was also a partner in a conference for to introduce an Arabic-language of higher education for the Arab community the Arab community Value-Creating Innovation the encouragement of women's entrepreneurship. The Facebook page. ◆ Conferences and economic ConventionsSeveral bank’s Business Trail project included businesses in Arab conferences have been held within a collaboration with and mixed towns. the Arab Economic Forum, aimed at raising awareness, helping to remove barriers, and promoting economic Community Activities Supporting growth in the growth and development of the Arab community. These activities included: Society and the Community ◆ A national economic conference, with the participation of ◆ Supporting children’s reading and writing skills The ultra-orthodox (Haredi) sector the newspaper Globes and hundreds of businesspeople Read and Succeed program was held in the Arab sector and opinion leaders. The conference addressed various for the tenth consecutive year. Read and Succeed fairs economic and social issues and challenges confronting were held in various Arab towns, offering children’s books businesses in the Arab sector. at discounted prices. The bank also held the Young Author ◆ A conference in collaboration with the management competition, aimed at boosting children's creative-writing Bank Hapoalim has The ultra-orthodox sector is experiencing the High Holidays and Passover, the bank of the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and the Israel Securities skills, for the fourth consecutive year. 150 children and eleven branches in towns continual change and growth processes; introduced a range of solutions to finance Responsible Supply Chains Authority, aimed at encouraging Arab businesses to join adolescents from across Israel submitted their stories Bank Hapoalim sees strategic importance the exceptional expenses typical at these the stock exchange. to the competition, and the ten winning stories were characterized by significant and a values-driven commitment in times of year, with repayment periods ◆ Launch of the Financial Growth Center website in published in a book distributed to customers at branches ultra-orthodox populations, supporting the development of this extended from five to six years. The bank Arabic – Content includes digital guides on astute financial of the bank in Arab towns. and nine additional community. also offers a loan with preferred terms for behavior for individuals and households, as well as for ◆ Activities on holidays and special occasions As part branches in mixed towns. weddings, designed for young couples entrepreneurs and small businesses. of the bank's partnership with the Arab community, The bank respects ultraThe bank also has a website adapted for and their parents, for up to eight years. ◆ Launch of the bank’s Facebook page in Arabic. several events were held to celebrate holidays and special observant customers, which can be used to orthodox lifestyles, and has Employees empowerment ◆ A Business of Your Own – A unique training program occasions. Examples include an event for the Druze holiday log into accounts, receive routine banking for women entrepreneurs, held for the third year. This Ziyarat al-Nabi Shu'ayb; Iftar meals during the month of adapted branches serving information, and perform various account In 2019, a dedicated sector program, launched by the bank in collaboration with the Ramadan, with food packages distributed to families in predominantly Haredi transactions. manager was appointed non-profit organization Economic Empowerment for need; and a Christmas event for the Christian community. customers to this segment, for the ultra-orthodox in terms of the appearance of The bank offers a range of credit solutions community, with the aim of for ultra-orthodox customers, adapted to the branch, the videos played the milestones characteristic of this group. developing more extensive on screens, and the marketing activities at the bank to Protecting the environment In response to ultra-orthodox customers’ In the winter of 2019, several Arab communities in Israel were damaged materials displayed financing needs during preparation for support its growth. by severe flooding. As a response, the bank contacted local authorities in the affected areas and worked to assist families in need through donations of space heaters and food packages. Corporate Governance 48 49 Introduction Benefit Customers Unique projects in the Haredi sector in 2019 Supporting new immigrants Growth and Financial Inclusion ◆ Wise Living project – The Wise Living reporting on the project, which was ◆ Lectures and workshops in project, in its fifth year in 2019, is aimed accompanied by articles on astute collaboration with the Financial at fostering deeper awareness of financial behavior, resonated strongly Growth Center – Fifteen lectures on Tens of thousands of new immigrants ◆ Bankers fluent in foreign languages are ◆ Workshops and lectures designed for the importance of astute financial with the Haredi community. mortgages, household economics, arrive in Israel every year. Bank Hapoalim posted at eighteen of the branches of immigrants were conducted in several behavior in the Haredi population ◆ Read and Succeed – A program aimed and tools for astute financial behavior is there for immigrants taking their first the bank to guide new immigrants in languages, in collaboration with the and imparting tools for financial at encouraging the development of were held at branches of the bank steps in a new country, maintaining opening a bank account and provide Financial Growth Center. Value-Creating Innovation growth. Within this project, held in reading and writing skills of children and in lecture halls in ultra-orthodox relationships with the Jewish Agency, the tools for astute financial behavior. ◆ Summer programs were held for collaboration with the newspaper and adolescents. To celebrate the towns in 2019. An evening dedicated IFCJ, and immigration absorption centers ◆ The bank was represented at an 83 children of new immigrants, Hamodia, five families representing tenth year of this program in the Haredi to women was also held, led by a across Israel to respond to immigrants’ immigration fair in Minsk, attended by sponsored by the bank, in the diversity of this population were sector, a month-long contest was held, speaker from outside the bank, in financial needs. 500 prospective immigrants, presenting collaboration with the IFCJ, in three selected. Each family met with the with awards for the winners, focused collaboration with the non-profit The bank has prepared processes and the range of banking and financial municipalities. manager of a branch of the bank, on well-known figures in Haredi world. organization Ze Laze, which works to services adapted to new immigrants: tools and services available to help a financial advisor from the bank, As in every year, children's books were help widowers, widows, orphans, and ◆ Launch of the New Immigrant Club, immigrants in their early days in Israel. Society and the Community and an external financial advisor for offered for sale at branches of the victims of terrorist attacks. which offers various banking benefits. ◆ At a fair for new immigrant students weekly consulting sessions to track bank at discounted prices, which met ◆ Informational pamphlets on the held at the Interdisciplinary Center their financial conduct. The Hamodia high demand. services and products of the bank, Herzliya, banking services were offered produced in eight languages. by the bank's mobile branch. LOOKING AHEAD 2019 planning vs. execution Responsible Supply Chains 2019 plans Status Supporting customers in times of crisis • Collaboration with Bizmax Jerusalem and Achim Mentoring for the Prog College entrepreneur Completed  Center in Bnei Brak – shared work spaces offering comprehensive support to ultra-orthodox incubator. Tw o s e s s i o n s of t h e P r o g entrepreneurs (men only) in Bnei Brak and Jerusalem. incubator were held in 2019, The bank provides The unit conducts a process characterized bankers who have undergone specialized Within this collaboration, the bank will provide sponsored by the bank and guidance to by continuous dialogue, the formation training to respond to customers' needs lectures on various financial subjects, as well as value Employees empowerment attended by twenty women customers who of mutual trust, and the imparting of appropriately and sensitively, with a offers tailored to small and mid-sized businesses. entrepreneur small-business encounter financial tools, reflecting a conceptual change commitment to resolve the problem. The • Individual financial guidance for sixty families who owners. The entrepreneurs difficulties, to help in relationships with customers who unit works in full cooperation with the need to improve their financial situations, through gained empowerment and tools them emerge from struggle to repay their debts to the branches of the bank, and is responsible a collaboration with the Belz Hasidic dynasty. to help develop and grow their the crisis with dignity and strive for bank. The Poalim Recovery Unit strives for managing and monitoring the process, Sixty families will work directly with a professional businesses. Branch managers of renewed financial stability. Recognizing to create solutions in partnership with using the bank's range of tools and consultant for a year; 250 additional families will the bank served as mentors for that financial recovery requires holistic, the customer, based on customers’ services, including a computerized system receive guidance through an innovative online Protecting the environment the incubator. multi-systemic solutions, the bank banking profile and financial capabilities. built for this purpose. platform supporting astute financial behavior. established the Poalim Recovery Unit. The unit consists of expert, experienced Corporate Governance 50 51 Value Creating Innovation 52 53 Introduction Value-Creating Innovation Benefit Customers Using an application to open a bank the need to remember a password account from anywhere, at any time, is especially off-putting to older in seven minutes In the digital age, customers, and constitutes a barrier Bank Hapoalim sees technological Innovation in products ◆ bit for e commerce Expansion of the customers expect full availability of to the use of the digital channels. development as an opportunity to payment revolution to the retail sector Studies also indicate that customers and services bit earns recognition, in Israel and Growth and Financial Inclusion banking information and services and a proactively create advanced financial through collaborations between the internationally: pleasant, simple, convenient experience find biometric identification a better, products and services for its customers, bank and various leading consumer◆ 2019 Product of the Year in when carrying out banking transactions, faster, safer user experience, given the thereby also stimulating innovation in bit The leading payment goods companies (Domino’s Pizza, the categor y of payment without depending on external parties. assumption that if their device is stolen the Israeli economy in general and in the application in Israel Rami Levy, Mahsanei Hashmal, Shekem applications for businesses. Understanding this, the Innovation or lost, it will still be protected against banking system in particular. Innovation Electric, Dor Alon, and more), allowing ◆ 2019 Product of the Year in and Strategy Division initiated and led access by unauthorized users. at the bank is led by a designated division: customers of all banks to pay for their the categor y of payment the development of the Poalim Open the Innovation and Strategy Division, online purchases using bit. applications for customers. application, which allows customers to open Value-Creating Innovation which oversees all of the bank's digital ◆ bit for transportation Bank Hapoalim ◆ Gold Win, the most prestigious a bank account in seven minutes, at any To respond to customers’ properties. The core activity of the has won a Ministry of Transportation title in the Effie Awards. place and time, using only their smartphone expectations and division is the creation of an advanced, tender (with the applications Moovit ◆ First place in the payment camera and identity certificate. The service needs, the Innovation innovative user experience in the digital and Pango) aimed at leading a change application category of the is based on innovative technologies for and Strategy Division banking channels and initiation of banking value offers based on customers’ needs, million downloads in public transportation in Israel using the Moovit, bit, and Pango applications. Globes brand index. facial recognition and for photographing developed a rapid login option on the bank’s ◆ Global recognition as secondand decoding identifying documents. allowing banking activity to be conducted Bank Hapoalim is leading the The integrated service will significantly place winner in the PayTech These technologies, derived from the website using a fingerprint, Society and the Community from anywhere, at any time. payment revolution in Israel improve the public transportation user Awards, in which most of the defense industries, require minimal with no need to enter a with bit, the first payment experience, allowing customers to leading players in this industry user interaction and meet the strictest password or user code. New products developed at the bank are choose to pay for transportation easily, around the world compete. standards of information security. application in the Israeli tested in the division’s User Lab as early simply, and securely using bit. as the planning and development phase, banking system. 3.8 million ◆ bit for students A collaboration with The service, designed for customers to ensure that they are user-friendly and customers of all banks have Bar Ilan University allows students Innovation for private who access the bank's website from meet customer needs. Usability testing is downloaded the application to pay tuition using bit. This type customers their smartphones, is used by hundreds Responsible Supply Chains also performed throughout the lifetime at this writing. of collaboration is valuable to the In 2019, the bank introduced a new of thousands of people. Bank Hapoalim of a product, to ascertain that it still academic institution, in that it improves marketing site for private customers. The is the first bank in Israel to use this delivers an optimal response. In 2019, and shortens the collection process, website contains information and tools to The Poalim Open application Open technology as a means of identification the Digital Business Client Council was reduces costs, and lowers the number help customers make informed financial application won a digital innovation for access to its website. established to enable the bank to listen In 2019, the bank promoted numerous of calls to its call center. decisions and practice astute financial award from Meda Conferences, to customers’ voices, receive suggestions collaborations with bit in various areas ◆ bit for social value bit is the first behavior, in seven key financial content the Digital Israel Organization, for improvement, and assess satisfaction and sectors, creating meaningful value application in Israel to enable hundreds areas, and a new advanced search engine, and the members of the steering committee of the Go Mobile 2019 Employees empowerment with existing products and services. and offering convenience and simplicity in of thousands of people to donate making it easier for customers to locate payment transfers for both the customers money for a range of social causes. the information they need and perform conference. The award recognized of the bank and its business partners. In 2019, the application served as a banking transactions. excellence in digital banking, inspiring ◆ ֿb it for insurance A collaboration key conduit for donations in national activity, and an example of advanced 95% allowing customers of all banks who are fundraising drives for children with technologies implemented to million owed refunds from various insurance disabilities and for holiday meals improve service, while maintaining companies (Harel, Migdal, Menorah, for people in need (see details in simplicity, convenience, and speed, visits Protecting the environment Ayalon, and others) to receive the the section, “Action to benefit the to form a groundbreaking customer money directly into their bank accounts community”). experience. The bank's website had six through bit. An additional collaboration Customer satisfaction signed with Amitim Pension Funds million visits in 2019, the with the Bank Hapoalim allows members of the eight pension ◆ Logging in to the bank's website by highest user count in the website is at 95%, on funds under its management to redeem fingerprint Customers today must banking system average funds using the application. remember many different passwords in order to access services in various Corporate Governance areas, from health care to finances; 54 55 Introduction Benefit Customers Innovation for capitalInnovation for business ◆ Cash Management – an up-to-date Growth and Financial Inclusion market customers customers Project 100 overview of all of the accounts of A program encouraging intra-organizational innovation, formulated based on the understanding that leadership of The Bank Hapoalim capital-market trading The bank’s business clients require fast, the business A key challenge in entrepreneurial and innovative processes by a variety of employees from different ranks and divisions can stimulate creative application, designed to provide the accessible, innovative solutions that managing the finances of a mid-sized thinking and advance feasible innovative solutions. Value-Creating Innovation bank's customers with an advanced, enable them to invest most of their or large business is monitoring several Of the hundreds of employees who applied for the program, a representative team of entrepreneurs from various units and groundbreaking trading experience, time in managing their businesses. In different bank accounts, including roles within the bank was assembled. The entrepreneurs were equipped with working methodologies to initiate projects, such was launched in late 2018 and gained recognition of this reality, the bank accounts of subsidiaries, which may as Lean Startup and Business Model Canvas; they gained experience with techniques for storytelling and building presentations, momentum during the course of 2019. develops a wide range of advanced tools be located in different countries. In and met with mentors in and outside the bank. The application enables customers to and services adapted to the needs of response to this challenge, the Cash Initiatives in various areas of banking were developed within this program in 2019, some of which were integrated into the use their smartphone as a quick, easily business customers, while continually Management service, now embedded bank's work plans, while others are in pilot stages to consider further application. available working tool for obtaining working to improve the digital solutions in the bank’s website, enables business Society and the Community updates on market developments and available to them. customers to view all of their asset and continuing their usual activities when they ◆ Innovation revolution in guarantees liability balances – credit, deposits, are not at a computer. The application One of the areas of traditional banking guarantees, securities, etc. in all of 2019 planning vs. execution allows users to search, buy, and sell that has always entailed complex their accounts, at banks in Israel and LOOKING securities on rapid new infrastructure, and has a unique feature for visual display of the development of the portfolio bureaucratic procedures is bank guarantees. In the ambition to save precious time for customers, elsewhere, on one screen. This service helps finance managers see the bigger picture and make informed decisions 2019 plans Opening a bank account Status AHEAD  • L aunch of bit for businesses as part of the bank Responsible Supply Chains over the course of the trading day. The beneficiaries, and branch bankers, in real time, while saving costs and digitally, without dependence Completed bank also launched the innovative Smart the bank has developed a digital bank time. The service also offers a module leading role in the payment revolution in Israel. on human ser vice, in an Advice service, which assists customers guarantee issuance procedure, with designated for cash-flow forecast • C ontinued, accelerated transition of customer innovative and rapid process. with informed investment decisions. electronic signature, which can be management, which allows users to activity to advanced digital banking available Production of digital bank 24/7; launch of a new groundbreaking mobile Users receive personalized investment recommendations from an investment carried out at any place and time without dependence on a banker and view future transactions and monitor overall activity on a daily basis. guarantees at any place and  Completed application for private customers, developed based advisor through alerts sent directly to without the need to visit a branch to time, without the need to on in-depth understanding of and comprehensive Employees empowerment their mobile phones. collect the guarantee. This is important visit a branch. responsiveness to their needs, which will allow news for business customers, who millions of customers to manage their banking require bank guarantees in various Poalim Brain – continued A decision was made to activity in its entirety with ease, convenience, and Smart Advice won situations (tenders, contracts, development of a learning change the format of this simplicity. the 2020 Product agreements, and more), and can now banking system. project and apply a different • I n light of the coronavirus crisis and its of the Year Award – manage large numbers of digital algorithmic platform. consequences – development of adapted solutions Consumers’ Choice, guarantees with ease and convenience. in the digital space for resuming routines, in terms Protecting the environment in the Investments The procedure also provides added of introduction of new financial products and Insurance claim payments for category. value to beneficiaries, who may not customers of Harel Insurance  Completed services for customers as well as expansion of be Bank Hapoalim customers, in that communication channels with bankers. through the bit application, The collaboration was also they can now receive the guarantee for customers of all banks. expanded to additional directly via e-mail, making it easy to insurance companies and file and retain. to Amitim Pension Funds. Corporate Governance 56 57 Introduction Benefit Customers Poalim High-Tech Growth and Financial Inclusion Accessibility Section at the 8200 Accelerator Within the bank’s promotion of technological entrepreneurship The Poalim High-Tech program was established five creating shared economic, environmental, and social value, years ago with the aim of responding to the needs of the bank has worked for several years with the 8200 Alumni the start-up and high-tech industry, from the initial Association, which supports early-stage technology ventures, stages of development to advanced stages of growth. focusing on solutions for social problems. The Accessibility Poalim High-Tech has locations in ten branches of Section of the accelerator was created in 2019, in collaboration the bank, across Israel, staffed by high-tech bankers with and financed by the Social Banking Center at Bank Hapoalim, Value-Creating Innovation specially trained to serve this sector. The extensive with the aim of supporting start-up companies working to service and product offering is tailored to the needs develop technological solutions for people with disabilities. Innovation of start-up companies, based on an understanding of The Accessibility Section provided financial and professional entrepreneurial language and DNA. Services include support to four selected ventures identified as having the a personal banker; assistance in opening an account; during the time potential to improve the quality of life of millions of people addressing complex legal and regulatory aspects; with disabilities, in Israel and worldwide. These initiatives were connection to a dealing room; credit solutions for various chosen from among hundreds of applicants by a team of judges Society and the Community stages; customized deposits; international banking of the coronavirus consisting of representatives of Bank Hapoalim, 8200 alumni, services; direct banking; links to investors; and more. leading venture-capital funds, and large Israeli technology Poalim High-Tech also creates value for the entrepreneur firms. Each of the four winning initiatives received professional community in the following ways: consultation from the bank and a monetary grant. ◆ Meet-ups and conferences – The bank harnesses Leadership of processes in the digital channels The following initiatives were selected for the Accessibility its extensive network of relationships and holds has been aimed at providing relief to customers Section: dedicated conferences and meet-ups with venture◆ RenewSenses – A start-up company that has developed a Responsible Supply Chains and enabling them to continue to operate their capital funds, accelerators, investors, workspaces, technological system for the conversion of visual images to accounts remotely, including: service providers, entrepreneurs, and more, in order to sound, in real time, for people with visual impairments and expand the matrix of connections and collaborations blindness, by creating “synthetic vision.” between entrepreneurs and potential investors. The option to defer Deferral of existing loans via Payment into deposit ◆ ReSymmetry – A start-up company that has developed a smart ◆ Mentoring and advisory services – Provided to mortgage payments, digital channels, without the plans adapted for this robotic wheelchair allowing changes in sitting positions and entrepreneurs free of charge, including an individual directly from the bank's need to contact a branch or period using the bank's helping to prevent damage caused by a lack of movement. meeting. website the call center website ◆ Skelable – A start-up company developing a wearable robot Employees empowerment ◆ Screening and mentoring for third parties – The for stroke patients, to shorten the rehabilitation process and Poalim High Tech team has an important role in for patients after stroke, and increase patients independence the process of screening companies for various Production of a user guide Various solutions for business clients via accelerators. A large number of accelerators currently by enabling them to perform everyday actions. for the public on key digital channels, including: offer a wide range of programs for entrepreneurs. ◆ Skillset – A company that has developed a system for digital-banking activities, A designated loan fund for self-employed customers, Team members participate in these programs as specification and screening of job candidates with disabilities, to help customers avoid in collaboration with Lahav; customers receive the loan judges, lecturers, and mentors. improving their odds of obtaining positions and being included visiting branches during directly into their accounts following a quick process on in the job market. Protecting the environment ◆ Investment in venture-capital funds – The bank the crisis and raise the website or application. invests in venture-capital funds with the aim of awareness of the range of An option for business owners to defer loan payments for promoting the ecosystem, expanding the bank's The various ventures, including the four graduates of the digital tools available several months. Accessibility Section, were presented at an event held at Bank portfolio, and aiding the expansion of customers' Hapoalim in July 2019 to celebrate the end of the fifth session of network of relationships. These investments are Impact 8200, attended by the top executives in Israeli high-tech. performed in collaboration with Poalim Capital Markets. Corporate Governance 58 59 Krembo Wings' children a youth movement for children with disabilities Responsible Action to Benefit Society and the Community Introduction Responsible Action to Benefit Social investments in 2019 Benefit Customers Society and the Community Financial education financial behavior; its services are offered Promoting higher education 440 Financial education is an important to the general public nationwide free in peripheral regions Bank Hapoalim views action to benefit The Social Banking Center has formulated The selected focus areas are causes element of the bank's investment in social of charge. The Financial Growth Center Growth and Financial Inclusion the society and community of Israel as a new strategy, implemented in 2019, essential to the resilience of Israeli society causes, as part of its commitment to the teaches content relevant to significant an integral part of its responsibilities. This approach obligates the bank to based on the aim of creating meaningful social impact. The essence of the and aligned with the core business activities of the bank: promotion of astute financial behavior for the general public in Israel, rooted financial crossroads in people’s lives, such as expansion of the family, taking students ensure that in addition to the direct strategy is a focus on selected areas ◆ Financial education; in the belief that action in this area will a mortgage, career changes, pension received access to higher education economic value arising from its routine of social impact, creation of long-term ◆ Accessibility and empowerment for lead to economic growth and a thriving planning, and more. through scholarships granted by the bank. business operations, its actions also partnerships with social non-profits and people with disabilities; future society. The work of the Financial Growth Center ◆ 70 outstanding students from peripheral generate significant added value for the organizations operating in relevant areas, ◆ Digital literacy for senior citizens; is conducted through advanced digital regions received scholarships for Value-Creating Innovation general public, while promoting social and and measurement of the impact of the ◆ Social mobility and employment. Imp ac t of the b ank ’s social learning tools on a dedicated website; undergraduate degrees from the Poalim environmental values. bank’s social investments. investment in the promotion of in-person lectures by top speakers; for Success Fund established by the The bank's activity dedicated to the financial education in 2019: interactive learning through family games; bank. Within the scholarship program, community takes the form of community lesson plans for elementary and middlethe students participated in a program ◆ 22,000 people received knowledge engagement, monetary donations, cashschool students; and collaborations with on astute financial behavior. Using the equivalent donations, and extensive Distribution of donations in 2019 and tools for astute financial non-profits, business organizations, and knowledge and skills they acquired, they volunteering. behavior in workshops run by the more. For further information about the volunteered at the non-profit organization Society and the Community The Poalim for the Community Unit in the Financial Growth Center; over a activity of the center, see the section Educating for Excellence, which works Social Banking Center manages community million people learned from the “Financial inclusion,” on pages 38-39. to achieve equal opportunities and investment funds in aggregate, based on center’s website, which is also encourage excellence among children available in Arabic. criteria established in the bank’s policy with regard to social non-profits and 6% ◆ 7,778 students received knowledge and adolescents in peripheral regions. The students worked with 2,500 children Digital organizations. The bank does not donate literacy and tools for astute financial Financial education for during their volunteer activities. 7,778 money or cash equivalents to political behavior, for individuals and secondary-school students ◆ 370 students from various population families, in a financial education Responsible Supply Chains parties, politicians, or political institutions. segments received higher-education 34% program developed in collaboration scholarships sponsored by the bank Health care and well-being 26% Financial with ORT Israel. ◆ 4 4 0 student s from Isr ael's students through funds including the Nazareth Foundation, the Amanina Foundation, education periphery received access to higher and the Lieutenant Colonel Salach Falakh education through scholarships received knowledge and tools for astute Foundation. Scholarship recipients granted by the bank. financial behavior, for individuals and participated in an educational program ◆ 120 social non-profit s and Employees empowerment families, in a financial education program on financial conduct, and used the NIS 12% Social 22% organizations received tools for fundraising and development of developed for secondary schools in collaboration with ORT Israel. The knowledge and tools they acquired to mentor more than 300 families on astute 9 mobilityand Accessibility an income-generating arm through program is designed to equip students financial behavior. employment participation in the Erech Laderech for independent adult life and raise their program. awareness of the importance of astute financial behavior. In addition, dozens of Guidance for at-risk youth on astute financial behavior Protecting the environment Selected initiatives in 2019: new teachers receive training each year million in order to participate in teaching the 340 adolescents at risk have received Total investment in the twenty-hour program. This activity has also knowledge and tools for astute financial Financial Growth Center been expanded into the Arab community, behavior through a collaboration with community by Bank The Financial Grow th Center was and adapted materials in Arabic were the non-profit organization ELEM – Youth Hapoalim in 2019 established within the Poalim Campus in developed for the program. in Distress. The goal of the program is to 2018 as a hub for learning and acquiring 27,878 students have participated in this promote financial education among young knowledge and tools supporting astute program over the last five years. people in high-risk situations, preparing Corporate Governance 9. Includes investment of approximately NIS 6.5 million through the Financial Growth Center, and investment of approximately NIS 2.5 million through the Shared Value Fund. 62 63 Introduction them for independent life and helping disabilities a key social focus area and an Impact of the bank’s social investment owners. This project, supported by the by professional coaches, on the parent being of adults and children with them find their place in the world of integral part of its service concept and in the promotion of accessibility in Israel bank, includes a program imparting teams’ soccer fields. This project was disabilities. Hundreds of Bank Hapoalim work. Participants are mentored in groups social responsibility, in the belief that the the skills and competencies needed to conducted in collaboration with JDC Israel. employees participated in these Benefit Customers in 2019: and individually by volunteers from the Israeli economy and society as a whole start a business, as well as personal and ◆ Support for the establishment of a campaigns by staffing the call centers ◆ 30,000 hours of treatment were given community, volunteers of the non-profit, benefit from maximization of the individual professional guidance, using assistive unique soccer team that most of its provided for the broadcast day by the and employees of the bank; they also potential of every person with a disability. to children with disabilities as a result of technologies. players are people with disabilities, in bank. The bank also developed a button participate in a Financial Growth Center In 2019, the bank expanded its activity in fundraising broadcasts and art exhibitions collaboration with The Maccabi Tel Aviv in its Bit application for easy donations workshop on astute financial behavior. the area of the promotion of accessibility sponsored by the bank. Soccer Club Foundation. The goal of this to these organizations during the and the empowerment of people with ◆ 35,000 children and adults with disabilities Encouraging innovation in activity is to encourage education on month of the campaign. Growth and Financial Inclusion disabilities, with the aim of becoming benefited from assistive technologies the development of assistive inclusion and acceptance of differences ◆ Art exhibition – For two decades, the Guidance on astute financial an important partner in the effort to developed with the sponsorship of the technologies (social tech) through the most popular sport in Israel. bank has held an annual exhibition behavior for social non-profit transform Israel into a country without bank, helping to improve their quality of life. ◆ Launch of the Accessibility Section in ◆ Wheels of Hope – For the last eleven at its head-office building, with all organizations obstacles for people with disabilities. ◆ Over 10,000 people participated in inclusive the 8200 Impact Social Accelerator – An years, the bank has been the main proceeds of artwork sales donated to In 2019, the bank continued to work to Within this effort, the bank takes action sports events with people with disabilities, innovative program to support startsponsor for the Wheels of Hope bicycle a non-profit organization selected by empower the third sector and impart to improve quality of life for people with sponsored by the bank. up companies developing initiatives, ride, run by the Etgarim Foundation, the bank. This year, the exhibition was business and management tools to social disabilities and the way they are treated, ◆ 24,000 wheelchairs were borrowed at services, and solutions for people with in which people with and without dedicated to Krembo Wings, an inclusive Value-Creating Innovation non-profits and organizations, with the emphasizing collaborations and leadership hospitals through the WheelShare project. disabilities. disabilities ride together. shared youth movement for children aim of promoting long-term financial of initiatives in four main areas: promoting ◆ Over 500,000 people signed the Inclusion ◆ Establishment of Assistive Technology – and adolescents in general and special robustness leading to reduced dependence employment of people with disabilities, Compact, supporting inclusion of children Access for All, a technological innovation education. Approximately 500 works on donations. In the Erech Laderech encouraging innovation in the development with disabilities. center, in collaboration with Beit Issie Raising awareness of of art by leading artists in Israel were initiative, led by the bank in collaboration of assistive technologies (social tech), Shapiro, to promote technological inclusion of people with offered for sale at the exhibition, raising with the non-profit organization Topaz, promoting equality through sports, and innovation processes for improvement disabilities in all areas of life NIS 1.3 million for the organization. 55 social non-profits and organizations raising awareness of the inclusion of people Selected initiatives in 2019: of the quality of life of people with ◆ Doors Open for Everyone – A nationwide Society and the Community received guidance and training in 2019, with disabilities in all areas of life. Promoting employment of people disabilities. drive to raise awareness of the ◆ Inclusion of people with disabilities providing tools for fundraising and the In 2019, the bank contributed to the with disabilities ◆ Installation of stations where wheelchairs importance of inclusion of people with in advertising campaigns – Within development of an income-generating arm. empowerment of hundreds of thousands can be borrowed free of charge at disabilities and of shared community the effort to empower and include Organizations from the first two sessions of people with disabilities – children and The employment rate among people with thirteen hospitals across Israel, in settings. This effort emerged from an people with disabilities in all areas of of the program have raised a cumulative adults – through a range of processes disabilities of working age is approximately collaboration with WheelShare. initiative of the bank in collaboration life, the bank is committed to including amount of more than NIS 10 million using initiated in collaboration with selected 50%, compared with 73% of people without with the Israel Association of Community people with disabilities in its advertising tools acquired at Erech Laderech, and organizations and non-profits in this field, disabilities. Average monthly wages of Centers and the band Shalva, following campaigns, in order to give expression Promoting equality Responsible Supply Chains have learned how to expand the impact including Access Israel, Beit Issie Shapiro, employed people with disabilities are lower by a survey by the Israel Association of to the diversity of Israeli society. of their activity for the benefit of society Variety, Etgarim, Shalva House, Na Laga’at approximately NIS 1,200 than average wages of through sports Community Centers indicating that ◆ Valuable 500 – An initiative aimed at and the community. Approximately 120 Center, the Jordan River Village, Krembo people without disabilities; further, many people The participation of people with disabilities 89% of parents were unwilling for their inviting 500 CEOs of leading companies social non-profits and organizations have Wings, House of Wheels, AKIM, and more. with disabilities are employed in positions that in athletic activities contributes to their children to participate in shared leisure worldwide to join in committing participated in the program in the three These organizations work to support people do not correspond to their level of education inclusion in society and to better quality of activities with children with disabilities. In themselves and the organizations years of its activity. In addition, a Facebook with disabilities in all areas of life and help or qualifications. These figures reflect the need life and self-esteem. Recognizing this, the the campaign, the Inclusion Compact was under their leadership to embedding Community was established, followed by them maximize their individual potential for progress in the employment of people with bank has led several processes aimed at posted at all branches of Bank Hapoalim accessibility in their organizational Employees empowerment 700 members from different NGOs, who and achieve optimal inclusion in society. disabilities. promoting equality through sports: and at the head-office buildings, and agenda, by conducting at least one receive tolls and information. Examples of processes led by the bank in this area: ◆ Sponsorship for the Olympic Committee customers of the bank were invited to activity in this area and publicizing the ◆ Collaboration with the website www. and Paralympic Committee, and sign the compact. Concurrently, a digital issue. Bank Hapoalim has committed Accessibility and Bank Hapoalim produced yoocanfind.com, a global community for personal monthly stipends granted campaign encouraging everyone in Israel to participation in this endeavor, and a detailed report on its people with disabilities. Within this project, to ten selected athletes, including to sign the compact drew over half a hosted the first meeting, which was empowerment of activity with all stakeholders the original website was translated into Paralympics athletes. million participants. held in Israel. people with disabilities to promote accessibility Hebrew, and a job board was established ◆ Establishment of the Unified Soccer ◆ Raising resources for non-profit Protecting the environment in Israel. The report for job seekers with disabilities. League, which consists of six unified organizations working to empower Additional information about the bank's About one and a half million people was presented to the ◆ Winwork – A business-social initiative founded teams where the players are soccer children with disabilities: activity on behalf of people with disabilities with physical, mental, and/or cognitive Commissioner of Equal Rights by people with disabilities with the aim of club fans and people with intellectual ◆ The bank led key fundraising broadcasts is presented in the Accessibility Report, disabilities live in Israel, or approximately for Persons with Disabilities in helping people from this population group, or mental disabilities. The unified teams for the non-profit organizations Variety available on the Bank Hapoalim website. 18% of the population10. Bank Hapoalim February 2020. as well as people without disabilities, develop will begin playing in early 2020, guided and Shalva, which work for the wellconsiders accessibility for people with careers as entrepreneurs and business Corporate Governance 10. A ccording to data of the Equal Rights for Persons with Disabilities Commission, Ministry of Justice, 2019. https://www.gov.il/he/departments/publications/reports/2018_statisticstbt 64 65 Introduction Digital literacy for Social mobility and employment Encouraging teen entrepreneurship and supporting adolescents’ inclusion senior citizens in peripheral regions in society and in the job market Benefit Customers Bank Hapoalim has resolved to assist The bank has invested in a wide range of projects in socially and geographically peripheral ◆ 700 adolescents from the Zoharim and company, from the idea phase to empowerment program for outstanding senior citizens in enhancing their digital regions of Israel for many years, focusing on initiatives in the areas of education and Kedma Youth Villages gained access to business development and resource students, consisting of individual independence in all areas, thereby entrepreneurship targeted to college students and adolescents, assistance for population educational and therapeutic services raising. mentoring sessions with Weizmann improving their quality of life. This groups subject to under-employment, and mentoring for families experiencing financial and received tools for inclusion in society ◆ 50 adolescents from the Bedouin Institute students and workshops on effort involves multi-sector cooperation difficulties. and in the job market as a result of the community participated in the Desert leadership and empowerment. The (business, public, and third sector), bank's donation. Stars program, in which they attended program will be held annually for four Growth and Financial Inclusion including the Ministry of Social Equality, Impact of the bank’s investment in social mobility and employment in peripheral ◆ 1,120 adolescents participated in the workshops on the development of years, improving participants’ prospects JDC Eshel, business partners, elderly regions in 2019: Unistream entrepreneurial program, personal capabilities and leadership skills. for their military service and encouraging residential care facilities and day centers, which offered them a rare opportunity ◆ 80 adolescents of Ethiopian descent will higher education. ◆ 2,000 families experiencing financial difficulties received individual mentoring and guidance specialized non-profits such as Machshava to experience founding a start-up participate in Sparks of Science, a science Tova and Appleseeds Academy, and more. on developing skills for astute financial behavior and entering the employment market. ◆ 500 people from diverse population segments entered the employment market. 30,000 ◆ 1,200 people received guidance and advice on employment through the non-profit Projects that have become a tradition Value-Creating Innovation organization Be-Atzmi, financed by the bank. ◆ 100 women entrepreneurs received training and guidance on founding a small business, Dan the Saver summer camps mobile libraries operated in collaboration ongoing for sixteen years. in collaboration with the non-profit organization Future Enterprises. In the last five years, approximately 40,000 with the Key Books Foundation. The mobile In just the last five years, more than two senior citizens ◆ 1,950 adolescents received training and tools on entrepreneurship and adult life skills. children have participated in Dan the libraries visit peripheral regions and million people visited dozens of museums Saver summer camps held in more than hold various activities adapted to local and heritage sites that opened to the received knowledge, tools, thirty towns in peripheral regions, gaining communities, including financial education public free of charge during Passover, at and skills to master digital competence Selected initiatives in 2019: Job placement assistance for enjoyable experiences while also learning lessons at selected schools. the initiative of the bank and with its full Society and the Community degree holders in the Arab about basic concepts of economics and sponsorship. Guidance for families community and of Ethiopian tools for astute financial behavior. Opening attractions and Additional information about the bank's experiencing financial descent museums to the public Beyond the activities based on the focus Read and Succeed 2 000 activity to promote digital literacy for difficulties during Passover vacation social causes described above, Poalim senior citizens is available in the section 200 academic degree holders from the Arab Over the last five years, 48,000 children and for the Community maintains long-term “Inclusion and financial growth,” on pages 43-45. , community received assistance with job placement, in a program created in collaboration with the adolescents have participated in financial education and reading encouragement To make the culture and heritage of Israel accessible to all parts of the population, partnerships and invests in various nonprofit organizations engaged in additional Responsible Supply Chains families non-profit organization Kav Mashve, academic institutions, and large employers in Israel. In programs within the Read and Succeed projec t, aimed at improving the Bank Hapoalim invites all Israelis to travel during the holiday of Passover and visit a social fields, including health care, welfare, and assistance for people in need. experiencing financial difficulties addition, 150 academic degree holders of Ethiopian reading and writing skills of children and range of sites across Israel free of charge. received individual mentoring descent participated in a job-placement program adolescents in Israel. This project includes This project, led by the bank, has been and guidance on developing skills for degree holders run in collaboration with the for astute financial behavior and non-profit organization Olim Beyahad. entering the employment market. Action to benefit society and the Employees empowerment 1000 This project was conducted through collaborations with nonOver community during the COVID-19 period , profit organizations specializing The bank is committed to aiding the national effort to battle the coronavirus and has led a range in this field: Lehetiv, Paamonim, of social initiatives, focusing on three main areas as described below: Chasdei Lev, and Be-Atzmi. Most of the families in the program degree holders Assistance for medical Well-being and financial support for groups Tools and knowledge for astute reported success in creating in these population segments received and health-care services – experiencing distress (elderly people, Holocaust financial behavior – Guidance of nonSupport for medical teams; survivors, families coping with financial profit organizations in navigating the Protecting the environment wider employment opportunities job-placement assistance from the donations to coronavirus difficulties) – Donations for collaboration with noncrisis through the Erech Laderech and improved earning capability. bank over the last three years. wards at fifteen hospitals profits; food packages distributed to the elderly program; consultation and support and to Magen David Adom and people in need; leadership of a fundraising hotlines for people and families in emergency services. drive through the bit application, with donations distress; Young Managers of Tomorrow, matched and delivered to people in need. an online course for children. Donations by the bank for these activities NIS 2.5 million. See next page for details and additional information about the various activities >> Corporate Governance 66 67 Introduction Action to benefit society Well-being and and the community during the COVID-19 period financial support Benefit Customers Launch of the Good Cause Savings deposit plan, which allows customers to save while having a positive impact, through donations by the bank that Assistance for medical match the interest accrued on the deposit. Thanks to deposits in this and health-care services plan, the bank donated NIS 200,000 to non-profit organizations working Growth and Financial Inclusion NIS 750,000 were donated to fifteen for the well-being of the population hospitals for the wards on the front lines segments most vulnerable to the of the battle against the coronavirus consequences of the coronavirus 570 packages of food and snacks were crisis, including elderly people, people delivered for medical teams treating in poverty, and Holocaust survivors COVID-19 patients The bank participated in a national Leadership of a fundraising drive Value-Creating Innovation fundraising effort – NIS 1.8 million were through the bit application with social raised through a button developed in the partners (the non-profit organization bank's bit application allowing easy, quick L e v O h e v, t h e S c h u s t e r m a n donations to Magen David Adom emergency Foundation, the Rashi Foundation, services. The bank also donated NIS 0.5 and more). Donations were doubled million to Magen David Adom and transferred to people in need. NIS 100,000 were donated for the Action to NIS 6.7 million were donated within this effort benefit society Society and the Community acquisition of protective equipment kits for United Hatzala volunteers who support solitary elderly people through medical supervision and the community 3,500 food packages were distributed by bank employees to Holocaust during the survivors, solitary elderly people, and families in distress. Hundreds of NIS 100,000 were donated to Yad Sarah for the acquisition of COVID-19 period craft kits and games were distributed to 120 non-profit organizations, respiratory equipment children's activity centers, youth Responsible Supply Chains clubs, and elderly day centers Assistance for people in financial A NIS 150,000 sponsorship was distress due to the coronavirus crisis granted for a national hotline for through specializing organizations elderly people and people with disabilities who need assistance obtaining food and medication. 26,300 calls were answered Employees empowerment The Erech Laderech program provides consulting and tools on how to navigate the crisis to NGOs A total of NIS 650,000 was donated to NGOs and social organizations assisting people in need Protecting the environment A designated call center to assist people with questions regarding household budget management Young Managers of Tomorrow – An online entrepreneurship course for Providing knowledge and tools children, offered free of charge by the Financial Growth Center Corporate Governance for astute financial behavior 68 69 Introduction Poalim volunteers Benefit Customers The values of volunteering, giving, and of 46 regional social leaders responsible for assistance in formulating business plans helping others are inherent in the bank's managing volunteering partnerships and for various ventures. Bank employees 1,000 ~ 161,110 DNA. The bank has established a nationwide programs at the regional and local level also attended training in order to serve Over Training sessions for network of volunteers, encompassing with community partners, and a network as “life guides” for IDF soldiers without employees interested thousands of its employees from various of 410 leaders who serve as liaisons to all family in Israel who have completed Growth and Financial Inclusion in volunteering parts of the country. The bank's broad employees and oversee volunteering at their military service, and fifteen bank regularly in specific geographical deployment makes it the level of individuals and branches. executives trained to serve as mentors hours employees areas were held in possible to volunteer for a wide range A software system has been developed to for managers of non-profit organizations, participated in volunteer 6,900 managers and employees 2019. This includes: of activities, so that the local branch manage and track volunteering activities in collaboration with the Matan Investing activities during the holidays, in of the bank performed ~161,110 12 becomes a center for social improvement at the bank, in which volunteers can enter in the Community Foundation. areas such as childcare centers, in the local community. Employees and information about their activities. The hours of community volunteer elderly day centers, hospitals, executives volunteer in their spare time, system has a user-friendly search engine, so work.11 Approximately 20% of the and more, and distributed Value-Creating Innovation some privately and independently, and that employees interested in volunteering Summer Youth program hours volunteered were paid for ~80,000 gift packages by the bank some with the leadership of the bank, in close to home can find suitable venues Within the ambition to instill the ~ employees 1,000 collaboration with various foundations. aligned with their preferences. values of giving and helping others took a paramedic ~ 3,500 As in every year, outstanding employee among adolescents, approximately volunteers were commended at an event 1,400 children of bank employees course to volunteer at Volunteering activities are attended by management in 2019. aged 15-18 participated in a wide children Magen David Adom varied and conducted with range of community activities during participated in 34 courses on 24 Society and the Community financial and other subjects, many community partners, so that employees can choose Volunteer activity in 2019 the summer vacation (in accordance with the Youth Employment Law, employees taught at 28 schools by more volunteered regularly in 2019. to take part in an activity 1953). Summer Youth is an initiative than 350 bank employee Promoting financial Overall, approximately 44% of the continuously over the course of Poalim Volunteers, fully financed volunteers, in the program A of the year, or at specific education by the bank, in collaboration with bank's employees volunteered Different Lesson (“Shiur Acher”) employees points in time, according to The bank's volunteering activities the employee union, the human on a regular basis took a financial their individual constraints, emphasize the promotion of financial resources division, and the Poalim coaching course 30 ~ More than 6,900 such as activities on holidays Responsible Supply Chains education, in alignment with its core Campus. Participants learn about the 15 and activities conducted activity. Within this effort, bank employees underprivileged segments of Israeli across the entire bank on volunteered in several areas in 2019: society and experience community Good Deeds Day. ◆ Lectures on financial education and work over the course of a week. Five lectures family budget management – Lectures five-day sessions of this program employees on financial education, employees were given by bank employees to were held in the summer of 2019, participated in volunteering household budget trained to mentor Among other efforts, employees of the various audiences. Within the activity emphasizing financial education activities on Good Deeds management, and CEOs of non-profit organizations. Employees empowerment bank volunteer to help children and adults of the non-profit organization Shiur and accessibility for people with Day, held for the thirteenth entrepreneurship were given with special needs; work with Holocaust Acher ( A Different Lesson ), hundreds disabilities (in collaboration with the consecutive year by volunteers from the bank survivors; mentor IDF soldiers with no of employees of the bank taught Access Israel Foundation). family in Israel; mentor women who are enrichment classes at schools throughout Bank employees’ children who victims of violence; provide assistance and Israel on financial and other subjects. participated in the program training for the promotion of employment; Parents working at the bank and bank expressed high satisfaction with adopt centers for children and for the retirees also gave lectures for their the activity and earned praise 2019 – planning vs. execution Protecting the environment elderly; assist at group homes for children children and their children’s classmates, and appreciation from the nonat risk and foster homes; package and in the Enriching Parents project. profits and community partners. 2019 plans Status distribute food to people in need; and ◆ Promoting financial robustness Approximately 30% of the Upgrade of the bank’s volunteer management system. give talks throughout Israel on astute through individual mentoring and adolescents continued to volunteer  Completed financial behavior. guidance – Within the activity of the at their summer volunteering venue Volunteer work is performed through non-profit organizations Yazamut during the school year, often bringing integrative management and an orderly Premium and Taasiyeda, bank employees friends along, thereby expanding the organizational structure, consisting of the serve as mentors for teen entrepreneurs, circle of volunteering and giving. Corporate Governance Volunteering Administration – a core group providing individual guidance and 11. The number of volunteer hours includes employees' children's activities in the Summer Youth program – a total of approximately 45,500 hours of activity annually. 70 71 Responsible Supply Chains 72 73 Introduction Profile of the bank's supply chain Benefit Customers The policy establishes the following principles and guidelines for the management of supplier relationships: The operational activity of Bank Hapoalim, as Distribution of Bank Hapoalim purchasing in 2019 a banking organization, is based on a supply chain that consists of a pool of suppliers Dialogue and Partnership and Nurturing Fairness and Reduction and Transparency Promotion of small Growth and Financial Inclusion of goods and services, encompassing creation of reciprocity long-term protection of prevention of businesses and thousands of companies in fields such as Construction, real estate, and maintenance of shared value relationships human rights damage to the businesses from logistics, technology, professional services, 21% buildings and properties environment peripheral regions and more. Contractual engagements 32% Human resources, professional services, were executed with approximately 2,700 and consulting suppliers from this pool during 2019. The Office supplies, printing, and mailing Policy implementation is adapted to customary practices at the bank in contractual bank's supplier pool contains suppliers 6% 30% Projects, technology acquisition ans engagements and to the nature of the different suppliers: Value-Creating Innovation of varying sizes (large, mid-sized, small, maintenance, infrastructures and 9% telecommunication Responsible purchasing policy and micro businesses). Approximately 95% of purchasing at Bank Hapoalim is from 2% Transportation, shipping, and secure deliveries Mandatory Optional suppliers who are located and employ other workers in Israe Binding criteria for all suppliers Binding criteria adapted to the Preference criteria (additional quality (required norms of responsible unique characteristics of each of the sections) in the evaluation of proposals ~ Purchasing at the bank is managed by of authorizations for approvals, and conduct) different purchasing groups for significant contractual engagements Society and the Community corporate purchasing, an integrative documentation of information and function that oversees the interfaces decisions made at each stage of the composing the supply chain of the bank. process, using a purchasing system based Purchasing is a defined, uniform, orderly on advanced ERP technology. All of these of purchasing process, with clear parameters established for examination of the quality of the practices are aimed at improving the efficiency and quality of purchasing Embedding CSR principles in supplier agreements Approximately 95% of purchasing purchased item, separation of authority in management, in order to allow controls to Responsible Supply Chains at Bank Hapoalim is from critical stages of the procurement process be applied and conclusions to be drawn, Corporate purchasing frequently applies and new suppliers are asked to sign suppliers who are located in (such as specification of demand, selection and prevent any conflicts of interest in monitoring (including through entities a social responsibility document, as From the suppliers’ Israel and employ local workers of supplier, and payment), establishment work processes in advance. external to the bank) to ensure that part of their contract. The document statement of suppliers engaged by the bank comply encompasses commitments to prevent commitment to with the requirements of the law and with bribery and corruption; comply with responsible conduct the criteria established by the bank. Since legally required terms with regard to “ T h e s u p p li e r u n d e r t a ke s a 2015, the bank has applied a formalized plan wages; protect employees’ benefits commitment to refrain from using Responsible purchasing Employees empowerment to implement a responsible purchasing and provide an appropriate and suitable materials known to be harmful to policy, aimed at increasing third-party risk work environment; prevent harassment the environment and/or to public management in sourcing of resources for and promote equal opportunities; health, to a reasonable extent. The the bank and expanding the responsible avoid the employment of children, supplier undertakes a commitment As part of a comprehensive philosophy of corporate responsibility, the bank has conduct approach among suppliers. Within forced employment, or any form of to use only materials with recognized implemented a formalized plan for embedding sustainability principles within this effort, the bank has established binding illegal employment; protect the health, official certification or accreditation, purchasing operations. The goal of this plan is to expand the perspective on thirdcriteria for working with suppliers, as well security, and safety of employees; and to discontinue the use of any Protecting the environment party risk management in allocating the bank's resources, and to act according to as criteria that form a part of the quality and protect the environment and material objected to by the orderer norms for responsible conduct in the areas of fair and equitable employment, fair metrics in request for proposal processes, use environment-friendly materials. for reasons of protection of the business practices, protection of the environment, and promotion of opportunities in prioritizing suppliers who have embedded Since 2014, every supplier in a working environment and of public health.” the area of green purchasing. The bank communicates this approach to its suppliers, sustainability and corporate responsibility relationship with the bank has signed a and encourages them to adopt the same norms. The plan is based on in-depth analysis principles in their routine operations. document derived from the bank's code of the purchasing patterns and characteristics of suppliers of the bank, and is being In addition, both suppliers in long-term of ethics, and has made a commitment implemented according to the responsible purchasing policy. working relationships with the bank to act accordingly. Corporate Governance 74 75 Introduction Green purchasing for people in need, employment of the Ministry of the Economy and MAOF Protecting the rights of workers Benefit Customers During 2019, the bank continued to people with disabilities, and more. Call Business Support Services for Small employed by external contractors examine and choose environment-friendly Yechol, a company employing workers and Medium Businesses. Approximately purchasing alternatives when acquiring with disabilities, was added to the bank's 100 owners of small and mid-sized products. Within this process, hybrid supplier pool in 2019 (see details in the businesses who are not suppliers of the vehicles were included in the selection section on diverse employment). In 2019, bank attended the conference, which The bank has agreements with various the bank's purchasing contracts, the of leasing vehicles offered to employees, purchasing from socially oriented suppliers was aimed at getting to know them and contractors for the provision of security, establishment of a system for inquiries Code of ethics for external Growth and Financial Inclusion and an agreement was formed with reached approximately NIS 3.69 million. giving them the opportunity to join the cleaning, and cafeteria services, through by external contractor employees at contractor employees Ecommunity, which employs workers with bank's supplier pool. employees of the contractor who are the bank's Human Resources Division, Within the process of instilling social disabilities in electronic waste recycling. assigned to the bank. In order to ensure and the appointment of a supervisor responsibility, the bank formulated a Promoting small businesses the protection of contractor workers’ responsible for ensuring the protection code of ethics adapted for external in the supply chain Sharing professional rights, the agreements between the of the employees' rights and response to contractor employees who work Empowerment of socially Bank Hapoalim recognizes the importance knowledge bank and the contractors stipulate the their inquiries during their employment on its premises in the areas of conscious suppliers of small businesses to the progress of The purchasing staff at the bank routinely obligation of the contractors to provide on the premises of the bank. security, cafeteria services, and Value-Creating Innovation A pool of socially conscious suppliers is the Israeli economy, and promotes these shares professional knowledge with the the following to their employees, among As part of its efforts in this area, the bank cleaning. The content of the code available to the bank, in areas such as businesses in its procurement processes. suppliers of the bank, on subjects such other matters: minimum wage, and other collaborates with Hilan, which monitors is communicated to all contractor the production of teambuilding days Wherever possible and appropriate, the as internal efficiency, cost savings, and rights granted to workers in Israel under the terms of payment by suppliers to their employees employed at the bank's and conferences for the various units of bank engages small suppliers. The bank more. Purchasing staff members also labor laws; social benefits; prevention employees. During 2019, Hilan conducted facilities. These employees receive the bank and supplying gift packages also helps connect small suppliers, who give talks on responsible purchasing for of harmful employee turnover; and due examinations at all of the employment and read the code, and sign the and flowers for the bank's employees may not be suppliers or clients of the bank, various stakeholders, such as community disclosure to employees of their rights. contractor companies engaged by the code document. The bank receives and customers. This pool, compiled by with other suppliers, due to its familiarity organizations and others. Purchasing This infrastructure was created in order bank (ten suppliers). a report of the completion of Society and the Community the bank, consists of small businesses with them and its extensive purchasing staff also regularly visit suppliers in order to prevent harmful employment, and To ensure that the rights of contractor this process from the company throughout Israel that have embedded activities. In 2019, the corporate purchasing to become more closely acquainted has been in place at the bank for years, workers employed on the bank's premises employing the workers, signed social employment, values, and content unit hosted the Business Opportunities with their activity, learn about new as part of its CSR approach. are protected, the bank operates a by the general manager of the in their activities, such as through the Conference of the Small and Medium products they are offering, consider future In order to protect the safety of contractor dedicated contact center in the Human company. The content of the code employment of at-risk youth, assistance Business Agency, in collaboration with collaborations, and more. workers in the area of construction, such Resources Division. The bank informs is distributed in Hebrew, Russian, as in the construction of new branches contractor workers of the existence of and Arabic. As of 2011, all new and and buildings, an orderly procedure is the contact center, and has them sign existing suppliers are required Segmentation of suppliers by Segmentation of Responsible Supply Chains purchasing volume suppliers by size Creation of collaborations maintained, including the formulation of a document explaining their rights. One to communicate the content of to promote social values a safety plan for the project by a safety inquiry from an external contractor worker the new code, annually, to every In 2019, the corporate purchasing unit formed a engineer, approval by the National Fire was processed by the center in 2019. employee they assign to the bank. collaboration between the company Funjoya, which and Rescue Authority, and supervision During 2019, workshops on astute financial specializes in producing events for college students, by a regional security officer. An annual behavior were held for contractor workers, 31% 29% and the non-profit organization Youth of Light, which seminar on safety and security is held at led by instructors from the Financial 69% 71% supports at-risk adolescents. As part of the collaboration, the bank. In the reported year, there were Growth Center. Employees empowerment Funjoya purchased gifts for students participating in its no cases of loss of life of bank employees conferences from the non-profit. or contractor employees as a result of Small/micro work accidents. Large/medium In 2012, with the implementation of Processing inquiries from external contractor employees the Law for Increased Enforcement 2019 planning vs. execution LOOKING of Labor Laws, 2011, and based on the 21 Protecting the environment 15 existing processes at the bank, the AHEAD 2019 plans Status Addition of a section concerning the prevention of sexual  harassment to the suppliers’ declaration of responsible conduct. Completed infrastructure was adjusted to the provisions of the law, which took effect 14 in June 2012. The process of applying • Continued collaborations with Revamping the internal code of ethics of the bank regarding supplier relationships.  Completed social suppliers and suppliers promoting the reduction of controls began before the inception of the law, and is currently conducted in 1 accordance with the provisions of the Examination of additional collaborations with socially conscious  environmental impacts. law. This process included updates of Corporate Governance suppliers. Performed routinely 2016 2017 2018 2019 76 77 Social Networks team at the Poalim by Telephone call center Responsible Action to Enhance Employees’ Capabilities and Well-being Introduction Benefit Customers 98% employees 88.2% Employment 69% academic Growth and Financial Inclusion agreement degrees Responsible Action to Enhance 98% of the employees of the bank are 88.2% of the employees of the 69% of the Employees’ Capabilities and Well-being employed full time bank (permanent and temporary) employees of the are employed under a collective bank hold academic agreement. The bank recognizes its degrees, compared Bank Hapoalim sees its employees as the key to its success. They are the ones who support the customers of the bank and help employees' right to unionize and with 68% in 2018 92% Value-Creating Innovation them reach better financial decisions. The bank is consequently committed to the nurturance and development of its employees conduct collective negotiations. on the professional and personal levels, to caring for their health and well-being, and to providing them with an appropriate and A collective agreement applies to 210 responsible employment environment. The bank's activities for the benefit of its employees are conducted in continual dialogue the decisive majority of employees with them and in partnership with the employee union at the bank. of the bank (88.2%), excluding of employees 8,162 those employed under personal The bank considers its employees key stakeholders, and bases its relationship with them on mutual respect, commitment, caring, and long-term partnership. The bank promotes ­ 12 employed directly employment contracts employees by the bank Society and the Community an appropriate and responsible employment environment, and ensures compliance with retired from the 335 the provisions of the law with regard to the terms of employment of its employees and The bank while 8% are employed by bank in 2019 (of all of all workers employed on its premises. The bank also adheres to universal norms and employees in 2019 external staffing agencies departing employees) principles of the protection of human rights in employment, as described in the United (compared with 9% in 2018)13 Nations Global Compact (UNGC); the UN International Bill of Rights; the UN International 45.5 Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights; the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights; and the Conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Parental leave 335 women and 9 men took Responsible Supply Chains These principles encompass the freedom of association, the right to conduct collective parental leave in 2019, while 300 477 negotiations, and the prevention of discrimination and inequality. women and 9 men returned to Avarage age of Human-resources strategy is multi-annual, and derives from the strategy of the the bank after parental leave. bank employees bank, its business needs, and trends in the banking industry and in the labor market. Employees returning from The strategy is centered on nurturing and managing human resources, and on the parental leave generally resume creation of a supportive, flexible organizational infrastructure. Accordingly, four new employees their previous positions, or begin Employees empowerment focus areas have been selected: Leadership in the new world of work; joined the bank in 2019 a new position at their request 18.5 Designing the employee experience; Development of advanced management tools; Creating value for internal and external customers. years Segmentation of employees by age and gender Characteristics of the work environment at the bank: Average length Age Women Men Total Percentage ◆ Maintaining labor relations; of service of bank employees Up to 30 622 184 806 10% Protecting the environment ◆ Excellence in performance over the long term; ◆ Continual learning; 31-50 3,101 1,567 4,668 57% ◆ A range of opportunities for personal, managerial, and professional development; Over 51 1,634 1,054 2,688 33% ◆ Equal opportunities and prevention of discrimination. Total 5,357 2,805 8,162 100% Corporate Governance 12. Excluding employees on parental leave and bed rest during pregnancy, external contractor employees (including couriers), and employees of subsidiaries. 13. In terms of positions. External staffing agency workers are employed at call centers, in IT services, in programming, and more. 80 81 Introduction Benefit Customers Education of employees of the bank14 by age Employees of the bank by full/part-time positions Distribution of employees of the bank by type of employment agreement Age/ education Bachelor's Master’s Doctoral No academic Percentage of degree Full or part-time 2017 2018 2019 Permanent Temporary Senior Total degree degree degree degree holders in each age group position / year employees employees employees 18-21 1 35 3% Full-time position 98% 98% 98% Collective 76% 12.2% 88.2% Growth and Financial Inclusion 22-30 310 55 405 47% contract Part-time position 2% 2% 2% 31-40 992 623 345 82% Number of 100% 100% 100% Personal 0.2% 10.2% 1.5% 11.8% 41-50 1,111 1,031 7 545 80% contract employees 51-60 725 560 7 829 61% 61+ 149 81 1 350 40% Permanent employees of the bank, Temporary employees of the bank, Total 3,288 2,350 15 2,509 69% segmented by region of residence segmented by region of residence Value-Creating Innovation Percentage 40% 29% 0.2% 31% 100% 24% 32% 22% 22% 15% 17% New employees hired, by age and gender 16% 16% 11% 8% Year 2017 2018 2019 9% 5% Age Women Men Total Percentage Women Men Total Percentage Women Men Total Percentage Society and the Community Up to 30 416 141 557 70% 242 70 312 67% 216 78 294 62% North Sharon Center Tel Aviv Jerusalem South North Sharon Center Tel Aviv Jerusalem South 31-50 123 103 226 28% 77 68 145 31% 95 81 176 37% region region Over 51 5 6 11 1% 3 6 9 2% 2 5 7 1% Total 544 250 794 100% 322 144 466 100% 313 164 477 100% Promoting a culture of dialogue Responsible Supply Chains Departure/retirement of employees, by age and gender Year Age Women Men 2017 Total Percentage Women Men 2018 Total Percentage Women Men 2019 Total Percentage and openness Up to 30 172 59 231 27% 209 80 289 35% 213 63 276 42% Bank Hapoalim considers its employees to Multiple channels for dialogue: 31-50 170 115 285 33% 89 104 193 23% 89 68 157 24% be full partners who contribute to business ◆ Organizational portal – The bank’s organizational portal serves as a key arena for Employees empowerment Over 51 212 131 343 40% 197 143 340 41% 130 89 219 34% and organizational processes. Employees knowledge management, intra-organizational communication, and conveying Total 554 305 859 100% 495 327 822 100% 432 220 652 100% become engaged participants in the messages within the bank. The portal offers: bank's endeavors through organization◆ Management of and access to organizational knowledge (work processes, rights wide communication on all levels: dialogue and obligations, etc.); between managers and employees, ◆ Management of and access to professional knowledge (processes, data, and Employee absences by gender Total employee absences and direct communication between supporting information); (days of absence) the various units. The range of methods ◆ A professional desktop with access to systems and applications within the organization; Sick days Vacations 14 Reserve Total Protecting the environment military duty Sick Vacations16 Reserve Total applied at the bank to achieve these ◆ An infrastructure for organizational sharing and dialogue among employees, through days15 military aims includes face-to-face meetings; the Beshutaf (“In Partnership”) network, an internal business network for employee Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men duty the organizational portal; promotion of knowledge sharing and communities, as well as forums, surveys, and comments. 81,989 29,719 127,101 66,233 52 1,727 209,141 97,679 111,708 193,334 1,779 306,820 a culture of sharing and innovation; and Through the portal, the bank has achieved improvement in employees' professional processes of feedback, assessment, and skills, increased synergy between the head office and the units on the ground, During the reported year, there were no cases of loss of life due to workplace accidents. drawing conclusions. The bank also works stronger organizational identity among employees, and productive dialogue through to strengthen organizational dialogue the range of tools available on the portal. 14. Excluding employees on parental leave and bed rest during pregnancy, external contractor employees (including couriers), and employees of subsidiaries. through surveys, forums, and more. Corporate Governance 15. Including reported illness and illness of a family member. 16. Excluding unpaid leave and parental leave. 82 83 Introduction Benefit Customers Promoting diversity, equal ◆ Portal to Go application – The application enhances employees’ connectedness to the organization and serves as another accessible platform for internal communication and The Forum 600 Conference in 2019 was dedicated to the subject, opportunities, and transparency dialogue via mobile phone, at any place and time. The application offers organizational news, access to the corporate directory, options for ordering benefits included in “Leadership in the new world of employees’ well-being packages, podcasts, videos, information about employment work,” addressing the changes Growth and Financial Inclusion terms and insurance policies, and available positions. that need to be adopted in order to maintain leadership in this area. ◆ Roundtable meetings – A roundtable meeting with the CEO is held each month with bank employees whose birthdays fall in that month. Participating employees can raise At the conference, executives Non-discrimination various subjects and issues for discussion at these sessions. gained skills for self-observation Bank Hapoalim employs, promotes, and makes decisions regarding employees based on pertinent ◆ Open Dialogue meetings – Each month, a different member of the board of and development of leadership considerations, such as qualifications and performance, without discrimination due to religion, race, sex, management of the bank hosts a session for open dialogue on equal terms, attended capabilities, with an emphasis on political views, sexual orientation, disabilities, medical conditions, socioeconomic status, or marital status. by employees from various units. team empowerment and leading No justified complaints of discrimination were filed at the bank in 2019. Value-Creating Innovation ◆ Feedback and evaluation – In 2019, 99% of the employees of the bank participated in a changes. process of evaluation of their individual performance in 2018. Approximately six months after the feedback meetings, midterm meetings are held to track objectives and Equality in wages and terms employees’ professional development; these meetings were held with 65% of employees. Bank Hapoalim is fair and transparent with regard to the terms of employment of its employees. In general, ◆ Poalim Ze Anachnu (“Poalim is Us”) magazine – An intra-organizational publication the remuneration and benefits of the bank's employees are determined according to a role book, which that serves as a platform for employees to share special experiences and inspiring is available on the organizational portal and contains information regarding the terms of employment personal stories. and entitlements granted to employees at each rank and position. The publication of the role book Society and the Community contributes to transparency and allows control over the terms of the wages. Basic wages and related benefits are established at the bank according to employees' position and rank, regardless of gender. Ratio of women's average salary 18% to men's average salary Responsible Supply Chains 7% 5% 4% 0% Internal communications and regular Bankers Branch department Deputy branch managers / head Branch managers / head office Senior executives Employees empowerment dialogue during the coronavirus period heads / head office deputy department office section department heads heads heads Internal communications became more important than ever during the days of the coronavirus crisis, as a contributing factor to maintaining the organizational conversation through this challenging period, with the unprecedented added element of work from home. This disparity arises from the wide variety of positions within each of the categories presented above, which leads to variance in the total salaries paid for each position (regardless of gender). The variance Throughout this period, regular communication was maintained with employees through a range Protecting the environment is influenced by rank and by managerial status in each position. Salary terms also vary as a result of of channels: the organizational portal, the Portal To Go, text messages, divisional WhatsApp employee characteristics such as length of service, additions for employees with children, overtime, etc. groups, and Zoom calls. Dialogue with employees includes real-time updates and instructions on coronavirus issues, direct messages from the management of the bank, content on various subjects relevant to improving the employee experience during this period (nutrition, parenting, exercise, and more), and perspectives on work taking place in the field during the crisis, including through a series of short videos on the bank's activities in the new reality. Corporate Governance 84 85 Introduction Prevention of sexual procedures system; it is also mandatory Recruitment, hiring, and In 2019, the bank applied several measures ◆ Ongoing guidance and follow-up with with relevant non-profit organizations. harassment to post the procedure and regulations in employment of employees aimed at including and retaining employees with disabilities hired at Adaptations were implemented from a prominent place at the branches and employees with disabilities: the bank. the interview stage to accessible with disabilities From the Bank Hapoalim code of ethics: departments of the bank. In addition, this testing, and in orientation and training Benefit Customers “We apply a zero-tolerance policy to sexual subject is communicated to managers. An The bank employs hundreds of people with Accommodations during screening: Raising awareness among employees activities during onboarding. harassment. If you experience sexual updated procedure and regulations are disabilities, and makes a continual effort ◆ Publication of available positions in and managers: ◆ Employment of Call Yechol workers harassment, contact the Supervisor of sent once a year, on average. to recruit additional employees through channels suited to this population ◆ A series of lectures for units of the with disabilities – Call Yechol is a the Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Communication through the ongoing relationships and dialogue with and prioritization of employees with bank on diverse employment, with an company employing people with the bank to file a complaint, or contact organizational portal: This topic receives more than 200 contacts at government disabilities. emphasis on people with disabilities, disabilities, which specializes in setting one of the regional operations officers extensive exposure on the organizational ministries, social organizations, and non◆ Ensuring that screening agencies in cooperation with employees of the up call centers through outsourcing Growth and Financial Inclusion appointed as sexual harassment prevention portal, which presents the law, the process profits specializing in placement and working with the bank comply with bank with disabilities. (approximately 70% of the company's trustees. If you witness sexual harassment for handling sexual harassment, frequently guidance of people with disabilities in accessibility standards, and offering the ◆ Development of a tutorial for all employees have a physical or mental or encounter rumors pertaining to sexual asked questions, and do’s and don’ts. the job market. option to take screening tests at home, employees of the bank on rights and disability). The bank uses Call Yechol harassment, you can safely report it to using adapted language, with the close accommodations in the workplace call-center services for various projects. the Supervisor of the Prevention of Sexual Harassment at the bank or to one of the Promoting workplace supervision of the screening agency. ◆ Adapted interviewing, with the inclusion to which people with disabilities are entitled. diversity and inclusivity regional operations officers appointed as The bank won the Dov of a support person if necessary. ◆ Building the internal website We Are Parenting of a child with special Value-Creating Innovation sexual harassment prevention trustees.” As a values-driven employer, the bank All One, which contains content on needs is rife with challenges Upon the publication of the law on this accords high importance to diverse Lautman Diversity in Accommodations during hiring and diverse employment, success stories, throughout the child's life. A matter in 1998, the bank appointed an employment and inclusion of employees Business Award for retention: information about rights, tips, and team of occupational welfare official responsible for the prevention of from diverse population groups, both the second time in ◆ New employees hired at the bank contact information. professionals at the bank is available sexual harassment. In addition, operations as part of its social commitment and meet regularly with mentors and ◆ Development of a plan to raise awareness to employees and retirees who are managers at the branches were appointed as a justified business practice. The 2019, in recognition employment coordinators from nonin this area, including dissemination of parents of children with disabilities. sexual harassment prevention trustees, bank therefore invites, promotes, and of its actions in 2018. profit organizations specializing in explanatory information within and The support services offered Society and the Community charged with identifying incidents and encourages hiring and inclusion of The award, given placement and retention of employees outside the bank. include consultation by telephone, receiving complaints not submitted directly to the supervisor; the complaints employees from every part of Israeli society, including from population groups by Ma’ala and the with disabilities in the workplace. ◆ Necessary adaptations of the work ◆ Posting the Inclusion Compact at the bank's branches and headquarters (as in-person meetings, and home visits; privacy and confidentiality are handled by the supervisor. underrepresented in the job market17, and Israeli Forum for environment when an employee with part of the Doors Open for Everyone are strictly maintained. The bank The Voluntary Code for the Prevention of adapts hiring and onboarding processes for Employment Diversity, a physical disability is hired or in the project), and inviting employees and also grants these employees a Sexual Harassment: Within the continual them to any extent necessary. The bank was bestowed on event of a change in the health of an managers to sign the compact, thereby larger quota of days and hours improvement of the bank's system for maintains routine, regular communication employee of the bank. declaring that they support inclusion of of absence, beyond legal the bank for its Responsible Supply Chains responding to and preventing sexual with various government ministries and ◆ Increased quota of vacation days and children with disabilities in mainstream requirements, to care for children harassment, in 2018 the bank adopted the placement organizations specializing in the commitment and adaptation of paid days of absence settings in all areas of life. with disabilities. Conferences and Voluntary Code for the Prevention of Sexual advancement of these population groups multi-systemic efforts to the needs of employees with seminars are held on full realization Harassment and obtained certification from the Israel Standards Institute. in the labor market. The bank has appointed an official in the Human Resources Area to to include employees disabilities. ◆ Si g n-l a n g u a g e i nte r p r et at i o n Special initiatives to promote employment of people with disabilities: of the families’ rights, covering legal and welfare aspects. ◆ The code provides guidelines as well as lead and oversee diverse employment. with disabilities on its services for employees with hearing ◆ Program for hiring and inclusion of concrete actions to help the bank cope team, while raising impairments in meetings with multiple employees with high-functioning awareness of this Employees empowerment with sexual harassment. participants. autism – The bank recruited nine ◆ The specifications in the code are based ~ issue in various ways. ◆ Accessibility of internal publications employees who are on the autism on the provisions and regulations of of the bank for employees with vision spectrum, within a collaboration with the Sexual Harassment Prevention impairments. Beit Ekstein. These employees were Law, adding to this foundation in order ◆ Higher wage threshold for employees hired for flexible part-time positions, to make it possible to address this with disabilities. and individual plans were formulated for issue comprehensively and create an ◆ Mobility of employees whose health has each employee to support successful Protecting the environment organizational climate that promotes worsened to suitable positions. long-term employment at the bank. the values underlying the law. of bank employees ◆ Full accessibility of bank events for ◆ Recruitment of deaf and hearinglive in peripheral regions. Bank employees. impaired people for the written Distribution of the procedure and employees come from every ◆ Benefit packages to encourage communications staff at the Poalim regulations for the prevention of sexual region in Israel and from all the learning and development for people by Telephone call center – The unique harassment: The procedure is available on segments of Israeli society with disabilities, including scholarships hiring process for these positions was the organizational portal and in the bank's and adaptations in acceptance and designed and adapted for people with studying conditions. hearing impairments, in collaboration Corporate Governance 17. According to the definition of the Israeli Forum for Employment Diversity, these groups primarily include people from the ultra-orthodox (Haredi) community, people from the Arab community, Israelis of Ethiopian descent, and people with disabilities. 86 87 Introduction Benefit Customers 20% In 2019, approximately 20% of all 11.5% 65.6% of the bank's of the employees of 2019 planning vs. execution 2019 plans Continued efforts to instill an organizational culture Status  LOOKING AHEAD employees hired by the bank employees the bank are women, Growth and Financial Inclusion promoting workplace diversity, with an emphasis on Completed • Expansion of the community of were from underrepresented inclusion of people with disabilities and acceptance are from versus approximately 59.4% in diversity partners. population groups of differences. underrepresented the Israeli workforce • Implementation of the diversity population groups Implementation of a program for increasing the Implementation of this plan is program of the Equal Employment percentage of women in senior management positions in progress, and expected to Opportunity Commission in the Segmentation 2% at the bank. continue in 2020. work of the units of the bank. of hiring of Value-Creating Innovation employees from under-employed of the bank's population groups: In 2019, 11% of total employees are ultraorthodox20 The proportion of women Individual development and learning employees hired were in management The bank cultivates a culture of learning and invests in technological and managerial drawn from the Arab sector, positions at the bank is 54%, versus Employees’ ability to learn has Society and the Community professional training to impart capabilities and skills, preserve and improve expertise, 6.2% approximately 4% were from approximately 34% in the Israeli and empower its employees and executives. The training program at the bank is adapted been identified as one of the the ultra-orthodox sector, workforce18 to its future needs and to the age of digital banking; planning is based on the skills of keys to success at a role; the approximately 2% were of tomorrow which employees are expected to need. Campus has therefore developed Ethiopian descent, and 4% tools to improve the learning and were people with disabilities, of the bank's Most professional and management training at the bank is led by independent studying capabilities based on their declaration employees are Arab19 Segmentation of employees from of employees. A new course the Arab community by rank* the Poalim Campus, which serves as the central arena for changeentitled, “Learning How to Learn,” Responsible Supply Chains generating learning leading to personal, organizational, and was introduced as part of this Comparison of numbers of men and women at each rank professional growth and to improved performance. The approach effort. Bank employees by gender and rank to learning integrates the need for employees who are highly 14 Rank Women Men Total 5% professional and have the ability to learn and think flexibly with Heads of divisions 4 9 13 employees’ need to develop and expand their range of skills. Senior executives 30 54 84 The learning program at the bank encompasses professional Employees empowerment First-tier management 279 306 585 81% courses and instruction, and a variety of workshops and advanced Second-tier management 927 695 1,622 training for the development of management and leadership Employees 4,117 1,741 5,858 skills and the enhancement of individual capabilities. Total 5,357 2,805 8,162 Employees The Poalim Campus promotes an organization-wide culture of life-long learning (LLL) Middle managementֿ and uses advanced methods including online courses, digital learning modules, videos, Protecting the environment First-tier management and podcasts. Learning can be accessed through a range of platforms and channels: a The bank celebrated the Sigd holiday of the community of Israelis of Ethiopian national training center with classrooms, a simulation center, and an interactive classroom; descent for the first time in 2019. This millennia-old tradition is infused with a 6.2% of employees of the bank are from learning hours at branches; training sessions at regional administrations; the banking the Arab community, of which 19% in spirit of togetherness and solidarity. Employees gained exposure to Ethiopian management positions. Executives from the portal; and a learning system used to distribute study materials and digital courses, culture, through food, music, and the community's unique story. Arab community constitute 4.12% of the total among other means. management tier of the bank. The Campus works to map employees’ knowledge gaps, with the aim of adapting focused training programs and developing online training tools to minimize such gaps. The effectiveness of learning is regularly evaluated in Campus courses and development Corporate Governance 18. Gender Index, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics 19. Refers to bank employees only, excluding workers employed by contractors. programs, using assessments during and after the course. 20. Based on an estimate. 88 89 Introduction Professional training Resources Area focused on developing the leadership of tomorrow by identifying formulated, with leadership focus areas selected for improvement and courses ◆ MO O C s (m assi ve op e n online courses) – The bank’s online university ◆ 173 employees completed online courses in 2019, on subjects such as questions, and motivating. These skills are an integral part of the professional Benefit Customers Training is conducted through a wide range senior executive and leadership potential, of action for the divisions of the bank. offers employees a wide range of digital transformation, the financial content areas at the bank, and serve of courses and coaching sessions, which and on orientation and guidance for courses from leading universities in markets, cybersecurity, and more as the foundation for the formation of also cover content related to compliance, managers beginning new roles. Upgrade – cultivating and Israel and overseas. The courses are (employees could choose from fifteen trust-based relationships and business regulation, and business skills, adapted ◆ Development of management developing the capabilities of taken in a format developed at the online courses). excellence. Study at the Simulation to the category of employee and the potential – A process was conducted tomorrow bank, combining independent study ◆ A new session of the online Center relies on innovative methods strategic focus areas of the bank. in 2019 to find the next generation online with a supporting environment university program, offering and effective, experience-based Growth and Financial Inclusion Bankers’ training includes courses at the of leaders at the bank, through The world of work is undergoing many consisting of frontal instruction sessions eighteen courses, opened in late formats. Over 250 employees used the national training center when they begin identifying and developing a group technological and other changes; the and professional leadership by a subject 2019 with approximately 1,000 Simulation Center in 2019. working at the bank, courses to maintain of managers with the potential to skills required to navigate it will evolve and expert. This innovative model is aligned employees registered. Courses professional qualifications, and senior serve in senior executive positions. become more sophisticated. Following with the needs of the employees and are offered in English, Hebrew, Courses in Arabic were held during courses on various banking topics. Focused A developm ent pro gr am w as in-depth study of trends in Israel and the organization; the course selection and Arabic, in a wide range of the year, as a bridge to Arabic training programs are tailored precisely designed specifically for this group, worldwide, the bank identified nine key emphasizes the professions and subjects, including programming, language and culture, focusing to knowledge gaps of specific groups of encompassing a senior command capabilities that will be essential in the capabilities of the future. Employees data analysis, negotiations, spoken on expansion of vocabular y, Value-Creating Innovation employees. course, a mentoring program, and future world of work and are relevant to report high levels of satisfaction Arabic, positive psychology, Excel, improvement of conversation skills, The Poalim Campus works to develop participation in cross-division strategic banking: critical thinking and complex with the learning experience and its Kubernetes, and more. and familiarity with traditions and training programs for the digital age. The projects. The program was developed problem solving; emotional intelligence; contribution to their professional and ◆ LEAD Simulation Center – The center customs of the Arab community. first fully digital course was created in late with the aim of empowering the creativity; flexible thinking; data-driven personal development. The number was established in 2019, for coaching 2019; digital learning is also embedded in future generation of senior executives decision making; negotiating; teamwork of participants is rising steadily and promotion of interpersonal skills existing courses and coaching programs, at the bank, strengthening their and collaboration; digital literacy; and each year: such as listening, empathy, asking as relevant to the topic. abilities, and creating a network curiosity and the ability to learn. The Society and the Community of colleagues and a platform for Campus is setting up ways of preparing 20% productive dialogue for them. the bank's employees and equipping ◆ Management through Being – them with the relevant skills: A p p r ox i m ate l y 3 0 0 m a n a g e r s ◆ Coaching days – The coaching 53% 124 from all levels participated in this days, developed according to the of total learning at the bank u n iq u e p ro gr a m , w h ic h wo r k s necessary capabilities of the future, was performed through online on the development of listening, include workshops in areas such as Responsible Supply Chains methods in 2019 communication, and 'being' skills. The development of emotional intelligence, program emphasizes the connection individual coping with changes, critical of employees of learning modules Targeted professional training is also between interpersonal relationships thinking, creativity as a tool for complex the bank were studied in the learning provided for bankers at the central back and business results; topics addressed problem solving, effectively conducting participated in various system in 2019 69% offices and at the Poalim by Telephone include how to have a difficult a discussion, negotiating, and more. Campus courses 42% call center, from basic instruction for all conversation, coping with conflict, and Employees and managers are invited to 56,736 new employees to advanced training building personal and team resilience participate in their choice of coaching Employees empowerment for experienced employees, aimed at when dealing with changes. days in these areas. The coaching days achieving expertise in specific knowledge areas. 46,000 hours of training for bankers An organizational climate survey is are held in various locations in Israel, to provide maximum accessibility for of the employees at the central back offices and call center conducted every year in order to allow participants. A total of 56,736 days of managers of the bank participated in training at hold academic degrees; 29% hold were held in 2019. The support divisions of the bank employees to express their attitudes, opinions, and feelings about various ◆ Restart – In view of the growing demand for technological professions, of learning were held the Leadership Center graduate degrees 30,500 91% 316 (Information Technology, Innovation, aspects of the work of the bank, the Campus, in collaboration with the Protecting the environment Audit, Risk Management, and more) also including management and leadership, Human Resources Area, is leading a conduct internal training programs. the perception of the bank's leadership, project in which employees are offered partnerships between units, coping with courses to retrain for professions employees In 2019, 316 employees studied for Leadership and executive organizational changes, and more. 80.6% of employees of the bank participated such as data analyst, analyst, COBOL progr ammer, Agile coach, and days of learning of training academic degrees (undergraduate development in the survey in 2019. Following the more. Employees will train for these were held at the Poalim participants and graduate) through a joint fund of The bank accords strategic importance to analysis of the findings of the survey professions in comprehensive courses, Campus, in 460 course expressed high to very the board of management and the the development of its core leadership; and communication of the results to with the aim of subsequently entering sessions high satisfaction with the employee union. 27 additional employees Corporate Governance in 2019, the Campus and the Human the relevant functions, work plans were these roles at the bank. activity participated in language courses 90 91 Introduction Benefit Customers Intra-organizational learning and employee development Days of Average hours Number of Percentage Percentage of Training by Ensuring a supportive and learning* of learning per employee Campus course sessions of positionspecific training managerial/ gender: women/ behavioral training men**** empowering work environment Growth and Financial Inclusion programs** programs*** 53,861 51.2 460 72% 28% 67/33% MASHAB (the Personal Service Center) serves as the destination for employees' coping with emergencies, and more. A unique mentoring workshop for bank Avenues for promotion * Includes training of bank employees (excluding external workers) at the Poalim Campus, Campus in the Field, and Poalim by Telephone call center; MOOCs at and managers' queries on various matters employees coping with separation and development the Technology Unit, Innovation Unit, Security Unit, and Central Back Office; and online learning modules. related to human resources, aimed at and divorce was held for the first The bank fosters an organizational culture ** Including training sessions such as banking coaching days, courses on information systems, and professional banking courses. *** Including coaching days, executive development programs, online courses (MOOC), and afternoon Campus courses. improving satisfaction and strengthening time in 2019. The workshop addressed encouraging employee mobility and **** The segmentation of training by gender is consistent with the overall ratio of women to men at the bank. connections. 38,797 queries to MASHAB the emotional, legal, and financial transitions among units, as opportunities Value-Creating Innovation were documented in 2019, from 8,813 aspects of separation, as well as the for development, learning, strengthening employees and retirees. ways in which the crisis might be an organizational connectedness, and Average hours of instruction by rank* The center provides service to all opportunity for growth. enhancing employees’ sense of meaning. employees and managers of the bank. ◆ Employee loans – The Bank Employees This culture is reflected in the Maavarim 62.3 52.3 MASHAB consists of three functions: Credit (ELH) system offers loans to (“Transitions”) system, which helps ◆ Service center for online and eligible employees of the bank through manage available positions at the bank 43.7 telephone queries from employees a quick, simple, user-friendly procedure fairly and transparently and promotes 39.5 Society and the Community and business partners on humanon the bank's website. equal opportunities for professional and resource issues, including support managerial development. for work processes derived from 1,391 human-resource queries, in areas such Financial Fitness Center as employee attendance; parental The Financial Fitness Center, leave and unpaid leave; employment established in 2018, promotes Employees First-tier Middle Senior permits and visas; and entitlement to astute financial behavior of employees. The center offers employees Responsible Supply Chains management managemen management mobile phones, cafeteria points, daily expenses, and more. employees workshops, information, * The data refer to training held at the Poalim Campus only. The emphasis in 2019 was on and tools to assist in optimal were appointed to new ◆ Support center for employees in leadership training for senior executives. household budget management. positions within the bank, crisis – Aid through care and counseling, Financial coaches at the center, of which 359 management information, mediation, and assistance in realizing rights, with functions within who are bank employees with roles, during 2019. the bank or the community, in personal knowledge and experience in LOOKING AHEAD 2019 – planning vs. execution Employees empowerment and family problems such as caring for this area trained for this role, elderly parents, coping with children also provide individual and family 2019 plans Status mentoring. Six workshops on astute • Development of learning content at the bank with special needs, parenting guidance, Launch of an innovative simulation center at the Poalim financial behavior were held in 2019, Campus, which will provide an advanced environment Completed  based on conclusions of the design thinking health issues, bereavement and coping and 32 families of bank employees process to plan future learning performed in with death, communicating with an for practicing business and interpersonal skills, such as occupational physician, work-related received individual mentoring from collaboration with employees. customer-banker and employee-manager interactions. crises, preparation for retirement, financial coaches. • Completion of digitization of additional Protecting the environment The simulation center will allow participants to experience courses, and conducting training integrating simulated situations and receive immediate feedback, in online study with traditional study. order to increase the effectiveness of learning, contributing to improved performance in the long term. Corporate Governance 92 93 Introduction Benefit Customers Recruiting, screening, and onboarding new employees Recruitment and screening processes surveys regarding the hiring process, environment at a branch; an in-house activities, healthy lifestyles, enrichment for to teach skills for relieving stress. Other to the agreement are the employees of employees and their families, and more. The workshops offered address optimal time the bank, the management of the bank, Growth and Financial Inclusion of new employees at Bank Hapoalim and orientation days were held for new test battery as a substitute for sending are conducted in the recognition that employees, to strengthen their connection candidates to screening institutes; and bank’s well-being policy takes the form of management and family relationships. and the Histadrut New General Labor the employee experience begins at with the bank. text messaging to invite candidates to various activities employees can choose, in Federation, which is the largest employee this stage. In order to enlarge the pool The screening process at the bank is interviews, including a map and directions. order to enhance well-being, strengthen their sense of belonging, and solidify Employee union union in Israel; they are responsible for implementation of the labor agreement, of potential candidates, an innovative adapted to the technological age and Another unique screening process in social-media recruitment campaign and to advanced global methods. The range an escape-room format was added in the perception of the bank as a leading The employee union is a strategic partner which addresses matters including an intra-organizational drive to encourage of tools in use includes gaming – a test 2019, to examine social dynamics of job organization and employer. Various social, and a key stakeholder of the bank. Labor employee wages, bonuses, and voluntary employees to recommend candidates taken from home, via mobile phone or candidates. cultural, and leisure activities are offered relations between management and retirement terms. Value-Creating Innovation were conducted. As part of the onboarding tablet; avatars – a test in the form of an to employees of the bank at attractive the employee union are characterized process, welcome conferences, satisfaction interactive video simulating the work subsidized prices, including memberships at cultural centers, theater performances, by partnership and continual dialogue. The roles fulfilled by the employee union Insurance and funds for the Good Movie Club, sports facilities, include protecting each employee's rights employees As part of the process of recruiting employees with technological skills, fitness centers, and swimming pools. Two and obligations; developing cultural, Bank Hapoalim pays salaries to its LOOKING AHEAD in the ambition to create opportunities and include employees from every part of society and from population groups underrepresented in welfare staff members offer employees support in situations of distress, crisis, and instructional, and social activities; and organizing mutual assistance among employees in accordance with collective or personal employment contracts signed Society and the Community • Opening of a flexible employment track the job market, the Technology Division maintains collaborations with change in their personal or occupational employees. The numerous activities of with each employee. Employees have for bankers, aimed at hiring high-quality non-profit organizations (such as WeCode, Kamatech, and Tech Career) lives. Any employee can request assistance the union for the well-being of employees comprehensive insurance coverage, employees in various fields who need flexible engaged in training young people from geographically and socially directly while the service is completely include day camps for employees’ including pension insurance (starting on work hours. These bankers will work flexibly, peripheral regions for technological professions. This collaboration offers confidential. children throughout Israel, reducedthe first day of employment at the bank), with split days and part-time positions. initial employment opportunities for graduates of these programs as price or subsidized tickets to cultural disability insurance, life insurance, personal programmers at Bank Hapoalim. Work-life balance and entertainment events, discounts on hotels and vacations, holiday gifts and gifts accident insurance, health insurance, and dental insurance. Beyond the insurance Responsible Supply Chains In order to provide employees with a for personal occasions, various types of coverage described above, additional comfortable foundation for balancing insurance for employees and their families, safety nets are available to employees in work and leisure, the bank has instituted medical examinations, aid funds, assistance times of need: a shortened 40.5-hour work week; many for families in mourning, and more. ◆ The Malki Foundation A voluntary Well-being activities and promotion of healthy lifestyles positions at the bank do not permit overtime work beyond a predetermined The national union leads local employee unions, which are assigned to regional fund, administered as a non-profit foundation financed by employee Promotion of healthy lifestyles workshops on healthy lifestyles and exercises during the workday, answers to quota. Most employees also have a higher unions based on category. Branch donations, which provides financial Employees empowerment good nutrition. frequently asked questions, and more. quota of annual vacation days than managers in each region have a regional coverage for employees in the event among employees The bank also employs an ergonomics required by law, as part of their terms of union as well as representation in the of serious illness or similar occurrences. ◆ Sports – The bank manages and An ergonomic work consultant who assists and instructs employment. national union. The national union consists ◆ The Mutual Assistance Foundation – coaches a wide range of sports teams environment employees on correct seated posture As additional measures to support of representatives of the regions (including A foundation financed by the board for employees, participates in sports when working on a computer and on work balancing the needs of home and work, branches and the head office), with of management budget, designed events for workplaces, and subsidizes One of the many facets of nurturing environment improvements, according the branches of the bank changed their representation proportional to the size to assist employees who encounter events such as marathons, bike and caring for employees is to ensure a to need. split-shift days to Wednesday, rather of the region. The national union operates financial difficulties or family crises. Protecting the environment races, and more. The bank also offers healthy, well-adapted work environment; than Thursday, and established “Personal on the basis of articles of association ◆ Management and employees' joint employees subsidized memberships ergonomics are one of the means for Well-being and support Tuesday” – an effort is made to keep the accessible to all employees in a dedicated fund – A fund managed by the bank, at fitness centers and swimming pools achieving this aim. Useful information on services work day shorter on Tuesdays, with no section of the organizational portal. jointly with the employee union, using across Israel. ergonomics is accessible to employees of meetings scheduled in the afternoon. A new agreement for 2018-2022 was employee and management resources ◆ Physical examinations and raising the bank on a dedicated page in the social Employees of the bank benefit from an Recognizing that daily life today can lead signed at the bank in 2019, covering the to finance activities related to wellawareness of healthy lifestyles – The responsibility zone of the organizational extensive array of social and well-being to tension and stress, the bank holds 88.2% of the permanent and temporary being and assistance for employees bank subsidizes periodical physical portal, including professional knowledge services in many different areas. These awareness and mindfulness workshops employees of the bank who are part of and retirees. examinations for its employees, and and rules for working correctly in an office services provide solutions for a broad range at the Campus for employees, designed the collective agreement. The parties Corporate ‫לשממ‬Governance ‫ידיגאת‬ conducts a wide range of lectures and environment, instructions for refreshing of employee preferences and needs: leisure 94 95 Introduction Benefit Customers Growth and Financial Inclusion Safety The bank's safety policy establishes the responsibilities of and responsibility with regard to maintaining safety. All managers in this area, in accordance with the requirements employees of the bank are expected to maintain up-toof the law. Professional safety oversight at the bank is date knowledge through safety tutorials, and attend faceperformed by the Security and Safety Department. to-face safety training on potential risks led by certified Pursuant to the requirements of the Organization of safety instructors. The bank also trains safety and security Activities of the bank to benefit Value-Creating Innovation Labor Inspection Regulations, the Security and Safety trustees and performs periodic evacuation drills. Department prepares, manages, and monitors the Safety risk assessments are performed routinely, in implementation of the annual safety plan. Efforts are accordance with the law and with the bank's safety employees during the days of the coronavirus invested in reducing and preventing safety hazards on procedures. The Safety Committee, chaired by the Head all premises of the bank; this includes examinations and of Logistics, convenes quarterly and receives a current training, as well as immediate response to emergencies. status report on safety management. A dedicated content The bank also embeds safety considerations in decisionarea on the organizational portal presents safety tips and Society and the Community making processes at all levels, in order to minimize procedures for employees of the bank, as well as a form The bank’s activity was reduced at the peak of the crisis, in accordance with the instructions negative health effects on its employees, suppliers, for reporting work accidents. of the Ministry of Health and the Banking Supervision Department. The bank strictly customers, and all visitors to its premises. The bank's Security Center monitors all of its security Each year, an annual report on employee safety and and safety systems. In the case of an incident, the center maintained a safe work environment, to protect the health of its employees, and arranged safety incidents is submitted to the board of directors acts and alerts all relevant parties to respond, such as the safe transportation for employees to and from work when necessary. The bank maintained and board of management of the bank. Significant safety police, firefighters, emergency medical services, security continuous employment, refraining from proactively placing employees on unpaid leave, and incidents are reported immediately. The bank conducts systems, etc. The center also provides personal assistance provided comprehensive support and assistance for employees throughout the crisis: Responsible Supply Chains training, instruction, and education activities as part to employees and their families in times of need. of structured work processes to promote awareness Transition to flexible Ensuring a safe and hygienic Regular work hours; access work environment at the communication to the systems headquarters and branches. with employees in and infrastructures isolation or ill with Preparation for retirement and strengthening necessary for their work to employees COVID-19. connections with retirees working from home. Well-being activities to uphold morale Direct Employees empowerment and maintain healthy lifestyles during the lockdown: communication The bank cares for its employees and their spouses as employees are expected to participate. As part of the Continuous maintained with they approach retirement age, through preparatory implementation of this plan, the board of management o Invitation for all employees of the retirees of the courses and retirement workshops. The bank maintains and board of directors of the bank formulated an communication with bank to participate in Zoom meetings employees; regular bank through continuous contact with its retirees, including through offer for voluntary retirement, in coordination with on various subjects relevant to the the employee support, financing, and collaboration with the retiree the employee union, in cases of alignment between updates through the crisis period, such as maintaining Portal to Go application union, assistance union, which organizes trips and well-being activities the wishes of the employee and the bank. The offer healthy nutrition and lifestyle, in purchasing and Zoom messages. Protecting the environment and provides grants in situations of distress. Pension presents an opportunity to retire with exceptionally parenting challenges, and more. medication and food rights of employees who reach retirement age are good terms, including a special bonus for employees o Subscription to a digital platform (through employees covered by amounts accrued in pension funds and who retire between the ages of 53 and 56. The bank allowing access to home exercise A dedicated humanwho volunteered), allowance-based provident funds. also arranges professional advisory services to assist videos and participation in the Sugar resources call center and aid with aspects A multi-year voluntary early retirement program (for employees in making the decision best suited to responded to employees’ Free Challenge program. of nursing care and 2019-2022) is in progress at the bank; approximately 900 them and their families. questions and needs o Activities for children of employees finances where during this period. via Zoom. necessary. Corporate Governance 96 97 Responsible Action to Protect the Environment 98 Introduction Responsible Action to Protect Developing products and services for Benefit Customers the Environment the protection of the environment In recognition of the bank's social responsibility and of the Environmental management at the bank devotes special Beyond its support for projects promoting at 100% financing for a period of ten years, importance of sustainable environmental management, attention to areas directly affected by its business activities: sustainability and the protection of with a reduced interest rate. The bank also Growth and Financial Inclusion Bank Hapoalim has formulated a comprehensive, formalized ◆ Development of environmentally-friendly services and Within its social responsibility the environment on the national scale, offers its business clients credit designated policy in this area. The policy, prepared by environmental products; and commitment to in 2019 the bank continued to offer its for the installation of large solar-energy management professionals, was approved by the board of ◆ Management of environmental risks in project financing; protecting the environment, customers solutions to finance processes systems at financing rates of up to 100%, in management and board of directors, who are responsible for ◆ Energy consumption and energy efficiency; the bank develops credit supporting sustainability for households amounts of up to NIS 500,000, for periods products for its business supervising its execution and assessing its implementation ◆ Green transportation and reduction of fuel consumption; and businesses: of up to twelve years, with reduced and and retail customers aimed on an annual basis. The policy constitutes an integral part ◆ Consumption of paper resources; preferential interest terms. at financing activities that of the bank's strategy, as derived from the sustainability ◆ Green purchasing (office supplies and peripheral computer promote sustainability Guidance for business Value-Creating Innovation principles that represent and reflect environmental and equipment); and the protection of the clients in applications for Financing of solarbusiness conduct aimed at preserving and improving existing ◆ Consumption of water resources; environment. The bank's energy efficiency grants energy systems during resources through economic, social, and environmental ◆ Waste – reuse, recycling, and responsible disposal; main axes of activity construction or purchase of balance, for the benefit of future generations. ◆ Expansion of environmental awareness, and engaging and include financing solutions In 2019, the bank won a tender to operate single-family houses (green involving employees in this process, so that they also become for building systems that a state-backed fund granting loans for mortgages) Key points of the environmental policy of the bank: agents of change in their home and family environments, generate clean energy, energy efficiency to massive power ◆ The bank views the protection of the environment as a social reducing individual environmental impacts within the water desalination and consumers (relative to the average Available to any customer interested in Society and the Community value, and manages this issue as an inseparable component activity of the bank. infrastructure projects, electricity consumption in Israel). financing (through a mortgage) for building of its social responsibility. recycling and responsible Cumulative potential credit in this fund or buying a single-family house. Financing ◆ The bank seeks to achieve the proper balance between Bank Hapoalim treats consumed materials as resources to be waste disposal, and more. is up to NIS 1.3 billion. of the system is taken into consideration economic development and the protection of the managed responsibly, from an environmental and business The bank is also financing an energy as part of the total construction cost, i.e. environment in its business decisions. perspective, in an effort to achieve savings and improve efficiency project in which streetlights are as part of the financing for the acquisition ◆ The bank complies with regulations and laws, and adheres to efficiency. The main environmental resources consumed at replaced with more efficient LED lighting or construction of the property, with the the directives of the organizations charged with protecting the bank are managed using measurement infrastructures Promoting green in several cities in Israel (Safed, Herzliya, backing of assessors who examine the Responsible Supply Chains the environment. that allow monitoring of trends and identification of areas and Lod). value of the property. ◆ The bank diligently endeavors to prevent environmental in need of improvement, establishment of a comprehensive energy damage. ◆ The bank is committed to managing its environmental multi-annual work plan, implementation of initiatives to increase efficiency, and examination of environmental The bank supports the promotion of green Dedicated loans for private customers to finance Water purification impacts to ensure continual improvement, by setting goals and measuring all material aspects of its impact on impacts across the full life cycle of the resource. This approach is implemented through the bank's environmental energy in the Israeli economy. As part of this commitment, the bank is a partner purchases and installations and desalination the environment. management system, which was certified under the in financing for the construction of solarof solar-energy systems Bank Hapoalim is a leader in financing Employees empowerment ◆ The bank collaborates with external professional organizations international management standard ISO 14001 in 2013. The energy plants, such as Ashalim; financing Rate regulation is a state initiative allowing for desalination plants and sewageto promote environmental causes. bank tested its certification under this standard through an and investment in solar-energy systems, households, farmers, and businesses treatment facilities in Israel. The bank ◆ The bank works to instill environmental education among external institute in 2019. This certification is now in effect such as at Mivtachim; financing for solarto install solar-energy systems for the financed the desalination project at its employees, and initiates and participates in community until 2022. Bank Hapoalim is the first financial institution energy facilities installed on rooftops of production of electricity, for their own Palmachim, including its expansions, and is projects. in Israel to obtain certification under this standard, which poultry and cattle pens in agricultural use or for sale at a predetermined price a participant in financing for desalination applies to all activities of the bank in Israel, excluding creditcommunities in Israel; and more. In addition, to the Israel Electric Corporation. Bank projects in Hadera, Sorek, and Ashdod The bank recognizes the added value associated with card companies. the bank has granted credit for two Hapoalim identified this initiative as an and in the maintenance and operation Protecting the environment the implementation of this environmental policy, on During the reported year, no fines were imposed on the bank biogas-driven power stations, in Beer opportunity for the creation of shared of the desalination plant in Ashkelon. The two main levels: or on any senior officer of the bank due to environmental Tuvia and Hadera, and was appointed an value – for customers, through lower volume of desalinated water generated ◆ The integration of environmental values with the economic matters, there were no offenses related to environmental organizer of Genesis Wind, the largest electricity costs and an additional source by projects in which the bank participated values of efficient use of logistical resources generates matters, and the bank and its officers were not parties to wind energy venture in Israel, in which 42 of income; for the environment, through stands at 467 million cubic meters per shared value – business and financial value, as well as the substantial legal proceedings related to environmental wind turbines will be built in the Golan the promotion of green energy; and for the year, or about 80% of desalinated water in protection of the environment. matters. There were no discoveries of leaks or spills of Heights, with power production capacity bank, through its credit solutions. The bank Israel. The bank participates in financing of ◆ Implementation of a responsible environmental policy hazardous materials as a result of the operational activity of approximately 189 megawatts (the therefore offers its private customers loans several companies in the area of sewage contributes to the work environment, improving employees' of the bank during the reported year. financial closing of the project occurred dedicated to financing the acquisition purification, which produce treated Corporate Governance quality of life and workplace satisfaction. in the first quarter of 2020). and installation of solar-energy systems, wastewater used in agriculture. 100 101 Introduction Waste treatment facilities Green building Examining environmental risks in financing Benefit Customers In 2019, the bank provided financing for several initiatives The bank has provided financing for several construction in the area of sorting, separating, and recycling waste in projects across Israel based on green-building principles, In recognition of the importance of applicants. A report on environmental Key principles of various parts of Israel. Examples include the recycling park in compliance with the standard required by the Ministry sustainable environmental management, risk management and control in credit built in collaboration with the Dan Regional Association for of Environmental Protection. Bank Hapoalim manages its exposure granting is also submitted to the environmental risk Environmental Infrastructure, which contains facilities for to environmental risks through an audit committee. The team routinely management in financing: household waste treatment and energy production from environmental risk management participates in training and instruction ◆ Management of environmental risks from Growth and Financial Inclusion waste; collaboration on the restoration of the Hiriya waste system, based on an ordered, specified to maintain its professional expertise the perspective of the overall exposure dump site; and environmental education. methodology. The environmental risk and comply with leading international of the bank to each specific risk. management system in the area of standards in environm ental risk ◆ Management of credit risks through financing contains the organizational management. assessment and management of the components necessary for efficient and The model formulated by this team exposure to environmental risk in 1.45 2.06 0.9 NIS NIS NIS effective management. links the various environmental risks, as the corporate credit portfolio, and defined by the Supervisor of Banks, to assessment of the environmental Value-Creating Innovation the business sectors to which the bank's risk and its effect on credit risk, clients belong. The environmental risk image risk, and legal risk in new credit NIS Risk management at the identification methodology addresses applications that meet specified billion billion billion bank is performed based on factors including the environmental criteria; management and monitoring for water for green for wind and a global view of the bank’s risk potential of the economic sector of exposure to environmental risk at the desalination and building projects pumped storage activity in Israel and at its and its environmental impacts, as level of the overall credit portfolio and purification projects energy production branches abroad, with due well as individual consideration of the on the individual level. Environmental risk attention to the activity of its Society and the Community environmental risks that may materially management processes related to credit billion subsidiaries. Risk management is based on policy formulated affect the corporation, according to its are relevant to underwriting, the value 0.9 0.6 0.5 As of the end of 2019, the NIS NIS NIS business activities. Environmental risk is of real-estate collateral, land surveys, and approved by the board bank has granted credit of directors of the bank. also analyzed and rated on a scale of 1-5 and monitoring by control functions. in a cumulative amount in targeted analyst reviews. A prerequisite Information about environmental Financial and operational risk of approximately NIS for specific financing of projects is an incidents with a material impact on control and assessment are examination of the project’s impact a corporation that is a borrower of 6.4 billion for projects billion billion billion performed based on a uniform Responsible Supply Chains promoting sustainability methodology at the level of on the environment. The customer is the bank constitutes a criterion for and the protection of the for solar energy for waste treatment for mass the group, with guidance from required to prepare an environmental activating supervisory mechanisms. environment21 projects and energy efficiency transit the Risk Management Division, ground survey, which is examined by an ◆ Management of investment risks – taking into consideration the external consultant of the bank to ensure managing exposure to environmental unique characteristics of each that the project complies with all of the risks in direct investments by the bank subsidiary's activities. Risk requirements presented in the permits (in the Nostro portfolio and in general). management involves hedging granted by various government agencies. ◆ Management of operational risks – LOOKING AHEAD 2019 – planning vs. execution Employees empowerment of some of the risks. In construction and real estate, an assessor adapting operational systems to 2019 plans Status is also required to evaluate potential land regulatory changes on environmental • Continued financing for projects promoting pollution before financing for a project matters. Continued financing of loans for the acquisition and installation of solar-energy systems for private and business Completed  sustainability, the protection of the can be approved. environment, and energy efficiency, while The methodology of the bank for customers, and raising of public awareness of this subject. environmental risk management was raising public awareness of this issue. created by a dedicated team, with Total exposure segmented by economic sector risk level Protecting the environment the assistance of external consultants )in NIS billions( specializing in this area, which examined 93 the methodologies used by foreign banks around the world. The team 62 reports regularly to the board of directors and board of management 14 on the environmental risk level of credit Corporate Governance 21. This amount includes NIS 450 million approved to finance the Genesis Wind project in late 2019; this financing was granted in early 2020. Low Medium High 102 103 Introduction Reducing carbon emissions Benefit Customers Bank Hapoalim monitors the main Carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim in 2019: The total carbon footprint of the components of its activity that bank in 2019 is 53,070 metric tonnes CO2eq (including all three scopes), down co ntr ib ute to th e e m issio n of approximately 9% from 2018. Total Scope 2 emissions decreased by approximately greenhouse gases. Bank Hapoalim 6.6%, due to a significant decrease in the electricity consumption of the bank. Growth and Financial Inclusion joined the voluntary greenhouseFor the first time this year, Scope 3 calculations were based on the most recent The bank has reduced its carbon footprint by approximately 50% over the last decade, mainly due to gas reporting system of the Ministry emission factors published by DEFRA (the Department for Environment, Food and energy savings and efficiencies, the transition to consumption of electricity from Dorad, and significant of Environmental Protection in 2010. Rural Affairs in the United Kingdom). Scope 3 shows decreases of approximately savings processes leading to substantial reduction of paper consumption Since then, the bank has reported to 14% in water consumption, 11% in paper consumption, and 54% in total mileage of the recording system in accordance employee flights at the bank. Carbon footprint intensity of the bank with the established methodology. Indirect energy consumption (Scope Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Change vs. 2018 Value-Creating Innovation 2) for power and transportation is the Total 61,511 65,967 63,917 58,318 53,070 -9% most significant factor in the bank's Carbon footprint of the bank – breakdown by scope (CO2e) carbon footprint. Measures are being Per employee 6.91 7.5 7.35 7.03 6.50 -7.5% taken to improve efficiency and reduce Per square meter* 0.20 0.20 0.22 0.20 0.19 -6.7% consumption, as described later in this 10,980 14,776 12,291 8,780 chapter. The bank also manages and 6,446 monitors indirect sources of emissions, Society and the Community LOOKING such as paper production, branch 2019 – planning vs. execution construction, waste treatment, air 41,733 44,051 AHEAD 45,174 43,766 40,858 travel by employees, and more. 2019 plans Status In 2017, the bank set a multi-year target of  Emission of 8,798 7,140 6,452 5,772 5,766 reducing the volume of greenhouse-gas emissions resulting from its activity by 1% Completed Emissions decreased in • T he bank aspires to continue to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions resulting substances that 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 annually over the coming five years, in absolute absolute terms. from its activity each year, for an Responsible Supply Chains damage the terms, and maintaining 0% growth in emission additional 30% cutback by 2025. Scope 3 Scope 2 Scope 1 intensity as a result of its activity. ozone layer In general, the bank uses five main types Power consumption management of air-conditioning systems: split air Breakdown of carbon footprint by measurement scope conditioners, central air conditioners, Employees empowerment VRF systems, cooling towers, and chillers. The older systems use freon gas, which is permitted by law, but may be harmful to the ozone layer. The bank 12% 11% and energy efficiency is working to replace these existing airElectricity is a key resource used by the conditioning and lighting systems and However, in 2014, the bank began to conditioning systems with systems that bank and the main factor affecting the of computer operation, to the extent acquire electricity from Dorad, a naturaluse only environment-friendly gases. carbon footprint of the organization. possible. The collection and analysis gas-based power supplier. Dorad Protecting the environment The air-conditioning systems of all of 77% The fundamental premise is that this of as much data as possible allows supplies electricity to the bank's headthe bank's properties in aggregate resource should be managed every organizations to identify excessive office buildings and large branches. In contain about 20-30 metric tonnes of day of the week, in every season – not consumption and find optimal solutions. 2019, 46% of the power consumed at coolant gas, of which more than 85% is only in industry, but also in office-based Virtually all of the energy consumed the bank was acquired from Dorad. The the environmentally-friendly R-410a. businesses – for efficiency and savings. at Bank Hapoalim is in the form of transition to Dorad has lowered energy The central principle in efficient electricity supplied by the Israel Electric costs and reduced the environmental Direct emissions – Scope 1 Indirect emissions – Scope 2 indirect emissions in the supply chain – Scope 3 management of electricity consumption Corporation (with the exception of impact of power consumption. by offices is coordinated timing, fuel), which does not include renewable Corporate Governance according to employee presence, of air energy sources. 104 105 Introduction Benefit Customers Energy efficiency order to upgrade to a system managed Power consumption at Bank Hapoalim – multi-annual The bank uses computerized command digitally through a central IT hub. This year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Change vs. 2018 and control systems to monitor and change will eliminate the need for control all of its energy consumption; local switchboards at each branch, Total (KwH) 84,579,103 86,388,184 86,232,616 86,217,677 83,123,204 -3.6% Growth and Financial Inclusion t h e s e s y s t e m s h e l p m i n i m i ze improve the bank's control over its Total (GJ) 304,485 310,997 310,437 310,383 299,243 -3.6% consumption of air conditioning and communication system, and save power lighting, and provide alerts of significant consumption due to the removal of the Bank area in 291,512 285,251 288,897 280,600 273,697 -2.5% problems. The systems have been local switchboards. Video-conferencing sq. m. installed at all of the bank's branches, systems have been installed at the and are operated based on specifications bank’s business centers, to reduce Consumption 278.4* 280.7 267.5 274.3 268.1 -2.3% matched to the work hours at each the need for employees to travel per square Value-Creating Innovation branch or building. Within this process, to meetings outside the office and meter (KwH)* the bank is installing new chillers with a contribute to fuel and time savings. * Power consumption per square meter was calculated based on total consumption of 73,371,044 KwH. This total does not include the bank's consumption at higher COP (coefficient of performance), Additional means of saving power used the Rotem site (approximately 9.7 million KwH), as this site is a unique backup facility with unique consumption patterns that are not characteristic of average as well as VRF (variable refrigerant flow) in IT at the bank include the transition power usage at the bank. air-conditioning systems, which will to printing centers and double-sided lead to savings of about 38% on energy printing options, a system for turning and maintenance costs, relative to off desktop computers at the end of 2019 planning vs. execution LOOKING AHEAD Society and the Community other systems, for replacements and the workday, and the use of a fax-toinstallations; 20% of the savings are mail/mail-to-fax application to reduce 2019 plans Status •A  cquisition of CoolMaster communication in power consumption. Nine new VRF systems were installed in 2019. document printing. decrease Identification of additional sources of energy efficiency  coordinating controllers and installation Data on the bank's total power and savings in the market and implementation at Completed in VRF air-conditioning systems (which Management and consumption in 2019 indicate the bank. constitute 90% of the air-conditioning Green IT measurement a decrease of 3.6% compared Continued replacement of lighting fixtures at branches systems at the bank). The controllers allow with 2018.  remote management and operation of the Responsible Supply Chains The bank also works to achieve energy savings and efficiency through a of power This decrease adds to the consistent with LED bulbs, in collaboration with corporate Completed purchasing. VRF systems to create a fixed-temperature work environment, which leads to electricity thorough examination of the possibilities for green technologies at its branches consumption decrease in power consumption at the bank over the last three years; however, In 2017, the bank set a multi-year target of reducing savings and better energy efficiency. In a and offices. Energy efficiency is a The bank maintains a power as energy efficiency processes have its electricity consumption by at least 0.5% annually, Completed  pilot project in 2019, the controllers were parameter in IT equipment purchasing consumption database, which is been implemented at the bank for successfully installed at one of the branches in absolute terms, over the coming five years, and a of the bank. This process is planned to expand tenders, spurring bidders to offer more routinely updated to reflect structural several years, the potential for energy total of 3% by the target year. to ninety branches in 2020. Employees empowerment advanced, efficient equipment. In changes in the bank's properties as a savings is reduced from year to year. addition, the bank's Information Systems result of addition, closure, rental, or It should also be noted that while Operations and Service Area does not change in designation. The database power consumption at the bank's rely on manufacturers' information enables the bank to examine the branches and buildings decreased, due regarding the performance of the monthly and annual consumption to the reduction of square footage and various components, instead running patterns of each property, compare it to energy efficiency processes, among the necessary tests on server hardware buildings of similar size and designation other factors, power consumption Protecting the environment and software, printers, and peripheral at the bank, and compare multi-year at Rotem, the bank's main IT site, equipment at a dedicated laboratory. trends in consumption per square meter increased by approximately 500,000 In 2019, the bank continued to purchase and per employee. The database also KwH relative to 2018. This increase small computers with reduced power makes it possible to identify trends of resulted from growing use of the bank's consumption, delivered in recyclable improvement and increased efficiency, digital services, which require the use packaging. The bank is also transitioning and to locate properties with a risk of of the server farm and backup systems to IPT in landline communications, in inefficiency or malfunction. at the Rotem site. Corporate Governance 106 107 Introduction Reduction of energy Management of paper resources Benefit Customers consumption in transportation Paper is one of the main raw materials consumed during the routine operations approximately 62 million pages. Instructional activities for employees and organizational portal, so that they are available to bankers and can be printed The direct and indirect environmental of the bank, in view of the nature of its customers were conducted during 2019 if necessary. Year 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 impact of Bank Hapoalim in the area activity; as such, this resource is managed to encourage the use of this technology. Growth and Financial Inclusion of transportation derives from fuel Number of vehicles 1,106 1,155 1,024 953 930 based on the overall approach of reducing Raising awareness and engagement consumption and emissions resulting from in leasing fleet consumption and increasing recycling. Automation of collateral forms of employees and customers fuel burning. The bank is working to reduce Annual fuel 3,599,730 3,021,768 2,746,344 2,203,957 2,380,344 The ongoing processes aimed at reducing The bank continued the process of in saving paper to protect the fuel consumption in its vehicle fleet and consumption (in paper consumption at the bank continued automating collateral forms in 2019, environment in the system of internal transportation liters, gasoline and in 2019, with new initiatives added. transitioning from manual to computerThroughout 2019, a campaign targeted to between its branches and facilities, which diesel) based forms. Automation of eleven employees was conducted with the aim of leads to reduced air pollution, through Mileage in 10 9.5 10 12 20 Paperless Bank forms for vehicle and deposit liens was encouraging the reduction of paper use Value-Creating Innovation various means, including: kilometers per completed by the end of 2019. and the protection of the environment. ◆ Limiting the vehicles chosen for the liter (based on The Paperless Bank strategic project has Messaging for customers also encouraged vehicle fleet to those with a pollution manufacturer data) been underway since 2009. The project Automation of mortgage applications them to receive mail via e-mail. rating of up to 8; most of the vehicles concerns analysis of paper consumption at The requirement to print out construction Number of hybrid 22 18 15 48 99 at the bank have lower pollution the bank and the possibilities for reducing permit submission plans and send them Transition to printing centers vehicles in the fleet ratings. or eliminating forms and reports, both for to the Pledge Registrar was eliminated 42 new printing centers were installed in ◆ Conducting dialogue with employees the bank's internal use and in its mailings in 2019. In a complementary process, 2019, replacing 2,025 individual printers Society and the Community through the organizational to customers. the bank developed a computer-based (which were donated to the community). portal – publication of articles and Emissions from transportation (Co2eq) Processes to reduce paper consumption platform allowing customers to send Savings on printed pages of approximately recommendations concerning safe, at the bank in 2019: documents related to the mortgage 65% relative to 2018 were recorded at the efficient, careful driving. 1,076 application process to the relevant bank’s head office as a result. 1,683 117 ◆ Reducing mileage and flights through 25 Digital signatures and customer government agencies. transition to virtual meetings 717 243 service via touch screen whenever possible and increased use Several years ago, the bank added the Reducing branch Responsible Supply Chains of conference-call systems. option for customers at its branches document inventories ◆ Encouraging employees to commute 7,062 6,256 4,922 5,397 to sign documents on a tablet screen. In order to reduce the inventory of by bicycle – The bank provides According to estimates, this change documents at the branches, some showers and bicycle parking spots contributes annual paper savings of documents were uploaded to the for employees at the head office who ride bicycles to work. 2016 2017 2018 2019 202 210K ~ ~ Paper consumption at the bank Employees empowerment In addition, bank services offered via (in metric tonnes) telephone and digital channels reduce Gasoline mileage Employee flights Diesel mileage the need for customers to visit a branch, 1,619 contributing to reduced travel and air 1,433 pollution. Notes million pages new customers 1,209 1. Mileage emissions presented above are included in total emissions in Scopes 1 and 3 below: The Paperless In 2019, approximately 210,000 1,037 a. In 2019, vehicle mileage emissions constitute approximately 94% of total Scope 1 emissions, and emissions Branch project customers registered for a 920 Protecting the environment from employee flights constitute approximately 4% of total Scope 3 emissions. b. In 2018, vehicle mileage emissions constitute approximately 87% of total Scope 1 emissions, and emissions contributes service allowing them to receive from employee flights constitute approximately 8% of total Scope 3 emissions. estimated savings messages electronically, through c. In 2017, vehicle mileage emissions constitute approximately 97% of total Scope 1 emissions, and emissions of 202 million the bank's website or their e-mail from employee flights constitute approximately 14% of total Scope 3 emissions. d. In 2016, vehicle mileage emissions constitute approximately 99% of total Scope 1 emissions, and emissions pages of paper inboxes. The scope of services from employee flights constitute approximately 11% of total Scope 3 emissions. per year. available via e-mail to interested 2. In the past, employee flight emissions were calculated using a breakdown into short and long flights only. customers expands each year; Beginning in 2019, the calculation refers to total mileage of employee flights by destination. However, total loan amortization schedules can Corporate Governance flight distance decreased by approximately 54% in 2019, reaching 1,341,504 km, compared with 2,923,717 km in 2018. now also be received by e-mail 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 108 109 Introduction Benefit Customers Reducing additional Growth and Financial Inclusion environmental impact Paper Cardboard Paper , Production and service processes in banking have sites, although the properties involved may not meet consumption: recycling: recycling: 117 23.6 575 a minor direct environmental impact, as the bank's accepted green building standards. In addition, metric metric metric trees activity is essentially administrative and the service construction projects of the bank use environmentValue-Creating Innovation Paper consumption it provides to its customers is digital by nature. friendly elements such as efficient air-conditioning tons tons tons savings in 2019, compared Nonetheless, Bank Hapoalim strives to minimize the units, energy-efficient LED lighting, shading to save Paper consumption of cardboard were of paper were with 2018, are equivalent to incremental environmental impact of its activity. energy used for air conditioning, and acoustic ceilings. at the bank collected and collected and The bank involves its employees in this process, both saving approximately 4,000 decreased by 117 transferred for transferred for through internal changes in environmental practices trees from being cut down metric tonnes in 2019, relative to 2018 recycling in 2019 recycling in 2019 for the paper industry and through the attempt to maximize the impact of its overall environmental activities, based on the idea Turning waste into a resource and Society and the Community that such engagement is essential to creating change, and in the hope that its employees will become agents for change in their own right. In addition, the preventing pollution bank seeks to extend its influence on environmental LOOKING 2019 planning vs. execution conduct to employees' communities; together with The environmental trends of recent years have 2019 plans Transition to double-sided printing at branches. Status  AHEAD their families, the bank's employees are a force for change numbering in the tens of thousands. Towards highlighted the fact that one person’s waste is another’s resource. Population growth creates Responsible Supply Chains Completed that end, the bank strives to supply its employees pressure on ecological systems, making it difficult • 5% reduction in paper and their families with information and tools to to meet the demand for natural resources such consumption at the bank enable them to be greener, in driving, recycling, as metals, wood, water, fossil fuels, and more. In Continued scanning of business client borrower files,  removal of paper from branches, and transition to Completed compared with 2019. saving energy, and more. addition, without proper treatment, waste pollutes virtual borrower files. the environment and damages soil, water, and the as of the end of 2019, removal, scanning, and encoding have been completed at Promoting green air, while contributing to global warming. These and other insights underscore the importance of building at the bank all branches. Employees empowerment a methodical approach to the future of materials Digital signatures of mortgages and encouraging the and consumer goods. Bank Hapoalim mapped the  use of digital signatures in additional areas of banking. Completed In 2019, the bank updated its purchasing specifications types of waste generated by its operations, and for the renovation of existing buildings and for subsequently examined the most beneficial methods the construction of new offices and branches of treating such waste: Creation of a focused plan for bank departments  that rely heavily on printing, and finding solutions Completed according to green-building principles, through an ◆ Reuse of a resource or of its components; external expert consultant. It is important to note ◆ Recycling of the resource by external parties, who to cut back paper use. Protecting the environment by the transition to printing centers. that many branches are located in shopping malls convert it into raw material and then reinsert it and commercial centers not owned by the bank, into the production process; Encouraging paper savings through marketing  activities and the Paper Challenge for employees Completed where the bank cannot alter the infrastructures of ◆ Responsible disposal through collection and the buildings. The bank intends to bring as many of transfer to a licensed site (prevention of of the bank. the elements of green building as possible to these environmental pollution). Continued encouragement of customers to switch to e-mail notifications.  Completed Corporate Governance 110 111 Introduction Benefit Customers The bank promotes the collection and bank includes a contract clause in its agreements responsible disposal of waste through the with construction and renovation contractors 62.7 1 964 757 following activities, among others: working at its branches and buildings requiring ◆ Collection of electronic waste – Bank Hapoalim the responsible removal of waste to a licensed Growth and Financial Inclusion metric cubic , strictly maintains responsible, orderly disposal specialist waste sorting facility. The aim is to fully of disused computer equipment. Computer equipment not suitable for donation is transferred prevent construction waste originating with the organization from reaching unlicensed sites or tons meters kg for responsible recycling and disposal each year. open fields. Electronic waste Construction waste Fluorescent bulbs All mobile devices no longer in use are returned ◆ Collection of bottles and cans – Systematic Approximately 62.7 metric to the supplier for responsible disposal; all other recycling in collaboration with the ELA recycling 1,964 cubic meters of waste Approximately 757 tonnes were collected and were removed during kilograms were collected disused electronic equipment is transferred to corporation. Refunded deposits are transferred removed from recycling construction work for orderly removal Value-Creating Innovation Ecommunity, a social business employing people to the unit's employee union and used to finance receptacles at the bank with disabilities, which specializes in electronic various social activities, donations, etc. waste recycling. Reusable IT equipment is returned to the bank after refurbishing and donated. Instilling recycling at the bank Since the beginning of the collaboration with The bank encourages its employees to collect and Ecommunity in 2018, 587 computers have been recycle resources; towards that end, a range of 13,085 797 96,971 donated to the community, at an estimated specifically designed recycling receptacles has been Society and the Community value of approximately NIS 250,000. Head-office developed and manufactured for the collection employees can also bring electronic waste from of waste at the bank's buildings. This process has their homes to the collection center at Rubinstein been communicated to employees through intrakg Towers in Tel Aviv. organizational channels at the bank. Recycling ◆ Construction waste removal – Waste created by receptacles are available for paper, electronic waste, Ink and toner Batteries Beverage bottles the bank as a result of its activity is responsibly fluorescent bulbs, bottles and cans, batteries, used cartridges 797 kilograms of used and cans removed to a site specializing in waste sorting, in clothes, and medication. The waste is collected and The bank used 11,323 toner batteries (from household Approximately 96,971 bottles cartridges and 1,762 ink and industrial use) were Responsible Supply Chains accordance with the regulations in this area. The treated by licensed operators. and cans were collected at cartridges for printers collected at the buildings of the bank for recycling and fax machines the bank and transferred for responsible burial Disposal of medications: Employees empowerment 13 sacks of unused medications were collected from receptacles at the bank’s buildings, estimated at a value of NIS 62,000. Unexpired medications are donated to patients in need through the non-profit organization Haverim Lerefuah (Friends for Health) Protecting the environment 2019 planning vs. execution 2019 Plans Status LOOKING AHEAD •W  ithin the effort to reduce plastic consumption Update of purchasing specifications of the bank to advanced standards based on green-building  Completed in all buildings and branches of the bank, a transition to paper cups for hot and cold principles. beverages and wood stirrers will be promoted. Corporate Governance 112 113 Corporate Governance, Ethics, Compliance, and Information Security Introduction Benefit Customers Bank profile The bank group operates in Israel, in Poalim Online, Poalim Mobile, the on providing banking services to all of the various areas of banking and Poalim by Telephone call center, the companies. The bank has discontinued in associated activity in the capital interactive voice response (IVR) system its global private banking activity Founded in 1921, Bank Hapoalim is a banking corporation and holds a bank license under the directives of Israel's Banking Law. In 1983, market, through three main divisions: for information and transactions, and outside Israel; most of the assets of within an arrangement formulated between the Israeli government and the banks, the shares of the bank were brought under the the Corporate Banking Division, the Retail social media. global private banking customers were Growth and Financial Inclusion control of the state. The bank was privatized in 1997, with the controlling interest transferred to Arison Holdings Ltd. and others. In Banking Division, and the Financial Markets ◆ The Financial Markets and transferred by the end of 2019. Within November 2018, the bank became a banking corporation without a controlling core, pursuant to the Banking Ordinance of 1941. Further and International Banking Division. International Banking Division the bank’s strategic plan, a decision has information regarding the decentralization of control of the bank is available on page 414 of the Annual Financial Statements for 2019. ◆ The Corporate Banking Division oversees the activity of the bank also been made to sell the investment provides service to most of the bank’s group in most areas of the capital in Bank Pozitif. business customers; activities with market, in Israel and overseas. This large corporate clients are conducted activity includes, among other In addition to its banking business, the bank through sectors specializing in specific matters, securities trading services group also engaged in activity in the area Value-Creating Innovation industries, while middle-market (brokerage), securities custody, trading of credit cards in 2019. Under a legislative clients are served through Business services in currencies and derivatives, order, the bank was required to divest its Centers located throughout Israel, research and consulting, services for holdings in Isracard. Accordingly, a sale Organizational structure22: and through the branches of the bank, financial-asset managers, investment offering prospectus for shares of Isracard Chairman of the board of directors which provide operational services to portfolio management, investment was published in early 2019; in April 2019, the division’s customers. banking, underwriting, and issuance the bank sold approximately 65.2% of the ◆ The Retail Banking Division serves management. The international shares of Isracard in a public sale offering, Society and the Community customers including households, activity of the Bank Group includes the retaining a stake of approximately 33% in private-banking customers, foreign New York branch and representative Isracard. The remaining holdings in Isracard CEO residents, and small businesses, offices, as well as relationships were distributed as a dividend in kind to through 215 branches, including a maintained with banks around the the shareholders of the bank in March Chief legal advisor Chief internal auditor Central legal counsel mobile branch, and through direct world. International business banking 2020; the bank no longer has holdings in Legal counsel to Corporate channels: self-service stations at is primarily conducted through the Isracard (for further details, see page 187 of Banking Division branches and on customer premises, New York branch, which focuses the Annual Financial Statements for 2019). Ombudsman Responsible Supply Chains Regulation Corporate Marketing and Corporate governance at Bank Hapoalim Spokesperson secretary advertising Employees empowerment Retail Corporate Financial Information Human Innovation CFO Risk Accountancy Governance Supervisor of Banks, and more. All of these regulate the activities of the bank The board banking banking markets and international technology resources and strategy finance management and control on various levels, including requirements with respect to its capital and ways of of directors: banking As a part of the banking system in Israel, managing capital, exercise of internal and composition and Bank Hapoalim operates in a broad external auditing, and the areas of activity committees Protecting the environment legislative environment consisting in which the bank is permitted to engage. of primar y legislation, standards, In addition, pursuant to the Companies The board of directors of the bank acts in and regulations with which the bank Law, shareholders can propose matters accordance with the corporate-governance is obligated to comply: the Banking for discussion in advance of the general directives established by law, including Ordinance, the Bank of Israel Law, the meeting. Bank employees are entitled to those applicable to banking corporations banking laws concerning licensing and contact the board of directors, subject to without a controlling core, as well as all of customer service, the Companies Law, the and in accordance with the regulations the Proper Conduct of Banking Business Securities Law, the rules of the governor of the bank, which are aligned with legal Directives of the Bank of Israel (available on Corporate Governance 22. According to publication date in May 2020. of the Bank of Israel, directives of the requirements. the BOI website) and similar regulations. The 116 117 Introduction bank also implements all of the directives included in the legislation, standards, and the director appointment committee is a designated committee appointed separately for each candidate, at the general meeting. Prior to convening a The activity of the board of directors and the board committees Benefit Customers regulations with regard to the prevention by the Governor of the Bank of Israel, general meeting for which the agenda of conflicts of interest within the board pursuant to the Banking Law (Licensing), includes the appointment of directors or of directors. As part of the separation of 1981 (the “Banking Licensing Law”), which the termination of their service, an advance In 2019, the board of directors of the of the board of management who oversees undergo professional training, in duties required between management in proposes candidates for service as directors notice is published at least 21 days before bank continued to set forth the bank’s the Human Resources Division, reporting accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking practice and the formulation of policy and to the general meeting of the banking the publication of the announcement strategy, policy, and the guiding principles regularly to the board of management Business Directive 301, based on an annual supervision, the chairperson of the board corporation. In accordance with the convening the meeting. for its activity in Israel and overseas, and and board of directors. The reports and professional training program adapted to Growth and Financial Inclusion of directors does not serve as CEO of the directives of the Banking Ordinance, in The financial expertise and professional established guidelines on various matters, discussions include status reports on the the development, strategy, and complexity bank. Directors' duties, according to the addition to the committee, only material qualification of directors are evaluated in accordance with the requirements of bank's progress in this area, under its CSR of the bank, which addresses professional law, are uniform for all types of directors; holders (holders of more than 2.5% of the by the board of directors. The range of legislative updates and in accordance with plan, and discussion and approval of future topics and matters related to the functions the fundamental duty is to act in the best means of control of the bank) or a society of considerations includes the director's Directive 301 of the Bank of Israel. As part work plans. of the board of directors and to corporate interests of the company. These duties holders (as stated in the Banking Ordinance) education, experience, and knowledge, of this process, the board of directors set In addition to the discussions by the governance. Training and instruction in include, among others, the duty of care, may propose candidates for service as including in areas and issues related to forth policy for the activities of subsidiaries plenum of the board of directors, the various areas were conducted for the the duty of loyalty, and the avoidance of directors to the general meeting. The board the activity of the bank, as detailed in in Israel and abroad, limits on exposure activity of the members of the board of members of the board of directors in 2019, Value-Creating Innovation conflicts of interest. of directors of the bank is not permitted the Companies Regulations (Conditions to various risks, and the execution and directors of the bank is conducted through including risk management, information The composition of the board of directors is to propose candidates for such service, and Tests for Directors with Accounting realization of fixed investments. The board the committees. The bank examines and security, and cybersecurity, as well as subject to the provisions of the Companies and officers of the banking corporation and Financial Expertise and Directors of directors addressed the approval of the evaluates the quality of risk management additional strategic issues with corporateLaw, Proper Conduct of Banking Business are not permitted to act to cause or with Professional Qualification), 2005. quarterly and annual financial statements; on an annual basis, within the ICAAP, and responsibility aspects, such as social Directive 301 as applicable to a bank without prevent the appointment of a particular An application to appoint a director, dividend distribution; the organizational endeavors to continually implement and investment, leadership and decisiona controlling core, and the Articles of the director. The Banking Ordinance establishes with a declaration completed by the structure of the bank; establishment of improve this process. Selected corporate making, employee motivation, labor law Bank. The independence of the board of restrictions and qualification conditions director, pursuant to Proper Conduct of policy on manpower, salaries, retirement responsibility metrics are part of the and collective agreements, remuneration, Society and the Community directors is consistent with the provisions for the service of all directors at a banking Banking Business Directive 301, is sent to terms, and the remuneration system for bank's risk-management philosophy. This and more. of the law. In accordance with Section 11E corporation without a controlling core, the Supervisor of Banks for review; the employees and senior executives; and is reflected in the inclusion of such metrics Some of the members of the board of of the Banking Ordinance, 1941, no director including restrictions on affiliation with appointment of the director is subject supervision and control over ongoing in controls and in routine reports, such as directors are experts on risk management, of the bank has a business or professional the banking corporation or with officers to advance approval by the Supervisor business operations executed by the board SOX, BSC, and others. The risk management including credit risks. As of the end of relationship with the banking corporation, or material holders thereof, restrictions of Banks. Accordingly, members of the of management, and the congruence and control committee of the board of 2019, the risk management and control or with a corporation under the control on holdings of means of control of the board of directors of the bank meet of these operations with the policies of directors receives appropriate annual committee consists of five members, who of the banking corporation, or with an banking corporation, and restrictions the requirements for qualification of the bank. and quarterly reports in order to monitor, have accumulated extensive experience, Responsible Supply Chains officer of the banking corporation, or on the duration of service (for further directors established by the Bank of The plenum of the board of directors control, and assess risks, as required by including within the work of the committee. with the material holder who proposed information, see page 414 of the Annual Israel, which encompass knowledge and receives regular reports from the relevant the Proper Conduct of Banking Business The members of the board of directors the candidacy of the director, even if Financial Statements for 2019). education in various fields, including law professional functions, including on Directives. As of the end of 2019, seven attend training on risk management. Five such relationship is not ongoing, with the Three new directors were appointed at and regulation, finance and accounting, matters aligned with the corporate permanent committees of the board of training sessions on risk management were exception of insubstantial relationships. At the bank in 2019: Dr. David Zvilichovsky, banking, management, risk management, responsibility philosophy of the bank, directors are in operation at the bank: held in 2019, on behavioral risk, market least one-third of the directors at the bank David Avner, and Noam Hanegbi. Further technology and cybersecurity, and such as banking products promoting the audit committee, the remuneration risks, counterparty risks, investment are external directors pursuant to Proper information regarding candidates for corporate governance. Details regarding sustainability values; customer service; committee, the risk management and risks, interest rate risk in the banking Employees empowerment Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301 service on the board of directors of the the education and experience of the responsible employment; information control committee, the strategy and book, and liquidity risk. Additional board (at this time, five such directors serve at bank proposed by the committee in directors are available in Standard 26 of security and cybersecurity; environmental business development committee, committees also address matters related the bank, of which three are also external 2019 and the resolutions of the general the Annual Financial Statements of the risk management in credit granting; the credit committee, the corporate to risk management, such as the audit directives under the Companies Law). meeting on this matter are available on the bank for 2019. employment of people with disabilities; governance and stakeholders committee, committee and the corporate governance Directors are appointed at Bank Hapoalim bank's website. The director appointment The performance of the board of directors investment in the community; reduction and the information technology and and stakeholders committee. in accordance with the provisions of the committee consisted of the committee is evaluated in accordance with Section of environmental impacts, including technological innovation committee. The Information security and cybersecurity are law and the Proper Conduct of Banking chairperson, the Honorable Judge (Retired) 59 of Directive 301 and the provisions of climate change; and business ethics, rate of participation of the directors in frequently discussed by the information Protecting the environment Business Directives of the Bank of Israel, Moshe Gal; Ms. Orit Koren and Prof. Momi the Board of Directors Procedures. The including approval of the code of ethics meetings of the remuneration committee technology committee, as stated in Proper and with the approval of the Bank of Dahan as representatives of the economy; effectiveness of the work of the board of of the bank. Within the bank's approach and the audit committee was 100%. The Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301, Israel. At a banking corporation without and, on behalf of the directors, Ms. Ronit directors is evaluated every two years, for to sustainability, the chairperson of the chairperson of the audit committee and by the risk management committee. a controlling core, directors are generally Abramson Rokach and Mr. Yacov Peer, as the board of directors' internal needs. The board of directors of the bank serves as is Ms. Ronit Abramson Rokach, and The committees maintain communications appointed at an annual general meeting, external directors under Proper Conduct board of directors discusses the findings the director responsible for sustainability the chairperson of the remuneration with the head of technology and the or at a meeting convened pursuant to of Banking Business Directive 301 of the that emerge from the evaluation process. and CSR, and is charged with promoting committee is Ms. Dalia Lev; both serve as head of information security at the bank, Section 35A of the Banking Law, unless Bank of Israel. Pursuant to the provisions The most recent effectiveness assessment this area. On the strategic level, corporate external directors under the directives of as defined in Proper Conduct of Banking the Supervisor of Banks approves a vote of the Banking Ordinance, a vote on was performed in 2019, with the assistance responsibility is managed at the bank’s the Companies Law. Business Directives 357 and 361, and with the Corporate Governance at a special meeting. For this purpose, the appointment of directors is held, of an external consulting firm. Social Banking Center, under the member The members of the board of directors officer responsible for innovation. 118 119 Introduction Benefit Customers Control over the application of proper issue. Pursuant to Sections 98-99 of the have been established in accordance with Remuneration and in the report dated November 20, 2019, the meetings of the board of directors corporate governance at the bank is discussed in meetings of the corporate Companies Law, 1999, directors are entitled to demand a discussion of a specific matter. the provisions of the law, including the Companies Law, Proper Conduct of Banking of officers convening the general meeting for the approval of the extension of the period of was above 99%. Details regarding the attendance rate of each director are governance and stakeholders committee In accordance with Section 99 of the Business Directive 301, and the Board of On March 28, 2016, the Knesset passed the remuneration policy, as noted above. presented in the Corporate Governance Growth and Financial Inclusion and in the plenum of the board of directors. Companies Law, such issues are added to Directors Procedures. This refers to all the Financial Corporations Officer Questionnaire in the 2019 Periodic Report. The corporate governance and stakeholders the board of directors' agenda. Under the materials related to the activity or assets Remuneration Law (Special Approval Main objectives of the As of the end of 2019, the board of directors committee is also responsible for corporate provisions of the Companies Law, Proper of the bank, and to all documents of the and Non-Deduction of Expenses for remuneration policy: of the bank consists of nine members, of responsibility at the bank; this area is under Conduct of Banking Business Directive 301, bank that the directors require in order to Ta x Purp oses due to E xceptional ◆ To motivate officers to work to create which five are external directors – three the responsibility of the chairperson of and the Articles of the Bank, the board of fulfill their duties. In accordance with the Remuneration), 2016 (the “Remuneration long-term economic value for the bank external directors as defined in Section 240 the board of directors. The committee directors' agenda should include, among provisions of Directive 301, the directors do Limit Law”). The remuneration policy for and its stakeholders, in a manner that of the Companies Law, and two external discusses and makes recommendations to other matters, any subject that a director not hold executive positions at the bank. officers of the bank is aligned with the strengthens the connection between directors as defined in Proper Conduct Value-Creating Innovation the board of directors regarding policies, or the CEO has asked the chairperson They avoid participation in the routine directives of the Remuneration Limit Law, remuneration and the creation of of Banking Business Directive 301 of the procedures, and guidelines designed to of the board to include in the agenda a management of the bank, and restrictions the Companies Law, and the directive value for the stakeholders of the bank. Bank of Israel. instill corporate governance principles in reasonable amount of time before the apply to their ability to address employees of the Banking Supervision Department In addition to financial objectives, Five members of the board of directors the work of the board of directors and its meeting convenes. of the bank on business matters, outside regarding remuneration policies at banking officers’ KPIs include objectives that of the bank have accounting and financial committees, and to enable the bank to The Board of Directors Procedures state the meetings of the board of directors corporations, and was approved by the promote social and environmental expertise, and the remaining directors comply with the appropriate corporate that the board of directors shall hold a and the board committees. general meeting of the bank in December values in the areas of activity relevant have professional qualification, based on governance principles, as adjusted to legal discussion at the earliest possible time Directors have the right, in special cases, 2016. In November 2016, the bank adopted to them. their education, skills, and experience, in Society and the Community directives, including establishment of the regarding the exceptional events listed to receive external professional counsel a comprehensive new remuneration policy, ◆ To adjust the remuneration to the accordance with the requirements of the bank's policy and supervision of the board therein (outside the regular scheduled and/or external professional assistance, at which also covers its senior executives Bank's vision, to the overall strategic Companies Regulations. As of the end of of management and the subsidiaries of the reports); the procedures also establish the expense of the bank, if the coverage and employees who are not officers, and plan of the Bank and of its secondary 2019, four directors with accounting and bank, as required by the Proper Conduct directives for transmitting materials of the expense is approved by the board a corresponding remuneration plan. The units, and to the work plan derived financial expertise are members of the of Banking Business Directives of the Bank regarding an issue added to the agenda, of directors. The plenum of the board new remuneration policy and plan were from them. audit committee of the board of directors. of Israel. in advance of an urgent meeting. Urgent of directors, or the appropriate board amended from time to time, as necessary. ◆ To adjust total remuneration to the The audit committee convened 29 times, The board of directors usually convenes matters are raised as necessary and/or at committee, shall discuss and decide In December 2019, the general meeting risk appetite of the Bank. The annual with an attendance rate of 100%. As of the Responsible Supply Chains in plenary session several times each the request of the chairperson of the board upon the need to engage an external approved the extension of the validity and multi-annual work plans are end of 2019, two women and seven men month; the committees of the board of of directors, directors, or CEO. Important consultant in order to receive professional of the officer remuneration policy for an constructed with reference to the serve on the board of directors. There is directors hold additional meetings. In and urgent matters are discussed routinely, assistance. Such a discussion shall address additional period of twelve (12) months, volume and types of the risks that the no age limit for directors at the bank (for particularly urgent cases, the board of in accordance with the provisions of the the questions of whether the counsel can ending no later than December 31, 2020. In Bank is willing to undertake, among additional information about the members directors is convened to discuss the issue law and the procedures of the bank, as be provided by internal parties within the accordance with the remuneration policy other matters. The achievement of of the board of directors, see Standard 26 that has arisen. Urgent meetings are held noted; there is no separate, unique count bank, the purpose of the consultation, the of the bank, the expected ratio of the cost objectives of the work plan, including of the Periodic Report, on page 511-520 of by means of remote communication if of such matters. extent of the work, and the schedule. The of total remuneration of the CEO to the capital adequacy targets, and the the Annual Financial Statements for 2019). Employees empowerment necessary, as permitted by the regulations Directors' rights to receive information bank has not established a limit on the age median total remuneration cost of other achievement of a surplus return over The bank reports transparently and in detail of the board of directors, in order to and to consult with various parties in the of new directors. employees of the bank does not exceed the required cost of capital set the on material legal proceedings in which it conduct an immediate discussion of an course of the fulfillment of their duties 11. This ratio was 10.5 in 2019 (median wage threshold for distribution of the is involved (for further reading, see the excluding the highest wage). performance-dependent component Annual Financial Statements for 2019, page The remuneration policy of the bank of the annual bonus. 266-278). Alongside other banks around the is compliant with Proper Conduct of world, in 2019 the bank continued to face Banking Business Directive 301A. Additional 56 meetings of the plenum of the board investigation by United States authorities Protecting the environment information regarding the remuneration of directors and 109 meetings of the concerning the bank's business with policy of the bank, including variable board committees were held in 2019 (for American customers. In April 2020, the bank remuneration, deferred remuneration, further information regarding the activity reached resolutions with the United States and mechanisms for repayment of of the board of directors, see page 401 authorities on this matter (for further remuneration, is available in Standard 22 of the Annual Financial Statements for information, see page 162 of the periodic of the Annual Financial Statements for 2019, 2019). Attendance of the directors at report for the first quarter of 2020). Corporate Governance 120 121 Introduction Benefit Customers Code of values and ethics – Activity of the bank to instill the code of ethics Our Way Various activities were held in 2019 with the aim of instilling the content of the code and promoting an appropriate ethical culture among the employees and managers of the bank: conduct for receiving work-related gifts, violation of banking secrecy, retrieval of information, and the channels for queries and consultation on ethical issues. Growth and Financial Inclusion ◆ Bank employees were required to complete tutorials about the ◆ Fifteen workshops were held, attended by more than a In 2019, the board of management and board of directors approved directors in order to safeguard these employees and maintain their code of ethics and conflicts of interest, as they do every year. At thousand managers and employees from various units across the updated code of ethics of the bank, which has been tuned anonymity. Employees can also contact their direct supervisor, the end of 2019, 100% of employees had completed the materials. the bank. Workshop content included tools for managers to to the bank's new brand values and to corporate responsibility indirect supervisor, MASHAB (the Personal Service Center), or the ◆ Games and discussions concerning conflicts of interest were conduct discussions with their teams on behavioral and ethical principles. The process of writing the code involved learning from audit unit. In accordance with the Protection of Employees Law of included in various banking courses. dilemmas relevant to their work. The workshops involved active comparisons to codes of conduct of banks around the world, 1997, the bank has a whistleblower protection mechanism to allow ◆ Regular messages to the bank's employees via e-mail and on participation, an Ethics Theater activity, and external expert and collaboration with employees and managers from various employees to report incidents of corruption under protection the organizational portal placed special emphasis on rules of lecturers. Value-Creating Innovation units of the bank. from any form of repercussion or harassment, including firing. During this work, the values were translated into rules of conduct In order to increase the effectiveness of the response to any LOOKING referring to all stakeholders; existing sections were expanded, and ethical issues that arise during the course of the bank's operations, 2019 planning vs. execution AHEAD new sections were added to the existing code of conduct; and a new a shared interface is routinely operated during the year for audit, 2019 plans Status decision-making model was formulated for the resolution of ethical risk-management, and human-resources staff. This system Presentation of the renewed code to the senior dilemmas. Channels and mechanisms for consultation and reporting encompasses risk assessment and management in the areas management forum, and holding a conversation about Completed  on ethical issues were updated, including the Ethics Hotline, a new of ethics and risks related to potential violations of the code of • Continuation of the Society and the Community call line dedicated to ethics consultation. The Jerusalem Center for ethics, with monitoring and follow-up of ethics concerns raised the role of leaders in guiding values and ethics. process of instilling Ethics at Mishkenot Sha’ananim assisted the bank with guidance in by employees. In the event that behavior or action inconsistent Communication of the code to all employees of the bank, the new code of the process of writing and instilling the code of conduct. with the bank's code of ethics is identified, an investigation is  and to the general public through the bank's website. Completed ethics at the bank. conducted, and relevant measures are applied to prevent and Mechanisms and channels Launch of a plan to instill the new code of ethics, remedy the problem, in addition to routine audit activities and the including conferences for managers at the business Completed  lines of defense at the bank. During the reported year, employee for reporting ethical issues inquiries regarding ethics were responded to and addressed units and branches, with discussions and portrayals of Responsible Supply Chains routinely. Overt and anonymous inquiries and consultations on ethical dilemmas by the Ethics Theater. Channels for reports on ethical issues are centralized under the ethics issues increased by 20% in 2019. The subject matter of the Development of an individual tutorial covering discussion The tutorial is currently under development chief risk officer of the bank, to enable a single independent party queries was varied, including consultation regarding gifts and and resolution of dilemmas relevant to each team. and scheduled for launch in 2020. to oversee reports and inquiries on ethics at the bank. conflicts of interest, appropriate representation of the bank, behavioral norms, and proper ethical culture at the bank. In addition, twelve cases of suspected moral violations were Bank employees who suspect any violation of the bank's values and norms by any other addressed, including incidents of embezzlement or suspected Prevention of bribery and corruption Employees empowerment embezzlement, suspected money-laundering offenses, false report employee can use several methods to discuss to an employer, actions involving conflicts of interest or suspected As a banking organization at the heart of Israel's business and system comprising content, processes, controls, and procedures and report their thoughts: telephone, e-mail, conflicts of interest, and activity contradicting the code of ethics economic community and as a leading player in the international designed to prevent corruption and bribery. Key sections on this written letters, or the anonymous channel on of the bank. Lessons-learned processes were applied by internal business arena, Bank Hapoalim is committed to an active role in subject have been added to the bank's code of ethics, reflecting the organizational portal, which is available audit in response to these events, and reports were submitted to the international fight against corruption. its position on the prohibition of corruption and bribery and during all hours of activity. the Bank of Israel in accordance with Proper Conduct of Banking Bank Hapoalim believes that corruption and bribery are destructive. on receiving or giving gifts or benefits, with the aim of making Business Directive 351 with respect to incidents of embezzlement The bank strongly rejects corruption and bribery. The bank is a clear and unequivocal statement to all of the bank's internal Protecting the environment or suspected embezzlement. In some of the cases, disciplinary committed to implementing its policy in this area, from the level of and external stakeholders regarding its policy in this area (from To ensure that employees who submit reports are protected and sanctions were imposed on employees, such as clarification its board of directors and management to the level of each individual the bank's policy on corruption). For details on the prevention do not suffer any harm as a result of the report, a process and meetings, reprimand letters, suspension of promotions, removal employee, including the adjustment of existing mechanisms and of corruption at the bank, see the code of ethics on the bank's procedure have been developed and approved by the board of from an advisory and/or management role, and dismissal. work processes in order to prevent such occurrences. website (page 26 in the document, “Our Way”). Also see further The bank has been proactive in preventing corruption and bribery details about the lines of defense at the bank later in this chapter, for many years, in a variety of contexts. Bank Hapoalim has a in the section on compliance. Corporate Governance 122 123 Introduction Benefit Customers Compliance and prevention of money In order to comply with Monitoring and control processes ◆ The network of branch/regional/area/ divisional compliance officers; laundering and terrorist activities the directives of the law and with the group-level compliance policy, the The control system at the bank group consists of three lines of defense, some of which encompass more than one ◆ The Subjective Reporting System; ◆ The compliance site on the banking portal; Growth and Financial Inclusion The areas of responsibility of the chief ◆ The Coordination and Monitoring of Banking Business Directive 308; the Chief Compliance Officer component of control, as detailed below: ◆ The Hetz Expert Center (Hetz is an compliance officer of Bank Hapoalim are Department, which is responsible for Prohibition of Money Laundering Law, Area conducts activities ◆ The first line of defense (business acronym for Hoshvim Tziyut, or “Thinking derived from Proper Conduct of Banking coordination and monitoring at the 2000; the Counter-Terrorism Law, 2016; including identification of units, including headquarters and unit Compliance”) provides support on the Business Directive 308, “Compliance and Chief Compliance Officer Unit and Proper Conduct of Banking Business main exposures and risk compliance officers) consists of controls prohibition of money laundering, CRS, the Compliance Function at a Banking in the overall compliance system of Directive 411; Proper Conduct of Banking areas; risk assessment; applied within the units. These controls FATCA, and compliance systems, and can Corporation” ( Directive 308 ). the bank. The unit’s responsibilities Business Directive 306; securities procedural, qualitative, are applied on two levels: be contacted through an online system include activity to be performed by laws; amendments to the Income Tax and quantitative controls ◆ Controls by the business functions, or by telephone; applied to compliance with Value-Creating Innovation Accordingly, the Chief Compliance Officer the Chief Compliance Officer Unit, such Ordinance; and relevant Income Tax performed within the units with ◆ Communication with the professional Area comprises several professional units: as analysis, managing communications Regulations. This policy was expanded directives that regulate the regard to processes related to units by e-mail or telephone; ◆ The Money Laundering Prohibition with the bank's compliance system, and updated, most recently, in December relationship between the the activity of existing customers. ◆ A system for anonymous queries. Department, which handles all of processing reports of the Chief 2019. Rules and updates were added to the bank and its customers, and Controls are also applied to internal the components of the prohibition Compliance Officer, training, IT policy on matters including the acquisition to the prohibition of money processes at the bank. In 2019, the Chief Compliance Officer Area laundering and financing of money laundering and terrorism activities of the Chief Compliance of debts of debtors, activities at high risk ◆ Controls by compliance officers and visited approximately ninety branches and of terrorism; operation of a financing, including the declared money Officer Unit, and maintaining its IT up for money laundering, competition laws, enforcement trustees at the business relevant units of the bank, to obtain an structured system of controls Society and the Community policy applied to foreign residents, to date and in interface with other the prohibition of discrimination, privacy applied to compliance units – another internal line of defense unmediated impression of work processes treatment of bribery and corruption bank units. policy, and the protection of personal with the Securities Laws; within the units consists of area or related to compliance, listen to the voices risks, and compliance with tax laws. ◆ Hetz Expert Center – Responds to the information. development of training and division compliance officers who apply on the ground, and identify and examine ◆ The Securities Enforcement and business units on issues of international Within the implementation of the policy knowledge management controls in the first line. compliance risks. Compliance Unit, which is responsible taxation, the prohibition of money of fairness towards the customers of systems; infrastructure ◆ The second line of defense comprises Within an annual learning process, and for enforcement of the Securities Law, laundering, and compliance systems. the bank, the area conducts various surveys; analysis of new controls applied by the Chief Compliance according to the revisions required by 1968; the Joint Trust Investments Law, activities and examinations aimed at products and services; system Officer, the Risk Management Division, legislation, all managers and employees Responsible Supply Chains 1994; and the Law for Regularization The Chief Compliance Officer Area ensuring that the bank continues to act development; and more. the Finance Division, the Head of completed learning materials concerning of the Occupation of Investment operates according to the group's in an appropriate and fair manner, with Information Security, and Legal Counsel. compliance, including a tutorial and a test. Advising, Investment Marketing, and compliance policy, established by the full transparency, and in alignment with ◆ The third line of defense consists Investment Portfolio Management, board of directors, which took effect customer needs, in all matters related to The activity of the Chief Compliance of controls applied by Internal Audit, 1995 (hereinafter: the “Securities at the end of December 2010 and is sales and marketing processes, with an Officer Area is supervised through two which audits compliance issues and the Laws”), and ensuring adherence to updated annually. The compliance policy emphasis on proactive offers of consumer channels: second line. the various compliance directives, sets forth rules regarding all of the credit, and that measures taken to motivate ◆ The board of directors' committee on Employees empowerment including with respect to the bank's components of the prohibition of money employees and promote business activities risk management and control; fairness towards its customers and laundering, compliance and securities are consistent with fairness regulations, ◆ Quarterly and annual reports to the Training in the area of prevention of conflicts of interest. enforcement directives, conflicts of protection of customers’ best interests, board of directors and board of compliance ◆ The International Compliance interest, the fairness of the bank towards and responsiveness to their needs, and management of the bank. These reports Department, which is responsible its customers, the prohibition of money do not create conflicts of interest for include updates regarding principal An understanding of the essentiality of fair for ensuring compliance and the laundering and financing of terrorism, employees of the bank. Managers must exposures and risk concentration areas business conduct and the need to identify prohibition of money laundering at advising customers, protection of privacy ensure that the employees under their in the group; progress on the work any unusual activity by customers is critical Protecting the environment the bank's offices outside Israel. (excluding information-technology responsibility act for the benefit of the plan; and activities executed, including to compliance risk; a range of measures is ◆ The International Taxation Compliance aspects), taxation aspects relevant to bank's customers and in accordance with controls, mapping of knowledge gaps, therefore used to promote this awareness, Department, which is responsible for products or services for customers, and their needs, and do not act in an unfair organizational learning, technological including instructional content and tools the adoption of tax treaties to which other directives of similar nature. The manner in order to meet objectives. and other projects in this field, reports integrated into training and work processes Israel is a party, under which the policy emphasizes corporate control submitted to the Israel Money of managers and bankers. bank is required to apply and adopt and the interaction with subsidiaries and Laundering Prohibition Authority, The following resources are available to identification and reporting policies. branches outside Israel, based on the violations, and reports of exceptional employees who wish to consult or report ◆ The Protection of Privac y and directives of the law that pertain to the events. on relevant matters: Corporate Governance Competition Law Enforcement Unit. activity of the bank – Proper Conduct 124 125 Introduction Benefit Customers Information about banking under the information-security standards ISO 27001 and ISO 27032, and revalidates its certification annually. The bank and its employees are not permitted to disclose information regarding customers’ account, business, conduct, products and services The bank constantly works to maximize privacy protection, with individual monitoring of every project and system. Business and/ or technological actions are recorded and documented in the or any other matter related to the contractual engagement between the bank and the customer. The bank's duty to maintain banking secrecy is not limited to the period of the legal contract Growth and Financial Inclusion The bank is subject to laws that impose due-disclosure regulations to the principles of the Responsibility and Fairness in Advertising organization's databases, in accordance with the law. The bank or relationship between the bank and the customer; it also applies concerning information to be provided to customers regarding Compact. strictly maintains a large number of physical, administrative, and to the period following the closure of a customer's account, or banking products and services. These directives apply to all products Accordingly, the bank exercises extreme caution in advertising, technological controls (such as encryption, limited authorizations, following a customer's death, for an unlimited duration. Access and services, and Bank Hapoalim adheres to full compliance with marketing, and sales promotion, applying layers of strict screening monitoring tools, protective tools, and more) in order to protect all to information regarding the bank's customers on the bank's the requirements. Essential principles that form the foundation for and control; all published messages are in compliance with the aspects of information, including its confidentiality, completeness, computers is permitted to employees of the bank solely for the consumer-protection directives include the duty of due disclosure requirements of the law. and availability. The information collected complies with the purposes of their work, and only to authorized personnel. The (transparency) to customers, and protection of customers' right There were no cases of non-compliance concerning the publication requirements in the regulatory directives governing face-tobank works to protect customers’ privacy through formalized Value-Creating Innovation to receive advice and service from the bank. The bank is also a of information regarding products, services, or marketing face and electronic contact with customers, and/or information procedures, and has established policy in this area in line with the member of the Israel Marketing Association and is committed communications during 2019. required for customer verification when executing transactions via Protection of Privacy Law. electronic means. Information is retrieved by electronic applications In 2019, five recorded customer complaints concerning violations as required for the customer's business with the bank's systems. of privacy and banking secrecy were found to be justified. Most information is accessible to customers for viewing only, with These cases were studied, and the requisite conclusions and Protection of customer privacy the exception of specific instances of management of account beneficiaries in transfers via the website. lessons were drawn. Responses were sent to the customers accordingly. Society and the Community and information security Bank Hapoalim cybersecurity experts participate in social initiatives in this area, such as the Skills program by the non-profit methodically, routinely conducts resilience tests and information organization Appleseeds Academy, aimed at helping young people from geographically and socially peripheral regions find their The bank accords high importance to security surveys of its systems, and applies technological and place in the job market in cybersecurity professions. Another initiative, Equal Opportunities in Cybersecurity, provides training information security and cyber defense, and business controls in the various IT layers based on some of the and assistance for young people on the autism spectrum to work as SOC controllers at business organizations across Israel. invests extensive resources, both technological Responsible Supply Chains most advanced solutions in the market, including damage analysis and human, to maintain customers’ privacy and and external controls through third parties. Information-security the confidentiality of banking information on metrics are also included in performance evaluation for relevant the Internet, through the use of some of the employees. The bank has a security operations center (SOC) 2019 planning vs. execution most advanced cyber defense methods and information security products in the world. dedicated to handling information-security incidents from end to end in real time and documenting the process. Substantial 2019 plans Status LOOKING AHEAD •A  pproval of a policy for the protection of privacy in incidents in this area are reported to management and to the Expansion of treatment and analysis of banking by the board of management of the bank.  Employees empowerment board of directors, in accordance with procedures, and a thorough security patches and installation on IT Completed • I mplementation of a plan for cyber risk awareness Cyber defense at the bank is under the responsibility of the and organized lessons-learned process is applied. infrastructures, to prevent the exploitation and prevention of information leaks, internally at the Information Security and Cyber Defense Unit, which reports to Information systems projects at the bank are accompanied from of gaps for cyber crimes. bank, for customers, and for suppliers of the bank. the Head of Information Technology. The Cyber Defense Unit their inception by an information-security team that ensures strict • P reparation and operational readiness for cyber ensures that it employs the best professionals with the necessary compliance with the rules, including protection of the privacy of Improvement of supplier instruction attacks – cyber drills, preparation of contingency knowledge, experience, and authority in the field of information information and restriction of access to information.  processes, in light of the new regulation on Completed plans for coping with defense against concrete security, and regularly conducts training, enrichment, and Cyber defense is managed in accordance with the requirements of cyber threats, and improvement of scanning Protecting the environment awareness programs. the Bank of Israel; the Protection of Privacy Law, 1981; the Protection cyber risk management in the supply chain. Cyber defense strategy at the bank focuses on deep protection of of Privacy Regulations; and other relevant laws, in particular capabilities to identify exposures. banking activity by embedding defense technologies in multiple Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 361, “Cyber Defense layers, in order to ensure that the bank's systems are thoroughly Management,” Proper Conduct of Banking Business Directive 357, protected from penetration, unauthorized access, and damage. “Information Technology Management,” Proper Conduct of Banking The bank’s cyber defense is continually improved and developed, Business Directive 362, “Cloud Computing,” and Proper Conduct in order to cope with the rapidly changing landscape of threats. of Banking Business Directive 363, “Supply Chain Management,” The bank implements cyber defense processes systematically and which took effect at the end of 2018. The bank is also certified Corporate Governance 126 127 Corporate Responsibility Performance Summary23 Field Metric 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Field Metric 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Bank profile Total income (NIS M) 12,706 12,875 12,577 13,774 13,208 Employee Number of employees of the bank who 3,500 3,500 3,500 3,600 3,500 volunteering volunteer regularly Net profit attributed to shareholders of 3,082 2,628 2,660 2,595 1,799 the Bank (NIS M) Annual volunteering hours 148,700 152,200 154,000 157,113 161,110 Operating and other expenses 8,790 8,142 8,121 8,960 8,776 Employment Employees under a collective agreement 91.3% 90.5% 90% 89.4% 88.2% profile (%) Of which, salaries and related expenses 4,934 4,239 4,209 4,097 4,018 Diverse Percentage of women at the bank (%) 64.6% 64.4% 65% 66% 65.6% Provision for taxes 2,097 2,358 1,959 2,009 1,681 employment Percentage of women managers at the 52.1% 52.4% 52.6% 53.2% 54% Number of employees of the bank 8,898 8,701 8,687 8,290 8,162 bank (%) Number of branches of the bank (retail 267 257 259 237 215 Percentage of women on the board of 33% 18% 16% 14% 22% and business) directors of the bank (%) Dividends paid to shareholders 569 685 861 496 1,000 Percentage of minorities at the bank (%) 5.4% 6% 6.3% 6.4% 6.2% Direct economic Economic value distributed by the bank 11,499 11,225 10,981 11,507 11,501 Percentage of hires from under-employed 20.5% 22% 17% 22% 20% value for group to stakeholders (operational sectors, of total annual hiring stakeholders expenses, salaries and related expenses, Training and Percentage of academic degree holders 64.4% 65.8% 66.7% 68% 69% donations and sponsorships, provision for development of at the bank (%) (Internal and external taxes, dividends; in NIS M) human capital employees) Credit granted Total credit for small businesses (NIS B) 32.4 27.3 30.3 31.2 29.6 Number of learning days at the bank 49,600 49,776 43,211 60,360 56,736 for promotion (Internal and external employees) of social/ Cumulative credit for environmental 6.63 6.53 6 8.7 6.4 environmental projects and products (NIS B) Average hours of learning per employee 38.1 42.5 42.5 52.8 51.2 causes Credit granted to promote shared NIS 2.04 B NIS 732 M NIS 642 M NIS 616 M Total cost of training and study programs 38 43 53 63 65 business and social value for bank employees (NIS M) Processing General percentage of justified queries – 9.2% 6% 6% 7% 15% (principles Percentage of employees who received 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% customer Bank of Israel data (%) for classification feedback (%) queries of a complaint as justified were Energy Total electricity consumption (kWh) 84,579,103 86,388,184 86,232,616 86,217,677 83,123,204 expanded in 2019) consumption and efficiency Electricity consumption per m (kWh) 2 278.4 280.7 268.1 273.6 268.1 Percentage of justified queries concerning 7% 3.7% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5% Percent annual change in electricity -2.3% -2% -0.18% -0.02% -3.6% privacy and banking secrecy (%) consumption (year on year, in %) Accessibility Number of branches serving the Arab 41 43 43 43 42 Diesel fuel consumption (L) 102,275 13,547 9,898 138,327 12,016 of service to a sector diverse range of Gasoline consumption (L) 3,599,730 3,021,768 2,746,344 2,160,630 2,369,178 customers Number of branches in towns with 20 21 21 20 20 extensive religious and ultraorthodox Consumption of Paper consumption (metric tonnes) 1,619 1,433 1,209 1,037 920 populations materials Consumption of ink and toner cartridges 17,035 16,643 11,087 10,790 13,085 Number of accessible branches *branches 226 224 248 225 213 (units) with an Acceptability seal from the Access Israel organization Water consumption (m3) 90,774 89,627.7 108,125 92,480.1 79,489.2 Number of ATMs accessible to blind users 316 536 616 752 1,210 (ATMs and selfRecycling and Paper recycling (metric tonnes) 700 783 760 746 575 service devices) responsible removal of Cardboard recycling (metric tonnes) 13 9.3 15.3 18.2 23.6 Percentage of branches outside central 35% 40% 40% 45% 43% waste Recycling of electronic waste at the bank 28.7 38 94 101.5 62.7 Israel (beyond the area from Gedera to (tons) Hadera; in %) Recycling of bottles and beverage 101,843 104,690 105,720 111,514 96,971 Promotion of Percentage of purchasing from Israeli 93% 92% 92% 95% 95% containers (units) responsible sources purchasing Collection of construction waste (m3) 2,526 2,112 1,904 1,555 1,964 Percentage of purchasing from small and 15% 46% 45% 47% 31% micro-businesses Collection of batteries (kg) 240 765 100 140 797 Percentage of small suppliers (of total 52% 81% 77% 76% 71% Collection of fluorescent bulbs (kg) 2,680 2,340 1,230 1,179 757 annual number of suppliers) Carbon Greenhouse-gas emissions – total (tons 61,511 65,966 63,917 58,318 53,070 Investment in Community donations and investments 43 40 40 42 43.9 footprint CO2 eq) the community (NIS M) Percent annual change in greenhouse-gas -12.9% 7.2% -3.1% -9% -9% emissions (year on year, %) 23. Some data from previous years were improved, based on the report in the bank's Annual Financial Statements for 2019. 128 129 GRI Index and Global Compact COP GRI Content Index 23 Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP 102-1 Name of the organization 1, 116 no specific 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and 116-120 demand strategy 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 7-9 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 119 102-3 Location of headquarters 8-9, 116-117 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 117-118 102-4 Location of operations 116 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social 117-118, 120 102-5 Ownership and legal form 116-117 impacts 102-6 Markets served 8-9, 116-117 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 118 102-7 Scale of the organization 8-9, 128-129 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 118 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 80-83, 88 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 4-5, 6, 119-120 102-9 Supply chain 74-75 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 12-13, 119-121 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 74, 76 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 12-15, 119-121 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach NR 102-35 Remuneration policies 121 102-12 External initiatives 16-19 1-10 102-13 Membership of associations 18-19 1-10 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 85, 121 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 121 GRI 102: General 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 85, 121 disclosure 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4-5, 16-18, 96, commitment 101-103, is presented 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio 121 GRI 102: General 124-125 in the CEO 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 12-13 disclosure statement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 81 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 7, 122-123 1-10 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 12-14 1,2,6 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 122-123 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 12-14 102-18 Governance structure 117-120 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 12-15 102-19 Delegating authority 117-121 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 116-117 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and 119 social topics 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 14-15 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social 12-15, 77, 102-47 List of material topics 14-15 topics 83-84,122 102-48 Restatements of information 129 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 117-120 102-49 Changes in reporting 129 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 4-5, 120 102-50 Reporting period 13 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 118 102-51 Date of most recent report 13 102-25 Conflicts of interest prevention 118, 122-123 102-52 Reporting cycle 13 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 6 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 13 102-55 GRI index 130-136 102-56 External assurance 138-143 130 131 Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 4-5, 62 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 112, 109 103-2 The management approach and its components 6-7 103-2 The management approach and its components 112, 109 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 6-7, 118 GRI 301: 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 112, 109 GRI 201: GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Materials GRI 301: Materials 2016 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 8-9, 128-129 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 109-110, 113 Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to 101-105 7 301-2 Recycled input materials used 109-110 8,9 climate change NR 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 96, 119 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Not received 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 105-108 7,8,9 during 2019 103-2 The management approach and its components 105-108 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 105-108 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 38, 62 GRI 302: Energy 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 38, 62 GRI 203: GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 107-108 Indirect 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62 Energy Economic 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Not material GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 to the Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 38-51, 54, 62-71 2 organization 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 38-42, 59, 62-67, 1,3 302-3 Energy intensity 107 76, 128-129 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 107-108 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 101-102 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 74-75 No specific GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 204: requirement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-105 7,8 Procurement 103-2 The management approach and its components 74-75 103-2 The management approach and its components 104-105 7,8 Practices 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74-75 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 104-105 7,8 GRI 204: procurement Practices 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 74 104 7,8 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 305: 104 7,8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 75, 123 10 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 104 7,8 103-2 The management approach and its components 123 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 105 7,8 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 123-125 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 104-105 7,8,9 GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) 106 7,8 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 123-125, 75 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air Not Material 7,8 124-125 emissions to the 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and organization procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 122 132 133 Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 80 1,2,6 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 85 1,2,6 103-2 The management approach and its components 80 GRI 406: 103-2 The management approach and its components 85 Non103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85 GRI 401: discrimination Employment GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 82 6 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 85 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 95 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 temporary or part-time employees 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 95 1,2,3 401-3 Parental leave 81 1,2,6 GRI 407: Freedom of 103-2 The management approach and its components 95 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Association 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 95 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 83-84 2,3 and Collective GRI 402: GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 83-84 Bargaining Labor/ Management 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of 77 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83-84 Relations association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 402: Labor / Management Relations 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 96 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 62, 70 NR GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 62, 70 NR 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 89 6 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 62, 70 103-2 The management approach and its components 89 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 89 GRI 404: GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact 62-71 Training and GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Communities assessments, and development programs Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 92 413-2 Operations with significant and potential negative impacts on local 104-127 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance 90-92 communities programs FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged 26, 28, 35 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 84 areas by type development reviews FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged 28-31, 43-45 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 people 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 85-86 1,6 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 405: 103-2 The management approach and its components 85-86 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 77 NR Diversity 103-2 The management approach and its components NR 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 85-86 GRI 414: 77 and Equal Opportunity GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Supplier Social 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 77 Assessment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 88, 121 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 85 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 77 1,2,6 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 77 134 135 Standard Index Description Page UNGC – COP Material topics in the report GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 126 8 and connection with GRI (SRS) indicators 103-2 The management approach and its components promotion of astute financial behavior for costumers GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts; GRI 413: Local Communities; Product Profile (Sector Supplement) 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 417: GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 Innovation GRI 102-2: Activities, Brands, Products and Services, Product Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 126 8 profile (Sector supplement), GRI 102-15: Key Impacts, Risks, Labeling and Opportunities, GRI 203-1: Infrastructure Investments and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 126, no indicants NR Services Supported, GRI 203-2: Significant indirect economic information and labeling in 2019 impacts 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 126, no indicants Serving a diverse clientele and promoting financial GRI 413: Local Communities; Product Profile (Sector communications in 2019 inclusion Supplement) GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 126-127 1 Information security and privacy GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 418: 103-2 The management approach and its components Accessibility GRI 413: Local Communities; FS13; FS14 Customer 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Privacy Responsible supply-chain management GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessments; GRI 204: Procurement GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Practices; GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer 127 privacy and losses of customer data Expanding our sphere of influence GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts; GRI 201: Economic Performance; GRI 102: General Disclosure; GRI 413: Local GRI 103: Management approach 2016 Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 124-126 NR GRI 419: 103-2 The management approach and its components Investing in the community GRI 413: Local Communities Socioeconomic 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Promoting appropriate work environments GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations; GRI 401: Employment; Compliance GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 126 1 GRI 406: Non-discrimination economic area Promoting diversity, equal opportunities, and GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity; GRI 102: General GRI 103: Management approach 2016 transparency Disclosure; GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 23, 30, 35, 38, NR 40, 101 Training and personal development GRI 404: Training and Education 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reducing environmental impacts GRI 301: Materials; GRI 302: Energy; GRI 305: Emissions Product Profile (Sector Supplement) Developing products and services to promote GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts; Product Profile Product Profile FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific 40 sustainability and protect the environment (Sector Supplement) (Sector region, size (E.G. micro/SME/large) and by sector Supplement) FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver 30-31, 40, 128 a specific social benefit for each business line broken down Examining environmental risks in financing GRI 102: Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities; GRI 201-2: by purpose Financial Implications and Other Risks and Opportunities due to Climate Change, GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver 101-102 a specific environmental benefit for each business line Corporate governance and ethics GRI 102: General Disclosure broken down by purpose Prevention of corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption; GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 136 137 Process Controls for the Findings, conclusion, and recommendations Implementation of the Corporate Within our process controls, we suggest several areas for the bank to maintain and/or reinforce: ◆ Responsible investments (ESG investments) – In 2019, the bank chose to promote responsible investments, Responsibility Plan at Bank Hapoalim in which environmental, social, and corporate governance parameters are included in the examination of the investment, beyond its financial return. The bank has promoted responsible investments by indicating ESG ratings of global equities for interested customers, developing dedicated financial products in this An external assurance process allows readers of this report to verify the bank's self-report based area, and including companies with high ESG ratings in its own investment portfolio. on independent opinions from professional observers. The involvement of additional sources of Investments are an area in which the bank has material influence; the promotion of responsible control enables the bank to learn from the feedback received from those conducting the process investments represents an opportunity to create a significant and extensive economic, social, and provides validation of the reliability of the report for stakeholders. The current report has and environmental impact for the bank and its stakeholders. These processes, together with undergone four assurance processes, each focusing on a different aspect of the report: the allocation of “shared value” credit (which helps to promote social and/or environmental ◆ The CSR and Sustainability Group at BDO Ziv Haft performed routine process controls. added value), constitute important steps advancing positive indirect effects as a result of the ◆ The CSR Institute performed quality assurance and examined the adequacy of the reporting. activity of the bank. Beyond the continued promotion of this activity, with added depth, we ◆ Control over the quality of reporting on the bank's carbon footprint was performed by the CSR and recommend the expansion of reporting and detailed information in this area. Sustainability Group at BDO Ziv Haft. ◆ Environmental risk management – Environmental risks in financing are examined at the bank both from the ◆ The report was examined by the GRI organization and found to be complaint with their Materiality Disclosures perspective of examination of the potential environmental risk, including the risk of loss as a result of failure Service, referring to performance measures 102-40-102-49. to comply with environmental directives, and examination of additional risks, such as reputation, operational, and legal risks. We recommend continued development of the environmental risk management policy. BDO: Process Controls for Implementation of the ◆ Community focus – The bank implemented a new policy for investment in the community in 2019, selecting four focus areas for social impact aligned with its core business and with the issues essential to ensuring the CSR Plan at Bank Hapoalim resilience of Israeli society. We see this process of higher focus as a significant step, which will increase the The CSR and Sustainability Group at the accounting firm BDO has assisted Bank Hapoalim in the bank's social return. We recommend o continue and measure the effectiveness of community investments. implementation of its sustainability and corporate responsibility program for fourteen years. The group’s activities focus on monitoring the process and progress of the program for sustainability The foregoing review contains several points which, in our opinion, should be maintained and and social, economic, and environmental responsibility. The BDO consultants’ close work with reinforced in order to improve the implementation of the plan and preserve the bank’s leadership the bank allows a professional opinion to be provided based on an examination of the processes in social and environmental responsibility. performed by the bank throughout 2019 and during 2020, up to the date of publication of the report. During this period, the bank maintained its trajectory in implementing and embedding corporate social responsibility. The Corporate Social Responsibility Group Process description BDO Consulting Group June 2020 A. Update and improvement of information infrastructures and corporate responsibility management metrics – The department's consultants examined the corporate responsibility management system at the bank, the summarization of information collected, processes of generating information and processing it into metrics, and the bank's performance relative to its goals and objectives. B. Embedding corporate responsibility in core activities and in the various units – In this area, the process of embedding corporate responsibility practices in the routine operations of the bank's units was examined, as well as the organizational change evoked at the bank as a result of this process. The assurance process also encompassed an examination of the method of development and implementation of new issues arising from reports by the various units. C. Examination of the results of implementation of the program (effectiveness of absorption) – This stage consisted of an examination of the ways in which the bank had improved its performance on the various metrics, led new initiatives at the various units for activity in this area, developed new banking products, and created dialogue with stakeholders, while broadening its impact on the Israeli public. 138 139 Quality Assurance Declaration This report was found to fulfill these principles satisfactorily. The depth and scope of the report are highly impressive, as in every year, on a par with reports by leading global banks. This report, Bank Hapoalim 2019 Corporate thirteenth in number, continues the tradition of excellence of Bank Hapoalim in all aspects of attaining the highest global standards of reporting. Responsibility Report Key remarks This report, the thirteenth corporate responsibility report published by Bank Hapoalim, as noted, Introduction is a part of the movement towards adoption of sustainability reporting throughout the banking The Corporate Responsibility Institute is an independent public entity dedicated to the promotion sector in Israel, in accordance with the requirements of the Supervisor of Banks. The report adopts of the corporate social responsibility and sustainability approach. The institute operates within the the reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and complies with the extensive College of Law and Business. The institute's activities include organizing professional meetings; reporting format known as Comprehensive. I hereby declare that the report by Bank Hapoalim writing reports, studies, and market surveys; adapting global applied methodologies for use in complies with the scope of reporting and disclosure required at this level. Israel; and more. I would like to commend the first-time disclosure of ESG rating results awarded to the bank by Transparency and the accountability of corporations for their social and environmental impact various international rating agencies, and the development of responsible investment tools. It constitute one of the institute's core issues. In May 2020, Bank Hapoalim asked the institute to appears that this issue, which is at the core of the bank's responsible activity, is now receiving the perform a quality assurance process for its 2019 CSR report. The quality assurance process was appropriate degree of attention. performed by Dr. Liad Ortar, head of the institute. It is hereby declared that the institute receives payment to cover the time invested in this process. The following are the key recommendations for the continued progress of reporting at Bank Beyond that, neither the institute nor Dr. Liad Ortar (who performed the assurance) have business Hapoalim: consulting relationships with Bank Hapoalim; the quality assurance process was independent. During ◆ Management of social risks as part of the management of credit risks – When seeking to manage ESG risks the course of the quality assurance process, a draft of the report was examined, and several work in financial activity, attention may not be divided equally among the three components of this approach sessions were held to clarify various issues. Some of these issues have already been addressed in (environmental, social, and governance); we understand that at this time, great effort is being directed the current report; others may be included in future editions. into the management of environmental risks. However, social and governance risks exist alongside the Work method environmental risks, and I believe activity in this area should expand to also encompass these important content areas. Quality assurance for corporate ◆ The coronavirus – Although the effort to cope with the virus and its economic and social ramifications is responsibility reports is a process aimed occurring in 2020, the bank chose to include initial information about the way it has addressed these issues. primarily at improving the quality 000-152 In advance of the publication of the next report, for 2020, I recommend continuous monitoring by the of the output through professional bank of the actions taken and examination of the ways in which these activities have maximized value for review. For the avoidance of doubt, stakeholders (alongside management of the risks arising from the anticipated economic turmoil, of course). quality assurance constitutes an integral part of the reporting process. The objective is for any Such added value should be central to the next report, and, of course, reflected in the materiality analysis. professional comments that arise during the work process to be absorbed as quickly and as correctly as possible. The process for this report was performed in accordance with the principles Sincerely yours, of the AA1000 Assurance Standard of the AccountAbility organization. Dr. Liad Ortar is a licensed examiner for AccountAbility. In accordance with this standard, the report was examined for its Liad Ortar fulfillment of three key principles: Head of Corporate Social Responsibility Institute 1. Inclusiveness – Fully addresses the topics from the reporting process and encompasses a wide College of Law and Business range of stakeholders; 2. Materiality – Addresses the material subjects in the activity of the company; 3. Responsiveness – Reports on subjects raised by stakeholders. 140 141 Carbon Footprint Summary of findings Significant changes in the composition of the emissions: Work method ◆ Power consumption: Total power consumption decreased by approximately 3.6% in 2019 compared with 2018. Our work is based on prevalent principles for carbon calculation and marking, developed by the ◆ Fuel consumption: The bank's fuel consumption increased by approximately 8% in 2019; however, gasoline Technical Working Group of the British government. The data were adapted to Israel through the consumption for transportation increased by approximately 10%, while diesel consumption for transportation Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System – Operating Rules and Reporting Guidelines, decreased by approximately 74%. In any event, emissions from transportation of the vehicle fleet of the issued by the Samuel Neaman Institute and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in March 2016. bank increased by approximately 7.6%. Emission coefficients used for these calculations are national figures published by professional ◆ Coolant gases: Total consumption and total emissions from gases containing new fluorine decreased by entities such as the Public Utility Authority for Electricity; the Central Bureau of Statistics; the Samuel approximately 35%, including due to processes of improvement of efficiency of air-conditioning systems. Neaman Institute, which is linked to the Technion; and the Department for Environment, Food and ◆ Paper consumption: The annual paper consumption of the bank decreased by approximately an additional Rural Affairs in the United Kingdom (DEFRA), for Scope 3 emissions. Consumption data were supplied 11%, further to the trend of recent years. by the bank, under its responsibility. At the time of the preparation of this report, the Ministry ◆ Sewage: Responsibility for emissions resulting from the treatment of sewage of the bank's employees was of Environmental Protection has not published emission coefficients for 2019; the calculation of transferred to the purification plants, in accordance with the directives of the Emissions Reporting System. the bank's carbon footprint in Scopes 1 and 2 is therefore based on emission coefficients for 2018. Components in the calculation of the carbon footprint of the bank Calculation and reporting of the carbon footprint ◆ The bank monitors and calculates greenhouse-gas emissions in the following three scopes: of Bank Hapoalim ◆ Scope 1 direct emissions – consumption of gasoline and diesel fuel for transportation and generators, The bank continued the consistent measurement of its carbon footprint in 2019, further to the and emissions of coolant gases from air-conditioning systems; transition to analysis of its carbon footprint according to the prevalent international standards ◆ Scope 2 indirect emissions – consumption of electricity; and reporting to the Israel Greenhouse Gas Emission Recording System beginning in 2010. The total ◆ Scope 3 indirect emissions – consumption of paper, consumption of toners, acquisition of electronic carbon footprint of Bank Hapoalim in 2019 stood at approximately 53,070 tons of carbon dioxide equipment, consumption of water, flights, and employees’ hotel stays. equivalent (CO2eq). Greenhouse-gas emissions from the bank's routine operations mainly derive ◆ The bank conducts extensive environmental activity, as described in this report; however, these efforts are from electricity consumption at the head-office buildings, branches, and other facilities of the bank not reflected in the reduction of greenhouse gases and in the carbon footprint calculation. Thus, various (77%); the activity of the vehicle fleet (10.5%); and the acquisition of electronic equipment (9%). It is waste collection and recycling activities contribute to the reduction of pollutants and toxins in employees’ notable that without the inclusion of Scope 3 (which is reported voluntarily), at 6,446 tons CO2eq, the environment, in landfills, and in the environment in general, but do not reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. carbon footprint of the bank would be approximately 46,624 tons CO2eq, approximately 12% lower These activities include recycling of electronic waste, bottles, and beverage cans, and the collection of than the reported figure. The decrease in the bank's carbon footprint in 2019 in comparison to 2018 batteries and fluorescent bulbs, including safe recovery and burial of mercury. is approximately 5,249 tons CO2eq, or approximately 9%. This annual reduction mainly resulted from a decrease of approximately 3.6% in the electricity consumption of the bank, which led to a decrease The Corporate Social Responsibility Group of approximately 2,908 tons CO2eq. In addition, approximately 47% of the electricity consumption BDO Consulting Group of the bank is based on natural gas, through electricity purchased from Dorad, leading to savings of approximately 3,984 tons CO2eq (approximately 9% of total Scope 2 emissions). June 2020 142 143 Graphic Design: Studio Merhav | Cover: Bank Hapoalim studio Printed on sustainability certified paper (FSC)
