CSR REPORT 2019 Bringing Back Trust in Democracy Digital Bureaucracy Globally, most government institutions still struggle to digitize based on the classic technology first apfrom analyzing work processes to configuring the standard software and going live. track to transformation and to support the development of next generation institutions for the benefit Bringing back trust in democracy through proach and custom build solutions. In contrast, more than 50 Danish Enabling government institutions of our future society. a next generation of strong, transparent government institutions, including 13 out of 19 ministries, now base to digitize in months rather than years and delivered at significantly Working together, across the world, with government as well as private and efficient government institutions their work on the Digital Bureaucracy model. All running on the lower cost compared to traditional government IT projects, not only partners. We want to play our role, helping to regain trust in Democraexact same standard software, built eliminate risk but fundamentally cy through digitization. Enabling a to support the Digital Bureaucracy offers a new way of trans­formation new generation of strong, transparmodel, which has been configured and provides a fast track to build ent, and efficient government instito support each institution’s individnext generation government intutions. ual work processes. stitutions, digitally based. Strong, transparent and highly efficient Welcome to our CSR report 2019! LETTER FROM CEO In Denmark, several ministries government institutions which can have implemented the Digital Buhelp regain trust in democracy reaucracy model and standard softthrough delivery. Democracy is Democracy, government has to deliver efficient, fair and transparent nology based strategies such as advanced analytics, blockchain, cloud ware within a few months, enabling a paperless working environment In close collaboration with governthe foundation of services. But many government infirst, robotics, artificial intelligence supporting everyone from most ment as well as private companies, our Society. It is stitutions seem to be at a crossroad, and open source. Yet, as new techjunior employee to the minister, we at cBrain continue to further often under pressure both economnologies have come and gone, govtherefore alarmically and politically, unable to deernment is still struggling to convert running meetings and approvals on their iPad. This has significantdevelop the Digital Bureaucracy model and related implementation ing to realize liver and lacking popular support. ambitious digitization plans into dely improved productivity, data and methods, in Denmark as well as inhow democracy The strategy to counter this criliverable and measurable results. process control. ternationally. sis in democracy is to rethink and is under pressure build a next generation of more Now the Technology First approach Likewise, many different Danish International projects, based on across the world. efficient, transparent and accountis challenged. A new public-private citizen facing processes are now the Digital Bureaucracy model and able institutions. Strong and stable partnership which originated in Dendigitally supported, end-to-end, Danish experiences, have successPer Tejs Knudsen, CEO Both in the western world as well government institutions are the way mark and underpinned by extensive based on the digital bureaucracy fully been applied in a number of as in the developing countries, citto fight the erosion and regain trust research has fostered a groundbreakmodel and standard software. This European countries, North AmerI hereby renew our commitment to The izen dissatisfaction with democracy through highly efficient, transparing approach to government digitiincludes processes like national ica as well as in the United Arab UN Global Compact meaning that we has been rising significantly over ent and fair service delivery. zation based on formalized methods citizenship, immigration permits, Emirates. These projects demoncontinue to act ethically, transparently recent decades and has reached an and standards. Digitizing all types of divorce, reclaiming tax dividends, strate, that governments across the and with integrity, in line with the Ten all-time high. The decline in global This is possible by use of digitizawork processes and services, from inand fraud management. Solutions world all work the same way and Principles of The UN Global Compact, democracy is to a large extent led tion and it is possible because all ternal ministerial work to citizen factypically have been delivered withthat government can re-use standand contribute towards the UN Sustainby the large and most populous government organizations fundaing processes, end-to-end, the new in 3-6 months from start to finish, ards and best practices as a fast able Development Goals (SDG’s). democracies, while only citizens in mentally work in the same manner. approach to digitization offers gova few small and high-income deBased on the organization and proernment fast track digitization and mocracies, like Switzerland, Denduction model called “Bureaucrastrong measurable effects. mark, Norway, Luxembourg and cy”, as described by German philosThe Netherlands, report higher opher Max Weber. Digitization, if While technology continues to We use a new dataset combining more than – in North America, Latin America, trust in their governments. used correctly and with care, offers change, government roles and duReport, Global 25 data sources, 3,500 country surveys, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia enormous power. It offers governties remain. The basis for the new Satisfaction with and 4 million respondents between 1973 and Australasia – were satisfied with the In the western world, dissatisfaction ment institutions the opportunity to approach was therefore applying a and 2020 asking citizens whether they are performance of their democracies. Since Democracy 2020 satisfied or dissatisfied with democracy in then, the share of individuals who are with Democracy is fueled by facrethink and transform themselves “processes first, technology second” their countries. Using this combined, pooled “dissatisfied” with democracy has risen tors such as economic frustration into a next generation of digitally approach, studying and understandBenneth Institute dataset, we are able to present a time-series by around +10% points, from 47.9% to combined with political uncertainty based institutions, highly efficient ing the processes and resources enfor Public Policy for almost 50 years in Western Europe, and 57.5%. This is the highest level of global and polarization and in developing and transparent. abling government service delivery. 25 years for the rest of the world. We find dissatisfaction since the start of the series By understanding the nature of Cambridge University that dissatisfaction with democracy has risen in 1995. After a large increase in civic countries the evolution of Democraover time, and is reaching an all-time global dissatisfaction in the prior decade, 2019 cy is in many places harmed by poUnfortunately, government digitizabureaucracy and government work. high, in particular in developed democracies. represents the highest level of democratic litical crises and corruption scandals. tion often fails due to a generally acThis has led to a generic model for discontent on record. cepted “technology first” approach. government work, based on best pracIn the mid-1990s, a majority of citizens in countries for which we have time-series data www.bennettinstitute.cam.ac.uk We believe that trust comes with For decades governments has aptices and independent of technology, delivery. To protect and develop plied the latest technology and techentitled “Digital Bureaucracy”. 2 3 Our business model Introducing the F2 model and design method for Processes first, Digital Bureaucracy resources enabling government service delivery, as well as understanding the nature of governtechnology second ment work and the bureaucracy. This led to a generic model for government work based Government production is based on bureaucracy. on best practices independent of technology, Yet, as the classic bureaucracy is now chalentitled “Digital Bureaucracy”. With the generic lenged by a shift from paper-based to digitized model, next step was to design and build a information, this shift also offers transparency, configurable production system, which could significant productivity gains and more efficient be configured to support individual authorities. Step Diagram service delivery. Based on Danish public-private This was accompanied by a deployment method Checklist partnership and extensive research we have to guide the design of specific internal and Phases developed a fundamentally new approach to citizen facing processes and to guide the internal Responsibility Procedure government digitization based on formalized organizational implementation. Processes Tasks methods and standards. Digitizing all types of Script work processes and services, from internal to The research also made it clear that government Steps citizen facing, it is based on executable process has to reclaim the ownership and insight into SERVICES libraries and a new combined process-driven and work processes, which during the last decades data-centric software architecture designed for have been buried with IT systems, often conUnits Case digital bureaucracy. trolled by external experts and suppliers. In the Resources same way, government must be in control of orRoles Organization Data Lists Record The approach is based on three elements: a ganization and be responsible for service delivery. Dashboard Tables Document formalized model and implementation method for government work (Digital Bureaucracy), both totally independent of technology, and From IT-centric to standard software called F2, which supports the business-centric while model and method. delivering measurable Based on the new approach and F2 we offer effects A government authority has the • Firstly, the work progress is dimension is therefore called government institutions a fast track to translegitimate right and responsibility described in steps, leading “Procedure”, as the checklist The processes first approach does not only form themselves into next generation, highly to deliver a set of services, which into a so-called step diagram. models the standard operating allow government to reclaim and take back efficient and digitally based institutions. mirror a set of decisions that the auReflecting the rhythm of case procedure. control of work processes. By introducing the thority has the right to exercise and processing, there are two types digital bureaucracy model it also enables a new administrate. Decisions therefore of steps; waiting steps and Thirdly, for each task, data •  We believe government work is fast track approach to digitization. Based on standards and configurable standard software, become the index of the authority in-progress steps. This dimension requirements are described. is called “Responsibility” as still based on the fundamental the approach reduces digitization projects by library of standard operating procedures (SOP). work progress is controlled by This includes all information (data) needed to perform the principles of the bureaucracy. factors. While minimizing risks and reducing costs, it changes digitization projects from being The Digital Bureaucracy model is assigning responsibility to each step, waiting steps as well as task as well as all data produced as a result of performing the IT-centric to business-centric. based on a single case principle, in-progress steps. task. Production data are organwhere any unique type of decision ized as records with documents, Government has to Reclaiming control is managed in two steps. has a corresponding case type. For • Secondly, for each in-progress organized chronologically into reclaim processes Firstly, regaining control of work description, as any case type, work is modeled/destep, the tasks related to the a folder, the case, supported by this is now independent of systems. Secondly, scribed by processes and resources, each step in the step diagram base data, called tables, and regaining control of production systems. As the and organized into four dimensions, are described. Tasks are logpresented to users by lists. Technology trends and a limited understanding of responsibility, procedure, data, and ically organized into phases, how government works often hinders digitization. description is formal, i.e. based on mathematics organization. e.g. screening, evaluation, and Fourthly, the description circle •  Further this often results in technology based busiand thereby readable by software, government executing a decision, which ends by describing responsible ness transformations where technology itself becan now demand vendors to deliver software that constitutes a decision checklist. units and roles for each step, comes the goal. However, as technology continues can interpret and execute the process description. As work progresses, step-by-step, which supports production to change, government roles and duties remain. Thereby, government no longer loses control and tasks are performed, the reporting by dashboard etc. This while it acquires, rewrites and integrates software checklist is filled out, leading to dimension is therefore called Rather than investigating new technology, the components in order to digitize and support work a decision while controlling the Organization. research focused on studying the processes and processes. decision execution. The second 4 5 Originated in Denmark and proven in a number of countries Digitization based on eign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. First projects, based on F2 and the digital bureaucrastandards delivers cy model, have now been delivered in a nummeasurable effects ber of European countries as well as in North America and the United Arab Emirates. The United Nations E-government survey ranks Denmark as number one. Key success These projects have shown that Denmark is factors to reaching the number one E-governnot unique with respect to government duties ment position are standards and public-private and services. Governments across the world collaboration, cBrain being one of the partners. basically operate based on the same foundation of bureaucracy. Denmark differentiates due Today, more than 50 Danish government orto long term national strategies like standards, ganizations base their operations on the cBrain public-private partnership and an approach standard model and standard software for digital based on business first, technology second. bureaucracy, referred to as F2. The model and Even though Denmark has smaller national IT software have been implemented with more than budgets compared to large countries, the Danish 50 Danish government organizations including 2 approach has optimized IT investments and levout of 3 of all ministerial departments, such as eraged a globally leading position when it comes Sustainable the Prime Minister’s office, the Ministry of Forto E-government. Society Building In cBrain we believe that by supplementing the Through pro bono knowledge sharing, profesfocus of the UN Ten Principles with the consional advice and by active contribution to induscept of Sustainable Society Building we contrial, professional and non-profit organisations, tribute with a more holistic perspective of being we are influencing the direction of governmental socially responsible. With the term “Sustainable institutions and the norms and standards of our Society Building” we refer to actions which inindustry. By acting responsibly, we contribute to directly contribute to sustainable development a path of sustainable development. through bringing environmental, social and/or economic value for society as a whole. We incorporate Society We incorporate Society Building in our way of taking corporate social responsibility Building in our way of taking through an educational focus. Education corporate social responsibility benefits society as it increases the intellectual level of the population and, thereby, has the through an educational focus. potential of raising living standards, creating environmental awareness and decreasing Through the education of individuals, we are discrimination. Our educational activities are increasing the level of competences within diglinked to sharing knowledge, providing profesitalisation of the workforce. We, thereby, create sional advice and educating individuals within better circumstances for society to take on the our field of expertise. challenge of digitalisation. 6 7 Our SDG commitment and impaired employees in government • We furthermore included a two-factor institutions. aproval step in the approval phase of granting money in our Grant Management •  F2 integration to local identity hubs. module, helping to prevent fraud and corOur platform now includes support for ruption in financial matters. open.id connect, which in effect means Our mission ly developed a formalised model and new type standard software for digital government, called that our self-service solutions can be used With these initiatives our platform is now achievF2, which supports paperless internal work, “out of the box”. Accessing governmental ing even more accountability at all levels, helping Our mission is to help governments transform fully end-to-end digitised citizen services as well and public self-services with identity hubs to prevent fraud and corruption. 100% transparfrom being paper-based bureaucracies to as collaboration between government entities. such as the Danish nem-id or the American ency in government services is the citizen’s guarandigitised working environments and thereby us.gov makes it easy and secure for any tee that he/she receives a good and fair process. contribute to creating efficient, accountable and Today, F2 is deployed by more than 50 public citizen to access via their personal digital transparent public institutions. This allows instiorganisations in Denmark and around the id-authentication. The conclusion is that standardised software allows tutions to deliver quality citizen-centric services world, all running on the same software. More public institutions to transform themselves to digias work processes are defined with incorporated than half of all departments in Denmark, • M  yCase is a standardized concept, giving tal working environments that have the potential control mechanisms, all activities performed are including Prime Minister’s Office, Ministry of the cititizens full transparency in their case of creating higher levels of efficiency, accountabilaccounted for, and responsibilities are clearly Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Business Affairs progress and status. From MyCase they can ity and transparency. This has a positive effect on delegated. The transformation towards a digitand Ministry of Finance, run F2 in a highly efget an overview of their cases, utilizing the the population’s satisfaction with the public sector, ised democracy is, thus, a core part of working fective, accountable and transparent production transparency that the F2 platform automatconsequently fostering trust in governmental institowards the United Nations Sustainable Develenvironment, where ministers and senior execuically provides 100% transparency is the tutions. SDG 16 expresses the need for this change opment Goals (SDGs), as it will help institutions tives can work paperless and fully mobile. Based citizens guarantee that he/she receives a and we will be working to help as many governtake action towards meeting the goals effectively. on Danish experience, the first F2 projects have good and fair service. mental institutions as possible to transform. now been delivered in UK, US, France, United After having assessed our mission and main Arab Emirates and Germany, demonstrating activities in relation to the SDGs, it is clear to government re-use of standards across borders. us that SDG 16 is at the core of our corporate strategy. SDG 16 focuses on developing “effective, accountable and transparent institutions How did we put mission into action in 2019? Responsible business at all levels” and it is, therefore, directly in line with our mission of digitising institutions to increase efficiency, accountability and transparIn 2019 we invested significantly in getting ency for the benefit of creating peaceful and even more transparency in the work processes inclusive societies. and data control through the F2 base platform. Thereby, we enable government decision makAt cBrain we do our utmost to be trustworthy, responsible and ambitious in all business acOur policies to ensure Where do we come from ers to set a higher level of transparency, data tivities that we undertake. Integrity is essential responsible business accessibility and archiving rules to ensure that and where do we go next? “what should and could be shared also would”. if we want to make a positive impact on the The Ten Principles of the UN Global Comworld. This part of the report, therefore, assesses how we conduct responsible business. pact offers guidelines for how companies can In 2018, Denmark ranked as #1 on the UN In 2019 we have strenthend our solutions even conduct responsible business. The principles E-Government survey. The basis of this success more towards heliping societies become more are split into four sub-areas, which are huFor us, the very basis of conducting responis the creation of national standards of digital inclusive and open to all. Here’s examples how. man rights, labour rights, environment, and sible business is to comply with all applicable solutions and public-private partnerships for anti-corruption. national and international laws. Further, it is the development of software and implemen•  Accessability for disabled users. With important for us to contribute positively to both tation. The first Danish national digitisation the major F2 version 7 release, cBrain is We have incorporated these sub-areas into our our internal and external environments beyond initiative, released in 1996, pointed towards introducing support for disabled and blind way of doing business and this is reflected on what is required from us by law. Our policies, standards for case processing and data control users, enabling them to perform case manthe next page. which are based on the UN Ten Principles and to increase government work quality and effiagement with the F2 system. This ensures cBrain’s core values, reflect this responsibility. ciency. Based on this work, we have continuousequal rights and opportunities for disabled To make sure that we continue to be ambitious we have established a CSR committee with dedicated resources led by the CEO and SDG 16 monitored by the CFO. The board of cBrain Promote peaceful and inclusive societies will oversee the activities of this committee to for sustainable development, provide access ensure that cBrain continues to act responsibly to justice for all and build effective, accountand pursue a business strategy, which is in line able and inclusive institutions at all levels. with the goal of SDG 16. 8 9 Initiatives and goals 2020 2019 2020 ACTING In 2019 we have implemented our Code of Conduct to • Our diversity policy to communicate that we have an The Supplier Code of Conduct initiative established in ensure that all employees have clear guidelines detailing active focus on diversity when hiring and promoting 2019 has been well accepted amongst vendors and RESPONSIBLE how to act responsibly. The Code of Conduct has become employees. with positive feedback. We will in 2020 continue and Human Rights an integrated part of our onboarding programme, inclufinalize the implementation of the Supplier Code of ding teaching and testing new employees to ensure their • As a part of our health policy, we now offer all Conduct and incorporate the Code in Vendor selection Labour Rights understanding and compliance with the policy. Furthermore, employees a free vaccination against influenza. processes. Environment we have initiated a yearly brush-up session and test for • As we are expanding internationally we have all employees to check the levels of awareness and knowcBrain has invested significantly in resources in Anti-corruption developed and implemented a separate tax policy to securing that F2 can be used by disabled people. This ledge of cBrains Code of Conduct and relevant policies. establish principles and guidelines for the company’s has been recognized in Germany, where F2 now has During 2019 all employees were invited to a CSR actions in relation to tax issues. been approved by the “Mitarbeiterratt”. cBrain will in workshop where everyone could share their view and • The Supplier Code of Conduct has been created to 2020 continue to invest in this field in order to follow ideas on how cBrain can act even more responsible. ensure that all suppliers to cBrain act in a responsible international standards. In 2019 we have developed and implemented different manner by integrating social, ethical, and environpolicies and activities, eg. mental standards. ENVIRONMENTAL To reduce the negative effect that our transportation has F2 is designed to support paperless work and thereby optimizing settings. Regarding food waste, we will on the environment we have given our employees the reducing the use of paper. cBrain will strengthen the enhance the existing arrangement where employees can CARE opportunity to use electrical bikes free of charge when focus on this dimension in our implementation models bring spare food home after work by systemizing and Environment they are travelling within working hours. and thereby help customers to save paper. We will supporting the process and tools, and thereby ensure reduce our internal use of paper by campaigns and less food waste. EMPLOYMENT We have established cUniversity as a platform for 110 and DIN EN ISO 9241-11 and hereby made sure In 2020 we will further strengthen our training platform cBrain will continue to support high availability to make education for employees, partners and F2 expert centhat barriers to use F2 is low. – cUniversity – helping onboarding customers, emplosure that barriers for users to get the full advantage of CONDITIONS trers. In this regard, we have used considerable resouryees and partners to cBrains methods and tools such F2 is a low as possible. ces on the development of our introduction program for We have developed and implemented an employee as Digitial Bureaucracy Model, Step Diagramming, The Labour Rights handbook which provides employees with all the necesWe will improve our headquarter office space to new employees. This is to ensure that all employees are Wave implementation model, cWays tools etc., and Human Rights aware of what is expected of them and have a good sary information they need to act in line with our values hereby making sure, that the power of the F2 universe provide a better indoor climate for our employees understanding of how to act appropriately. and regulations. is released resulting in increased efficiency, transparenand visitors. We will reduce noise and our ventilation cy and job satisfaction. system will be improved. cBrain spend significant resources on securing high To ensure the wellbeing of our employees we have staravailability to F2 and have tested F2 up against stanted offering all employees a free vaccination against dards like DIN EN ISO 9241-171, DIN EN ISO 9241influenza. SDG As 2018 was the year where we positioned ourselof Conduct and relevant policies. In 2020 we will launch initiatives focusing on Africa ves in relation to the SDG’s, in 2019 we focused on and Eastern Europe to promote building accountable AWARENESS making sure, that the organisation understands how we • Inviting all employees to a CSR workshop where everyand transparent institutions by the use of digitalisation one was given the chance to share their view and INITIATIVES as a company contribute to a sustainable development ideas on how cBrain can act even more responsible. based on the Digital Bureaucracy Model. and which responsibilities we take upon ourselves to SDG’s act responsible. We have been doing so by creating In 2020 we will continue to educate new employees, Furthermore, we have been hosting delegations with having SDG’s events and performing a yearly brush-up internal educational and informative initiatives, fx: high ranking officers and politicians and attending and test of the Code of Conduct. • Integrating the Code of Conduct to our onboarding meetings with foreign countries visiting Denmark. We programme, including teaching and testing new have been giving lectures on “The Danish Model” and We will be participating in workgroups addressing employees to ensure their understanding and complihow Denmark has become a leader in public sector how digitalization can act as a lever to support the ance with the policy. digitalisation and how our commitment to SDG 16 can implementation of the SDG’s. help to create strong public institutions. cBrain has du• Initiating a yearly brush-up session for all employees ring 2019 hosted delegations from Ukraine, Rumania, of the Code of Conduct as well as formal testing the UAE, Thailand, Indonesia, Israel etc. levels of awareness and knowledge of cBrains Code PROTECTION ISAE 3000 is implemented. ISAE 3000 is the standard ISAE 3402 is implemented on selected, relevant ISAE 3402 are to be further implemented. for assurance over non-financial information and the processes. ISAE 3402 is an international service OF CUSTOMER standard consists of guidelines for the ethical behavior, organization assurance standard provided by accounCyber Risc program to be extended. RIGHTS quality management and performance of an ISAE tants. It is documenting that a service organisation has 3000 engagement. Generally, ISAE 3000 is applied adequate internal controls. Human Rights for audits of internal control, sustainability and compliance with laws and regulations. Yearly IS0 27001 assessment passed. KNOWLEDGE By offering student jobs and internships, we are contribDevelopment of norms and standards within digitalisaIn 2020 we will continue to take active participation in We will continuously contribute to our surrounding uting to educating the future workforce. tion through political work and knowledge sharing. advisory boards to ensure that educational institutions society with events, talks, lectures, articles and book SHARING educate students within relevant fields of expertise. publishing to share our knowledge and learnings of We continuously contribute to our surrounding society cBrain has hosted delegations from Ukraine, Rumania, We will also continue the development of norms and digitalisation. Sustainable Society with events, talks, lectures, articles and book publishing UAE, Thailand, Indonesia, Israel etc. and participated in standards within digitalisation through political work Building to share our knowledge and learnings of digitalisation. one-on-one meetings with small groups of high-ranking and knowledge sharing. cBrain is actively engaged in officers from several countries focusing on the theme The Confederation of Danish Industry and The Danish Active participation in advisory boards to ensure that “The Danish model” and how Denmark has become the educational institutions educate students within relevant IT association. leading country in e-government and cBrains contribufields of expertise. We participate in advisory boards tion to and experience from this journey. at University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen Business School, IT University of Copenhagen and Technical University of Copenhagen. 10 11 Internal assessment based on the ESG Standards ESG STANDARD 2019 2018 REFERENCES ESG STANDARD 2019 2018 REFERENCES ENVIRONMENT (E) S7 Injury Rate Total number of injuries and fatalities, relative 0 0 E1 GHG Emissions to the total workforce (%) Annual amount of GhG emissions at headquarters (tons CO2) 94,7 98,6 S8 Global Health & Safety E2 Emissions Intensity Does the company follow an occupational health and/or Yes Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies Annual amount of GhG emissions per million euro of 7,4 8,9 global health & safety policy? (Health Policy) revenue produced (tons / MEUR) S9 Child & Forced Labor E3 Energy Usage Does the company follow a child and/or forced labor policy? Yes Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies Total amount of energy consumed at headquaters (MWh) 532,6 584,8 Does the company’s child and/or forced labor policy also (Fair Labour Practices Policy) E4 Energy Intensity cover suppliers and vendors? Yes – Total direct energy usage per output scaling factor N/A N/A S10 Human Rights E5 Energy Mix Does the company follow a human rights policy? Yes Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies By quantifying the specific energy sources most directly N/A N/A (Human Rights Policy) Does the company’s human rights policy also cover Yes – used by the company suppliers and vendors? E6 Water Usage Annual amount of water consumed at headquarters (m3) 858,6 599,9 Annual amount of water reclaimed at headquarters (m3) 0 0 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (G) E7 Environmental Operations G1 Board Diversity Does the company follow a formal Environmental Policy? Yes Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies Total board seats occupied by women (%) 20 0 (Environmental Policy) Does the company follow specific waste, water, energy, No No Commitee chairs occupied by women (%) 50 0 and/or recycling polices? Does the company use a recognized energy management No No G2 Board Independence system? Does company prohibit CEO from serving as board chair? Yes Yes Total board seats occupied by independents (%) 40 60 E8 Climate Oversight / Board Does the Board of Directors oversee and/or manage No No G3 Incentivized Pay climate-related risks? Are company executives formally incentivized to perform No No on ESG metrics? E9 Climate Oversight / Management Does the Senior Management Team oversee and/or No No G4 Collective Bargaining manage climate-related risks? Total enterprise headcount covered by collective bargaining 0 0 agreement(s) (%) E10 Climate Risk Mitigation – – Annual investment in climate-related infrastructure, resilience G5 Supplier Code of Conduct and product development Are the company’s vendors or suppliers required to follow Yes No www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies a Code of Conduct? (Supplier Code of Conduct) What percentage of the company’s suppliers have formally 50 – SOCIAL (S) certified their compliance with the code? (%) G6 Ethics & Anti-Corruption S1 CEO Pay Ratio Does the company follow an Ethics and/or Anti-Corruption Yes Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies CEO total compensation to median FTE total compensation 3,67 : 1 5,02 : 1 * Note* Average FTE total compensation policy? (Bribery and Anti-corruption Policy) was used in 2018 Does the company report this metric in regulatory filings? No No What percentage of the company’s workforce has formally 79 – S2 Gender Pay Ratio Note** A  verage male and female certified their compliance with the policy? (%) Median male salary to median female salary 1,32 : 1 1,48 : 1 ** salery was used in 2018 G7 Data Privacy S3 Employee Turnover Does the company follow a Data Privacy policy? Yes Yes Full-time employees turnover ratio (%) 14 19 Has the company taken steps to comply with GDPR rules? Yes Yes Part-time employees turnover ratio (%) 40 – G8 ESG Reporting Contractors/consultants turnover ratio (%) 17 – Does the company publish a sustainability report? Yes Yes This report is our sustainability Is sustainability data included in the company’s regulatory Yes Yes report of 2019 S4 Gender Diversity Total enterprise headcount held by women (%) 38 34 filings? Entryand midlevel positions held by women (%) 40 – G9 Disclosure Practices Does the company provide sustainability data to Yes Yes The UNGC framework is reflected Seniorand executive-level positions held by women (%) 25 – sustainability reporting frameworks? in this report S5 Temporary Worker Ratio Does the company focus on specific UN Sustainable Yes Yes Total enterprise headcount held by part-time employees (%) 9 – Development Goals (SDGs)? Total enterprise headcount held by contractors and/or 5 – Does the company set targets and report progress on No No consultants (%) the UN SDGs? S6 Non-Discrimination G10 External Assurance Does the company follow a sexual harassment and/or Yes Yes www.cbrain.com/about/csr/policies Are the company’s ESG disclosures assured or validated by No No non-discrimination policy? (Diversity Policy/Fair Labour Practices Policy) a third party? 12 13 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS Risks Risks We strongly believe that diversity contributes to ensuring quality Our point of departure is Denmark, where legal requirements and innovation in all of our activities. The company has almost for employee rights are high and the cultural context both values doubled its size measured in headcount in 2 years, and we and demands fair treatment. This means that all of our activities acknowledge that this demands a strong leadership and manand internal processes are designed to fulfil these requirements agement focus to strengthen and promote diversity in relation to and expectations. The cultural context has enabled us to adopt a gender, ethnicity and cultural differences. We will, therefore, value-based leadership style, which empowers our employees to work to incorporate high levels of diversity in our operations. act independently. Furthermore, we mainly hire highly educated personnel and this means that we need to offer competitive pay, As our products are dealing with citizens’ data it is important that benefits and working conditions to be able to attract the talent we focus on protecting these individuals from having their data that we need to deliver high quality services and products. misused or leaked to third parties. This risk is central for our operations, as public institutions need to be able to trust our products The main risk concerning labour rights is that we fail to uphold our and services. To ensure quality we allocate substantial resources high standards when we hire personnel or engage with external to product development. stakeholders outside of Denmark’s borders. The level of this risk will increase as we continue to explore new geographical markets Policy in line with our business strategy. Up until now, we have had very few employees and partners operating abroad, but we expect that cBrain fully supports and respects all parts of The Universal this number will increase significantly in the coming years. Declaration of Human Rights. This means that all internal, external, direct and indirect activities performed by cBrain must be in Policy alignment with the declaration. cBrain will neither directly or indirectly be complicit in treatment cBrain acts in line with The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of labour which is not in line with principle 3, 4, 5 and 6 of The and, therefore, treats all stakeholders fairly and does not engage Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. F2 and Digital Bureaucracy in any discriminatory behaviour. We commit ourselves to give our employees the best possible cBrain will only engages with suppliers who comply with The working conditions by continuously evaluating work processes Universal Declaration of Human Rights. and following industry trends for employee benefits. ANTI-CORRUPTION We are actively working towards promoting a culture in cBrain that embraces a healthy balance between work and private life. A fast track building block to the next generation digital government institution We believe that we are only able to develop and deliver innovaRisks tive products of high quality if all our employees are motivated. We are working to help governmental institutions deliver value To create a culture of creativity and innovation, all employees to their citizens. It is, therefore, important that we have high must feel confident in raising their ideas and concerns. We have, standards for how to act with integrity. Since 2012, Denmark has therefore, adopted a flat company structure where it is the quality ranked as either number one or two on the Corruption Percepof the argument rather than the title of the position that counts. tions Index performed by Transparency International. This means that we operate within a context where the threat of corruption is at its lowest. However, it does not mean that we should underestiENVIRONMENT mate the importance of ensuring that we are not complicit in any forms of corruption. Risks Our risk of effecting the environment negatively is relatively As we expand our activities to new markets, we are operating low due to the nature of our products and services. Digitisation within new contexts and cultures, where we can’t automatically limits paper usage in work processes and our products, thereexpect the same level of high standard, and thus, we need to be fore, contribute to a positive development in reducing resource aware and continuously take measures to ensure our integrity. consumption. Policy Policy We distance ourselves in all of our activities from any form of We commit ourselves to having the minimum possible impact on corruption. We will not be complicit in either direct or indirect the environment. In all of our business activities the environmental corruption. impact of our actions should be recognised and minimised. We will not be involved in bribery or any other form of activities In cBrain we support a precautionary approach to environmenthat will unfairly benefit us or any other actors. tal challenges. We do not conduct cost-saving initiatives which We do not perform activities that undermine market competition. compromise environmental responsibility. We do not perform aggressive tax calculations or use transfer We are raising awareness about environmental challenges pricing to avoid paying taxes in any country. through committing our suppliers to act in line with principles 7, 8 and 9 of The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. We are committed to delivering a product of high quality that creates transparent and accountable organisations. This is the very basis of ensuring an environmental development, since without transparency or accountability no actors can be held responsible for their actions. 14 15 Our Danish Customers Danish Business Authority Danish Ministries Unions and Agency of Family Law Organisations Ministry of Employment Active Patient Support – Across Four Regions Danish Union of Teachers Ministry of Industry, Business and Financial Affairs The Evangelical Lutheran Church Danish Unemployment Funds – The Deaneries Ministry of Finance Danish Psychological Association Gentofte Municipality Ministry of Ecclesiastical Affairs Danish Union of Social Counsellors State of Greenland Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities Djøf – Union for Graduates in IT University of Copenhagen Social Sciences, Business and Law. Ministry of Environment and Food of Denmark Copenhagen Municipality Danish Association of Occupational – International House, Copenhagen Therapists Ministry of Taxation Environmental Protection Agency Danish Association of Pharmacologists Ministry of Social Affairs and the Interior Agency for Modernisation The Danish National Union of Upper The Prime Minister’s Office Secondary School Teachers Odsherred Municipality Ministry of Transport and Housing Danish Diet and Nutrition Association The Ombudsman for Greenland Ministry of Higher Education Danish Medical Association and Science The Ombudsman for The Faroe Islands The Social Democratic Party of Denmark Ministry of Foreign Affairs Roskilde University Ministry of Immigration and Integration Rudersdal Municipality The National Board of Social Services Private Sector Companies Agencies, Municipalities Agency for Governmental IT Services and Other Authorities Agency for Governmental Administration The Danish Bar and Law Society Danish Agency for International Beierholm – State Authorised Auditing Recruitment and Integration Danish Labour Court Nilfisk – Manufacturing Company Danish Maritime Authority Rail Denmark Rambøll Management Consulting Agency for Development and Agency for Digitisation Simplification Danish Meteorological Institute Vestforsyning Water and Heating Danish Energy Agency Vordingborg Municipality Internationally we have customers and projects in the governmental and public sector in North America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, Germany and France. www.cbrain.com · info@cbrain.com · Nasdaq symbol: CBRAIN
