P010-E655 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Editorial Policy The Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 is a summary of corporate strategies, business activities, and financial and non-financial information provided to help shareholders and investors better understand the measures we are implementing to increase the Shimadzu Group’ s medium and long-term corporate value. The report is revised each year, not only to provide a dialogue with shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders but also to respond as far as possible to their valuable opinions and requests. This year, the report includes a summary of corporate activities based on Shimadzu’ s corporate philosophy “Contributing to Society through Science and Technology,” with the content organized based on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) activities. Thank you for taking time to read the report. Starting from page 15, more detailed information about the content of the ESG report is available from the website. To access the Shimadzu website, use the URL indicated by “ For more details, refer to the website.” at the upper right of the page. The icons are located next to the title at the top to make it easier to determine whether each measure described Contributing to Society through in the ESG report falls under the category of an environment (E), social (S), or governance (G) activity, or a CSV or CSR measure. Science and Technology Example of E S G CSV CSR icons displayed: Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR It all started with an insatiable thirst for science and technology and a firm resolve about what was necessary for the future of Japan. Around 1875, about 140 years ago, founder Genzo Shimadzu Sr. began manufacturing physics and CONTENTS chemistry instruments needed during that era, while also learning about the latest technologies. That marked the beginning of our history as the Shimadzu Corporation. 2 Contributing to Society through 37 Governance Repor t Science and Technology The resolve of our predecessors, in the early period after Shimadzu was founded, to supply what 38 Policy on Corporate Governance customers needed is still carried on to this day and shows itself in our current determination to use 5 Advancements Based on Creating Shared Value 39 Corporate Governance 7 Message from the President science and technology to meet the needs of society and customers and contribute to a more 43 Corporate Ethics and Compliance 13 Contribution to SDGs through Business Activities prosperous, safer, and more secure society. Therefore, it can be said that our history is a history of 45 Profiles of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members contributing to society. 15 Environmental Report 47 Messages from Outside Directors Today, science and technology is increasingly important for solving the progressively more diversified 16 Policy for Environmental Management and complex challenges of society. 17 Solving Challenges of Society through Business (CSV) 49 Business Over view and Result s Consequently, we will continue to make tireless efforts to acquire new knowledge and skills and Environment/Energy ■Providing Products and Services in Response to 50 Business Portfolio contribute to society by providing solutions for creating new things and achieving things no one has Environmental Regulations and Next-Generation 51 Analytical & Measuring Instruments Business ever accomplished before. Energy Trends 55 Medical Systems Business 19 Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) 57 Industrial Machinery Business Environmental Protection 59 Aircraft Equipment Business 61 Integrated Organization that Fosters Innovation 23 Social Report 63 Key Financial and Non-Financial Data over the Past 24 Involvement with Stakeholders Eleven Years 65 Financial Statements 25 Solving Challenges of Society through Business (CSV) Healthcare 67 Basic Information Founder Successor ■Creating Innovative Products and Services for a Wide Genzo Shimadzu Sr. Genzo Shimadzu Jr. Range of Fields, Such as Prevention, Diagnosis, Treatment, and Prognosis Management ■Starting a Business for Supporting Development of Therapeutic Drugs for Alzheimer’s Disease 29 Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) Customer Satisfaction Utilizing Human Resources Supply Chain Management Grant activities 1 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 2 Contributing to Society through Science and Technology Corporate Philosophy Management Principle CSR Charter Striving to “Become a Company that Builds the Foundation for a Corporate Philosophy Contributing to Society through Science and Technology Prosperous, Safe, and Secure Society Management Principle and is Needed” Realizing Our Wishes for the Well-being of Throughout the over 140 years since Shimadzu was founded in 1875, the challenges of society have become progressively more diversified and complex but Shimadzu has Mankind and the Earth remained steadfastly dedicated to solving those challenges, building the foundations for a prosperous, safe, and secure society, and achieving a society needed by stakeholders, based on our corporate philosophy and management principle. CSR Charter Create a Brighter Future —Solve societal challenges while working towards harmony between the earth, society, and people.— Based on Shimadzu’ s corporate philosophy “Contributing to Society through Science and Technology” and management principle “Realizing Our Wishes for the Well-being of Mankind and the Earth,” Shimadzu is committed to supplying products and services that meet the requirements and solve the progressively more diversified and complex challenges of society and to achieving harmony with the global society, by utilizing the extensive wealth of technologies and expertise cultivated over many years of conducting business. To earn the trust of customers, shareholders, business partners, employees, local communities, and other stakeholders and achieve sustainable growth and development for Shimadzu businesses and society, Shimadzu will engage in company activities and fulfill social responsibilities based on two principles—solve the challenges of society through business operations and engage in activities as a responsible member of society. Corporate To achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value in the medium Governance and long-term, we shall establish and improve corporate management systems that ensure management transparency and fairness, and that enable quick and bold decision-making and implementation of measures. Practicing Shimadzu shall practice the following: 1. contribute to society, 2. ensure Corporate actions are fair and transparent, 3. respect human rights, 4. protect the global Social environment, and 5. maintain and build relationships with stakeholders Responsibility (customers, shareholders, business partners, employees, and local communities). Accountability Shimadzu shall disclose information about company activities in a timely, appropriate, and fair manner and cultivate a deeper mutual understanding through dialogue with stakeholders. 3 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 4 Contributing to Society through Science and Technology 2014 Early Detection Advancements Based on Creating 2010 of Cancers Shared Value Development of Testing Instruments for Clinical Samples Developed a dedicated breast PET system Shimadzu has continued to grow and develop by 1978 The Elmammo, Japan’ s first dedicated breast PET system Developed a Japan’s developed by Shimadzu, offers constantly using advanced technologies to satisfy Safety and Efficacy first triple quadrupole about two times the resolution and about ten times the mass spectrometer sensitivity of whole body PET of Pharmaceuticals customer needs and solve the challenges of society As a leading manufacturer of systems and is capable of behind those needs. 1961 Completed a modular high-performance liquid chromatograph mass spectrometers, Shimadzu is visualizing cancers as small as about 5 mm. First liquid chromatograph (LC) expanding the scope of clinical in Reduction of system applications, such as for neonatal Japan mass screening or Radiation Exposure By using a new pumping method pharmacokinetic monitoring. 1957 that was not previously available in Japan, the system offered dramatically higher analytical Developed a Advancement of remote-controlled X-ray accuracy and easier operability. The modular configuration 1909 the Petrochemical fluoroscopy system that enabled the system to satisfy a Industry introduced a new era wide variety of needs. It First contributed to full-scale research in in diagnostic X-ray (Billion yen) Advancement and and development activities at Japan 4,000 Successfully commercialized imaging pharmaceutical companies that 1897 Widespread Use of Medical Devices a general-purpose gas chromatograph Operating the system from a separate room reduced the needed to ensure the safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products. radiation exposure to physicians In 1956, Shimadzu completed and technologists. First Need for a Reliable Completed a medical Japan’ s first gas chromatograph. The in 3,500 1882 Power Supply X-ray device next year, a successfully First Japan commercialized system was delivered in the In 1909, Shimadzu completed the as an advanced product to Japanese world first medical X-ray device made in Widespread Use and Started manufacturing Japan. Two years later, Shimadzu petroleum companies. That system was exhibited at the Chemical Society Advancement in Physics storage batteries manufactured a large X-ray system of Japan, where it attracted strong 3,000 and Chemistry Instruments powered by an AC power supply. interest and contributed to the In 1897, successor Genzo Shimadzu Such systems, delivered to the Otsu growth and advancement of the Jr. created a prototype storage Red Cross Hospital, for example, Japanese petrochemical industry battery commissioned by the College made Shimadzu the leader at the Supplied state-of-the-art during its early growth period. of Science and Engineering at the dawn of medical X-ray systems in educational equipment First 2,500 Kyoto Imperial University, which had Japan. in Business expanded to the point been dependent on imported Japan that Shimadzu’ s product batteries. Shimadzu successfully First catalog published in 1882 created a stationary storage battery in (entitled “Science Equipment in 1904. Japan Catalog List” ) listed 110 2,000 physics and other products. 1,500 1,000 Formation of limited company 500 Established in the Kiyamachi-Nijo district of Kyoto (FY) 1875 1917 1945 1950 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2018 N e t S al e s Note: Values are indicated on an unconsolidated basis until FY 1999 and on a consolidated basis from FY 2000. 5 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 6 Contributing to Society through Science and Technology M e s s ag e f ro m th e Pre sid e nt U s i n g S c i e n c e a n d Te c h n o l o g y t o In 2017, we also added a CSR charter to our basic S o l v e P r o g r e s s i v e l y M o r e D i v e r s i fi e d philosophy. The charter is a declaration of Shimadzu’s commitment to solving actual customers challenges and and Complex Challenges of Society Committed to Creating Shared Value for Set t in g L o n g Ter m C SV an d C SR G o als f o r challenges of society (potential customer challenges) by promoting business activities that are consistent with both solving the challenges of society through business Both Shimadzu and Society by Using A c h iev in g a Saf e an d Sec u re So c iet y operations (i.e. CSV, which is strategic CSR) and with engaging in activities as a responsible member of Innovative and Advanced Science and Society faces mounting challenges that are posing a global threat to sustainable growth, issues such as society (fundamental CSR). Given the mixture of risks and opportunities in our increasing climate change across the globe, business environment, and while constantly Technology to Solve Challenges of Society microplastics, and other environmental problems, ensuring safe water and public health, and maintaining re-evaluating our significance as a company, we endeavor to use science and technology to solve the urban infrastructure. progressively more diversified and complex challenges Teruhisa Ueda Companies are now increasingly expected to fulfill of society by building the foundation for achieving a diverse roles and responsibilities, such as achieving the prosperous, safe, and secure society in the long term. Representative Director, President & CEO United Nations’ sustainable development goals (SDGs) We aim to become a company needed and trusted by and complying with the Paris Agreement on climate customers and society and have therefore drawn up a change and disclosing the associated information. medium-term management plan for the purpose of Throughout the over 140 years since Shimadzu was achieving that goal. founded in 1875, we have remained committed to Activities intended for achieving those long-term goals creating a better society, by identifying core have always been and will continue to be based on the characteristics of societal challenges and confronting unwavering philosophy that constantly underlies those challenges head-on from a scientific perspective everything we do and which we are confident will result based on Shimadzu’s corporate philosophy in achieving SDGs. “Contributing to Society through Science and Technology” and management principle “Realizing Our Wishes for the Well-being of Mankind and the Earth.” Analysis of External Business Environment Factors Major Trends in Challenges of Society Important Issues that should be Addressed by Shimadzu (Overall Materiality) Striving to “Become a Important Growth Fields Company that Builds the Foundation for a Prosperous, Safe, and Secure Society Medium-Term Management Plan and is Needed” FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 Established the CSR Charter. 7 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 8 Contributing to Society through Science and Technology Solving Challenges of Society and major trends in the challenges (risks) of society that life expectancy and mitigating rapidly rising medical beta-amyloid has gained attention as a factor related to Becoming a Company Needed by could undermine its ability to achieve sustainable costs around the world. In the infrastructure field, we Alzheimer’s disease, the analysis uses a method Stakeholders growth. Then themes predicted to increase corporate are developing systems for inspecting aging established by Shimadzu that can detect beta-amyloid value were selected based on using the 17 SDGs and infrastructure, such as bridges, roads, and tunnels that levels in a single drop of blood. Transitioning from Manufacturing to Organic 169 targets to rank the themes in terms of both were built many decades ago, so that we can achieve a Combinations of People, Machinery, Data, and strategic CSR and fundamental CSR. (For more details, safe and secure society. In the materials and Creating Innovation with Partners from Systems refer to pages 13 and 14.) All the themes were also environmental/energy fields, we are focusing efforts on Around the World linked to the medium-term management plan for developing equipment to support research into the Industries are currently undergoing dramatic changes. implementation. practical use of lightweight materials that can reduce From Open Innovation to Practical Implementation With the rapid advancements in the utilization of new Our goal is to become a company that is needed by energy consumption and research into renewable technologies, such as artificial intelligence (AI) and the stakeholders, by solving challenges of society that are energies, as a measure to address global warming by In order to anticipate the future, acquire advanced internet of things (IoT), there is increasing demand for becoming progressively more diversified and complex reducing carbon dioxide emissions. technologies, and offer revolutionary new businesses, it creating new value by organically combining people, with the passage of time. is essential to engage in ambitious research and machinery, data, and systems. Achieving Ultra-Early Diagnosis and Early Treatment in development. Therefore, as one way of promoting the In addition to existing businesses based on selling Steadily Moving toward Achieving the Healthcare Field creation of new value, we are actively involved in joint current products, Shimadzu intends to create shared Medium-Term Management Plan Targets research and open innovation projects with universities, value for both society and our business by combining As one example in the healthcare field, we intend to use research institutions, companies, and other external products, services, and application technologies to Focusing Efforts in Growth Fields advanced science and technology to offer ultra-early organizations. One example in Japan is a broad create systems useful for solving the challenges of diagnosis that can prevent a disease from becoming cooperation agreement with Kyoto Prefecture to society we face and implementing those systems. The slogan for the medium-term management plan (FY more severe and provide an opportunity for early develop an Innovation City, where we have started Therefore, we identified a broad range of measures for 2017 to FY 2019) is to “Become a Company That Solves treatment. One specific measure is for Alzheimer’s collaborating on ten themes, including research and solving challenges of society as themes that Challenges in Society in Collaboration with Partners All disease, which is attracting increasing attention around development of brain function analysis technologies. management should prioritize. First of all, we extended Around the World.” In that context, four growth fields the world. Though progress is being made around the Similarly, we signed a basic technical agreement with the scope of the themes to include future issues. Then were identified in terms of strategic CSR (healthcare, world on developing therapeutic drugs for Alzheimer’s, Yamaguchi Prefecture, Yamaguchi City, and Yamaguchi those themes consistent with our corporate philosophy, infrastructure, materials, and environmental/energy there is still a long way to go. Therefore, in order to University to cooperate on themes such as technology management principle, and CSR Charter and consistent fields), and we are currently investing actively and accelerate the development of therapeutic drugs, we for promoting health. Work on residual pesticide in with our current business areas of human health, safety implementing measures in those areas. started a contract analysis service business in 2018 for cooperation with Miyazaki Prefecture was awarded the and security of society, and industrial development, In the healthcare field, we are developing ultra-early analyzing beta-amyloid in blood for pharmaceutical First Japan Open Innovation Prize by the Minister of were selected from an ESG perspective, looking at detection and diagnostic solutions for extending healthy companies and research institutions. Given that Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Through such ■ Identifying Important Themes that should be Prioritized Major Trends in Challenges of Society Shimadzu’ s Philosophy and Business Areas I m p o r t a n t T h e m e s (O ve ra ll M a t e ria li t y) Corporate Philosophy CSR (Fundamental CSR) CSV (Strategic CSR) Value Provided by CSV Hunger/poverty Contributing to Society through Science and Technology ■Protection of natural environment Health/welfare Management Principle ■Solving region-specific environmental problems, Realizing Our Wishes for the Well-being of Mankind and the Earth E Environmental protection Environment/energy such as air, water, or soil pollution ■Supplying analytical/measuring instruments and Education CSR Charter Environment industrial machinery for supporting renewable Create a Brighter Future energy development —Solve societal challenges while working towards harmony Gender between the earth, society, and people.— Materials Infrastructure Customer Human resource Business Areas satisfaction development ■Extending healthy life expectancy Energy ■Supplying appropriate healthcare Supply chain management S Healthcare ■Food safety Respect for Information ■Diagnostics for aging infrastructure Resource recycling Society human rights security Human health ■Supplying measuring instruments that help Harmony with local communities improve efficiency, safety, and reliability Climate change Science and technology Corporate governance Biodiversity Safety and security G Compliance ■Always engaging in highly fair and transparent Industrial Governance business practices Peace and justice of society development Accountability etc. 9 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 10 Contributing to Society through Science and Technology activities, we intend to promote systems that solve and which were not, and then continue striving to ■Model for Creating Value challenges of society and help contribute to revitalizing achieve the targets set in the medium-term rural areas. management plan by demonstrating a strong In order to rapidly identify market trends and various determination to finish the plan to completion. In Become an Organization Even More needs in different regions around the world, we have addition, to prepare the Shimadzu Group for the world Needed by Customers and Society established a global network based on four key ten and thirty years from today, we will boldly take on Innovation Centers. By strengthening partnerships the challenge of implementing new measures and around the world, we aim to promote joint research and managing businesses with a determination and resolve Value to Creation of Value to joint development work intended to solve local to carve out our own future with our own hands. society shared value Shimadzu challenges and improve quality for all stages of the product life cycle, such as marketing/market surveying, Shimadzu Capitalization Policy product design/development, production, and aftermarket service, or offer systems that are a Achieving the Optimal Capital Structure and combination of these. After creating such innovations, Strengthening Investment in Future Growth Safety and an important issue for us is to ensure the resulting Human Industrial security of technologies are actually adopted in society. Our basic capitalization policy is to strive to achieve the health development society optimal capitalization structure for the company’s Strengthening the Management Base in needs, in terms of financial health, capital efficiency, Preparation for the Future while also optimizing the balance between investment in growth for the company’s future and providing a Using the Time Savings from Working Practice return to shareholders and employees. One of the key Reforms to Improve Individual Skills quantitative management targets in the current Deploye d globally medium-term management plan is maintaining an ROE We are taking measures and implementing working of ten percent or more. ④ practice reforms, diversity management, health Investment in growth means investment for expanding ③ Develop specific management, and environmental management from market share in growth fields, entering new markets, Generate ideas applications for the perspective of strengthening the management base. cultivating/acquiring new technologies, investment in from new seeds/needs from Working practice reforms are intended to improve capital equipment for further strengthening technical discoveries. Shimadzu-customer productivity. The time-savings generated from those capabilities that serve as a source of competitiveness, or joint research. improvements can be used effectively by improving the engaging in M&A and other investments intended to skills of individuals. Ongoing self-improvement will lead expand/improve our business portfolio. In the current ① ⑤ to increasing individual ability levels. medium-term management plan, investment in growth Promote quick R&D and product development. ② Developing innovative new ideas and technologies into also involves periods beyond the time frame of the ⑤ concrete new business activity will require improving current plan, which means that it can take some time to Promote R&D Develop new both individual skills and organizational capabilities. The produce results. Nevertheless, we are confident these by customer. ① products based cumulative self-improvement of each employee measures will eventually increase corporate value. Supply on seeds/needs. strengthens Shimadzu Group and significantly affects We are targeting a total shareholder return of 30 %. state-of-the-art our growth potential. Cash dividends are determined based on an overall products to the assessment of profits and cash flow while adhering to customer R&D location. Breaking New Records for Net Sales and our basic policy of maintaining stable dividends. Operating Income Maintaining stable dividends means increasing dividends in a stable and sustainable manner without being overly Clearly Identifying Successful and Unsuccessful affected by the results of individual years. We believe Solving customer and Measures. that is the best method for returning profits to Ability to society challenges Demonstrating Strong Determination to Finish to shareholders. Unwavering overcome Completion principles changes We will continue working to achieve sustainable growth For FY 2018, the second year of the medium-term of society and increase medium and long-term Manufacturing capabilities management plan, net sales were 391.2 billion yen, corporate value by continuing to emphasize the R&D capabilities operating income 44.5 billion yen, ordinary income 45.5 corporate philosophy, management principle, and CSR Analytical, measuring, X-ray, vacuum, billion yen, and profit attributable to owners of parent Charter that are our core management principles, by and other technologies was 32.5 billion yen, which all broke previous record ensuring healthy and transparent management practices levels. that take a long-term view, and by utilizing science and Human resources For FY 2019, the final year of the plan, we will carefully technology to deal with the challenges of society review which of the various measures were successful head-on. Corporate culture Prioritizing Appreciating development of original unique ideas and technologies creativity FY 2016 Results Final Year Targets of Medium-Term Management Plan Net sales: 342.5billion yen Operating income: 37.1billion yen Net sales: 400.0billion yen or more Operating income: 45.0billion yen or more Operating margin: 10.8% Overseas sales ratio: 49% ROE: 11.5% Operating margin: 11%or more Overseas sales ratio: 50%or more ROE: 10%or more Strengths of management resources 11 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 12 Contributing to Society through Science and Technology Contribution to SDGs through Business Activities In 2018, we assessed all the contributions made to at the future envisioned by SDGs in 2030. We reviewed Background of Activities Involving SDGs SDGs by our businesses, which confirmed that the our contributions not only for our business activities direction of our businesses is consistent with the thus far, but also in the future, both in terms of CSV direction in which society should take in the future. (strategic CSR) and fundamental CSR. As a result, we 2017 2018 2019 Next, we tried to visualize concretely how our business will accelerate the various initiatives for creating shared Gathered information about Assessed relationship between To the 2018 assessment, we activities would help solve challenges of society, looking value. SDGs and created a plan for SDGs and Shimadzu business added contribution to SDGs achieving understanding activities thus far. Confirmed that and weighted each topic to throughout Shimadzu. the direction of our businesses reassess contribution levels in was consistent with the direction 2030. in which society should change. Distribution of Contribution to SDGs (Change from Past to Future) New Initiatives for the Future ■Promote individualized/preemptive medicine. ■Analysis of biological components and treatment plan for preventive medicine. ■Support the development of How Company Activities Relate to SDGs functionally-enhanced foods. Solving Challenges of Society through Business (CSV) New Initiatives for the Future ■Support the development of Contribution to Society Human Health more efficient renewable energy generation. Value Provided ■Support the development of Supporting longer healthy life expectancy new materials that reduce and providing appropriate healthcare, etc. automobile and aircraft weight. ■Support the development/manufacturing of fuel cells. New Initiatives for the Future ■Inspect infrastructure structural members using Safety and Security Industrial sound and light waves. Business of Society Development ■Develop new sensors Areas based on quantum science. Value Provided Value Provided ■Develop materials inforConserving the natural environment, Support for developing new materials, matics technologies. analyzing food safety and aging support for solving environmental infrastructure, etc. problems in specific regions or developing renewable energies, etc. Legend Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) Past Future Note: SDGs 16 and 17 were excluded because they relate to overall activities. Contribution from Business Activities Applicable to all 13 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 14 For more details, refer to the website. Environmental Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/environmental/management.html E S G CSV CSR Policy for Environmental Management Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Basic Policy As an “eco solution provider,” Shimadzu strives to solve environmental problems and increase corporate value. Given the various increasingly serious environmental problems, such as climate change, resource depletion, and ecosystem destruction, transitioning to a carbon-free and recycling-oriented society will be essential in order to achieve progress and growth toward a sustainable society. Therefore, Shimadzu considers transitioning to a carbon-free and recycling-oriented society as an important management issue. Accordingly, we will use an ISO 14001 environmental management system to implement the follow four activities. We also recognize the importance of disclosing financial information related to climate change (Task Force on Environmental Report Climate-related Financial Disclosures) and will actively disseminate such information. 1. Improve the Environmental-Friendliness 2. Further Reduce the Environmental Impact Shimadzu is engaged in various business activities intended to achieve progress of All Products of Overall Business Processes and growth for a sustainable society by solving a variety of environmental challenges. Constantly improve the energy efficiency and Strive to reduce our environmental impact by reduce the size of all products to minimize their specifying medium and long-term CO 2 emission 16 Policy for Environmental Management 19 Engaging in Activities as environmental impact over the course of the reduction targets for the Shimadzu Group and 17 Solving Challenges a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) entire product life cycle. developing closer partnerships with suppliers to actively increase the use of solar or other of Society through Business (CSV) Environmental Protection —Striving to Minimize Shimadzu’s Global Environmental Impact— renewable energies, reduce the use of Environment/Energy (Climate Change, Water Management, Recycling Resources, Shimadzu Eco-Products Plus Volume hazardous chemical substances, and so on. and Chemical Substances Management) ■Providing Products and Services Electricity in Response to Environmental Regulations and Next-Generation Energy Trends 72％ 25％ Nexera Series Ultra High Performance Liquid Turbomolecular Pump Chromatograph Renewable Energy Use Chemical Substances Effluent Water Management Management 3. Offer Solutions for 4. Engage in Activities that the Environmental Measurement Help Shimadzu Contribute and Alternative Energy Fields to Environmental Conservation Contribute to building a sustainable society by Partner with community groups or educational supplying instruments for environmental testing institutions, for example, to deploy a wide of water, air, soil, and so on, and products and range of activities, such as planting forests to technologies that solve challenges involved in protect biodiversity or holding classes at schools developing new materials and alternative to educate people about the environment. energies for reducing global environmental impact. Contribution to Carbon-Free Society with Solar, Hydrogen, Wind, Environmental Education in Schools Ecosystem Conservation and Other Alternative Power Generation by Forest Maintenance Activities 15 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 16 Environmental Report Solving Challenges of Society through Business (CSV) E S G CSV CSR Environment/Energy Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Providing Products and Services in Response to Environmental Regulations and Next-Generation Energy Trends As societies search for ways to reduce their global environmental impact, stricter regulations are being established regarding products and corporate Society Challenges Contribution to SDGs manufacturing activities. A further challenge is promoting the widespread use of renewable energy as an alternative to burning fossil fuels. Therefore, Shimadzu will continue to develop products that contribute to the UN sustainable The environmental field poses many society challenges. These include the problem of climate change and environmental development goals (SDGs), such as by monitoring for global environment conservation and by supporting the development of renewable energy. pollution such as water and air pollution, which are caused by factors such as population growth, increasing resource and energy consumption, and expanding economic activity. The increasingly severe impact on human health and the economy from such challenges have resulted in stricter environmental regulations in countries around the world. Attention is increasingly being focused on marine pollution caused by microplastic trash. Microplastics are commonly found in Partnering with Others to Respond to Renewable Energy Measures seawater, plankton, inside fish, and elsewhere, but their impact on the environment and ecosystems is still not clear, and the Growing Problem of Microplastics and research is being conducted to determine that impact. Meanwhile, in the energy field, growing global demand is raising Shimadzu uses the technologies and instruments it has expectations for next-generation energy technologies, and the spread of electric vehicles (EVs) is driving investment in the Create New Business Opportunities cultivated as a comprehensive manufacturer of development of next-generation rechargeable batteries and biofuels based on microalgae, for example. In addition to supplying instruments for analyzing and analytical instruments and industrial machinery to help measuring the type and quantity of plastic particles, we customers develop, manufacture, and perform quality are also developing new technology for the assurance for various applications in areas such as simultaneous measurement of both the particle size lithium-ion batteries, fuel cells, solar power generation, Value Oﬀered We supply analytical/measuring instruments and distribution and count concentration using a biomass systems, biofuels, and photocatalyst/artificial industrial machinery to solve environmental problems state-of-the-art dynamic particle image analysis system photosynthesis. for solving environmental pollution caused by For example, we help customers analyze components in and to support renewable energy development. microplastics in oceans and rivers. We are also biofuels during development and help control quality at developing techniques for analyzing hazardous the manufacturing stage. For power generation from substances adhering to the surface of microplastic wood-based biomass, the moisture content of the Satisfying Demands for Expanding Online Make Maintenance Services More particles. We regularly release information about such wood is controlled prior to combustion, and the Environmental Measurement in China Eﬃcient via the Cloud technologies and techniques on our website and presence and quantity of hazardous substances is elsewhere, and have already published the results of measured in the ash after it has been burnt. Even for In China, regulations to reduce emissions of various Shimadzu online total nitrogen and phosphorus collaborative experiments with researchers in the UK, solar power generation, we contribute by providing environmental pollutants have been strengthened year analyzers (TNP analyzers) which are widely used in the Netherlands, Germany, and other countries. analytical data for development and quality assurance by year. China’s Environmental Protection Japan can be used to continuously monitor We will make every effort to help solve these difficult and by supplying turbomolecular pumps used to create Administration mandated, in August 2017, that all measurement data or instrument sensing information challenges from a global perspective, by working in the high vacuum environments essential for manufacturers that emit nitrogen or phosphorous must via the cloud, which means customers can respond to collaboration with experts in Japan and overseas, with manufacturing solar cells. install measuring instruments and data transmission problems quickly and accurately. We also intend to the Shimadzu R&D, marketing, and application Shimadzu will help achieve a sustainable society that equipment. The government contribute to reforming customer working practices by development groups, and with others, such as our has a lower environmental impact with providing our has required continuous offering labor-saving solutions. contract analysis subsidiary Shimadzu Techno-Research. technologies, products, and services. monitoring of volatile organic ent data Cloud Measurem compounds (VOCs) which can Ambient temperatu re cause air pollution due to pts y attem Alarm! r of retr PM2.5 particles. Numb e Absorbance Reagen t level Operating To meet these demands, each substatus of system Shimadzu provides various online measuring instruments for monitoring water quality and gas emissions and provides customers with support in complying with regulations and taking environmental measures. Example of Analyzing Microplastics FTIR Spectrophotometer + Infrared Microscope LCMS-8060 Ultra Fast Liquid Chromatograph Mass Spectrometer VOC-3000F Online VOC Analyzer TNP-4200 Online Total Nitrogen and Phosphorus Analyzer with Infrared Microscope Using for Identification of Microplastics Using for Analyzing Hazardous Substances Adhering to the Surface of Microplastics 17 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 18 For more details, refer to the website. Environmental Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/environmental/data.html Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) E S G CSV CSR Environmental Protection Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Climate Change Measures for Addressing Climate Change Endorsement of TCFD Recommendation Further Reducing CO2 Emissions Reducing Customer CO2 Emissions from Overall Business Processes with Eco-Products Plus Models We consider dealing with environmental problems to be one of our most important management challenges. For climate change in particular, we are involved in reducing CO2 emissions due to our business activities throughout the entire value chain and offer In FY 2018, we reduced the world-wide CO2 emissions As a key measure for environmental management, we products and solutions that generate innovation for environmental and energy fields. of the Shimadzu Group by 9 % to 44,958 t-CO2. We will strengthen measures to reduce our environmental We also disclose information in accordance with the “Final Report: Recommendations even improved emission intensity by 12 % to 115 t-CO2 impact on a global basis. With 114 of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)” published by the per billion yen. environmentally-friendly Eco-Products Plus models Financial Stability Board (FSB) in June 2017. In addition to investments for saving energy, such as released thus far, which are models certified to be 25 % replacing aging air conditioner equipment and installing more energy efficient or 25 % smaller than previous LED lighting, solar power equipment was installed at models, based on Shimadzu’s certification system, we Governance three locations within and outside Japan (at a plant in have reduced customer CO2 emissions by 33,688 tons in Kyoto, a new building in Shimane Prefecture, and a FY 2018. Shimadzu sales representatives promote the As the highest deliberative body for environmental problems, the Environmental Committee, chaired by the President and plant in Malaysia). Group companies in the UK switched reduction in CO2 emissions of Shimadzu products by attended by management level personnel, meets twice a year to identify societal trends, determine Shimadzu’s current to a power company that uses 100 % renewable showing customers the environmental benefits using status, and discuss measures for solving the issues raised. Important matters relevant to Shimadzu environmental energies. Consequently, CO2 emissions decreased software that can compare the CO2 emission and management are decided by the Executive Committee or Board of Directors. despite increasing sales. We have also been installing running cost levels to previous models. Software for smart meters to visualize 30 % of our power usage at each product will be released via the website as it locations in Japan. We plan to increase that to 70 % in becomes available. Climate Change-Related Risks/Opportunities and Strategies FY 2019. We will continue to improve the environmental We specified a medium and long-term target of 30 % friendliness of all products in the future as well, so that Item Response Status reduction in CO2 emissions from our business activities the reduction in product CO2 emissions contributes We are implementing measures to prepare for large typhoons, heavy rain, and other abnormal weather by 2030 (vs 2017) and we have agreed to participate in more than the amount of CO2 gases emitted by events that have been occurring with increasing frequency in recent years. Science Based Targets (SBT), an international initiative Shimadzu Group business activities. For example, we have initiated a business continuity plan that is steadily being implemented. It includes for addressing climate change. To achieve the target, we Measures for measures for immediately establishing a disaster response task force, minimizing damage, and restoring will promote reducing energy consumption, introduce Abnormal Weather operations as quickly as possible in the event of a disaster. The Shimadzu Group is also establishing the use of renewable energies with low CO2 emission capabilities such as confirming the safety of employees, and checking the status of disaster damage to Risks buildings, equipment, information infrastructure, and is diversifying risk by taking out insurances. levels, and so on, within and outside Japan. —Reducing Our Environmental Impact— We have also put in place a support system to help customers that use Shimadzu Analytical & Measuring Shimadzu Eco-Products Plus Instruments or Medical Systems products to resume their business activities quickly and smoothly in the event of a disaster. Electricity Weight ■Shimadzu Group (worldwide) CO2 Emissions from Energy As we transition to a carbon-free society, there is an increasing demand to take even more measures to Measures for a Carbon-Free Society reduce energy consumption and adopt renewable energy to reduce CO2 emissions. The Shimadzu Group will implement measures to achieve this throughout the entire value chain. Target 30% To reduce CO2 emissions caused by business activities, we have set up medium and long-term targets and plans, and are promoting energy conservation and the introduction of renewable energy. We are also （ t-CO 2） 60,000 reduction (vs 2017) （ t-CO 2／billion yen） 300 25％ 72％ Risks and Opportunities 49,398 takings measures to reduce the power consumption of our products, reduce the use of gases, solvents, and 50,000 46,959 250 other consumables, and minimize the use of raw materials by, for example, making the products smaller. 40,000 44,958 200 137 131 30,000 115 150 Given the global impact of future climate change, we believe that the applications and performance 20,000 100 required for analytical instruments and other products will become even more complex and diverse. 10,000 50 As a comprehensive analytical instrument manufacturer, we offer the best possible solutions to customers 0 0 by developing superior products and applications. For example, in the renewable energy field, we provide 2016 2017 2018 2030 （FY） Nexera Series Ultra High TMP-B300 Offering Solutions support for research, development, and quality control for solar or biomass power generation, and for Performance Liquid Chromatograph Turbomolecular Pump Shimadzu Group CO 2 emissions CO 2 emissions per unit of net sales Based on Products improving the efficiency of devices such as lithium-ion batteries and fuel cells. In the materials field, we also and Technologies contribute to the development, manufacture, and quality control of new materials and other items that contribute to a carbon-free society. ■Shimadzu Group CO2 Emissions and Contribution to Reduction in CO2 Emissions Opportunities As part of solving challenges of society, our medium-term management plan identifies （t） “environment/energy” and “materials” as growth fields and we are actively investing in those fields to 50,000 create new business models based on the use of Shimadzu’s technologies. In the future, we will formulate medium and long-term targets and implement measures for making 40,000 environmental contributions based on Shimadzu products and technologies. 30,000 Indicators and Targets ■We intend to reduce CO2 emissions due to business activities 30 % by 2030 (vs 2017). 20,000 A ：Contribution to Reduction in CO2 Emissions ■We will implement measures to reduce the environmental impact of all products throughout 10,000 B ：Shimadzu Group CO2 Emissions their entire life cycle, in an effort to reduce CO 2 emissions throughout the entire value chain, including emissions by customers and suppliers. 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 19 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 20 For more details, refer to the website. Environmental Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/environmental/data.html Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) E S G CSV CSR Environmental Protection Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Climate Change Recycling Resources Contribution of Businesses to Renewable Energy Fields Appropriate Waste Processing and Recycling We are strengthening measures to reduce our environmental impact by promoting businesses in environmental and Due to increased production in response to strong ■Waste Output and Recycle Rates renewable energy fields that reduce global CO2 emissions, to promote business in environmental and renewable energy demand, waste output in FY 2018 increased 1.6 % (Manufacturing, Research, and Major Manufacturing fields, and to reduce our environmental impact. In the renewable energy field, we will implement environmental year-on-year. On the other hand, we continue to maintain Subsidiary Locations in Japan) management measures intended to solve environmental problems and achieve business growth by offering products and a recycling rate over 99 % (99.45 %) by prioritizing reusing （ t） （ %） services that contribute to developing/manufacturing solar cells, researching and developing biomass jet fuel, and resources, such as by selling waste materials as a valuable 99.48 99.56 99.45 6,000 100 manufacturing or evaluating the quality of hydrogen or other alternative energies, for example. resource. Furthermore, we monitor suppliers, including 5,148 5,228 5,000 4,566 98 regular site inspections of waste management vendors, 4,000 96 TOPICS and have established and implemented company regulations intended to ensure compliance with laws and 3,000 94 regulations. 2,000 1,643 1,852 92 Analysis Service for Supporting CCS Technologies for Building a Carbon-Free Society We also strengthened measures to recycle resources in 1,502 1,000 90 cooperation with local communities. For example, the 24 29 Given the serious consequences of climate change throughout the chemical emissions by analyzing the changes that occur when the 22 0 88 demonstration project in cooperation with Kyoto 2016 2017 2018 (FY) world, it is desirable that we transition to a carbon-free society as soon amine-based absorbent solution used to capture CO2 contacts emission as possible. Carbon dioxide capture and storage (CCS) is a technology gases in the CCS pilot plant, which was built as part of a thermal power Prefecture (Study of Model for Efficient Collection of Output of unnecessary items being promoted as a measure to reduce global warming by thermal plant. Shimadzu Techno-Research is also helping to evaluate Waste Using Smart Centers) was ranked sixth among 115 Output of waste power plants and other facilities. It involves collecting CO2 gas emissions environmental impacts with highly accurate analysis of water, air, and projects evaluated by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Quantity eventually landfilled before they are released into the atmosphere and sequestrating them in other environmental samples acquired from the surrounding areas Communications and received an honorable mention prize. Recycle rate a particular underground soil layer. where the emission gases or chemical substances contained in those The Shimadzu Group company Shimadzu Techno-Research has been gases could conceivably have an environmental impact. Through such participating in the Ministry of the Environment Sustainable CCS Project, measures, Shimadzu is contributing to the validation and widespread Chemical Substances Management where it has been involved in determining the risk of hazardous adoption of CCS technologies. Managing the Purchase, Use, and Disposal of Chemical Substances Appropriately ■Challenges for Practical Use of CCS and Shimadzu Analysis Services ■Usage of Substances Reported for PRTR We use a chemical registration information system Note: Total for manufacturing and research locations in Japan Hazardous chemical substances emitted during Requires understanding (CRIS) for managing the procurement, use, and disposal CO2 separation and capture process of about ten thousand chemical substances. It was （ kg ） environmental impact 8,678 9,000 mainly developed by our Group company Shimadzu System Development Corporation to ensure and 6,965 ■Analysis of hazardous chemical substances manage compliance with maintain and manage ISO 6,000 ■Evaluation of environmental 14001. In FY 2018, nickel usage was reduced by 4,043 Thermal power plants, etc. Separation and capture plant impact on air, water, etc. Conservation of Environment/Ecosystem improving the plating process used to manufacture 3,000 ※ CCS：Carbon dioxide Capture and Storage turbomolecular pumps in the Industrial Machinery segment. Such measures reduced the usage of substances 0 reported to the government for PRTR. 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Water Management TOPICS TOPICS Reducing Water Usage ■Water Usage (Manufacturing, Research, and Major Manufacturing Replacing Hazardous Substances Earned a Japan Habitat Evaluation and Managing Effluent Water Appropriately Subsidiary Locations in Japan) with Safer Alternatives and Certification Program By diligently implementing measure to reduce water usage, such （1000m3） （1000m3/billion yen） Group company Shimane Shimadzu reduced the usage of (JHEP Certification) as watering green areas with rain water and using water-efficient 240 221 0.8 environmentally unfriendly toluene by replacing the previous paint 205 202 JHEP Certification which is operated by the Ecosystem fixtures, in FY 2018 we reduced water usage by 1.4 %, thinner used for manufacturing, which contained 52 % toluene, Conservation Society-Japan, is a year-on-year. 180 0.6 with an alternative paint thinner that contains no toluene. program to objectively and 0.64 Similarly, we will continue to work toward establishing and In addition to following regulations and procedures for 0.54 quantitatively evaluate 0.52 improving preventing the release of potential water pollutants into drains 120 0.4 biodiversity conservation or environmentally-friendly and restoration measures. Shimadzu during process steps that involve chemical substances, other sustainable business activities by 60 0.2 has established a Shimadzu equipment was also installed for some processes, such as replacing toluene, xylene, and Forest (8,000 m2) within the neutralization or wastewater treatment equipment. We monitor other hazardous chemical Head Office/Sanjo Works 0 0.0 substances throughout the entire plant effluent water for heavy metals and other substances using 2016 2017 2018 （FY） property, which earned a AAA Shimadzu Group. Shimadzu products, based on voluntary control standards that score, the highest available. Water usage Water usage per unit of net sales Shimane Shimadzu are stricter than applicable laws and regulations. 21 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 22 For more details, refer to the website. Social Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/stake_holder/engagement.html E S G CSV CSR Involvement with Stakeholders Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Basic Policy To achieve Shimadzu’s basic management philosophy, we must operate the company based on a long-term perspective in terms of both solving challenges of society through our business activities and engaging in activities consistent with being a responsible member of society. Such corporate management is only possible if we first gain the trust of our various stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, business partners, employees, and local communities. To build a relationship of trust with stakeholders, we will actively engage in smooth, two-way communication with them regarding all aspects of our corporate activities. Doing so is not only our corporate responsibility, Social Report but is also essential in terms of enhancing corporate value. By continuing corporate activities that meet the expectations and demands of our stakeholders, ■Specific Measures with Stakeholders we are achieving sustainable development and growth for both Shimadzu and society. Stakeholder Involvement Specific Measures ・Increase customer satisfaction by offering products and services that utilize 24 Involvement with Stakeholders 29 Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member Offer products and services that cutting-edge science and technology. solve challenges of customers and of Society (CSR) Customers society ・Increase customer satisfaction by conducting periodic customer satisfaction surveys. 25 Solving Challenges of ・Improve quality control by acquiring ISO 9001 or JSA quality control certification. Society through Business (CSV) Customer Satisfaction, Utilizing Human Resources, Healthcare and Supply Chain Management ・Offer financial position presentations, host individual visits, conduct small meetings, give presentations in several locations inside and outside Japan, provide To promote better understanding ■Creating Innovative Products and of management policies and presentations for individual investors, and so on. Services for a Wide Range of Fields, Shareholders increase corporate value, disclose ・Create an investor relations page on the website to provide information whenever Such as Prevention, Diagnosis, Treatment, appropriate information whenever necessary. appropriate and engage in dialog ・Provide feedback to management about the views of shareholders and investors. and Prognosis Management with shareholders. ■Starting a Business for Supporting Development ・Specify dates and venues that take exercising shareholder rights into consideration, such as by sending notifications of meetings early, preparing materials in both of Therapeutic Drugs for Alzheimer’s Disease Japanese and English, and using the electronic voting platform. To implement corporate social ・Endorse and disclose information for the Modern Slavery Act 2015. responsibilities throughout the Business entire supply chain, cooperate ・Analyze the content of procured parts and materials to ensure they do not contain with suppliers to ensure human any banned substances. partners rights are respected and ・Conduct informational presentations for suppliers, which are attended by over 500 environmental impacts are suppliers each year. minimized. ・Permit workers freedom of association and engage in constructive discussions with labor representatives regarding workplace problems, based on applicable international norms and laws and regulations of corresponding countries. Respect employee diversity, train ・Conduct a variety of training for developing global human resources, such as Local human resources, and strive to Training outside Japan and Shimadzu Global Manager Training. Employees provide a safe and comfortable ・Promote diversity management, such as by hiring non-Japanese and better utilizing working environment. women. ・Promote working style diversity, such as by introducing a flex-time system, three no-overtime days per week, or systems for working from home. ・Promote health management, such as by preventing exposure to second-hand smoke, offering mental health training, and conducting health events. ・Use the Innovation Centers in Japan, the United States, Germany, China, and We are also actively involved in Singapore as centers for solving challenges in regions around the world. solving society problems in Local communities where a Shimadzu ・Contribute to economic rebuilding in rural areas through technical collaborations, Communities office or Group company is broad cooperative relationships, and so on, with Kyoto, Shimane, and Yamaguchi located, or in society challenges Prefectures. related to business activities. ・Use the Shimadzu Hands-On Analysis School to provide opportunities for elementary, junior high, and high school students to develop a deeper interest in science. 23 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 24 Social Report Solving Challenges of Society through Business (CSV) E S G CSV CSR Healthcare Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Creating Innovative Products and Services for a Wide Range of Fields, Such as Prevention, Diagnosis, Treatment, and Prognosis Management Advanced Healthcare R&D Center Established Increasing awareness about health has expanded Given the increasing demands for more advanced as Center for Advanced Healthcare interest in issues ranging from the early detection of patient examination technologies, such as for detecting The Healthcare R&D Center was opened at the Head Of fice (in Kyoto) in June 2019. By disease and its prevention to health improvement. illnesses at an earlier stage and identifying the causes of consolidating various departments involved in healthcare-related development work into a single location, the center will promote the integration of technologies from different business Meanwhile, our aging societies are creating a mountain diseases in more detail, we have started initiatives that segments. This will enable us to commercialize key technologies obtained from projects more of problems, such as the need to reduce medical costs integrate our analytical and measuring instruments and quickly, and enable revolutionary new products to be developed for the healthcare field and and provide nursing care. We believe that the first step medical systems businesses to provide advanced solutions to solve customer challenges to be rapidly developed and deployed. In addition to integrating the Analytical & Measuring Instruments and Medical Systems businesses, the facility toward solving these problems is being healthy and healthcare solutions. will also serve as an open innovation center for expanding the healthcare business through quickly dealing with the risk of injury and disease. collaboration with advanced customers or outside researchers. Healthcare R&D Center Demand is increasing for ultra-early As ultra-early screening A shortage of hospital beds and screening methods intended to extend methods become Advancements will occur in treatment technologies that reduce the stress on patients (such as other effects of aging populations Changes in healthy life expectancies and reduce acute* established, rapid and will result in IT advancements for care costs. early definitive diagnoses technologies that limit effects to areas being treated Healthcare and the use of materials with high biocompatibility). supporting in-home care. * The severe and sudden onset of disease symptoms. are demanded. Markets Preemptive medicine Prevention (ultra-early screening) Diagnosis Treatment Prognosis management Support health Significantly improve management physician convenience Detect previously undetectable changes Provide support for innovations in new drug discovery and treatment New solutions Integrate the healthcare cycle (prevention, ultra-early screening, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis management) for each disease from Shimadzu Daily Health Management Mass spectrometry technology Image processing technology Mass spectrometry technology Early detection of risks Detection of microscopic Precise localization of dissection area Support for angiography examination and Early detection of risks by blood analysis cancer by PET systems by fluorescence imaging system catheterization treatment by angiography system by blood analysis Newborn screening for congenital Arteriosclerosis caused Breast Cancer Breast cancer Medication management metabolic disorders by lifestyle-related diseases 25 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 26 Social Report Solving Challenges of Society through Business (CSV) Healthcare E S G Environment Society Governance CSV Strategic CSR CSR Fundamental CSR August 2018 Started Contract Analysis Service for Estimating Beta-Amyloid Plaques Starting a Business for Supporting Development in the Brain from Blood of Therapeutic Drugs for Alzheimer’s Disease In joint research and development work on Alzheimer’s dementia with Group company Shimadzu Techno-Research, we started an amyloid MS contract analysis service for predicting beta-amyloid plaque levels in the brain based on blood analysis using a mass spectrometer. Society Challenges February 2018 Beta-amyloid proteins, which are thought to cause Alzheimer’ s dementia, start accumulating in the brain 20 to 30 years prior to onset of Alzheimer’ s disease. In 2012, 4.62 million Japanese people aged 65 or older had Establishment of Method Given that currently there are no fundamental dementia, but that number is projected to exceed 7 million by for Detecting Alzheimer's therapeutic or preventive drugs available for treating 2025. Consequently, dementia is an issue important not only to (Beta-Amyloid Plaque) Alzheimer’ s, we are contributing to basic research and the healthcare industry, but also to overall society. Alzheimer’s development of therapeutic drugs and prevention methods by only offering the service to pharmaceutical patients account for over 60 % of dementia cases and currently We are currently involved in the field of “advanced healthcare,” companies, research institutions, and so on. 2014 there are no drugs for basic prevention or treatment of which involves integrating technologies from both the Analytical & Alzheimer’s. The fact that standard examination methods can be From Measuring Instruments and Medical Systems segments to create innovative new products and services for a wide range of painful and expensive is also an issue. Researching Alzheimer’ s prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis management fields. Disease Biomarkers in Blood While researching dementia as part of that process, Shimadzu and Increase in Dementia Patients the National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology jointly established an accurate method for detecting Alzheimer’s We cooperated with the Australian Imaging Biomarkers 2012 2025 (accumulations of beta-amyloids*). On February 1, 2018, the method and Lifestyle Study of Ageing (AIBL), a world-leading 7 was published in the online version of the science journal Nature. Number of Alzheimer’ s cohort study organization, to jointly 4.62 million million * A type of protein with a specific structure Dementia Patients research blood biomarkers for Alzheimer’ s disease with Aged 65 or Older people *1 Estimated people *1 Kyoto University, University of Tokyo, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, and Kindai University. 60 Participating in the joint research from Shimadzu is Proportion of Senior Fellow Koichi Tanaka, who received the Nobel Dementia Patients with Alzheimer’s Over % *2 Prize in Chemistry in 2002 for the matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) method. That MALDI technology led to achieving the Alzheimer’ s (amyloid Source: *1 Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Research to Estimate Future Population accumulation) detection method. of Elderly Japanese with Dementia” (2015) *2 Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Breakdown of New Outpatients Admitted to Dementia Treatment Centers by Diagnosis Name” (Report on Operations, Such as Maintaining and Improving the Health of the Elderly, 2017) Due to the large impact of Alzheimer’s disease on society, there is growing Value Oﬀered We established the method for early detection Contribution to SDGs anticipation for Alzheimer’s prevention, early detection, or treatment methods. Patient quality of life (QOL) is also an issue, in terms of reducing the pain and cost of Alzheimer’s that could lead to development of drug involved in receiving the examination, for example. Using detection methods that for basic prevention or treatment of Alzheimer’s. involve a mass spectrometer, we intend to ensure everyone has access to safe, high quality, and affordable healthcare. Hypothesis about progression Alzheimer’ s Detection Method Developed Normal Mild Cognitive Alzheimer’s disease Alzheimer’s disease Impairment Previous Alzheimer’s disease Analysis method for predicting beta-amyloid plaque levels in the brain Images of Beta-Amyloid Plaques Beta-amyloid plaques in the brain are thought to Acquire blood Mass spectrometry (PET Scans) testing methods are painful cognitive function increase the risk of Alzheimer’s disease and start cerebrospinal fluid tests and Without Amyloid With Amyloid occurring 20 years or more prior to disease onset. expensive PET scans. In contrast, the Alzheimer’s disease (beta-amyloid plaque) accumulations detection method can of beta-amyloids accurately detect the disease AXIMA Mass Spectrometer from only 0.5 mL of blood. Large accumulations of beta-amyloid Advantages: Minimal invasiveness and low cost enable easy patient time Low High screening and are useful for clinical trials. 27 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 28 For more details, refer to the website. Social Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/eﬀorts/satisfaction/index.html Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) E S G CSV CSR Customer Satisfaction Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Basic Policy QMSs are also being introduced at relevant subsidiaries Taking Responsibility for Manufactured perspective by anticipating various ways the customer in Japan and other countries. As of March 2019, 14 might use the products, to assess whether products are Products and Basic Policy for Product Safety We shall offer products and services with superior subsidiaries have obtained certification in Japan and 17 fundamentally designed to ensure safety. In addition, quality at reasonable prices that provide maximum value subsidiaries outside Japan. we also perform endurance testing and environmental In an effort to increase customer satisfaction by to customers. These QMSs are used to assess the effectiveness of testing to verify that products will continue to perform improving product safety, a fundamental and important measures and processes for ensuring product quality reliably and safely without any functional damage even ■Principles and safety based on the Basic Quality Assurance Policy product feature, and to fulfill our social responsibility, if they are subject to impacts during transport or are we have specified a basic policy of taking responsibility indicated above. Then the PDCA cycle is repeated to exposed to temperature or humidity variations. for the safety of all products manufactured within the achieve further improvements. To ensure products can be used without worry, we 1. Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Shimadzu Group. The policy specifies improving product In this way, we are increasing customer satisfaction specify that information about how to use the product We shall offer safe and secure products and services safety, providing customers with appropriate product through constant improvements at each stage of the correctly and other useful information must be included. with high added value that prioritize customer value. safety information, and resolving any product accidents product life cycle. Such information must be included not only in appropriately and quickly. 2. Create New Value Jointly with Customers instruction manuals prepared using our In addition, the basic policy for product safety for the We shall create new value by sincerely considering internally-developed manual creation system, but also in entire Shimadzu Group states that the entire Group will customer views and wishes. Improving Knowledge caution or warning labels that are the same throughout act in a unified manner for prioritizing the safety and the world and affixed directly to products. 3. Ensure thorough Quality Control about Quality Control Activities trust of customers. and Safety Management If a quality control or safety management problem Quality control activities at the manufacturing stage are Basic Policy for Product Safety Increasing Customer Satisfaction occurs, we shall strive to solve the problem quickly and critical for ensuring we supply products with quality that 1. Comply with all applicable laws and regulations. implement thorough measures to prevent recurrence. pleases customers. Furthermore, knowledge about 2. Design safety into products. We are improving customer satisfaction by establishing quality control activities should be understood not only 3. Prevent improper use. systems and capabilities that ensure we can respond to by quality control personnel, but also by the wide range 4. Ensure product safety throughout the entire product changes in market and customer requirements at each of other people involved in manufacturing, such as life cycle. stage of the product life cycle. For example, to improve personnel that work in manufacturing and production 5. Disclose information about product safety. Specifying a Basic Quality Assurance Policy the quality of Shimadzu Group products, systems, and engineering units. 6. Resolve any product accidents. 7. Improve quality assurance systems. services from the customer’s perspective, customer Based on that perspective, all employees have been In an effort to supply quality that increases customer satisfaction surveys are periodically conducted to obtain encouraged to obtain JSA quality control certification* satisfaction at all stages of the product life cycle for all feedback from customers. since 2012, for the purpose of improving employees’ products manufactured and sold by the Shimadzu Then we share the valuable opinions and requests ability to think about quality control and make Group, we have established a Basic Quality Assurance obtained from customers with applicable personnel to improvements by learning appropriate ideas and Ensuring Product Safety and Policy. implement improvement measures that will increase techniques for quality control and then using them in Disclosing Information to Customers customer satisfaction. actual practice. Since 2017, those measures have even We have also established a call center, which customers been expanded to cooperating companies, who are Basic Quality Assurance Policy As a specific example of activities based on the basic can call whenever necessary, such as to express their important partners for implementing activities. A Provide quality that satisfies customers around the policy for product safety, we have been conducting a views or requests, as part of a system for responding financial incentive system was also established for those world at each stage of the product life cycle* through risk assessment of products, from a customer quickly. that passed the test. With 206 people passing the test the diligent effort of all our employees. in FY 2018, a total of 1,092 people have passed thus far. * T h e J S A q u a l i t y c o n t r o l ( Q C ) c e r t i fi c a t i o n t e s t i s a n a t i o n a l w r i t t e n examination sponsored by the Japanese Standards Association and Japanese Quality Center for Pursuing the Highest Quality * The product life cycle includes 12 stages: (1) marketing and market surveying, Union of Scientists and Engineers as an objective evaluation of how much (2) product design and development, (3) process planning and development, applicants know about quality control. A Quality Center was established at the Head Office/Sanjo Works site to improve quality (4) procurement, (5) production, (6) verification, (7) packaging and storage, (8) sales and distribution, (9) installation and initial use, (10) technical support throughout all stages, from development and design to manufacturing, and to also strengthen and a n d s e r v i ce, (11) p o s ts a l e s su r ve y in g, a n d (12) e n d ofli fe d i s p o s a l o r quickly improve quality in the marketplace. Serving as the center of quality for the entire Shimadzu recycling. ■Number of People that Passed the QC Certification Test Group, it consolidated various equipment and functions in one location and was equipped with six functional capabilities, including materials characterization, physical property analysis, and EMC FY FY FY FY FY measurement* capabilities. 2 014 2 015 2 016 2 017 2 018 Quality Management System (QMS) For EMC measurements, the center was equipped with four small and large anechoic chambers, Number that including one that supports the 10-m method, so that it can perform tests as a testing facility with Attempted 338 316 300 413 484 international ISO/IEC 17025 certification that is compliant with standards specified in respective Shimadzu Corporation’s Sanjo Works has obtained ISO the Test countries and regions. 9001 certification, the international standard for quality Number that Passed 190 182 144 164 206 Furthermore, the center is registered as an accredited agent of the international third-party testing management systems (QMS), for each division since the Test laboratory TÜV Rheinland Japan (TRJ). As a highly trusted EMC testing laboratory, the TÜV Anechoic Chamber at the Quality Center 1994. They are also obtaining ISO 13485 certification certification also provides additional credibility to the reliability of Shimadzu products in general. required for medical devices and JIS Q 9100 certification * Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) measurements evaluate both whether electromagnetic waves emitted from instruments affect surrounding devices and whether instruments are resistant to malfunction from exposure to electromagnetic waves from surrounding areas. required for the aircraft equipment industry. 29 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 30 For more details, refer to the website. Social Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/eﬀorts/talent/index.html Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) E S G CSV CSR Utilizing Human Resources Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Developing Global Human Resources Promoting Diversity Working Practice Reforms When developing human resources, we believe it is Having decided that promoting diversity management is essential We are implementing working practice reforms to improve both important to develop specific employee characteristics for deploying business throughout the world, we have been more individual skills and organizational productivity. To help improve and capabilities, such as a desire to take on challenges, actively hiring non-Japanese citizens since 2011 to strengthen our individual skills, the menu of language, business, distance exceptional expertise, innovativeness, ability to work approach to integrating diversity within the company. As of April learning, and various other classes offered as employee benefits cooperatively with partners, self-discipline, and 2019, Shimadzu has hired 39 non-Japanese from seven countries, has been expanded/improved and free E-learning content is also teamwork. with a retention rate of 100 %. offered. We also provide support for improving foreign language In particular, it is especially important to train global Furthermore, in 2015 we launched the WiSH project team for skills, such as by opening an English Café as an after-hours human resources that are able to work cooperatively with promoting the role of women in the workplace and have been self-improvement program and conducting in-house classes for partners throughout the world. Consequently, we strengthening hiring, improving systems for evaluation and taking the TOEIC® English proficiency test. conduct a variety of training programs, such as training at training, implementing more flexible working practices, and so To increase organizational productivity, we are automating a location outside Japan to develop global human on. We are promoting leadership and career aspirations among standard computer-based business operations using robotic resources and Shimadzu Global Manager Training for women employees by holding meetings that provide process automation (RPA). As of March 2019, over 70 RPA developing business leaders at subsidiaries outside Japan. SHIMADZU GLOBAL MANAGER TRAINING opportunities for women managers to interact with women programs are performing the equivalent of 7,000 hours of work corporate officers and for women employees to exchange views within the company. Other measures are also being successively ■Training System for Developing Global Human Resources with women directors. implemented, such as transitioning to paperless operations to shorten search times and improving office layouts to improve Training Program Applicable Personnel Purpose/Description Results ■Number of non-Japanese in head office operating efficiency. （People） （%） 10 10 Furthermore, to accommodate more diverse and flexible working 8.7 styles, we have been operating a system for using vacation days The purpose is to learn the business literacy and 8 8 Managers at Shimadzu 9 in one-hour increments and a system for working from home to decision-making skills required by executives based on case 5.7 6 6 Business Leader’ s headquarters (selected as studies and lectures from managements. Also participants 81 permit child or nursing care, and expanding the scope of Training executive management trainees 4 3.4 5 4 departments using a flextime system. are required to develop a management vision for Shimadzu candidates) based on challenges at Shimadzu. 2 3 2 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) The training is intended to improve skills for communicating in a Results Ratio different cultural environment and provide experience identifying Young employees interested local issues, gaining the involvement of local personnel, and ■Ratio of Women in Management Positions Local Training outside in global business and that taking a leadership role in solving issues. The program consists of 55 Japan have worked at the company trainees (Head Office/Subsidiaries in Japan/Subsidiaries outside Japan) medium-to-long term training of personnel for supporting global for about five years business within the Shimadzu Group by providing up to two years （%） 24 of experience working in a business environment outside Japan. 20.5 20 18.6 18.7 English Cafe 16 12 ■2018 Working Practice Reform Data The purpose is to develop business leaders able to drive 9.6 Newly promoted managers 8.1 8.5 SHIMADZU GLOBAL business in markets outside Japan, by cultivating deeper 114 8 of Shimadzu subsidiaries Average Monthly Executive management: 31.7 hours actual vs. 30 hours target MANAGER TRAINING understanding and loyalty of Shimadzu and instilling trainees 3.3 outside Japan 4 2.1 2.3 Overtime Hours Labor union members: 8 hours actual vs. 5 hours target leadership and management skills. 2.4 1.5 2.2 0 2016 2017 2018 (FY) Vacation Days Usage Executive management: 48.8 % vs. 45 % target Consolidated Shimadzu Japan Subsidiaries in Japan Subsidiaries outside Japan Rate Labor union members: 79.3 % vs. 85 % target Mid-level employees To ensure managers stationed outside Japan are able to scheduled to be assigned achieve maximum results working in a team with People that Used Vacation Days in Total 5,347 people Global Management outside Japan or supervising subordinates that have a different background, this training The METI Minister Award program 1-Hour Increments managers or other is intended to improve skills for managing subordinates in a 89 Training for trainees The New Diversity Management Selection 100 Subordinates personnel with globally-applicable manner by learning skills for People that Worked Shimadzu Corporation was selected as The New Total 278 people manager-level communicating verbally while maintaining a stance of from Home non-Japanese subordinates being understanding and respectful of different cultures. Diversity Management Selection 100 . This award is presented by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and No-overtime days Mondays are designed as ” Skills improvement days” Wednesdays are designed as “healthcare days” This training is provided before Japanese managers are Industry to companies “Refresh day” Fridays are designed as “communication days” reassigned outside Japan. By teaching a perspective of that have improved their From young to mid-level managing our differences in values using an intercultural Intercultural Over 100 corporate value over the employees scheduled for understanding index, it is intended to teach how to avoid Communication Training trainees medium to long term by assignment outside Japan unnecessary stress and problems working in that location, while also communicating accurately and reliably. utilizing the capabilities of diverse human resources. 31 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 32 For more details, refer to the website. For more details, refer to the website. Social Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/eﬀorts/talent/index.html https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/social/supply_chain/index.html Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) E S G CSV CSR E S G CSV CSR Utilizing Human Resources Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Supply Chain Management Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Health Management the Tokyo Office, Kobe Branch, Sapporo Branch, and Eliminating Human Rights Violations from also accepts non-Shimadzu visitors to share Shimadzu’s Hiroshima Branch, held a variety of events to provide analytical expertise using the GC-MS system. the Entire Supply Chain ■Introducing Health Web Service opportunities for communication, such as an event for measuring components in the body and effective age The KenCoM health web service was introduced to Requirements for suppliers in the procurement policy are based on gait, a table tennis competition, a Pilates Measures and Policies for Conflict Minerals increase mindfulness about health and instill healthy summarized in the CSR Procurement Policy, which clearly session, and a bowling tournament. habits in each employee. With the KenCoM service, specifies fulfilling social responsibility for respecting Meanwhile, 168 employees attended a February 2019 In accordance with the Shimadzu Group Policy Regarding users can record step-counts and weight, participate in human rights throughout the entire supply chain. In lecture by an outside expert, Kyoto University Professor Conflict Minerals specified for conflict minerals*, if any health events, view health exam results and medication addition, all suppliers are notified in writing and required Emeritus Toshio Moritani on the topic “The Role of part or raw material used in Shimadzu products is histories, and more. It supports user health to comply with the policy. Exercise in Lifestyle Diseases.” It was also broadcast via discovered to contain a conflict mineral, Shimadzu will improvement efforts by issuing points, which can be We also survey suppliers within and outside Japan to television and Skype. immediately meet with the supplier to discuss appropriate exchanged for gift certificates or products, for health confirm they have measures for respecting human rights actions, such as immediately discontinuing the use of such event participation or actions that result in lifestyle and to check for any human rights violations in their part or raw material. That does not mean Shimadzu will improvements, while also making participation fun for business practices. In 2018, we created a new survey form never accept any conflict mineral produced in the individuals. with more extensive questions about human rights that Democratic Republic of Congo or its adjoining countries, we use to survey companies with which we are starting but rather that Shimadzu will only accept those that are new transactions. If that survey reveals any problems with ■Measures at the Health and Safety Center procured in accordance with appropriate laws that prevent child labor or forced labor, for example, then the supplier Based on the Health Declaration, a Mind and Body funding armed groups in those regions (certified as DRC is asked to quickly implement corrective measures. We Health Book was distributed to all employees and a conflict-free). also continue to survey suppliers on an ongoing basis to Health Web Service was actively introduced to support By managing transactions in accordance with the ensure they are not complicit in any human rights measures for improving health literacy and promoting Organisation for Economic Co-operation and violations in their business practices or supply chains, such independent health management. In addition to Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for as child labor, forced labor, or human trafficking. providing counseling and health guidance by Health Event Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from occupational physicians, industrial health personnel, and Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas and by counselors, a mind and body help desk was established investigating refineries using the Conflict Minerals Compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 to promote better mental and physical health. Reporting Template (CMRT), which is based on the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), we are implementing Shimadzu opposes slave labor and human trafficking, measures to understand the status throughout the entire recognizes internationally declared human rights, and supply chain and avoid using such materials. conducts business practices accordingly. Each year, * The term conflict mineral refers to four types of minerals (gold, tin, tantalum, and Shimadzu publishes a statement regarding the measures tungsten) mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and nine surrounding White 500 Company with for compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 countries, which are known to serve as a funding source for armed groups. Superior Health Management implemented during that year and planned for the future. Measures for FY 2018 were published in August 2019. For the third consecutive year, Shimadzu Corporation is Similarly, measures for FY 2019 and subsequent years are Informational Presentations for Suppliers Toshio Moritani, Professor Emeritus at Kyoto University recognized jointly by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, scheduled to be published every year. Currently, no cases Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi as a of child labor or forced labor problems have been It is essential that we form a partnership with suppliers, 2019 White 500 company, discovered in our procurement activities. If any are who are central to our supply chain, to ensure human which recognizes large ■Worker Mental Health Training discovered, corrections will be promptly implemented to rights are respected in procurement activities and corporations with outstanding quickly resume business activities that are respectful of promote reducing our environmental impact. To Supervisors caring for the mental health of their human rights. health and productivity promote a deeper understanding of our measures, each subordinates is the most important type of mental year we conduct informational presentations for management practices. health measures. Shimadzu provided a lecture by an suppliers in two locations, Kyoto and Tokyo, which are outside expert as worker mental health training for Analyzing Procured Parts, Materials, and attended by over 500 suppliers each year. manager-level heads of organizations at Sanjo Works In December 2018, as a project of the Shimadzu and the Tokyo Office that supervise subordinates. The Other Items for Substances Banned by RoHS Cooperative Association, we conducted an SDGs ■Maintaining and Improving Health hands-on training involved using actual workpieces to workshop with a guest speaker from a leading company teach trainees how to notice when subordinates were Randomly sampled RoHS-compliant parts, assemblies, Believing that ensuring the physical and mental health that is actively engaged in SDGs activities and was behaving differently than normal and what to do if such and secondary materials procured from suppliers are of each employee will lead to increasing corporate selected as one of the top 100 companies practicing behavior was noticed. analyzed in Shimadzu’s RoHS laboratory to confirm the value, we have conducted a variety of events and new and diversity management methods. In addition, at lectures on health. content of substances banned by the RoHS directive. In the general meeting of the Shimadzu Cooperative At Sanjo Works, 174 Shimadzu Group employees February 2019, those measures were strengthened by Association in May 2019, we had a seminary where the participated in 13 events held on seven topics, such as also installing a gas chromatograph mass spectrometer Labour Standards Inspection Office explained key points yoga and hula dancing. In addition to promoting health, (GC-MS) system in the laboratory. The RoHS laboratory about working practice reform laws. 33 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 34 For more details, refer to the website. Social Report https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/social/supply_chain/index.html Engaging in Activities as a Responsible Member of Society (CSR) E S G CSV CSR Grant activities Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Shimadzu Teams with the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee to Form Interdisciplinary Chemistry Lab Shimadzu Scientific Instruments announced the opening of the Shimadzu Laboratory for Advanced Applied and Shimadzu Academic Grant Program Analytical Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) in 2014. The 2,000-square-foot laboratory and office suite is a hub for research across the entire UWM campus, as well as a classroom for teaching the theory and practice of mass spectrometry. Equipped with an array of Shimadzu’s analytical instruments, the lab is able to Kick Your Research into High Gear support diverse programs in drug discovery, freshwater science, food and beverage, environmental science, and with the Shimadzu Academic Grant Program other basic life science and chemistry studies. “Our relationship with Shimadzu allows us ready access to the market’s latest analytical innovations,” said Dr. Douglas Stafford, Director of MIDD. Shimadzu 2018/2019 Academic grant programs are now open for applications. Grants are available for all types of research and all researchers, and may be applied toward the purchase of a variety of instruments and techniques, including spectroscopy, chromatography, mass spectrometry, biotechnology, balances, environmental, surface analysis, testing equipment, and medical equipment. Shimadzu Scientiﬁc Instruments donates record $7.5 million to support UT Arlington Institute for Research Technologies UT Arlington and Shimadzu began New professors: Shimadzu can help make your startup funds go further collaborating more than a decade ago. In with our Academic grant programs. April 2012, the company made an in-kind gift of equipment valued at nearly $3 million -Shimadzu has been making specific equipment funds, contributions and rebates available to universities and new to establish the Shimadzu Center for professors in the US for over 18 years. Advanced Analytical Chemistry within the UT Arlington College of Science. In 2013, -Our intention is to encourage instrumentation uses in areas that will be of interest to our customer base and the research Shimadzu followed up by committing to the largest, philanthropic gift in the history of UT community. Arlington with a $7.5 million gift. In honor of the gift, the University renamed the Institute for Research Technologies at UT Arlington the Shimadzu Institute for Research Technologies. “We are grateful for this generous support from Shimadzu and for Shimadzu Scientiﬁc Instruments Partners with the University of North Florida their strategic relationship with The in Creating the Materials Science and Engineering Research Facility University of Texas at Arlington,” said James D. Spaniolo, UT Arlington president at the time. “This partnership promises to make North Texas a new hub of scientific discovery and innovation. The Shimadzu Institute will be a Shimadzu Scientific Instruments (SSI) and the magnet for world class students and a resource for discovery across Texas and beyond.” “We have been pleased to University of North Florida (UNF) have joined find in UT Arlington kindred spirits who are committed to providing students the highest-quality education possible forces to help establish the Materials Science through access to the most advanced scientific equipment,” said Shuzo Maruyama, then president of Shimadzu and Engineering Research Facility (MSERF) on Scientific Instruments. “Our technologies enable research that improves people’s lives, and we have a great passion the campus of UNF in Jacksonville, Florida. for preparing students to be the next generation of great scientists.” MSERF, which opened its doors in July of 2017, is a facility designed to support education and research efforts across all materials science and engineering-related Tecnologico de Monterrey and Shimadzu Scientiﬁc Corporation a company disciplines. It will also serve the private sector of Japanese origin, signed a commercial alliance by providing analytical services related to R&D, process control, failure analysis, and In 2019, Tecnologico de Monterrey and Shimadzu Scientific Instruments signed a commercial alliance for the quality assurance. “Partnering with acquisition of scientific equipment, the creation of a Technical Center in Mexico City, and scientific cooperation with Shimadzu has enabled us to establish a researchers and members of the Science and Engineering School of Tecnologico de Monterrey. This commercial breadth of materials testing and alliance will propel the acquisition of state-of-the-art scientific laboratory equipment for our chemistry, biology, characterization techniques to support the nanotechnology and biotechnology laboratories at Tecnologico de Monterrey. The Technical Center Shimadzu-Tec widest spectrum of users in the center,” said Dr. Paul Eason, University of North Florida. “We are fortunate to work in Mexico City will house the latest generation of Shimadzu instruments in omics for research and teaching in with a company that provides so many state of the art instruments.” nutrigenomics, metabolomics, proteomics, lipidomics, and genomics. 35 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 36 For more details, refer to the website. G ove rnan ce Re p o r t https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/governance/policy.html E S G CSV CSR Policy on Corporate Governance Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Basic Policy We will establish and enhance systems for corporate governance as a core basis for our business management practices used to earn the trust of our stakeholders, achieve sustained growth for the Shimadzu Group, increase the corporate value in the medium and long term, ensure management transparency and fairness, and promote management dynamism by increasing the speed and boldness of decision-making and by implementing measures. Compliance with Corporate Governance Codes Governance Repor t To achieve sustained growth for the Shimadzu Group ■Exerting our Function as Owner of Corporate and increase the corporate value in the medium and Pension Assets long term, we intend to instill the spirit of the corporate To achieve sustained growth, i n cr e a s e m e d i u m a n d l o n g -t e r m governance codes within our corporate management To ensure we can continue reliably making pension practices. payments to beneficiaries into the future, defined-benefit cor por at e va lue , a nd ensure e f f e ct i v e n e s s , we a r e e n g a g e d i n corporate pension reserves are dispersed based on specified Also, due to revisions to the corporate governance building a system of governan ce . codes on June 1, 2018, we published the report content rules. Specifically, in addition to specifying a basic policy for concerning two points, cross-shareholdings and using pensions reserves, we have also specified a exerting the corporate pension asset owner function. policy-based asset ratio for achieving operating targets necessary for maintaining a financially healthy pension 38 Policy on Corporate Governance system into the future. Corporate pension funds are used 39 Corporate Governance ■Cross-Shareholdings and managed by an asset management committee, composed of managers from Shimadzu’s finance and 43 Corporate Ethics and Compliance 1. Policy on Cross-Shareholding human resources departments and others with expertise or experience in asset management or corporate pension 45 Profiles of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members We believe having cooperative relationships with a variety systems. 47 Messages from Outside Directors of companies is necessary for achieving sustained growth. Therefore, we will decide our shareholdings based on a comprehensive consideration of factors such as our business strategies, strengthening relationships with Corporate Governance Policy suppliers, and maintaining relationships with local communities. Each year, the Board of Directors verify the appropriateness of holdings, by confirming whether the C o r p o ra t e G ov e r n a n c e P o li c y overall scale of cross-shareholdings is appropriate and then 1. A p p r o p r i a t e C o o p e ra t i o n w i t h confirming whether the holdings of individual stocks are St a ke h o l d e r s appropriate for the given objectives for holding the 2 . S e c u r i n g t h e R i g h t s a n d Eq u a l respective stocks and whether the benefits and risks from Tr e a t m e n t o f S h a r e h o l d e r s holding the stocks are commensurate with the corresponding cost of capital. 3 . En s u r i n g A p p r o p r i a t e I n f o r m a t i o n D i s c l o s u r e a n d Tra n s p a r e n c y As a result of reviewing our cross-shareholdings, some stocks were sold in FY 2018, because we judged that 4. Dialogue with Shareholders holding the shares was not necessarily sufficiently 5 . R e s p o n s i b ili t i e s o f t h e B o a r d o f meaningful. Direc tors, etc. 2. Shareholder Voting Criteria (For more information about the Corporate Governance Policy, refer to the website.) For all issues regarding cross-shareholdings that are subject The Corporate Governance Policy was established in to a vote, we will exercise our voting rights if we judge that December 2015 as a declaration of our stance regarding it would increase shareholder value. To ensure we exercise implementing the corporate governance codes in our voting rights appropriately, we check the content of practice in concrete terms. each proposal being voted on based on decision criteria In addition to simply complying with corporate specified for each proposal, such as appropriation of governance codes, corporate governance was further retained earnings, appointment of Directors or Audit & strengthened by reviewing the policy to expand and Supervisory Board Members, or establishment of measures improve the measures that serve as core management to defend against a takeover. For issues involving practices. particularly serious concerns, such as a social scandal, we consider our vote very carefully. 37 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 38 For more details, refer to the website. For more details, refer to the website. G ove rna n ce Re p or t https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/governance/organization.html https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/governance/code.html E S G CSV CSR Corporate Governance Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR ■Corporate Governance System Annual shareholders’ meeting Appoint/remove Appoint/remove Audit & Supervisory Board (internal/outside members) Appoint/remove History of Governance Reforms Advise Appointment and Board of Directors Compensation Accounting Auditor (auditing company) We are continuously improving our corporate governance practices. Committee Chair: Chairperson (internal or outside director) Report Discuss/report Appoint/supervise ■History of Corporate Governance Measures President Audit Executive Committee Audit 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Chair: President (administrative corporate executive officer) Strengthened ・Established Internal Audit Dept. Internal Audit Dept. Internal Controls ・Appointed one ・Increased number of outside ・Increased number of outside Audit Administrative corporate Risk Management and Strengthened new outside directors from one to two directors from two to three executive officers Corporate Ethics Board director ・Established criteria for independence of outside Auditing Functions directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members ・Established the Respective departments Appointment and Administrative, research, or divisional responsible for Compensation departments (manufacturing or sales) risk and special ・Reduced number of directors from eleven to eight Committee committees Clarified Subsidiaries (Coordinating activities) Managerial ・Shortened term for directors to one year Responsibility ・Introduced a performance-based stock compensation system Improved Accuracy and Speed of Executing ・Introduced administrative corporate executive officer system and established Executive Committee Administrative Processes Increased Corporate ・Established a Corporate Governance Policy Establishment of Appointment and Governance Level Compensation Committee ■Composition of Appointment and Compensation We established the Appointment and Compensation Committee Committee as an advisory body under the Board of Internal Outside Corporate Governance System Directors, for the purpose of strengthening the Name Directors Directors Members Chairperson independence, objectivity, and accountability of the Board of Directors. The committee is working to strengthen Appointment and Internal More than one third (three) of the eight members of the ■Composition of the Board of Directors and Audit governance by increasing the transparency and objectivity Compensation 2 3 5 Committee directors Board of Directors are outside directors, which increases & Supervisory Board of the appointment and compensation process. management transparency and objectivity. Inside directors, familiar with business operations and Reasons for Appointing Independent Directors circumstances within the company, and outside Board of Directors: Audit & Supervisory and Audit & Supervisory Board Members directors, who have extensive experience, knowledge, 8 members Board: 4 members abilities, and insights, discuss issues from various (Internal directors) (Internal members) The Board of Directors specifies regulations for outside directors Appointed independent outside directors contribute to perspectives, so that decisions can be made and and Audit & Supervisory Board members and creates and releases strengthening the system for executing appropriate administrative monitored regarding strategies and policies for criteria for determining the independence of candidate processes by offering valuable suggestions regarding increasing medium and long-term corporate value. The ＋ independent outside directors. Furthermore, effort is made to management in general and compliance, based on their extensive select candidates expected to contribute frank, lively, and experience and outstanding capabilities/discernment. diverse composition of outside directors includes a (Outside directors)* (Outside members)* constructive considerations during Board of Directors meetings. lawyer, global business executive, and woman executive Female with extensive global marketing knowledge. A system of corporate auditors is used to audit the ■Reasons for Appointing Independent Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Description of Main Activities legality and appropriateness of management * Of those, four are reported to the Tokyo Independent Director and Stock Exchange as an independent director Audit & Supervisory Name Reasons for Appointment Description of Main Activities operations, with two internal and two outside Audit & and Audit & Supervisory Board member. Board Member Supervisory Board members. The Audit & Supervisory More than one third of board Taketsugu Appointed due to extensive management experience and broad knowledge Attended 14 of 14 Board of members are outside directors. Outside Board and its members attend Board of Directors Fujiwara acquired through many years of managing a global company. Directors meetings meetings, where they proactively execute auditing Directors Appointed due to diverse management experience, such as from being a corporate Hiroko Attended 14 of 14 Board of functions, such as by expressing their opinions or director of a multinational company and a chief executive officer of a Japanese Chair of the Board Wada subsidiary of a foreign company, and broad knowledge about global marketing. Directors meetings exchanging views with directors or administrative Chairman (internal director) of Directors corporate executive officers. Attended 14 of 14 Board of Outside Appointment Term Appointed due to extensive specialized knowledge and experience from Takashi Directors meetings The President, administrative corporate executive of Directors 1 year practicing law for many years, from managing a law office, and from serving as Attended 17 of 17 Audit & Iida an outside director or outside corporate auditor for various companies. officers, and the Executive Committee are designated as Audit & Supervisory Adoption of Supervisory Board meetings the institutions for appropriately and quickly executing Executive Officer Yes (appointed by Board of Directors) Appointed due to abundant experience and insight in accounting field through Attended 13 of 14 Board of System administrative processes based on decisions made by Masahiro his engagement in accounting audits of listed companies as certified public Directors meetings Board Members the Board of Directors. Accounting Auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Nishio accountant over many years, and from serving as an Outside Audit & Attended 17 of 17 Audit & Supervisory Board Member at other companies. Supervisory Board meetings 39 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 40 For more details, refer to the website. G ove rna n ce Re p or t https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/governance/code.html E S G CSV CSR Corporate Governance Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Policy on Method for Deciding Director Director appointed by decision of the Board of Directors. The Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Compensation compensation of Audit & Supervisory Board Members is decided Directors by discussion among the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The procedure for deciding the compensation of directors The content of compensation for directors (excluding outside We analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of FY 2019 about the Board of Directors’ effectiveness. An (Members of the Board, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, directors) is determined based on the improvement in results Directors for the purpose of making continuous analysis and evaluation of the survey results were then and Corporate Officers with Specific Duties), the system of organizational or operational improvements and ensure it deliberated at a Board of Directors meeting. An overview of achieved during each fiscal year and the directors’ management compensation, and other related issues, are specified in the functions properly. that process was published in the Corporate Governance duties with respect to increasing medium and long-term The fourth such evaluation involved conducting a survey in Report. Director Compensation Regulation. Based on deliberations and corporate value. reports from the Appointment and Compensation Committee, Compensation includes fixed compensation, compensation tied ■Results from Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors the compensation of Members of the Board and Corporate to short-term results, and stock compensation tied to medium Officers with Specific Duties is decided by the Representative and long-term results. Criteria for Evaluating FY 2018 (Applicable Year: FY 2017) FY 2019 (Applicable Year: FY 2018) Effectiveness ■Composition and Method for Determining Compensation Evaluation results for the current Board of Directors size and composition were positively high, similar Title Title Composition/Determination Method Evaluation results for the current size and Composition of the to the previous year. A new director that is composition were positively high, similar to the 1. Fixed Compensation Board of Directors knowledgeable about technology research and previous year. From the perspective of deciding compensation based on objective information, while also providing a level that is sufficient to enable development will be added with anticipation this recruiting talented human resources, compensation is decided based on the candidate’s current position and intended role, using the year. compensation offered by similar companies (group of benchmark companies of a similar size and in a similar type of business), to be determined by a survey performed by an outside specialist company, as an important reference level. The frequency and length of each meeting were The frequency and length of each meeting were considered appropriate and an atmosphere and Directors 2. Short-Term Performance-Linked Compensation considered appropriate and an atmosphere and (Excluding Outside environment that allowed all members to freely express Compensation is decided based on overall consideration of the year-on-year growth rate of consolidated net sales and operating income, environment that allowed all members to freely Directors) their views were maintained, which were positive Operation of express their views were maintained, which were and Executive Officers an evaluation of the performance of the specific department the Administrative Corporate Executive Officer is in charge of, and a evaluation results similar to the previous year. On the Board of Directors positive evaluation results similar to the previous with Specific Duties personal evaluation. other hand, we will continue to implement Meetings year. On the other hand, efforts to operate the improvements in terms of providing time for discussions 3. Medium/Long-Term Performance-Linked Stock Compensation meetings more efficiently and improve the by operating the meetings more efficiently and achieving For directors, for example, the number of shares provided is decided based on the degree to which performance targets specified for the content, quantity, and timing of provided deeper discussions by improving the content of final year of the medium-term management plan were achieved. Compensation can vary within the 50 to 200 % range, given the target documentation are to be made continuously. documents submitted and method of reporting. achievement degree is determined based on target values for consolidated net sales and operating income as performance indicators. Outside Directors Fixed compensation only Audit & Supervisory We received positive evaluation results for spending Compensation is decided by considering the role of supervising and auditing the execution of duties by the entire group. We received positive evaluation results for following significant discussion time at Board of Directors Board Member Roles and up on important issues from the medium-term meetings following up on important issues from Responsibility of management plan and discussing them divided over the medium-term management plan. On the other ■Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Compensation (FY 2018) the Board of several Board of Directors meetings, but we will hand, we will engage in deeper discussions about (Units: Millions of yen) Directors engage in deeper discussion about the long-term important management issues, such as about Breakdown by Type of Compensation vision Shimadzu should pursue. business strategies and our business portfolio. Number of Total Compensation Linked to Performance Applicable Directors/ Classification Compensation Fixed Audit & Supervisory Compensation*2 Compensation Linked to Stock Compensation Linked to Medium/ Short-Term Performance*2 Long-Term Performance *1*2 Board Members Support for and Necessary information was exchanged and shared Necessary information was exchanged and shared Cooperation with appropriately among outside directors, between Director Compensation appropriately among outside directors, between 361 212 111 38 5 Directors and Audit & outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board (Excluding Outside Directors) outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Supervisory Board members, and coordination with Accounting Audit & Supervisory Board Member Compensation members. Members Auditor was appropriate. (Excluding Outside Members) 59 59 2 Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members 55 55 5 All directors adequately understood the basic All directors adequately understood the basic philosophy of the company, endeavored to achieve philosophy of the company, endeavored to achieve *1: The performance-based stock compensation system applies to the three fiscal years included in the medium-term management plan. The stock compensation level is determined based on the degree to which performance targets Self-Assessment by that philosophy, and had spent adequate time and that philosophy, and had spent adequate time and were achieved in the final year of that plan and the position of each director, with points calculated for the degree to which performance targets were achieved in each year. The compensation value indicated above is based on the Directors effort fulfilling their roles and responsibilities as effort fulfilling their roles and responsibilities as recorded expense calculated by multiplying the number of points for the given fiscal year by the market stock price, assuming a trust purchased Shimadzu stock. However, actual stock compensation is determined after the directors, which is a similar result as the previous year. directors, which is a better result than the previous medium-term management plan is finished. *2: The current ratio for each is 6:3:1. year. Status of Measures Evaluation results indicated improvements continued to be Evaluation results indicated improvements in the Internal Control System that understanding, an internal control system has been to Address Issues made for supporting outside directors and Audit & operating efficiency of Board of Directors meetings established to ensure the duties of executives are executed in Identified in the Supervisory Board members, but we will improve the and explaining issues in advance, but additional To further improve and strengthen the internal control system, accordance with applicable laws/regulations and our Articles of Effectiveness effectiveness of support by improving the timing of improvements will be made for providing corporate ethics, compliance, and risk management operations in Incorporation, and to ensure business processes within Shimadzu Evaluation Results briefing the outside directors and Audit & Supervisory appropriate feedback about the content of the Shimadzu Group function as a single system, with the Last Year Board members and having those involved in executing discussions at Board of Directors meetings to Corporation and Shimadzu Group companies are performed measures explain the projects in advance in some cases. administrative corporate executive officers. effectiveness of that system verified as appropriate. Based on appropriately and efficiently. 41 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 42 For more details, refer to the website. For more details, refer to the website. G ove rna n ce Re p or t https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/governance/social/compliance.html https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/governance/social/security_trade.html E S G CSV CSR Corporate Ethics and Compliance Environment Society Governance Strategic CSR Fundamental CSR Basic Policy Promoting Compliance Improving Transparency of Relationships ■Export Control System with Medical and Other Institutions Internal export control regulations (compliance program, For Shimadzu, who operates businesses globally, trust We think compliance means not only compliance with abbreviated “CP” ) were established, with the President as from society is essential for conducting our business laws and regulations, but also with internal company In order to be a company that can obtain the the chief officer responsible for export controls, to ensure activities. Therefore, given that compliance must be regulations, the Code of Conduct, corporate ethics, trust of society, we have increased the the Security Trade Control Policy is implemented. Based on prioritized above all else, we have specified the measures for corporate social responsibility, and so on. transparency of relationships with medical these regulations, we conduct strict applicability reviews, following five principles of conduct in the corporate Given the Shimadzu Group policy for prioritizing institutions and others whose cooperation is transaction reviews, and so on, in compliance with code of ethics, which is a guideline for employee compliance above all else, we the employees must not essential for developing, manufacturing, Japanese Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and behavior. As a global company, we strive to conduct our only comply with laws and regulations, internal importing, and selling medical devices by other applicable laws and regulations. daily activities in a manner that earns trust throughout company regulations, and the Code of Conduct, of publishing a Guideline for Transparency of Furthermore, the Export Controls Committee conducts the world and provides employees with a company course, but also actively recognize and implement Relationships with Medical and Other periodic audits to confirm exports are being controlled where they can work with a sense of pride. corporate ethics and the company’s social Institutions and disclosing all funds provided to appropriately in accordance with the CP. responsibilities, and behave assuming common norms medical institutions or other relevant parties. are law. We have specified seven criteria for compliant Export Chief oﬃcer responsible for export controls behavior in actual practice, such as interacting with Security Trade Control Systems Controls Export Controls Committee Chairperson Principles of Conduct in the Corporate Code of Ethics others properly in the course of our duties, conducting Committee President transactions fairly, and controlling confidential We have established a security trade control 1. Cu s to m e ro ri e n te d a p p ro a c h information appropriately. policy to ensure appropriate import/export 2 . Fa i r n e s s a n d t ra n s p a re n c y Transaction ﬁnal decision maker controls are implemented, from a perspective Director or deputy director in charge of risk management 3 . D i a l o g u e s w i t h s t a ke h o l d e r s Preventing Bribery and Competing and of maintaining international peace and security. 4 . C o n t ri b u t i o n to s o c i e t y a n d g l o b a l Conducting Transactions Fairly e nv i ro n m e n t co n s e r va t i o n Import and Export Control Department (Export Control Group) 5 . Re s p e c t f o r t h e c re a t i v i t y a n d Our CSR Charter, and other policies subject to that Security Trade Control Policy i n d i v i d u a l i t y o f e m p l oye e s Charter, specify that we will observe all applicable laws, Respective departments within the company Group companies in Japan regulations, and other social norms, and act in an open (Sales, R&D, Procurement, etc.) The Shimadzu Group shall, and fair manner, in our business activities that are given profound awareness that Shimadzu developed in various countries or when representing the Group products, services, or technologies Group companies outside Japan company in our private lives. could potentially be used for researching, Measures to Instill Awareness of Corporate For example, we forbid offering bribes to public officials developing, or other purposes related to Internal Audits Ethics related to our work, offering inappropriate military technologies, entertainment or gifts to suppliers or others in the To make it easier to understand the essence of the Corporate business activities in specialized fields are private-sector, and we endeavor to prevent giving or 1）．not engage in transactions that Corporate Code of Ethics, which serves as a guideline monitored by internal audits conducted by respective receiving gifts. involve supplying Shimadzu Group for employee conduct, we prepared a Corporate Ethics departments, such as sales, research and development, or We also forbid obtaining profit through improper products, services, or technologies to any and Code of Conduct Handbook and are promoting manufacturing, and by corporate administrative means, are committed to competing fairly, and party (customer) that intends to develop, increased awareness and practice of corporate ethics. departments. engaging only in fair transactions. manufacture, or otherwise contribute to At Shimadzu Corporation and Group companies in In addition, an Internal Audit Department (with seven Japan, we offer annual e-learning programs or study weapons of mass destruction or internal auditors) is established, which is directly under the booklets for educating personnel about corporate ethics conventional weapons that could president, to perform internal audits from a perspective and also conduct group compliance training sessions. potentially threaten international peace that is independent from the normal hierarchy for and security, or to parties for whom there executing administrative processes, including for Group is concern they might do so, companies, and to evaluate and ensure the effectiveness of internal controls. 1-(1) Interactions 1-(2) 2）．thoroughly understand and manage Laws Ethics in the Course of One's Duties Fair Trading all parties (customer) and applications for Provision of a Corporate Ethics Consultation Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines all transactions involving supplying and Notification Contact Points ‫ ٹ‬:HVKDOOQRWLQWKHFRXUVHRIRXUGXWLHVLQWHUDFWZLWKSXEOLF ‫ ٹ‬:HVKDOOFRQGXFWEXVLQHVVWUDQVDFWLRQVIDLUO\LQDPXWXDOO\ Shimadzu Group products, services, or Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines RîFLDOVSULYDWHEXVLQHVVSDUWQHUVRUDî OLDWHVLQDPDQQHU EHQHrFLDOPDQQHUZLWKFRPPRQVHQVH that violates the law or socially-accepted practices. Our Promises technologies, and Our Promises To prevent corporate ethics problems, or identify and Corporate Ethics ‫&ٹ‬RPSHWHDQGWUDQVDFWEXVLQHVVLQFRPSOLDQFHZLWK address them as early as possible, all employees and other ‫'ٹ‬RQRWEULEHSXEOLFRî FLDOV laws and regulations Code of Conduct (QWHUWDLQLQJRUJLYLQJJLIWVWRSXEOLFRî FLDOVLVSURKLELWHGE\ODZLQSULQFLSOH  &RPSDQLHVFRQGXFWDFWLYLWLHVWRJDLQSURrWVZKLOHFRPSO\LQJZLWKODZVDQGUHJ This is also prohibited by law similarly when associating with people engaged in 3）．comply with the Foreign Exchange and XODWLRQVDQG,QGXVWU\VWDQGDUGV0DNLQJSURrWVWKURXJKXQIDLUPHDQVLVQHYHU businesses with a strong public nature even in the private sector. DOORZHG Handbook :H GR QRW HQWHUWDLQ RU JLYH JLIWV WR SXEOLF Rî ness. :HDOVRGRQRWJLYHJLIWVWRSXEOLFRî FLDOV WR RXU DGYDQWDJH LQ EXVL FLDOVRUWUHDWWKHPWRPHDOVWKDWFRXOGEH :H DOZD\V FRPSHWH DQG WUDQVDFW EXVLQHVV IDLUO\ :H QHYHU FRQGXFW LOOHJDO actions in any corporate activity. personnel working in the Shimadzu Group have been Foreign Trade Act and other Japanese laws  YHQLILWLVQRWDQDFWZLWKLQWKHDSSOLFDEOHFRXQWU\UHJXODWLRQVPD\DSSO\ ( informed that contact points have been established within misunderstood as an intention in our favor. An extremely heavy penalty may be imposed, causing immeasurable damage. Our Promises %ULEHU\ RI D SXEOLF RIILFLDO PD\ EUHDFK WKH UHJXODWLRQV RI D FRXQWU\ ZKHUH WKH bribery is committed as well as the regulations of a country relevant to the ‫&ٹ‬RQGXFWDSSURSULDWHSURFXUHPHQWDFWLYLWLHV EULEHU\ :LWK D ZLGH UDQJH RI DSSOLFDWLRQ DQ H[WUHPHO\ KHDY\ SHQDOW\ PD\ EH :KHQ VHOHFWLQJ PDWHULDO VXSSOLHUV ZH ZHOFRPH RIIHUV IURP D ZLGH UDQJH RI and regulations, United Nations Security imposed, causing immeasurable damage when the bribery is revealed. and outside the company for consultation and notification. companies to determine appropriate suppliers with fair comparison. Codes Rules ‫'ٹ‬RQRWFRQGXFWHQWHUWDLQPHQWDFWLYLWLHVRUJLYHJLIWV inappropriately and vice versa Entertainment activities or gifts to or from clients can be approved within the range of sound business practices or common sense. Also, we decline gifts or entertainment occasions from suppliers of materials or services. ￥Bid-rigging Council resolutions, related international In response to such consultations or notifications, personnel treaties, and international export control Company at the contact points can cooperate with relevant Company Prohibited Company regimes, and also sincerely comply with departments to investigate, implement corrective actions, 6 7 import or export-related laws and and/or implement measures to prevent recurrence, as regulations in countries and regions where necessary. Rules are also established to protect personnel Corporate Ethics and Code of Conduct Handbook the Shimadzu Group conducts business. that consult or notify the contact points, such as rules that prohibit unfavorable treatment. 43 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 44 Governance Report Profiles of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (as of June 26, 2019) Akira Nakamoto Teruhisa Ueda Mitsuo Kitaoka Minoru Sawaguchi Representative Director, Representative Director, President Director, Managing Outside Director Chairman of the Board CEO Executive Officer Lawyer Chair of the Board of Directors In charge of R&D General Manager, Technology Research Laboratory Apr. 1969 Joined Shimadzu Corporation ■Significant Concurrent Positions Apr. 1982 Joined Shimadzu Corporation Jun. 2015 President and Representative Apr. 1982 Joined Shimadzu Corporation Jun. 2015 Corporate Officer Apr. 1993 Registered as attorney-at-law Jun. 2001 Director, Member of the Board Outside Director of Jun. 2007 Corporate Officer Director (current) Jan. 2007 General Manager, Research Jun. 2015 General Manager, Technology Apr. 1993 Joined Mori Sogo Law Office Jun. 2005 Managing Director Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd. Jun. 2007 Deputy General Manager, Jun. 2015 CEO (current) & Development Department, Research Laboratory (current) (currently Mori Hamada & Matsumoto) Jun. 2007 Senior Managing Director Analytical & Measuring Analytical & Measuring Jun. 2017 Managing Executive Officer (current) Jun. 2009 President and Director Instruments Division Instruments Division (current) Jun. 2013 Director, Shimadzu Corporation Jun. 2013 CEO Jun. 2011 Director, Member of the Board Jun. 2011 Deputy General Manager of Jun. 2017 In charge of R&D (current) (current) Jun. 2015 Chairman and Representative Jun. 2011 General Manager, Analytical & Measuring Jun. 2019 Director, Member of the Director (current) Analytical & Measuring Instruments Division and Board (current) Jun. 2015 Chairman of the Board (current) Instruments Division concurrently General Manager Jun. 2013 Managing Executive Officer of Research & Development Jun. 2014 Senior Managing Executive Officer Department, Analytical & Measuring Instruments Division Yasuo Miura Koji Furusawa Taketsugu Fujiwara Hiroko Wada Director, Senior Corporate Director, Senior Corporate Outside Director Outside Director Executive Officer Executive Officer Counsellor of Asahi Kasei Corp. Representative of Office Wada In charge of finance/accounting In charge of corporate Outside Director of Outside Director of Coca-Cola and marketing strategy planning and KOKUYO Co., Ltd. Bottlers Japan Holdings Inc. General Manager, corporate communication Outside Director of IHI Corporation Outside Director, Audit & Tokyo Office Outside Director of Supervisory Committee KONICA MINOLTA, INC. Member of Unicharm President of Japan Society for Corporation Safety Engineering Apr. 1980 Joined Shimadzu Corporation Jun. 2013 In charge of finance Apr. 1979 Joined Shimadzu Corporation Jun. 2007 Managing Director, Apr. 1969 Joined Asahi Chemical Apr. 2014 Vice-Chairman, Apr. 1977 Joined Procter & Gamble Sunhome Co., Ltd. Apr. 2005 General Manager, Corporate (currently finance/accounting) Apr. 2000 Senior Representative of Shimadzu (Hong Kong) Ltd. Industry Co., LTD. Asahi Kasei Corp. (currently Procter & Gamble Japan) Strategy Planning Department and marketing (current) Shanghai Office, Jun. 2009 Corporate Officer (currently Asahi Kasei Corp.) Jun. 2014 Resigned as Director of Jan. 1998 Vice President, Procter & Gamble U.S., responsible Jun. 2007 Corporate Officer Jun. 2015 General Manager, Shimadzu (Hong Kong) Ltd. Jun. 2013 Managing Executive Officer Jun. 2000 Director, Asahi Kasei Corp. Asahi Kasei Corp. for corporate new venture Asia Jun. 2009 President, Shimadzu Europa Tokyo Office (current) and concurrently Jun. 2017 Director, Member of the Board Jun. 2003 Senior Executive Officer, Jun. 2014 Director, Shimadzu Mar. 2001 President, Dyson Limited GmbH (Germany) Jun. 2017 Senior Managing General Manager of the (current) Asahi Kasei Corp. Corporation (current) Apr. 2004 President and CEO, Toys “R” Us, Japan Jun. 2013 Director, Member of the Board Executive Officer Analytical & Measuring Jun. 2017 Senior Managing Executive Apr. 2009 Vice-Presidential Executive Jun. 2015 Standing Counsellor, Nov. 2004 Established Office Wada (current) (current) Apr. 2019 Senior Corporate Instruments Division Officer Officer, Asahi Kasei Corp. Asahi Kasei Corp. May 2009 Outside Director, Aderans Holdings Company Jun. 2013 Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer (current) Oct. 2003 General Manager, Jun. 2017 In charge of corporate strategy Jun. 2009 Director, Asahi Kasei Corp. Jun. 2018 Counsellor, Asahi Kasei Corp. (currently Aderans Company Limited) Scientific & Industrial planning, investor relations, Apr. 2010 President & Representative (current) Apr. 2016 Advisor, Nutraceutical Business, Equipment Department, and public relations (currently Director, Presidential Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. International Marketing corporate communications) Executive Officer, Jun. 2016 Director, Shimadzu Corporation (current) Division (current) Asahi Kasei Corp. Jun. 2005 Deputy General Manager, Apr. 2019 Senior Corporate Executive International Marketing Division Officer (current) Hiroyuki Fujii Makoto Koyazaki Takashi Iida Masahiro Nishio Senior Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Corporate Auditor of Outside Director of Alps Electric Co., Ltd. External Audit & Supervisory Board Member Dai Nippon Toryo Co., Ltd. Jan. 1991 Joined Shimadzu Corporation Outside Corporate Auditor of Nippon Telegraph of Mandom Corporation and Telephone Corporation Outside Auditor of Samco Inc. Apr. 1981 Joined Shimadzu Corporation Apr. 2011 General Manager, Business Planning Apr. 2005 General Manager, Human Department, Shimadzu International Nov. 1974 Joined Daiwa Accounting Office Resources Department Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Apr. 1974 Registered as attorney-at-law (current KPMG AZSA LLC) Jun. 2007 Corporate Officer (currently Shimadzu (China) Co., Ltd.) Apr. 1974 Joined Mori Sogo Law Office Mar. 1978 Became a chartered accountant Jun. 2009 Director Jun. 2012 General Manager, Corporate Strategy (currently Mori Hamada & Matsumoto) Ja n . 2015 Established Nishio Certified Public Jun. 2013 Senior Audit & Supervisory Planning Department Apr. 2006 President, Daini Tokyo Bar Association Accountant Firm (current) Board Member (current) Apr. 2016 President and CEO, Shimadzu GLC Ltd. Apr. 2006 Vice President, Japan Federation of Ju n . 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Apr. 2019 Senior Manager, Audit & Supervisory Bar Associations Shimadzu Corporation (current) Board Members’ Office Jan. 2012 Established Kowa Law Office (current) Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (current) Jun. 2012 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shimadzu Corporation (current) 45 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 46 Governance Report Messages from Outside Directors To achieve sustained growth for the Shimadzu Group and increase the corporate value in the medium Achieving Sustained Growth for Both Shimadzu and Society through Mutual Responsibility for Execution and Oversight and long term, we have used the establishment of the Corporate Governance Codes as an opportunity to implement a wide variety of governance reforms. This is the sixth year since Shimadzu Corporation first appointed me as Outside Director. Since then, corporate governance codes have been established, the Board of Directors’ role We asked the three Outside Directors currently working with Shimadzu to provide their frank has been clearly defined, and the Board’s responsibilities for overseeing executive comments about future issues they may have noticed as business conditions have changed for the organizations have been clarified. The role of Outside Directors is to properly oversee the execution of operations for achieving shareholder goals. We are expected to provide Board of Directors or hopes they have for Shimadzu, for example. oversight from a perspective independent of executive organizations and to offer recommendations, based on our own insights, for ensuring the company can act correctly to achieve medium and long-term growth and progress, while also fulfilling social responsibilities. Five years ago, when I had just been appointed, Shimadzu had solid operating practices High Marks for Continuously Reviewing Operations and with an established culture based on its long history and proud tradition, so being an Approach of Steadily Moving Forward Outside Director involved mainly watching over the execution of those practices. It should have been sufficient to merely watch to make sure operations were resulting in growth and Since June 2013, when Shimadzu Corporation first appointed me as outside progress toward continuously increasing the economic value of the company, which was director, there have been major changes in the Board of Directors. mainly determined by shareholder goals. However, when a medium-term management At first, I was sometimes asked to attend executive meetings, where I was plan was established by a new organization, Shimadzu showed they intended to increase occasionally confused. I could feel the uncomfortable hesitation in the air when they corporate value by increasing their value to society. That approach made it clear that met an Outside Director for the first time. Shimadzu saw its mission as not just increasing economic value for shareholders, but also Six years later, we now have three Outside Directors on the Board of Directors, ensuring company activities result in achieving a better company and better life for each which is over one third of the members. An Appointment and Compensation and every stakeholder. Consequently, the Board of Directors has become involved in not Committee, meetings for only Outside Directors, and meetings between the Audit & only pursuing ongoing growth for Shimadzu itself, but also in properly executing and Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors are also established. We debating measures for making an active commitment toward achieving sustained growth discussed the medium-term management plan with the Board of Directors from an Outside Director, Member of the Board for society, and in creating goals for working together to move in new directions. early stage of preparation and have had frequent follow-up discussions after the Taketsugu Fujiwara Rather than taking a perspective of oversight that is separated from execution, it requires plan was announced. More effective and efficient methods are now used for giving engaging in deeper discussions from a more integrated perspective, so we can fulfill our status reports as well. mutual responsibility for steering the organization. I think that will require a much more One distinctive characteristic of Shimadzu Corporation Board of Directors is that active exchange of views between executive personnel and non-executive Directors. such practices are continuously being reconsidered. I don’ t mean that you immediately jump onto the next new thing, but rather that you carefully observe new ideas and then, if they are deemed beneficial, you Maintaining an Organization Able to Actively Adopt steadily adopt the changes. Repeating that process has resulted in eventually Different Viewpoints and Implement Improvements achieving major progress forward. Though it may be a stereotypical thing to say, it is a very characteristically Kyoto style that can also be said to be very characteristic of I am the first woman appointed to the Board of Directors. I was appointed three Shimadzu Corporation, a company with over 140 years of history. That approach years ago when the number of Outside Directors was increased from two to three continues to this day. Just recently even, improvements were made to the in an effort to broaden diversity and strengthen independent oversight. I was told information meetings prior to Board of Directors meetings, by introducing video by a previous board member that the discussions are now more lively than before. conferencing so that not only secretariat/task force offices and management Though there may have been some anxiety about having a woman serve on the planning departments, but also departments sponsoring specific proposals can board, I feel that the Board of Directors has been receptive to an active exchange of directly explain proposals to the Board of Directors. That has enabled a new opposing views, from a variety of perspectives and without being confined by the improved style of communication with the Board of Directors. past, regarding achieving Shimadzu’s goals. I hope the Shimadzu Corporation Board of Directors will continue to practice that Shimadzu’s diligent efforts to implement improvements based on results of a Board process of continuously reassessing things. There are a variety of ideas about what of Directors Effectiveness Assessment Survey is further evidence of Shimadzu’s corporate governance and a board of directors should look like, but there are no sincerity. To sustain ideal governance practices, I intend to be mindful of creating an right answers. I hope the Board of Directors will steadily move forward, without environment where others can exchange views more actively with members of the being swept up in the trends of each era. Board of Directors, such as when corporate officers are presenting proposals or business reports. Outside Director, Member of the Board By going beyond previous ways of doing or thinking about things, I think Shimadzu Minoru Sawaguchi has tremendous potential for growth and for significantly improving the safety and security of people throughout the world. Outside Director, Member of the Board Hiroko Wada 47 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 48 Business Overview and Results Business Portfolio FY 2018 Net Sales: 391.2 billion yen Operating Income: 44.5 billion yen Segment Sales Ratio by Business Segment Sales Ratio by Region Analytical & Measuring Instruments Business Other Asian Other 3% Countries: Strategy Points 11% 62 Key Business ■Make key investments in mass % Japan spectrometers and liquid Business Overview and Results China 41% chromatographs. 23% ■Expand the aftermarket business. 241.4 billion yen ■Expand/improve product lines. Europe The Americas This report indicates FY 2018 operating results by segment and key 10% 12% financial and non-financial data trends for the past eleven years. Medical Systems Business Other Asian Other 5% Countries: 50 Business Portfolio 61 Integrated Organization that Strategy Points 8% 18 51 Analytical & Measuring Fosters Innovation ■Expand/improve product lines % China 8% Instruments Business 63 Key Financial and Non-Financial and expand businesses outside Businesses for Profitability Reforms Europe Japan. Japan 55 Medical Systems Business Data over the Past Eleven Years 6% ■Improve product profit margins 69.1 The Americas 58% 57 Industrial Machinery Business 65 Financial Statements and expand profitable service billion yen 14% business. 59 Aircraft Equipment Business 67 Basic Information Industrial Machinery Business Other Asian Countries: Other 0% 9% Strategy Points ■Reform profitability by expanding/improving the turbomolecular pump business and 11 % China 23% expanding the service business. Japan 52% ■Reform profitability by expanding the 45.4 billion yen Europe hydraulic equipment business outside Japan 4% and strengthening the manufacturing The Americas base. 12% Aircraft Equipment Business Businesses for Rebuilding The Americas and Other Strategy Points 19% ■Build stable profitability by 7 % expanding the commercial aircraft equipment business. 27.3 ■Review and rebuild the defense billion yen business. Japan 81% Other 2 % 49 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 50 Business Overview and Results Analytical & Measuring Instruments Business Business Results ■FY 2018 Results healthcare, and food fields, which resulted in a 10 % We contribute to solving the challenges of society by using Business Environment year-on-year increase in net sales. In Europe, sales analytical and measuring technologies to support were strong in food, contract analysis, and clinical cutting-edge research in the life sciences and other fields, Markets are expanding both within and outside Japan, fields, which resulted in a 10 % year-on-year increase analysis of water quality, air pollution, and other due to the diversification of customer needs and latent in net sales. needs, such as stronger regulations for ensuring food In the Asia region, year-on-year sales increased 1 % in environmental parameters, and manufacturing in the food, safety and security, improvements in analytical efficiency Japan and 7 % in China, where sales expanded mostly pharmaceuticals, and other industries. and quality control in the pharmaceuticals field, and due to demand for water quality monitoring systems. Shuzo Maruyama more advanced analytical methods for new materials We have instigated various business actions such as General Manager, Analytical & Measuring Instruments Division development. establishing Shimadzu Scientific Korea Corporation, a sales subsidiary in Korea, in January 2019 to respond Key Measures and Results quickly to ever-changing market conditions. • Results were driven by a broad product line. Sales of mass spectrometers, demand for which ■Outlook for FY 2019 Business Environment expanded in the environmental measurement and Business Environment food safety fields, and gas chromatographs, including Given the rapid changes in our living environment, due to and more secure society and by reducing our impact on the the newly released Nexis GC-2030 model, were Given the current global political and economic increased economic development and interactions in global global environment. Such circumstances will increase the strong. Sales expanded for nondestructive inspection conditions, there is a clear sense that markets are society, diversification of lifestyles, technological innovation, need for analysis and measurement, such that we predict systems, due to sustained capital equipment slowing, but many markets are predicted to expand due and other factors, we are expected to help achieve a that annual growth rates of 5 % or higher will continue investment in functionally-engineered chemicals and to structural changes in society. For example, healthcare sustainable society in the future, such as by building a safer materials fields related to the automotive industry. markets are predicted to expand for maintaining health, into the future. Sales also expanded for water quality monitoring preventing disease, and ensuring the safety and security systems used to comply with stronger pollution of foods, materials markets are predicted to expand for reduction measures in China. ensuring the safety of practical applications developed • Strengthen aftermarket business. using self-driving vehicle technologies, for the Reagent kits developed through joint research with development of functionally engineered infrastructure Society Challenges Alsachim, which was acquired in June 2017, were materials, and for the increasing demand for stronger released, and Shimadzu-GL Sciences (Shanghai) measures to prevent data falsification, and Laboratory Supplies Co., Ltd. was made a wholly environment/energy markets are predicted to expand • Ensure more advanced healthcare and food owned subsidiary to strengthen the aftermarket for environmental monitoring and transitioning to safety. business in China, where markets are expanding. In renewable energies. • Transition to more environmentally-friendly addition, we expanded/improved our product lineup products. of analytical columns for liquid chromatograph and Key Measures • Provide solutions that contribute to achieving a gas chromatograph systems and released • Expand sales of new products. carbon-free society. adsorption-resistant vial products that inhibit We will expand sales of the LCMS-9030 mass • Achieve safer, lighter weight, and more fuel adsorption of samples. As a result of such measures to spectrometer released in June 2018, the new Nexera efficient aircraft and automobiles. expand/improve the consumables product line and series liquid chromatographs released in March 2019, • Expand the practical use of renewable energies strengthen the service business base, the aftermarket and the AGX-V universal testing machines released in and other technologies. business sales ratio expanded significantly to 30 % (2 April 2019. We will sustain growth by points higher than the previous year). expanding/improving the lineup of software • Expand market share in Europe and the United States applications, strengthening the lineup of software and strengthen the Asia region. products, and entering new fields. In North America, sales increased in pharmaceuticals, Value Provided In the healthcare field, we will contribute to the entire health products more energy efficient and consumables that have a management process, from health maintenance, disease longer service life. We will also be involved in achieving a prevention, and ultra-early diagnosis to prognosis management carbon-free society by offering system applications that are helpful and nursing care. We will also contribute to new drug for environmental conservation or for developing clean energy development, cellular analysis, and using AI and IoT technologies technologies. for big data analysis or to increasing productivity. In the food field, In the materials field, we will offer a wide variety of solutions we will help ensure the safety and security of food through based on a broad range of analytical and measuring technologies regulatory compliance, such as by analyzing residual pesticides, that satisfy specific needs of users involved in inspection, analysis, inspecting water quality, and evaluating restricted substances or evaluation of materials used for transportation applications, contained in the packaging. where there has been rapid progress in new material development In the environmental/energy field, we will contribute to reducing aimed at improving fuel efficiency or ensuring safety. energy usage by customers, such as by making Shimadzu 51 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 52 Business Overview and Results Analytical & Measuring Instruments Business Foods and Chemicals • Strengthen aftermarket business. • Contribute to regional development. ■These instruments can accurately measure trace components contained in samples to ensure food safety. In addition to continuing to expand/improve our We will contribute to health management and They are used in a wide range of fields, including food, environmental, chemical, electronic/semiconductor, and lineup of reagents and consumables, at Alsachim we economic development in rural areas, such as by pharmaceutical fields. will expand/improve the lineup of reagent kits working with local governments to research and designed for mass spectrometer applications and develop technologies for analyzing brain function, expand the consumables business by offering reagent demonstrating dementia risk reduction/prevention, kits in combination with mass spectrometer units. We and analyzing functionally beneficial components in will deploy a strategic asset management service foods. business based on using AI and IoT technologies. • Strengthen the healthcare business. Sales Trend We intend to create new businesses by integrating Shimadzu’s technologies from the Analytical & Measuring Instruments segment with technologies (Billion yen) Target (Billion yen) from the Medical Systems segment. Starting in June 300 90 ICPMS-2030 Nexis GC-2030 IRSpirit 2019, we brought together relevant research 256.5 ICP Mass Spectrometer Gas Chromatograph Infrared Spectrophotometer 250 231.6 241.4 75 departments at the Healthcare R&D Center and 209.2 started collaborating with advanced customers and 200 60 15.8% 16.0% 16.1% 16.2% outside researchers through open innovation projects. 150 41.5 45 37 38.8 Given the increasing sophistication of healthcare 33.1 100 30 Materials practices and the expansion of analytical and measuring technologies into clinical and diagnostic 50 15 applications, we will accelerate establishing businesses ■These instruments are used to test the strength of a wide variety of items, such as rubber, plastic, or metal materials, or 0 0 based on new technologies. 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) objects such as food, mobile phones, or automotive parts. Net sales Operating income Operating margin Life Science ■By investigating the metabolites, active ingredients, and other components contained in blood or urine, for example, these instruments can be used for applications such as cancer or dementia screening or for verifying the efficacy of drugs. ■These instruments can accurately measure the content of active ingredients and impurities in samples and can be used for quality control in a wide range of fields, such as in pharmaceutical, biochemical, food, and environmental fields. KRATOS ULTRA2 Imaging AGX-V Series Photoelectron Spectrometer SMX-225CT FPD HR Plus Precision Universal Nondestructive Inspection Testing Machine Machine Environment/Energy ■These analyzers can measure nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations in effluents discharged into rivers or other environments. They can be used to continuously monitor waste water via the cloud, which helps ensure compliance with total water pollutant load regulations. MALDI-8020 i-Series Plus LCMS-8060 Nexera Series Mass Spectrometer Integrated Liquid Chromatograph Mass Spectrometer Ultra High Performance Liquid Chromatograph TOC-L Series Total Organic Carbon Analyzer GCMS-TQ8050 NX LCMS-9030 (Q-TOF) Mass Spectrometer Mass Spectrometer TNP-4200 EDX-LE Online Total Nitrogen and Energy Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence Total Phosphorus Analyzer Spectrometer 53 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 54 Business Overview and Results Medical Systems Business Business Results We contribute to early detection and early treatment of ■FY 2018 Results ■Outlook for FY 2019 Business Environment Business Environment cancer and other diseases at medical facilities around the world by offering easy-to-use medical systems that reduce The X-ray system market is growing but has stagnated The X-ray system market is predicted to continue the stress on patients based on the use of our in North America and China markets. growing. state-of-the-art image processing technology. Key Measures and Results Key Measures Kunimasa Ito • Expand X-ray system market share. • Expand sales of angiography systems. General Manager, Medical Systems Division Sales increased for all three X-ray system product lines The expanding market for minimally invasive (general radiography, angiography, and fluoroscopy catheterization procedures is also expanding the systems). Also, sales of the tumor-tracking system for demand for angiography systems. We will increase radiotherapy were strong in Japan. sales of angiography systems by expanding sales of • Strengthen aftermarket business. new products and enhancing the software. Business Environment Due to an increase in service contracts, the • Strengthen aftermarket business. In developed economies, society demands medical care diseases expected to shift from infectious diseases to aftermarket business sales ratio remained at 30 % We will expand the aftermarket business by deploying that mitigates the risks of injury and illness associated non-infectious diseases, and with health levels expected (year-on-year). AI/IoT-based failure prediction technology and the with aging populations, while minimizing the burden on to approach the level of developed economies by 2035. • Expand market share in Europe and Japan. Customer Support Center in China. patients. Even many developing countries are facing Consequently, they are demanding more sophisticated In terms of Europe and the United States, sales of • Strengthen North America. challenges with population aging, with the bulk of medical technologies and medical equipment. general radiography systems decreased 12 % We will expand business in North America by (year-on-year) in North America, due to lower acquiring Core Medical Imaging, Inc. in the United demand after a decline that occurred as a reaction States to strengthen sales and service and expand when measures to promote switching to digital new product sales. Society Challenges technology the previous year ended, whereas sales • Achieve longer healthy life expectancies, so people can be increased 33 % (year-on-year) in Europe, due to healthy in their daily life. generally strong sales fueled by new mobile systems. Sales Trend • Provide more advanced examination technologies that can In Asia, sales decreased 9 % (year-on-year) in China, detect physical disorders as early as possible and identify the Target due to lower capital equipment investment, bidding (Billion yen) (Billion yen) causes of diseases in more detail. delays, and other factors caused by preferential 80 8 69.1 72 policies for domestic products and increased debt 64.4 65.9 levels of regional governments, but sales increased 10 60 4.1% 4.0% 6 3.4% % (year-on-year) in Japan, due to strong sales of 3.0% 40 4 general radiography systems to clinics. 2.9 2.7 2.3 20 1.9 2 Value Provided gastrointestinal, and dermatology departments. To support 0 0 efficient radiation therapy, we offer a tumor-tracking 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) We offer medical equipment and solutions for every stage system that, used in combination with a radiation therapy Net sales Operating income Operating margin of healthcare, including prevention, ultra-early screening, system, can significantly reduce the radiation dose to diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. normal tissue by efficiently radiating only cancer tissue. In terms of ultra-early screening, we developed a screening method that can detect early stage colon cancer from a Diagnostic X-Ray Systems Advanced Diagnostics and New Procedure Support Solutions single drop of blood with high sensitivity. Currently, we are developing practical applications for the technique. ■Equipped with advanced image processing technology, these ■This system can detect even ■This system provides In terms of diagnosis, we offer multipurpose X-ray easy-to-use medical systems reduce the stress on patients. small breast cancers, with support for pinpoint fluoroscopy systems for diagnosing osteoporosis, a patient s examined laying irradiation of cancers during SCORE PRO Advance tomosynthesis application for follow-up examinations after face down. radiation therapy. artificial joint surgery, and a dedicated breast PET system for breast cancer (malignant neoplasm) examinations that involve no compression pain. For psychiatric disorders, we Improving the visibility of offer supplemental support for differential diagnosis of medical devices and reducing depression using near-infrared light. the radiation dose For treatment, we offer angiography systems equipped SCORE RSM with a video imaging application for supporting cutting-edge minimally invasive procedures. We also offer near-infrared camera systems for supporting surgical techniques used in breast surgery, plastic surgery, Angiography System Imaging with low-radiation X-Ray General Radiography Mobile X-Ray Dedicated Breast Tumor-Tracking System for dose levels and is minimally Fluoroscopy System System System PET System Radiotherapy Systems affected by movement 55 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 56 Business Overview and Results Industrial Machinery Business Business Results We contribute to industrial development by ■FY 2018 Results ■Outlook for FY 2019 Business Environment Business Environment supplying high-performance key components, such as turbomolecular pumps and high-quality Demand for turbomolecular pumps used in semiconductor Demand for turbomolecular pumps used in semiconductor equipment and parts equipped with sophisticated and touch panel manufacturing equipment slowed in the manufacturing equipment (a major business segment) is hydraulic technology. second half as the demand for semiconductors used in predicted to start recovering in the second half of the year. data centers and smartphone temporarily decreased. Hydraulic equipment and vacuum heat treatment furnace Left: Yasunori Tokumasu Right: Akira Watanabe Demand for hydraulic equipment expanded due to strong sales are also expected to be strong. General Manager, Fluidics Systems Division General Manager, Industrial Machinery Division sales in forklift and construction machinery markets. Demand for vacuum heat treatment furnaces expanded Key Measures due to strong demand for ceramics used in carbide • Expand sales of turbomolecular pumps. machine tools and as a material in electronics. We will strengthen measures to ensure Shimadzu turbomolecular pumps are selected for use in the next Business Environment Key Measures and Results generation of semiconductor manufacturing equipment equipment is also expected to expand. • Sales increased for turbomolecular pumps used in flat at major manufacturers in Japan, the United States, and Due to the growing importance of the semiconductor industry Also, due to the global expansion of logistic facilities and panel display manufacturing equipment and thin-film Europe. We will also continue focusing efforts on for supporting our increasingly information-based societies, construction demand associated with economic development, solar cell manufacturing equipment. expanding the aftermarket business within and outside including the expanding use of IoT technologies, for example, forklift and construction machinery demand is predicted to Sales increased for turbomolecular pumps used in flat Japan. the semiconductor market is predicted to expand in the remain solid. Consequently, markets for hydraulic equipment panel display manufacturing equipment and thin-film • Expand applications for vacuum heat treatment furnaces. medium and long-term. Consequently, the market for used as power units are also expected to remain strong. solar cell manufacturing equipment, but overall For vacuum heat treatment furnaces, which achieved turbomolecular pumps used in semiconductor manufacturing turbomolecular sales decreased 9 % (year-on-year) due strong sales last year, in addition to the ceramics and to lower demand for semiconductor manufacturing carbide tool applications, we will also pursue new equipment and touch panel manufacturing equipment in applications in the food industry. the second half. • Increase market share for hydraulic equipment. Sales Trend Society Challenges Hydraulic equipment sales increased by 3 % (year-on-year), with increased sales in Japan and China Target • Develop sustainable and resilient infrastructure. (Billion yen) (Billion yen) due to strong market conditions. • Implement global measures to achieve a 50 48 10 • Strong sales of vacuum heat treatment furnaces 44.2 45.4 carbon-free society. In terms of other businesses, sales increased by 21 % 40 36.2 9.8% 10.2% 8 9.2% (year-on-year) due to increased vacuum heat treatment 7.4% 30 6 furnace sales and other factors. 4.5 4.9 4.1 • Expand aftermarket business. 20 4 2.7 The sales ratio of the turbomolecular pump aftermarket 10 2 business increased six points to 19 % (year-on-year), due to successful measures to expand business locations, for 0 0 Value Provided 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) example. Net sales Operating income Operating margin We promote sustainable infrastructure development by offering a wide variety of key components and machinery that contribute to the progress of a wide range of advanced manufacturing industries. For example, we offer turbomolecular pumps, which are a Industrial Machinery Hydraulic Equipment critical component in semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and vacuum heat treatment furnaces for ■These are vacuum pumps used to create the vacuum ■These vacuum film deposition ■These furnaces perform dewaxing, ■These hydraulic units supply hydraulic power for various ceramics, demand for which is predicted to expand environment essential for manufacturing semiconductors, systems apply metal coatings degassing, sintering, and rapid cooling types of equipment, including forklifts, construction for example. onto three-dimensional plastic steps for cemented carbide, or various machinery, special-purpose vehicles, and agricultural further due to its use as a material in semiconductor products. other metals, in a continuous serial process. machinery. circuit boards. In addition, we contribute to the Hydraulic Gear Pump expansion of renewable energies by supplying turbomolecular pumps used in equipment for manufacturing thin-film solar cells and glass winders for winding glass fiber used to reinforce wind turbine blades. We contribute to increasing agricultural productivity by Forklift supplying hydraulic equipment as the motive power Turbomolecular Pump High-Speed Sputtering System Vacuum Heat Treatment Furnace Hydraulic Gear Pump source for agricultural equipment. 57 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 58 Business Overview and Results Aircraft Equipment Business Business Results ■FY 2018 Results • Promote new business. We contribute to ensuring a society with safe and Business Environment In terms of new business, we will integrate measuring and image processing technologies to start a comfortable mobility by offering components/parts and Global demand for commercial aircraft is expanding, testing/inspection business for supporting aircraft systems that integrate advanced technologies with superior especially for small and medium-sized aircraft. safety and start a marine device business for using precision machining technologies. light and sensing technologies to search for marine Key Measures and Results resources, diagnose deterioration of marine Hiroshi Fujino • Defense business infrastructure, and ensure underwater security. General Manager, Aircraft Equipment Division Sales decreased 5 % (year-on-year), due to a rearrangement and reduction in certain components, one-time deliveries last year, and other factors. • Commercial aircraft equipment business Sales increased 19 % (year-on-year), due to the Business Environment contribution from increased sales of new parts. Sales Trend Long-term stable growth is expected in the We expect there will be demand for new Target ■Outlook for FY 2019 (Billion yen) (Billion yen) aircraft equipment market due to increasing quality management techniques, 30 28.5 5 Business Environment 26.7 27.6 27.3 globalization. Moreover, the number of testing/inspection/evaluation technologies, and 4 commercial aircraft in operation is expected to data management functionality used to ensure 24 2.9% Global demand for commercial aircraft is expected to 1.7% 2.5% double in the next 20 years due to expansion higher levels of safety and comfort as aircraft 18 0.4% 3 continue expanding, especially for small and by low-cost carriers and strong demand in Asia. include increasingly sophisticated functionality. medium-sized aircraft. 12 2 6 0.8 0.7 1 Key Measures 0.5 0.1 • Strengthen commercial aircraft business. 0 0 Society Challenges 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) We will win new projects, mainly for gearboxes, in the expanding small and medium-sized aircraft markets. Net sales Operating income Operating margin Ensure safety, environmental protection, and improved comfort in the mobility ﬁeld, which are essential for globalization. Ensuring Safe Aircraft Flight and a Comfortable Passenger Environment ■The flight control system controls the lift, attitude, and other aspects of aircraft Power Drive Unit Control Valve during flight. Gearboxes Modules Shimadzu manufactures flap control systems that ensure takeoffs and landings are performed safely. Its Value Provided high-quality mechanical technology and Horizontal Stabilizer Trim Actuator highly reliable electronic control We will contribute signiﬁcantly to improving technology. technology help ensure flight safety. eﬃciency and reducing environmental impact Our precision machining technologies to by developing technologies for smaller, lighter, support such contributions will not only help Angle Gearbox Flap Actuators and electrically powered ﬂight control systems, the growth and advancement of the aircraft to ﬂight safety with our display technology, and industry but also strengthen the foundation for TOPICS to the comfort and optimization of cabin the increasingly sophisticated manufacturing environments with our air management industry. Deploying a Testing and Inspection Business Because much of the service work in the aircraft industry relies on manual operations and there is a shortage of service personnel, the industry is seeking solutions for increasing aircraft efficiency and reducing labor requirements. In response to the growing market needs, the Shimadzu Group will start an aircraft equipment testing and inspection business that is based on integrating measuring and imaging technologies. In addition to promoting product development using new inspection technology that combines ultrasonic and laser technologies, we will also offer services for systematizing the management of inspection data. 59 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 60 Business Overview and Results Integrated Organization that Fosters Innovation To provide support for our businesses, achieve additional growth, and promote the development of advanced SHIMADZU Future Collaboratory (opening scheduled August 2020) technologies or the integration of different technologies through joint research and open innovation work with external Basic Technology A new research building, the SHIMADZU Future Collaboratory, will be established within the Technology Research Laboratory site, which is located in the Keihanna Science City (Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto). entities, we are establishing integrated capabilities for activities ranging from research and development to product and Research The collaboratory is designed to facilitate research and development of advanced analytical technologies, application development. the brain and the five senses, innovative biotechnology, and artificial intelligence (AI), for example, and for creating new value through open innovation and solving challenges of society. Application and Supplying products Technology Development Needs and services Products and Basic Services Technology Development Research Key technology research Innovation Centers Application and Innovation Centers have been established to conduct joint research and joint development with key Shimadzu Research Laboratory (Europe) Ltd. Shimadzu Research Laboratory (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Koichi Tanaka Mass Spectrometry Research Laboratory Technology customers, such as academic institutions, research institutions, and private companies that hold advanced technologies. Currently, there are four Innovation Centers located throughout the world, in Development Europe, the United States, China, and Singapore. Shimadzu is also strengthening ties between the Innovation Centers and the Global Application Development Center in Japan. Products and United States Japan China Services Development Healthcare R&D Center The Healthcare R&D Center was opened at the Head Office (in Kyoto) in June 2019. By consolidating various departments involved Innovation Center in the US Shimadzu Tokyo Innovation Plaza (tentative name) Shimadzu China Mass Spectrometry Center in healthcare-related development work into (opening scheduled December 2020) a single location, the center will promote the Shimadzu China R&D Division (RDC) An open innovation hub to create new business in the life integration of technologies from different sciences and environmental fields. Its role is to coordinate with the global innovation centers to develop analytical business segments. This will enable us to application technologies and provide solutions to customers commercialize key technologies obtained through joint research. from projects more quickly, and enable revolutionary new products to be developed Europe Japan Asia for the healthcare field and solutions to solve customer challenges to be rapidly developed and deployed. In addition to integrating the Analytical & Measuring Instruments and 日 本 Medical Systems businesses, the facility will serve as a center for open innovation to expand the healthcare business through collaboration with advanced customers or outside researchers. Innovation Center in Germany Head Office in Kyoto Innovation Centre in Singapore Kratos (UK) Global Application Development Center 61 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 62 Business Overview and Results Key Financial and Non-Financial Data over the Past Eleven Years Financial Data FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Fiscal Year (million yen) Net sales 272,833 238,255 252,707 266,255 264,048 307,532 314,702 342,236 342,479 376,530 391,213 Gross profit 104,971 87,050 95,520 100,875 96,030 117,959 127,028 140,385 136,409 149,833 157,169 Selling, general and administrative expenses 85,358 76,756 79,222 81,509 83,913 93,940 99,838 104,683 99,319 107,011 112,688 R&D expenses 9,135 9,018 8,407 8,883 9,659 10,643 9,786 9,437 9,296 9,676 10,138 Operating income 19,613 10,294 16,297 19,365 12,116 24,018 27,189 35,701 37,089 42,822 44,480 Capital investment 8,989 8,608 8,463 8,911 9,147 16,163 13,571 12,098 12,876 17,187 21,711 Depreciation and amortization 8,503 8,301 7,924 7,969 7,909 8,050 7,951 9,425 9,546 10,591 11,506 Profit attributable to owners of parent 8,536 6,130 10,046 9,083 7,578 9,724 18,445 23,899 26,473 29,838 32,523 Cash Flows (million yen) Cash flows from operating activities 12,923 13,756 24,992 8,805 12,028 （5,870） 40,245 32,348 29,608 41,215 29,454 Cash flows from investing activities （10,441） （7,675） （8,281） （7,899） （7,899） 390 （15,678） （13,101） （12,304） （11,072） （22,897） Free cash flows (from operating and investing activities) 2,482 6,080 16,710 906 4,128 （5,480） 24,566 19,246 17,303 30,142 6,557 Cash flows from financing activities （11,757） （1,754） （9,044） （4,878） （2,401） 15,363 （33,197） （11,689） （7,294） （7,902） （10,819） Year-End Values (million yen) Total assets 281,155 284,104 284,843 290,840 300,259 340,715 339,832 349,798 375,354 418,548 437,190 Cash and cash equivalents 23,673 28,242 34,221 29,756 33,842 43,929 38,422 43,508 52,762 75,090 70,842 Outstanding interest-bearing debt 34,640 36,847 30,729 29,075 30,509 53,860 24,668 19,150 18,611 18,636 17,537 Shareholders’ capital 154,855 158,601 166,401 173,105 178,174 180,449 195,912 214,734 235,342 258,464 282,962 Per-Share Information (yen) Profit 28.92 20.77 34.05 30.79 25.69 32.97 62.55 81.05 89.79 101.26 110.41 Net assets 497.83 518.27 530.25 546.97 587.53 616.50 711.38 745.13 818.56 908.76 977.35 Dividends 9.00 7.00 8.00 8.00 9.00 9.00 13.00 18.00 20.00 24.00 28.00 Payout ratio 31.1% 33.7% 23.5% 26.0% 35.0% 27.3% 20.8% 22.2% 22.3% 23.7% 25.4% Key Financial Performance Indicators Gross margin 38.5% 36.5% 37.8% 37.9% 36.4% 38.4% 40.4% 41.0% 39.8% 39.8% 40.2% Operating margin 7.2% 4.3% 6.4% 7.3% 4.6% 7.8% 8.6% 10.4% 10.8% 11.4% 11.4% ROE (Return on equity) 5.7% 4.1% 6.5% 5.7% 4.5% 5.5% 9.4% 11.1% 11.5% 11.7% 11.7% ROA (Return on assets) 6.1% 2.2% 3.5% 3.2% 2.6% 3.0% 5.4% 6.9% 7.3% 7.5% 7.6% Shareholders’ capital ratio 55.1% 55.8% 58.4% 59.5% 59.3% 53.0% 57.6% 61.4% 62.7% 61.8% 64.7% Price-earnings ratio 21.7× 36.1× 21.7× 24.3× 26.1× 27.8× 21.4× 21.8× 19.7× 29.5× 29.0× Overseas sales ratio 42.5% 38.4% 39.7% 40.8% 43.0% 46.5% 49.8% 50.9% 48.6% 50.2% 50.4% Non-Financial Data FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 Number of employees 9,670 9,624 9,819 10,132 10,395 10,612 10,879 11,094 11,528 11,954 12,684 Number of employees outside Japan 3,162 3,101 3,328 3,608 3,842 3,913 4,059 4,201 4,471 4,805 5,187 Number of patents held 3,549 3,751 3,996 4,343 4,848 5,304 5,484 5,657 6,071 6,549 6,755 CO2 emissions* 21,940t-CO2 21,029t-CO2 34,877t-CO2 39,213t-CO2 42,390t-CO2 44,472t-CO2 46,473t-CO2 46,453t-CO2 46,959t-CO2 49,398t-CO2 44,958t-CO2 * Data up to FY 2009 only includes emissions from Shimadzu Corporation manufacturing and laboratory sites. 63 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 64 Business Overview and Results Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets (Units: Millions of yen) (Units: Millions of yen) Consolidated Statements of Income (Units: Millions of yen) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Units: Millions of yen) FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2018 Assets Liabilities Net sales 376,530 391,213 Cash flows from operating activities Cost of sales 226,697 234,044 Income before income taxes 41,775 44,652 Current assets Current liabilities Gross profit 149,833 157,169 Depreciation and amortization 10,591 11,506 Cash and time deposits 76,926 73,641 Trade notes and accounts payable 66,589 66,610 Selling, general and administrative expenses 107,011 112,688 Impairment loss 195 Trade notes and accounts receivable 119,117 126,358 Short-term loans 3,135 2,290 Operating income 42,822 44,480 Increase (decrease) in allowance for doubtful receivables 133 226 Other income Increase (decrease) in allowance for employees’ bonuses 553 349 Marketable securities 20 Bonds redeemable within one year 15,000 Interest income 241 245 Increase (decrease) in allowance for director’s bonuses （21） 25 Merchandise and products 40,067 42,825 Lease obligations 1,060 1,160 Dividend income 346 277 Increase (decrease) in liability for retirement benefits 1,895 （1,411） Work in process 19,936 20,347 16,244 15,487 Insurance payments received 329 602 Accounts payable Interest and dividends income （587） （523） Foreign exchange profit 62 Raw materials and supplies 20,632 20,296 Income taxes payable 7,460 3,740 Interest expenses 139 119 Subsidy received 395 367 Foreign exchange (gain) loss, net 22 （10） Other 8,931 9,107 Allowance for employees’ bonuses 8,735 9,095 Other 596 846 Net (gain) loss on sale and valuation of investment securities 66 247 Allowance for doubtful receivables （1,409） （1,671） 259 281 Total other income 1,909 2,403 Net (gain) loss on sale and disposal of Allowance for director’s bonuses 29 367 property, plant and equipment Other expenses Total current assets 284,223 290,906 Provision for loss on defense equipment 94 44 (Increase) decrease in trade receivables （6,909） （6,470） Interest expenses 139 119 (Increase) decrease in inventories （5,513） （2,589） Noncurrent assets Other 18,386 19,566 Foreign exchange loss 1,271 Increase (decrease) in trade payables 10,045 （600） Compensation expenses 311 570 Property, plant and equipment Total current liabilities 121,965 133,278 1,138 Other （2,640） （2,221） Other 732 Buildings and structures, net 39,985 46,798 Long-term liabilities Subtotal 49,581 43,861 Total other expenses 2,860 1,421 Machinery, equipment and vehicles, net 6,713 7,826 Unsecured bonds 15,000 Ordinary income 41,871 45,462 Interest and dividends received 587 522 Extraordinary income Interest paid （139） （124） Land 18,821 19,010 Long-term debt 501 247 Gain on sale of investment securities 177 Income taxes paid （8,814） （14,806） Leased assets, net 2,734 3,183 Lease obligations 1,986 2,328 41,215 29,454 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 157 56 Net cash provided by operating activities Construction in progress 3,225 2,338 Liability for directors’ retirement benefits 169 137 Total extraordinary income 157 234 Cash flows from investing activities Extraordinary losses Purchase of property, plant and equipment （11,972） （20,784） Other, net 12,655 13,724 Liability for retirement benefits 9,732 11,938 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 187 423 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 489 1,023 Total property, plant and equipment 84,136 92,880 Liability for stock benefits 82 155 Loss on sale of investment securities 225 Purchase of investment securities （482） （986） Intangible fixed assets Other 1,049 1,163 Loss on write-down of investment securities 66 198 Proceeds from sale of investment securities 749 Impairment loss 195 Increase in long term receivables （157） （59） Intangible fixed assets 9,234 10,830 Total long-term liabilities 28,522 15,971 Total extraordinary losses 253 1,043 45 Decrease in long term receivables 46 Investments and other assets Total liabilities 150,488 149,249 Income before income taxes 41,775 44,652 Purchase of subsidiary （1,557） （1,985） Investment securities 16,464 13,562 Net assets Income taxes 11,512 10,991 Other 2,560 （900） Income taxes adjustments 342 1,074 Long-term receivables 159 174 Shareholders’ capital Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities （11,072） （22,897） Total income taxes and income taxes adjustments 11,855 12,066 Cash flows from financing activities Assets related to retirement benefits 8,010 10,480 Common stock 26,648 26,648 Profit 29,920 32,586 Borrowing of short-term loans 616 88 Deferred tax assets 11,535 12,400 Additional paid-in capital 35,188 34,927 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 82 62 Repayment of short-term loans （669） （570） Profit attributable to owners of parent 29,838 32,523 Other 5,129 6,296 Retained earnings 198,038 222,801 Borrowing of long-term debt 650 Allowance for doubtful receivables （344） （341） Treasury stock （1,410） （1,415） Repayment of long-term debt （571） （750） Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Units: Millions of yen) Cash dividends paid （6,186） （7,662） Total investments and other assets 40,954 42,573 Total shareholders’ capital 258,464 282,962 FY 2017 FY 2018 Dividends payments to non-controlling interests （11） （20） Total noncurrent assets 134,325 146,284 Profit 29,920 32,586 Purchase of subsidiary resulting in no Accumulated other comprehensive income （621） change in scope of consolidation Other comprehensive income Net unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities 7,440 5,508 Repayment of guarantee deposits received （21） （19） Unrealized gain/loss on available-for-sale securities 1,590 （1,931） Payment of finance lease obligations （1,183） （1,258） Foreign currency translation adjustments （1,998） （1,660） Foreign currency translation adjustments （565） 290 (Increase) decrease in treasury stock （524） （4） Cumulative adjustments to retirement benefits 3,787 1,083 Retirement benefit adjustments 2,219 （2,703） Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities （7,902） （10,819） Accumulated other comprehensive income 9,229 4,932 Total other comprehensive income 3,243 （4,344） Foreign currency translation adjustments 87 （236） on cash and cash equivalents Comprehensive income 33,163 28,241 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 22,327 （4,499） Non-controlling interests 366 47 (Break down) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period 52,762 75,090 Total net assets 268,060 287,941 Comprehensive income attributable to Increase in cash and cash equivalents due owners of parent 33,078 28,212 to inclusion of subsidiaries in consolidation 251 Total assets 418,548 437,190 Total liabilities and net assets 418,548 437,190 Comprehensive income attributable to 85 28 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period 75,090 70,842 non-controlling interests 65 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 66 Business Overview and Results Ba sic Information Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2019) Shimadzu Corporation’ s Primary Means of Issuing Reports Number of Shareholders 30,141 Address of Head Office 1 Nishinokyo Kuwabara-cho, Nakagyo-ku, Kyoto 604-8511, Japan Number of Employees (Shimadzu Group Total) 12,684 Founded March 1875 Stock Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange Financial Information Non-Financial Information Formation of Limited Company September 1917 TSE Code 7701 Information website for investors Sustainability website Shareholder Registry https://www.shimadzu.com/ir/ https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/ Capital 26,648,899,574 yen Administrator Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Total Number of 296,070,227 Accounting Auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Common Stock Issued Major Shareholders Ratio of Shares by Shareholder Type Number of Shares Owned Shareholding Ratio (%) Shareholder Name (Thousands of Shares) Securities companies The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 22,009 7.47 (51 shareholders) General corporations 1,131 thousand shares Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 20,742 7.04 (270 shareholders) (0.4 %) 14,445 thousand shares Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 16,508 5.60 (4.9 %) Others (3 shareholders) MUFG Bank, Ltd. 7,672 2.60 1,252 thousand shares (0.4 %) Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Individuals Taiyo Life Insurance Company 7,411 2.51 (29,119 shareholders) 37,107 thousand shares Total Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 6,287 2.13 296,070 Earnings reports and financial position (12.5 %) presentation documents Reports related to corporate governance thousand National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives 6,101 2.07 shares Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 5,836 1.98 Foreign investors Fact Book (620 shareholders) Financial institutions, etc. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 5,049 1.71 91,216 thousand shares (78 shareholders) (30.8 %) Marketable securities reports 150,917 thousand shares The Bank of Kyoto, Ltd. 4,922 1.67 (51.0 %) • The indicated shareholding ratio was calculated excluding treasury stock (1,249,337 shares). Stock Price (Tokyo Stock Exchange) (Yen) (TOPIX) ■Publishing Dates 2019 Edition: Published in September 2019 3,700 2020 Edition: Will be published in the summer of 2020. 3,700 3,500 3,500 3,300 3,300 ■Reporting Periods From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (also includes certain important information for periods other than 3,100 3,100 indicated to the left.) 2,900 2,900 TOPIX ■Reporting Organizations Shimadzu Corporation and Shimadzu Group companies 2,700 2,700 2,500 Shimadzu Corporation 2,500 ■Disclosure Policy This report is provided in an effort to disclose information in a timely manner, in accordance with the Disclosure 2,300 2,300 Policy specified by Shimadzu. 2,100 2,100 For more details, refer to the website. https://www.shimadzu.com/sustainability/approach/stake_holder/disclosure.html 1,900 1,900 1,700 1,700 1,500 1,500 ■Notes about Future Prospects 1,300 1,300 The business plans, strategies, and forecasts stated in this report are based on currently available information and are subject to risks and 1,100 1,100 uncertainties. Please note that actual results may differ substantially from projected results, due to changes in economic conditions, market trends, or other factors. 900 900 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 (Month) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Recognition from Outside Shimadzu Nikkei Environmental Management Survey Selected in FY 2018 Corporate Ranking Shimadzu Corporation is selected to Shimadzu Corporation is included in the Shimadzu is included in the MSCI Japan Shimadzu is included in the MSCI Japan For the third consecutive year, Shimadzu Shimadzu is included in the Diversity Shimadzu Corporation was selected as a In this ranking, which recognizes be included in the JPX-Nikkei Index S&P/JPX Carbon Efficient Index, which is an ESG Select Leaders Index, which selects Empowering Women Index (WIN), which Corporation was recognized jointly by the Management Selection 100 list, which Nadeshiko brand for the third consecutive year, companies involved in improving both in recognition of being a company that actively 400, which was started by the Japan indicator for selecting companies with low brands in respective industry categories selects companies in respective industry Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and is a list of companies selected by the promotes the role of women in the workplace. environmental measures and Exchange Group (JPX), Tokyo Stock carbon emission levels and that disclose with a high ESG score based on overall categories that promote the role of women Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi as a Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade Nadeshiko brands are selected from respective management efficiency, Shimadzu was Exchange, and Nikkei in 2014 for the sufficient information about carbon emission environmental, social, and governance and have a high gender diversity score. The 2019 “White 500” company, which and Industry to publicize advanced industries by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, ranked 20th out of 360 Japanese Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock purpose of selecting companies that quantities. The index is also used as an (ESG) risks. The index is also used as an index is also used as an indicator for recognizes large corporations with measures by companies that use manufacturers in 2019. That result shows Exchange from the approximately 3,500 satisfy the various conditions required indicator for evaluation by the Government indicator for evaluation by the Government evaluation by the Government Pension outstanding health and productivity diversity to achieve better companies listed on the exchange, based on how highly Shimadzu’s environmental by global investment standards. Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). Pension Investment Fund (GPIF). Investment Fund (GPIF). management practices. management results. their practices that actively promote the role of management measures are valued. women, including providing a work environment where women are free to continue working. 67 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 Shimadzu Integrated Report 2019 68 https://www.shimadzu.com
