Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Period of Communication November 2019 to November 2020 we are Singapore Showroom Introduction Stylecraft has been providing furniture of original, contemporary design for over 65 years. First established in Melbourne, Australia in 1953 primarily as a commercial workstation provider, Stylecraft now has 9 showrooms around Australia and Asia, and represents over 20 exclusive European and Australian brands. We prioritise suppliers and manufacturers who are committed to sustainable practices, those with ISO14001 certification and products carrying European and Australian Brisbane Showroom Eco Label accreditation which contributes towards Greenstar, LEED & IWBI WELL certification schemes. Sydney Showroom Perth Showroom + StylecraftHOME Stylecraft value decisions leading to good practice for the Adelaide Showroom environment and the world we live in, and we aim to be Canberra Showroom transparent with reporting our sustainability practices. Melbourne Showroom + StylecraftHOME In our third year as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we’re committed to continuing our annual reporting on our progress. Page 2 · UNGC Document on Progress · Introduction Letter of Commitment to Our Stakeholders To our stakeholders, 14.11.2020 I am pleased to confirm that Stylecraft reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment & Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Anthony Collins Managing Director Page 3 · UNGC Document on Progress · Letter of Committment to our Stakeholders Covid-19 Impact Statement In 2020, we have been faced with an Immediate Impact Medium-term Initiatives Long Term unprecedented challenge in Covid-19. The effect Staff health and wellbeing; Safe return to work when advised by Stylecraft continues to ensure the safey of all it has had on our staff, business, suppliers and relevant State Governments; staff, clients and visitors to our showrooms, by our overall industry has been significant. As the Health, Wellness and Mindfulness adhering to local government restrictions and pandemic continues to evolve we have adapted workshops facilitated by EQ Minds founder, Provision of temperature checks for all staff health advice. to times where the majority of our staff have been Chelsea Pottenger offered to all staff and and clients on entry into Stylecraft showrooms working from home, navigated disrupted supply key clients. and offices. Stylecraft joined as signatory to Global Compact chain, reorientated product offering and addressed Network Australia letter to Australian Prime the impact to our business as a whole. While our Regular communication from Managing Provision of hand sanitiser. Minister. This letter called for the Government commitment and overall strategy has not waivered, Director with staff to ensure they were to use the United Nations Sustainable our priority has been the health and wellbeing of informed of impact to business. Daily allowance for transport to and from work Development Goals (SDGs) as a framework for our staff. or parking where a staff member would normally policies that would encourage a socially just and Facilitation of staff check-ins by had to have caught public transport. green pathway out of the pandemic. Our Covid-19 response can be broken into three management through regular video calls. categories of immediate impact, medium-term Ability to adjust to combination of working initiatives and long-term goals. Provision of ergonomic seating for use from home and from the office. when working from home. An assessment of Stylecraft’s response to date to identify areas of ongoing improvement Page 4 · UNGC Document on Progress · Covid-19 Impact Statement Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation (cont.) Implementation (cont.) Stylecraft respects and supports social justice (Good Environmental Choice Australia) We have completed a Modern Slavery Supplier Principle 1 and all internationally recognised human and which addresses social, legal and environmental Assessment on Australia’s first shared Modern Businesses should support labour rights. We operate in compliance to compliance for both the manufacturer and Slavery Platform for The Property Council of and respect the protection of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) applicant company. Australia (PCA). They have led a collaborative internationally proclaimed human Conventions, and work to ensure human rights group of the 17 largest property companies in rights. are implemented within our own company Stylecraft have previously undertaken a Social developing a tech platform that gathers and and those we do business with and/or have & Environmental Risk Assessment Analysis collates information from industry suppliers on Principle 2 influence on. across our company and supply chain to ensure their modern slavery exposures in operations and Make sure that they are not compliance with the Commonwealth Modern supply chain. complicit in human rights abuses. Stylecraft is committed to providing a safe and Slavery Act 2018, and to support Stylecraft in healthy workplace for all employees, visitors and meeting regulatory requirements and longer term Over the past year we have engaged the contractors and recognises the responsibilities customer expectations. Modern Slavery can services of a Sustainability Consultant to assist and requirements placed on it by work health include human trafficking, servitude, child labour, us in the development of an action plan and Targeted SDGs and safety legislation and codes of practice as sex trafficking, forced marriage, forced labour roadmap to further guide our Modern Slavery set out in our Work Health & Safety Policy. and debt bondage. and Human Rights commitment and strategy. This has included the development of policies Stylecraft have an awareness of the impact the The risk assessment was conducted using a and templates such as our Human Rights Covid-19 pandemic is having on suppliers and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) approach that Policy, Suppliers Code of Conduct, Supplier as result we have a responsibility to manage our analysed the social impact across our suppliers, Self-Assessment Questionnaire and Supplier clients expectations to ensure minimum human their products, materials and countries from Scorecard. rights are met by our partners. which we procure. The final risk assessment results provided an overview and prioritisation of We had planned a presentation to the Executive Fair working conditions and wages are risk in our supply chain with detailed information Team to ensure full understanding of the core implemented throughout the company in line on high risk suppliers, materials and countries. requirements of meeting Modern Slavery with the Fair Work Act 2009. legislation and stakeholder expectation in Our Sustainability & Social Responsibility Leader regards to addressing Human, Labour Rights regularly takes part in online training forums to and Modern Slavery risks. This face to face Implementation keep up to date with Modern Slavery regulations presentation was scheduled for April 2020, but We have successfully developed our Human and requirements. due to Covid-19 has been delayed. Stylecraft Rights policy, together with our Supplier will be voluntarily reporting under the Questionnaire, Code of Conduct and Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. Scorecard. We are in the process of developing our Anti-Corruption Policy. (Measurement of Outcomes cont. over page.) We have successfully completed and continue Page 5 · UNGC Document on Progress · Human Rights to carry out independent auditing for Third Party Product Certification through GECA Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 1 legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should support to any breaches to Human Rights in the past 12 and respect the protection of months. internationally proclaimed human rights. We have successfully completed Third Party Environmental certification for several product Principle 2 ranges and work closely with our suppliers and Make sure that they are not manufacturers, both locally and internationally, complicit in human rights abuses. to grow the collection of certified product. The Australian Ecolabel Program is based on the international standard ISO14024; ‘Environmental Labels and Declarations – Targeted SDGs Type 1 Environmental Labelling’. The standard has been established to assess product environmental criteria and product function characteristics, and for assessing and demonstrating social, environmental and legal compliance. This includes the elimination of ingredients, designs, defects or side effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products. The standard contributes towards SDGs 13 (Climate Action), 14 (Life Below Water) and 15 (Life on Land). We remain committed to education and training around Human and Labour Rights and continue to engage with our suppliers both locally and internationally and use our influence where possible to ensure minimum human rights are met. Page 6 · UNGC Document on Progress · Human Rights Labour UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Assessment, Policy & Goals (cont.) Implementation Stylecraft is committed to upholding the rights In 2020 the ability of staff to utilise their volunteer Over the past year we have engaged the Principle 3 of our employees in relation to freedom of days has been impacted by Covid-19 restrictions services of a Sustainability Consultant to assist Businesses should uphold the association and collective bargaining, forced, however we have continued our support of us in the development of an action plan and freedom of association and the compulsory or child labour and understands the numerous charities through monetary donations roadmap to further guide our Modern Slavery effective recognition of the right to importance of having a diverse workforce. as listed below. and Human Rights commitment and strategy. collective bargaining; This has included the development of policies We are proud to be an equal opportunity In lieu of physcial Christmas Gifts given to our and templates such as our Human Rights Principle 4 employer, facilitating an inclusive environment clients, Stylecraft committed a donation of Policy, Suppliers Code of Conduct, Supplier The elimination of all forms of forced for all current and future employees where $20,000 to Kids Cancer Project. This is in Self-Assessment Questionnaire and Supplier and compulsory labour; diversity is celebrated. conjunction with a commitment to donate 10% Scorecard. of sales on StylecraftNOW up to the value of Principle 5 We are committed to providing opportunities to $20,000 in October 2020. Stylecraft are in the process of developing our the best candidates regardless of race, gender, Anti-corruption policy. These documents will set The abolition of child labour; culture, religion, sexual preference and age. The 2019 FDC & Stylecraft Melbourne Cup out our expectations and ensure that minimum charity function raised over $300,000 for the human rights are met and monitored. Principle 6 We believe in treating people with respect Macquarie University Motor Neuron Disease The elimination of discrimination and dignity and do not tolerate acts of sexual Research Centre and Clinic. Stylecraft will be voluntarily reporting under the in respect of employment and harassment, intimidation or discrimination, Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. occupation. whether direct or indirect. In a year when bushfires ravaged our country, Stylecraft was involved in multiple fundraising Stylecraft have recently begun the process Our expectations and policies for the above are efforts in an effort to contribute where possible. In of implementing ISO Triple Certification Targeted SDGs set out in our Equal Opportunity and AntiSA we were involved in a raffle with JamFactory for our business. This includes ISO 9001: Discrimination Policy. which helped raise $25,000 for a local CFS Quality Management System ISO: 14001 foundation and Kangaroo Island Wildlife Park Environmental Management System & ISO: We have successfully launched an Intranet Fund. $10,000 was donated to FDC’s efforts 45001 Health and Safety Management where current and new Stylecraft employees to raise funds for fencing in Corryong, assisting System. can access all relevant policies and procedure local farmers to contain stock and protect their documentation together with training guides. livelihoods. Staff in VIC invited and attended with clients, the Rally for Relief event at the Charity Leave Day Entitlement Australian Open. Our WA showroom hosted Stylecraft employees are entitled to two days a breakfast fundraising event which raised leave annually to support a charity of their choice. almost $2000 to be donated to WA volunteer In prior years we have volunteered at charities emergency services. such as Dementia Australia, Fred Hollows Foundation, and the Asylum Seeker Resource Page 7 · UNGC Document on Progress · Labour Centre. Labour UN Global Compact Principles Implementation (cont.) Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft have successfully launched a Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 3 Indigenous Impact working group responsible legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should uphold the for the Indigenous engagement program and to any breaches to labour, anti-discrimination freedom of association and the the development of a Reconciliation Action Plan and/or safety regulations in the past 12 months. effective recognition of the right to (RAP). collective bargaining; Stylecraft is proud to employ a diverse The IIWG had planned to attend Supply Nation’s workforce, employing staff of various age Principle 4 Connect 2020 during Reconciliation Week but groups, cultures and ethic backgrounds. We The elimination of all forms of forced the event was cancelled due to Covid-19. We believe in gender equality, and currently have and compulsory labour; will be attending in 2021. 62.5% women in the workforce, with 66.7% of women holding senior management and Principle 5 Although physical events were not possible executive positions. This year we appointed our The abolition of child labour; during Reconciliation Week this year, we shared first female Director to the Executive Team. resources with all staff, including virtual cinema events and educational documentaries, through Fair working conditions and wages are Principle 6 to website resources, webinars and books, and implemented throughout the company in line The elimination of discrimination encouraged staff to engage across all levels. with the Fair Work Act 2009. We provide in respect of employment and training and upskilling for employees currently in occupation. While the progress of the working group was our teams.As part of our ongoing commitment halted by the impact of Covid-19, we aim to to improving employee relations at Stylecraft, release the RAP in 2021. we recently conducted an Employee Opinion Targeted SDGs Survey. Results obtained will give our organisation valuable feedback on employee satisfaction and issues in the workplace. Page 8 · UNGC Document on Progress · Labour Environment UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Implementation (cont.) Stylecraft are committed to being a leader of Stylecraft gives priority to companies with In addition to the above, we have developed Principle 7 sustainable practice within the furniture industry. ISO14001 certification, and products carrying a Sustainable Procurement Policy and Businesses should support a We understand our social and environmental independent Eco Label accreditation. Stylecraft Supplier Questionnaire in line with ISO20400 precautionary approach to responsibilities and are constantly working and a number of our suppliers have successfully to ensure we continue to maintain sustainable environmental challenges; to develop more sustainable and responsible completed Third Party Environmental design and production. We continue to seek production of our products. Our mission certification such as GECA, AFRDI Green Tick, opportunities to collaborate with suppliers and Principle 8 and initiatives are set out in the Stylecraft and Ecospecifier Global Green Tag for several designers on new product designs using new Undertake initiatives to Environmental Policy and include waste product ranges and we continue to work closely environmental technologies and innovative promote greater environmental minimisation and energy management, supplier with our suppliers and manufacturers, both materials. responsibility; management and product certification. locally and internationally, to grow our collection Measurement of Outcomes of certified product. In response to the increasing requirement for Principle 9 Stylecraft launched ecommerce platform uninterrupted focus on the area of sustainability, Encourage the development and StylecraftNOW, further enabling us to ensure The Australian Ecolabel Program is based in October 2017 Stylecraft created the role of our Product Stewardship committment. The on the international standard ISO14024; diffusion of environmentally friendly National Sustainability Leader. With a focus on new platform allows us to re-sell furniture and ‘Environmental Labels and Declarations technologies. corporate and social responsibility, sustainable enables clients to choose from new, as new, or – Type 1 Environmental Labelling’ which procurement and supply chain due diligence, used pieces, this also can contribute towards contributes towards SDGs 13 (Climate Action), the National Sustainability Leader is continues points for Greenstar projects. 14 (Life Below Water) and 15 (Life on Land). Targeted SDGs to focus on supporting Stylecraft’s sustainable, Third Party Environmental certification includes ethical and environmental commitments to Stylecraft have recently begun the process verified evidence of reduction of emissions, third party product certification, the United of implementing ISO Triple Certification hazardous materials and pollutants, details Nations Global Compact Ten Principles and for our business. This includes ISO 9001: of product stewardship and end of life, and Global Goals, and more recently to ensure Quality Management System ISO: 14001 ensures social, legal and environmental they meet their requirements for the NSW / Environmental Management System & ISO: compliance for both the manufacturer and Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018. 45001 Health and Safety Management applicant company. System. In 2020 the role was identified as having We continue to collaborate with our evolved and as such the title was adjusted International and local brands that focus and to reflect this as Sustainability & Social lead the industry in innovation. Many seek to Responsibility Leader. The role also involves push the boundaries of sustainable product the education of Stylecraft team members, design through the use of recycled content suppliers and clients within the design and and environmental product declarations. We construction industry on the details and encourage ongoing development and seek importance of both environmental and social to highlight such innovation in marketing responsibility commitments. campaigns. Page 9 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Environment UN Global Compact Principles Measurement of Outcomes (cont.) Measurement of Outcomes (cont.) Measurement of Outcomes (cont.) Carbon Neutrality Australia. The winner receives $20,000, an all year of involvement with Clean Up Australia Principle 7 Over the past 13 years we have been expenses paid residency at the Jam Factory Day, Stylecraft were proud to continue our Businesses should support a neutralising our carbon emissions by purchasing Furniture Studio and the opportunity to design Gold Business Supporter level. This year saw precautionary approach to green energy credits through South Pole Group a commercial range with Stylecraft for distribution our team participate in the event nationally. environmental challenges; (formerly Climate Friendly™). Since 2007 across Australia and Singapore. Team members from our Sydney, Melbourne, Stylecraft has offset a total of 6,703 tonnes of The AFDA 2020 winner was James Walsh with Adelaide, Canberra, Perth and Brisbane Principle 8 CO2e. We have worked to reduce our carbon his submission ‘Anthropic Bench.’ The piece showrooms all embraced the day and collected Undertake initiatives to emissions over this period and over the past 7 explored the growing global issue of the vast rubbish from local parks, waterways and streets. promote greater environmental years our emissions have reduced by 35%. Over amount of post-consumer glass and the potential Overall we collected 25 bags of recycling and responsibility; the past year, our carbon emissions reduced by of this material through experimentation. The rubbish over the six states. 22%. This figure was able to be reached in part Anthropic bench substituted as much recycled Principle 9 due to reduced business travel and electricity use glass material into the traditional rammed earth Additional Waste Streams at our showrooms due to Covid-19 restrictions. recipe as possible, whilst maintaining strength Stylecraft is currently increasing focus on waste Encourage the development and of durability. This convergence of tradition and reduction with the introduction of additional diffusion of environmentally friendly In 2020 we have moved forward with Eco technology raises awareness of the potential of recycling streams, such as soft plastics and technologies. Australia credits. Ultimately providing us with forming a solution-based link between this agee-waste recycling at our Sydney Head Office. the opportunity to work toward being certified old method and the current rising issue of waste carbon neutral. We have chosen to support the material. In an effort to further commit to a reduction Targeted SDGs Mount Sandy Conservation project in Australia in waste, all events scheduled for 2020 were and the Changbin and Taichung Wind Project in We are working with Walsh to develop a range developed and intended to be zero waste Taiwan. for commercial production that continues the events. While the impact of Covid-19 has meant environmentally focused theme and ethos of his that these events did not get executed, the Australian Furniture Design Awards winning piece. approach to zero waste or heavily reduced Our long-standing support of Australian waste events is one that has been committed designers and Australian manufacturing was Participation in Clean Up Australia Day to by our Marketing and events team. Where enhanced in 2014 with the launch of the The team at Stylecraft take a sustainable we were unable to cancel an event in time with Australian Furniture Design Award. Previously approach to managing our business in an catering, food was redirected to Youth Project. in partnership with the Jam Factory, the award environmentally responsible manner and work to is now in its third iteration and is presented by enhance the communities in which we operate Provision for reusable coffee cups for all staff to Stylecraft and the National Gallery of Victoria and influence. Our aim is to ensure that our be utilised for both personal and professional use (NGV) as part of Melbourne Design Week employees, suppliers and clients understand the was made. Sales Consultants were also provided 2020. The award is aimed at encouraging importance of incorporating these considerations with an allocation of reusable cups for use with innovation in furniture design and fostering new into their daily business activities. For our 3rd clients and when attending client meetings. opportunities for furniture manufacturing in Page 10 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Environment UN Global Compact Principles Measurement of Outcomes (cont.) Measurement of Outcomes (cont.) Measurement of Outcomes (cont.) Australian Packaging Covenant Organisation With the development of Stylecraft NOW, the Social & Environmental Risk Assessment Principle 7 In October 2018, Stylecraft became a need has arisen for Stylecraft to create our In October 2018, Stylecraft engaged a Businesses should support a member of Australian Packaging Covenant own packaging. Primarily we will be reusing Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a Social precautionary approach to Organisation (APCO), a co-regulatory, not-forcardboard packaging from overseas suppliers, and Environmental Risk Assessment Analysis environmental challenges; profit organisation that partners with government and any new cardboard packaging is to contain across our company and supply chain to ensure and industry to reduce the harmful impact of recycled content/FSC certification. As our compliance with the NSW / Commonwealth Principle 8 packaging on the Australian environment. APCO products will be shipped interstate, we need Modern Slavery Act 2018. The risk assessment Undertake initiatives to delivers this model of shared responsibility to ensure protection whilst in transit and use was conducted using a Life Cycle Assessment promote greater environmental through the promotion of sustainable packaging plastic stretch wrap for this purpose. After (LCA) approach that analysed the social and responsibility; activities including sustainable design, recycling much discussion with APCO and our suppliers environmental impact across our suppliers, their initiatives, waste to landfill reduction and regarding the possibilities of recycled content/ products, materials and countries which we Principle 9 circular economy projects. We are committed biodegradable or compostable wrap it was found procure from. to measuring, tracking and improving our that these are not easily recycled within normal Encourage the development and sustainable packaging performance within our recycling streams for our end user clients, so the diffusion of environmentally friendly business and throughout our supply chain and decision was made to use the thinnest option of technologies. are required to report annually on our progress. virgin plastic wrap at 14UM allowing for material efficiency and the ability for our clients to recycle We are currently researching biodegradable within soft plastics recycling programs. Targeted SDGs or compostable alternatives for our chair and small furniture packaging and continue to work Surplus Upholstery Fabric & Leather Re-use with our manufacturers suppliers around best In October 2020, Stylecraft donated surplus rolls practice. We have created ongoing partnerships of upholstery to The Circular Centre, a solutions with recyclers for packaging materials that would based inter-industry company geared to facilitate have traditionally gone to landfill such as PE. We circular economy initiatives. The initiative now recycle approx. 80% of our material waste. fosters collaboration through the lens of circular economy products and services including design, fashion, textiles and textile waste. Page 11 · UNGC Document on Progress · Environment Anti–Corruption UN Global Compact Principles Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Stylecraft are committed to ensuring all our Using the Global Compact Risk Assessment Stylecraft has had no reports of investigations, Principle 10 business activities are conducted ethically Tool, we have been able to highlight areas legal cases, rulings, fines or other events related Businesses should work against and with integrity, and work to avoid bribery, within our policies and procedures that require to any breaches to anti-corruption in the past corruption in all its forms, including extortion and other forms of corruption. further attention and are taking steps to include 12 months. extortion and bribery. the identification and management of bribery and anti-corruption within our existing policies and supply chains. Targeted SDG We have engaged a Sustainability Consultancy to undertake a Risk Assessment Analysis across our company and supply chain to ensure compliance with the NSW / Commonwealth Modern Slavery Act 2018, which included impact assessment relevant to Corruption and Bribery. The results will form part of our Modern Slavery statement in 2020. On October, our Sustainability & Social Responsibility Leader took part in the 2020 Australian Dialogue on Bribery and Corruption, an online webinar hosted by the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA). Much of the discussion was around the impacts of Covid 19 and the severe economic disruption that has followed. Leading to increased poverty and vulnerability, conditions in which human rights and bribery and corruption risks can increase. The Dialogue was an opportunity for the launch of the Bribery Prevention Network, an online portal of accessible, relevant and reliable resources, curated by Australia’s leading antibribery experts, to support Australian business to manage bribery and corruption risks in domestic and international markets. Page 12 · UNGC Document on Progress · Anti-Corruption UN Global Goals Stylecraft supports the promotion and participation of the 17 goals outlined by the UN as the Global Goals for Sustainable Development. Stylecraft has acknowledged our support of the relevant goals in each section within the report. Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview End poverty in all its Economic growth must Ensuring healthy lives Obtaining a quality Gender equality is not forms everywhere. be inclusive to provide and promoting the welleducation is the only a fundamental sustainable jobs and being for all at all ages is foundation to human right, but a promote equality. essential to sustainable improving people’s necessary foundation for development. lives and sustainable a peaceful, prosperous development. and sustainable world. Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview Ensure availability Ensure access to Sustainable economic Investments in To reduce inequalities, and sustainable affordable, reliable, growth will require infrastructure are crucial policies should be management of water sustainable and modern societies to create the to achieving sustainable universal in principle, and sanitation for all. energy for all. conditions that allow development. paying attention to the people to have quality needs of disadvantaged jobs. and marginalized populations. Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview Promoting resource Climate change is a Careful management Sustainably manage Access to justice for all, and energy efficiency, global challenge that of this essential global forests, combat and building effective, sustainable infrastructure, affects everyone, resource is a key feature desertification, halt accountable institutions and providing access to everywhere. of a sustainable future. and reverse land at all levels. basic services, green and degradation, halt decent jobs and a better biodiversity loss quality of life for all. Overview Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. Page 13 · UNGC Document on Progress · UN Global Goals Showroom Details Sydney Showroom Melbourne Showroom Perth Showroom Singapore Showroom Level 24, 100 William Street, 145 Flinders Lane Level 1, 342 Murray St Unit #01-01, Genting Centre Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Melbourne VIC 3000 Perth WA 6000 3 Lim Teck Kim Road PO Box 584 PO Box 18082 PO Box 7797 Singapore 088934 Darlinghurst NSW 1300 Melbourne VIC 3000 Cloisters Square, WA 6850 +65 6511 9328 02 9355 0000 03 9666 4300 08 9466 4066 singapore@stylecraft.asia sydney@stylecraft.com.au melbourne@stylecraft.com.au perth@stylecraft.com.au Sydney StylecraftHOME Showroom Melbourne StylecraftHOME Showroom Canberra Showroom Online Ground Floor, 100 William Street Ground & Lower Floors, 145 Flinders Lane Suite 123, Level 1, Mode 3 stylecraft.com.au Woolloomooloo NSW 2011 Melbourne VIC 3000 24 Lonsdale Street, Braddon ACT 2612 stylecraftHOME.com.au PO Box 584 PO Box 18082 PO Box 106 stylecraftnow.com.au Darlinghurst NSW 1300 Melbourne VIC 3000 Braddon ACT 2612 02 9355 0099 03 9666 4333 02 6225 2900 info@stylecraftHOME.com.au info@stylecraftHOME.com.au canberra@stylecraft.com.au Brisbane Showroom Adelaide Showroom Level 1, 50 James Street 11 Waymouth Street Fortitude Valley, Brisbane QLD 4006 Adelaide SA 5000 PO Box 2035 PO Box 1684 New Farm, Brisbane QLD 4005 Adelaide SA 5001 07 3244 3000 08 8425 0050 brisbane@stylecraft.com.au adelaide@stylecraft.com.au Page 14 · UNGC Document on Progress · Contact
