Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives Pfizer 2019 Annual Review Contents From Leadership 23 New Hospital Business Delivers Vital Medicines Where They Are Needed Most 3 A Letter From Our Chairman & CEO 24 Pursuing Scientific Breakthroughs for Hematological Diseases Our Purpose 24 Committed to Cutting-Edge Research in Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases 6 Our Values and Culture 25 Sourcing the Best Science: Promising Programs via 6 Living Our Purpose Partnerships 25 Empowering Health Care Professionals to Partner4Better Our Bold Moves 26 Ensuring Patient Safety in the Era of Automation 26 The Bot Will Chat With You Now… 7 Harnessing Drone Technology for Timely Delivery of Critical 27 Ensuring (Bio)ethics Means Acting With Equity Medicines and Vaccines 27 Bringing Entrepreneurial Solutions to Scale With 8 Sourcing Local Innovation to Help Combat Infectious Accelerate2030 Diseases in Lowand Middle-Income Countries 28 One Step Closer to a Trachoma-Free World 8 Strengthening Our Commitment to Equity 28 Giving Back Around the Globe to Help End Hunger 9 Delivering First-in-Class Science and Resources to Help 29 Reaching Patients in Need Around the World With Critical People With a Rare, Underdiagnosed Heart Disease Cancer Care Treatments 9 Expanded Global Benefits for the Moments That Matter 29 Simplicity Is Designed to Enable Colleagues at Pfizer to 10 Driving the Dialogue Around Patient Affordability Remove Needless Complexity and Focus on Meaningful Work 10 Pioneering JAK Science to Bring Hope to People With 30 Pfizer Rethinks Performance Management Moderate to Severe Atopic Dermatitis 30 Building a More Diverse Pfizer 11 Building Trust and Partnership With Patient Associations 32 Fortifying Health Systems to Improve Access to Health Care in France for Syrian Refugees 11 Strengthening Pfizer’s R&D Engine and Oncology Leadership 32 Expanding Access to Overdose-Reversing Naloxone in Health Through Acquisition of Array BioPharma Clinics Across the U.S. 12 Embracing Diversity and Equality in New and 33 Providing Assistance to Underserved Patient Populations and Meaningful Ways Addressing Health Disparities 12 Leading the Conversation on a Critical Public Health Topic 33 Unleashing the Power of Our People to Help Bring 13 Enhancing Patient Care Through Digital Transformation Breakthroughs to Those in Need 13 Combining Upjohn and Mylan to Create a New Champion for Global Health Responsibility & Transparency 14 Conversations That Inspire Us to Think Differently 15 Unbranded Social Video Series Empowers People Living With 34 Market Context: Understanding the External Environment Chronic Inflammatory Diseases to Demand More 35 Governance and Ethics 15 Collaborating to Raise Awareness of ATTR-CM 35 Engaging Colleagues in Health and Safety 16 Partnering to Uncover Sickle Cell Disease in Sub36 Patient Focus Includes Mitigating the Environmental Impact Saharan Africa of Manufacturing 16 More At-Risk Children in Developing Countries Are Protected 37 Meeting Our Environmental Sustainability Goals From Pneumococcal Disease 17 Improving Chemotherapy Access in Nigeria Our Performance 17 A Home of Hope for Breast Cancer Patients 18 Harnessing the Power of Vaccines for All Ages 38 Key Performance Indicators 18 Ushering in a New Era of Vaccine Innovation 40 Financial Performance 19 Increasing Use of Real-World Data to Help Improve 41 Performance and Financial Guidance Cancer Care 19 Biosimilars as a Catalyst With the Potential to Drive Real Additional Information Value in Health Care 20 The Bristol-Myers Squibb-Pfizer Alliance Continues Strong 43 About This Review Leadership for Nonvalvular AFib Patients 45 Corporate Shareholder Information 20 Our Continued Commitment to Chronic Pain Patients 46 GRI Reference Table 21 Championing Innovation for Children With a Rare 50 Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Growth Disorder 21 The Promise of Gene Therapy: Investing in the Evolution of Treatments for Rare Diseases 22 New Gene Therapy Facility: Inspired by the Opportunity to Help Patients 22 Portable. Continuous. Miniature. Modular. 23 Drug Development: The Future Is Now PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 2 CONTENTS CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION A Letter From Our Chairman & CEO To Our Shareholders: I am pleased to report that 2019 was a successful, purpose-driven and transformational year for Pfizer. We reached more than half a billion patients around the world with our medicines and vaccines. We received 10 regulatory approvals for either new drugs or new indications and progressed many of our key R&D pipeline candidates in clinical studies. We took bold steps to position the company for what we expect to be an era of sustained growth following the anticipated close of the transaction between Upjohn and Mylan later this year. And we accomplished all of this while continuing to deliver solid financial results. Driving a Purpose-Driven Transformation OUR 2019 PATIENT IMPACT1 We began 2019 by launching what we call our Purpose Blueprint – the roadmap that will guide our company for the foreseeable future and help us deliver on our purpose: Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. The 69 million 84 million Blueprint includes five “bold moves” intended to pivot Pfizer from an era of revenue stabilization to one of expected sustained growth: people were immunized people were treated for cardiovascular Unleash the power of our people. We are continuing to build on by our vaccines and metabolic conditions  our inclusive, engaging work environment to recognize and reward both performance and leadership and empower all colleagues to 3 million 4.3 million bring their best selves to work for the benefit of patients. Deliver  first-in-class science. We aim to create and source the people used our smoking people were treated with our cessation treatments cancer therapies best science in the world. We will bring forward only our most promising and transformational products within our six therapeutic areas – with a focus on getting them to patients as quickly 120 million patients were treated for pain 40 million patients were treated with as possible.  ransform our go-to-market model. We are partnering with T anti-infectives others to address the patient affordability challenge by exploring new, flexible payment approaches, including value-based agreements, and being bold in how we expand access to our 4 million 4,700 medicines. patients were treated for patients were treated for rare Win the digital race in pharma. We are using big data and such inflammatory disease diseases digital technologies as machine learning and artificial intelligence to expedite the drug discovery and development process and enhance patient experiences and outcomes. 1. Patient counts are estimates derived from multiple data sources and reflect updates from previous release Lead  the conversation. We are engaging with policymakers and other stakeholders to advocate for policies that allow innovation to flourish while ensuring patient access to the latest therapies – all while communicating the value our science brings to society. Every plan we develop, every action we take and every dollar we spend is aligned with these bold moves because we believe they are what will help us deliver breakthroughs for patients, drive our growth and create value for shareholders and other stakeholders. Our Purpose Blueprint also includes four core values – courage, excellence, equity and joy – that define how we will behave in creating the culture needed for an innovative, science-based company to thrive. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 3 CHAIRMAN & CEO LETTER CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Delivering Results ADVANCING OUR PIPELINE 10 product approvals (6 key approvals, 4 second market approvals) 7 regulatory submissions 33 pipeline assets advanced Dr. Albert Bourla Pfizer’s R&D Transformation We began the second half of the year with a series of actions designed While driving such dramatic changes, we continued to advance our to strengthen each of our businesses and transform Pfizer into a pipeline, which we believe is the strongest it’s been in over a decade. singularly focused, science-driven company. Over the course of one Building on the momentum of the 10 approvals we received in 2019, month, we announced the planned combination of our Upjohn division we are expecting key clinical study readouts and study starts in 2020, and Mylan to create a global leader in specialty generic medicines; several of which have the potential to make this an exciting year for completed the acquisition of Array BioPharma, a commercial-stage patients hoping for new treatment options. These include up to 15 biopharmaceutical company focused on targeted small molecule proof of concept readouts, up to 10 pivotal study starts and up to 5 medicines to treat cancer and other diseases of high unmet need; key pivotal study readouts. created the Joint Venture between Pfizer Consumer Healthcare and The breakthroughs that have emerged in recent years from our pipeline Glaxo SmithKline to form the world’s largest consumer health care are allowing us to have an impact on even more patients around the business; and completed the acquisition of Therachon, a clinical-stage world. During 2019, approximately 69 million people around the world biotechnology company focused on rare diseases. were immunized with Pfizer vaccines, 40 million were treated with our anti-infectives, 4.3 million received our cancer therapies and 4 million We did it because we believe this is the absolute right path forward for used our anti-inflammatory medications. Each represents an increase our company and the patients who rely on our innovative medicines over the number of patients we reached in 2018. and vaccines. We expect our sharper focus will enable us to create Our patient impact underpinned our solid business results. These results greater value for all stakeholders. were highlighted by exceptional 8% operational revenue growth for the year within the Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, which will become the new Pfizer following the expected separation of Upjohn. The 2019 OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT (AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019) growth in this business came from volume increases – not pricing. ~88,300 In fact, pricing had a negative 2% impact on this business’s results. employees CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE >125 $51.8 billion countries where Pfizer sells products in revenue 49 manufacturing sites (42 operated by Pfizer Global Supply, $16.9 billion returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases 7 by Upjohn) $8.0 billion invested in R&D PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 4 CHAIRMAN & CEO LETTER CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Preparing for Future Growth These actions and results have brought us to an exciting point in Pfizer’s While 2019 was about driving change, 2020 will be all about executing. history. When you take a big-picture view over the last decade, you can This includes: see that Pfizer has deliberately and thoughtfully divested its non– Continuing our commercial momentum and preparing our potential biopharma businesses through a series of value-creating transactions. new product launches. At the same time, we have been refining and focusing our approach to R&D to best advance our purpose. – Advancing our internal pipeline and augmenting it with mid-stage R&D programs through targeted bolt-on business development As a result, following the expected close of the Upjohn-Mylan opportunities. transaction, we believe Pfizer will be better positioned to serve patients – Setting up Upjohn to be in a strong position when it combines with and deliver consistent growth. We will be a science-based company Mylan to become Viatris. with a singular focus on innovative biopharmaceuticals. We will retain our entire pipeline and all the key growth drivers currently in our – Continuing to lead the conversation with policymakers around the product portfolio. world as we work to address the affordability challenge facing patients. We expect the anticipated new wave of compounds currently in the pipeline, along with scientific projects from our investment in Vivet Thank you for your continued support of the work we do every day Therapeutics and our licensing agreement with Akcea Therapeutics, in support of our purpose. will help support long-term growth for our business. In fact, we expect the new Pfizer’s 5-year revenue compound annual growth rate to be approximately 6% on a risk-adjusted basis and for that growth to begin immediately upon the close of the transaction between Upjohn and Mylan. Dr. Albert Boula Chairman and Chief Executive Officer We encourage you to read our 2019 Financial Report, which includes our financial statements BEING A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE CITIZEN as of and for the year ended December 31, 2019. Please also refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, including the sections captioned ‘Risk Factors’ and 1.1 million ‘Forward-Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results’, for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included herein. Patient counts included herein are estimates derived from multiple data sources. Helped more than 200,000 U.S. patients receive more than 1.1 million Pfizer prescriptions for free 85 million Donated more than 85 milion doses of Zithromax to 15 countries, bringing our cumulative donation to nearly 900 million doses since 1998 12 million Launched a partnership with drone provider Zipline and several other partners to help the Government of Ghana build the infrastucture needed to deploy drones in rural areas – improving access to essential medical products for 12 million patients $9 million Deployed $9 million from the Pfizer Foundation for programs with 27 partners in 16 countries to strengthen health care systems and improve access to quality care for populations with infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 5 CHAIRMAN & CEO LETTER CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Our Purpose Our Values and Culture Living Our Purpose To fully realize Pfizer’s purpose – Breakthroughs that change patients’ Research confirms what intuition tells us: that purpose-driven lives – we have established a clear set of expectations regarding “what” companies perform better, are more innovative, attract and retain we need to achieve for patients and “how” we will go about achieving the best people and know how to unleash the power of those people. those goals. Pfizer’s purpose – Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives – fuels everything we do and reflects our passion for building on our legacy The “how” is represented by four simple, powerful values – courage, as one of the greatest contributors of good to the world. excellence, equity and joy – that define our company and our culture. Each word in our purpose has meaning and reflects the value we strive Courage. Breakthroughs start by challenging convention, especially to bring to patients and society. in the face of uncertainty or adversity. This happens when we think big, speak up and are decisive. ‘Breakthroughs’ – These are the innovations, scientific and commercial, that we seek to deliver every day. All colleagues, regardless Excellence. We can only change patients’ lives when we perform at of role, level or location, strive for breakthroughs every day. our best together. This happens when we focus on what matters, agree who does what and measure our outcomes. ‘Change’ – We want to do more than simply improve patients’ medical conditions; we want to dramatically change their lives for the better. Equity. We believe that every person deserves to be seen, heard and cared for. This happens when we are inclusive, act with integrity and ‘Patients’ lives’ – We consider not only patients, but everyone they reduce health care disparities. touch – including their friends, families and caregivers – and everything they love to do. It’s an intentionally holistic view. Joy. We give ourselves to our work, but it also gives to us. We find joy when we take pride, recognize one another and have fun. Our purpose ensures that patients remain at the center of all we do. We live our purpose by sourcing the best science in the world; partnering with others in the health care system to improve access to our medicines; using digital technologies to enhance our drug discovery and development, as well as patient outcomes; and leading the conversation to advocate for pro-innovation/pro-patient policies. Every decision we make and every action we take is done with the patient in mind – and to nurture an environment where breakthroughs can thrive. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 6 OUR PURPOSE CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Our Bold Moves UNLEASH THE POWER OF OUR PEOPLE We are continuing to build on our inclusive, engaging work environment to recognize and reward both performance and leadership and empower all colleagues to bring their best selves to work for the benefit of patients. Harnessing Drone Technology for Timely Delivery of Critical Medicines and Vaccines DELIVER FIRST-IN-CLASS SCIENCE Drone delivery is an increasingly intriguing technology with a wide array of commercial, scientific and humanitarian applications. Pfizer We aim to create and source the best science in the world. We will is supporting efforts to use this innovation to improve timely access bring forward only our most promising and transformational to crucial medicines and vaccines for people in remote, underserved products within our six therapeutic areas – with a focus on getting them to patients as quickly as possible. communities. In April 2019, we launched a partnership with drone provider Zipline and several other partners to help the Government of Ghana build the infrastructure needed to deploy drones in some of the country’s most rural areas – improving access to essential medical products for 12 million patients around the country. TRANSFORM OUR GO-TO-MARKET MODEL “This emergent technology has the potential to significantly increase access to health care,” says Brittany Hume Charm, Head of Global We are partnering with others to address the patient affordability Partnerships, Zipline. “We’re providing millions of people with instant challenge by exploring new, flexible payment approaches, including access to urgent medicines – but it takes a village. We’re thankful for value-based agreements, and being bold in how we expand access to our medicines. support from our partners, like Pfizer, who are helping us revolutionize access to health care.” The delivery service will provide nearly 150 essential vaccines, blood products and lifesaving medications to 2,000 health facilities. Health WIN THE DIGITAL RACE care workers will be able to spend less time driving across the country IN PHARMA to obtain supplies and more time with patients – giving them the care they need, when they need it. The drones’ electronic health management We are using big data and such digital technologies as machine system will also contribute to strengthening the overall health system learning and artificial intelligence to expedite the drug discovery and development process and enhance patient experiences by identifying supply chain efficiencies and facilitating the tracking and outcomes. of disease patterns and health care needs. To learn more about Pfizer’s partnership with Zipline, visit the “Diverse Perspectives” podcast here. The podcast features a discussion between host, Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals LEAD THE CONVERSATION Group, and Dhruv Boddupalli of Zipline, on how drone delivery can help get millions of people almost instant access to urgent medical supplies. We are engaging with policymakers and other stakeholders to This article links to: advocate for policies that allow innovation to flourish while ensuring Transform our go-to-market model patient access to the latest therapies – all while communicating the value our science brings to society. Win the digital race in pharma PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 7 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Sourcing Local Innovation to Help Combat Strengthening Our Commitment to Equity Infectious Diseases in Lowand MiddleIn 2019, Pfizer conducted a global gender pay equity and U.S. race pay Income Countries equity analysis and was proud to release the top-line results internally and externally. Recognizing that new approaches to health delivery challenges often start at the local level, the Pfizer Foundation Global Health Innovation The data confirmed equitable pay practices at Pfizer between women and men globally, as well as between minority and non-minority Grants program provides funding and technical assistance to local colleagues in the U.S. In terms of both base pay and total innovators and social enterprises to strengthen health systems compensation, we pay our female colleagues globally at greater than at the community and primary care levels. To date, the program has 99% of what we pay male colleagues. When looking at minority versus provided technical support for 23 social enterprises and innovators non-minority pay in the U.S., minorities are paid dollar-for-dollar the across 16 countries – reaching more than 1.2 million patients with same as non-minorities. improved primary care services. However, pay parity is only the beginning; real success comes with In 2019, the 20 grants awarded by the Pfizer Foundation1 focused equal opportunities. on the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases, with an “Pay equity isn’t just about paying fairly, it is also about the potential emphasis on reducing child mortality, addressing antimicrobial to earn,” says Dawn Rogers, Chief Human Resources Officer. “While resistance and strengthening primary care to better address infectious it’s good to know that women and minorities in leadership positions diseases. Recipients of the $100,000 one-year grants include Muso, at Pfizer are paid appropriately, it is just as important to know that which will support clinicians at community health centers to better everyone has the same opportunities to grow, develop and succeed. diagnose and treat preventable diseases like malaria and pneumonia We can’t talk about equity without making these opportunities in Mali, UE LifeSciences, which will utilize an artificial intelligencea reality.” enabled, hand-held, wireless mobile colposcope to detect the human papillomavirus during cervical cancer screenings in India, and This article links to: Care 2 Communities, which will work to improve prevention and Unleash the power of our people care of pediatric acute respiratory infection in Haiti. These grants reflect Pfizer’s expanded commitment to infectious diseases and reducing health disparities. “Infectious diseases are a leading cause of death worldwide and often perpetuate the cycle of poverty,” says Caroline Roan, President, The Pfizer Foundation. “Helping nimble, non-governmental organizations and social enterprises is an effective way to rethink how we approach innovation in underserved communities. We’re proud to collaborate with our on-the-ground partners to identify breakthroughs that truly impact patients.” 1. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 8 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Delivering First-in-Class Science and Resources Expanded Global Benefits for the Moments to Help People With a Rare, Underdiagnosed That Matter Heart Disease To best serve the patients who depend on us, we must attract, retain Symptom management and heart transplants have historically been and engage the industry’s brightest talent. This means, in part, offering the only options for people with transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy benefits that are meaningful and relevant to our employees. (ATTR-CM), a rare, fatal disease associated with heart failure. That In 2019, we focused on expanding current programs and creating new changed in 2019 with the approvals of Vyndaqel® (tafamidis offerings based on three distinct insights. meglumine) and Vyndamax® (tafamidis), the first and only medicines approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Japan’s First, employees are patients, too. High-quality, affordable medical Pharmaceuticals and Medicinal Devices Agency to treat the benefits now reflect employees’ diverse health care needs, including cardiomyopathy of transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis in adults expanded wellness and mental health support. It’s part of our ongoing to reduce cardiovascular mortality and cardiovascular-related commitment to ensuring a standard level of health care for our hospitalization in both subtypes of ATTR-CM (hereditary and wild-type). employees in all countries where we work and live. In addition to developing breakthrough medicines for this devastating Second, employees need flexibility for the moments that matter. We’ve illness, Pfizer is spearheading efforts to improve awareness and adopted global leave policies for childbirth, adoption, caregiving and diagnosis of ATTR-CM, which often goes undiagnosed as its symptoms bereavement, and now, in the U.S., we offer the option for employees to can mimic more common causes of heart failure. ATTR-CM can also purchase up to four weeks of extra vacation time each year. include a mix of other seemingly unrelated symptoms, like carpal tunnel Finally, we recognize that employee benefit needs vary around the syndrome, digestive problems, pain in the lower back or legs and/or globe, so countries now have more flexibility to customize programs an irregular heartbeat. Historically, the diagnosis of ATTR-CM globally at the local market level. was estimated at less than 1%, traditionally via an expensive and invasive heart biopsy. “We’re a global health care company whose purpose is ‘Breakthroughs To increase awareness and detection rates, Pfizer launched Suspect that change patients’ lives’, so the health of our employees is a top and Detect, an educational campaign to help doctors recognize the priority as well,” says Steve First, Vice President, Global Benefits, Pfizer. signs and symptoms, and learn about tools for the diagnosis of “Thoughtful, comprehensive benefits are one way we can make sure ATTR-CM (including non-invasive options), and Get The Message, our employees stay healthy and can bring their best selves to work which aims to raise awareness of ATTR-CM among patients with heart every day in support of the millions of patients around the world failure in the U.S., as well as among their caregivers. These efforts, who depend on us.” and the upcoming potential approval of tafamidis to treat ATTR-CM in the EU, may help bring hope to more patients in need. This article links to: “Looking back, I experienced many early indicators of ATTR-CM, like Unleash the power of our people bilateral carpal tunnel syndrome, ruptured biceps tendon and lumbar stenosis,” says Walt. “It wasn’t until 11 years after my first symptoms that I was diagnosed with wild-type ATTR-CM and, even today, knowledge about this condition remains low. I am thrilled to know that now, for the first time, there is a treatment option in the United States specifically approved to address this disease. My hope is that more physicians will begin to recognize the signs and symptoms of ATTR-CM, so patients can get the care they need without delay.” This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science Win the digital race in pharma PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 9 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Driving the Dialogue Around Patient Affordability Pioneering JAK Science to Bring Hope to People The breakthroughs emerging from Pfizer’s pipeline mean nothing With Moderate to Severe Atopic Dermatitis if patients are not able to afford them. Within a month of taking The chronic skin condition atopic dermatitis (AD) is often thought leadership as CEO of Pfizer, Dr. Albert Bourla became a central figure of as a bothersome rash. The truth is, people with moderate to severe in one of America’s most important policy discussions: how to ensure AD can suffer considerably on a daily basis. people have access to the medicines they need. Testifying at the February 26, 2019, Senate Finance Committee hearing on drug pricing, “My skin was so raw, bloody and uncomfortable – I couldn’t get out Dr. Bourla put forth four pillars for patient affordability: passing rebates of bed,” says Steve Garwon, who lives with AD. directly to patients at the point of sale; encouraging broader adoption Pfizer is committed to researching potential treatments in this area of outcomes-based payment models; capping seniors’ out-of-pocket and, in 2019, announced positive results from two late-stage clinical costs in Medicare Part D; and incentivizing the use of lower-cost trials for our investigational treatment, abrocitinib, in people with this biosimilars in Medicare. condition. Pfizer has been a pioneer in the study of an innovative class “Drug pricing is a priority conversation – not just among policymakers of drugs to treat autoimmune conditions known as janus kinase (JAK) but among patients,” says Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer inhibitors. Abrocitinib, which was designated as a Breakthrough Biopharmaceuticals Group. “Our part in helping to shape that Therapy by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, is one such drug. conversation is essential to the lives we are trying to impact every day. If approved, it may be able to help patients with moderate The creation of new patient affordability solutions – not just in 2019 to severe AD. but into 2020 and the years to come – is key.” “We’re excited by the developments we’ve seen from our leading Pfizer leadership and employees at all levels continue to advocate for JAK science program,” says Michael Vincent, Chief Scientific Officer, policy solutions to achieve a health care system that puts patients – Inflammation & Immunology, Pfizer. “We have the potential and their health – first. to target a wide range of conditions, like AD, with the hope of delivering treatments to patients that need them the most.” This article links to: Pfizer anticipates announcing further results of abrocitinib research Lead the conversation in 2020. Garwon says, “I am grateful that Pfizer is continuing to focus on helping people like myself come out of the shadows so that we’re not alone.” This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science Lead the conversation PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 10 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Building Trust and Partnership With Patient Strengthening Pfizer’s R&D Engine and Associations in France Oncology Leadership Through Acquisition In 2019, Pfizer was named the most patient-centric company in France of Array BioPharma by PatientView, an organization that assesses the pharmaceutical The acquisition of Colorado-based biotech Array BioPharma in July industry on a range of activities important to patients and patient 2019 sets the stage for Pfizer to create a potentially industry-leading groups. Pfizer France, which exemplifies the company’s universal franchise for colorectal cancer alongside the company’s leadership in patient-first culture, has been initiating dialogue and co-creating breast and prostate cancers. programs with more than 50 patient associations for 15 years. Array became known for its scientific acumen and nimble culture. This “Patient organizations provide an incredible amount of expertise,” says acquisition brought exceptional talent to Pfizer, as well as an impressive Myriam Jabri, Head of Relations with Patient Associations, Pfizer France. and broad pipeline of targeted small-molecule medicines being “Listening and exchanging ideas allows us to understand patient needs, investigated to treat cancer and other diseases of high unmet need. find solutions beyond pills and add their insights into the drug The portfolio includes the approved combined use of Braftovi® development phase. Together, we build trust and inspire one another (encorafenib) and Mektovi® (binimetinib) for the treatment to help people live not only longer, but better. We are also committed of BRAF-mutant metastatic melanoma. The treatments have to reinforcing ‘patient culture’ and taking patient needs into account significant potential for growth and expansion into additional areas in our daily work.” of unmet need, evident by the more than 30 clinical trials investigating One example of this work is our collaboration with cancer patient combinations for a wide variety of tumor types, including BRAF-mutant associations to build a patient support program called PactOnco, metastatic colorectal cancer. BRAF mutations are estimated to occur which aims to help cancer patients and caregivers on their journey in up to 15% of cases of colorectal cancer, one of the leading causes by improving quality of life. We have similar projects in rare diseases of cancer-related death worldwide. and prevention. Another long-standing project, the Pfizer Patient The Boulder, Colorado site adds a new and highly productive hub Forum, is an annual event dedicated to patient associations and hosts to Pfizer’s research network. Colleagues in Boulder will continue working speakers from these associations to share ideas. We also implemented to translate advanced science and technologies into breakthrough the Pfizer Patient Award in 2019, which selects and recognizes patient medicines. The Boulder research unit will further fuel the first-in-class groups in France for their commitment to patients and their families. science that sets Pfizer’s leadership apart – working to discover and These programs are evidence that listening is essential if we hope advance small molecules to impact and extend the lives of patients to lead the conversation around patient impact. in critical need of transformational therapies. This article links to: This article links to: Lead the conversation Deliver first-in-class science Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 11 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Embracing Diversity and Equality in New Leading the Conversation on a Critical and Meaningful Ways Public Health Topic Pfizer continues to demonstrate its commitment to the LGBTQ In December, Pfizer introduced “The Antigen,” an eight-part podcast community in a variety of ways; in 2019, we joined other companies that explores the scientific, cultural and political aspects of vaccination. to support passage of the Equality Act and received – for the 16th Pfizer created this first-of-its-kind docuseries because it is the ideal consecutive year – the highest possible score on the Human Rights medium to engage a variety of different voices around a complex topic. Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index. Host Yasmeen Agosti, a pediatrician and member of the viral vaccines In June, Pfizer’s Activation team partnered with the Pfizer colleague group at Pfizer, interviewed a variety of external experts, including resource group, OPEN (Out Pfizer Employee Network), to amplify the academic researchers, policy experts, global health advocates, company’s legacy of participation in LGBTQ Pride Month. The activities journalists and people who have been personally impacted included creating a full social media calendar, changing corporate icons by vaccine-preventable diseases. and flying a rainbow flag outside headquarters. “This podcast is important for anyone who wants to better understand The initiative was Pfizer’s top-performing social media campaign of the vaccines,” says Agosti. “I spend a lot of time thinking about vaccines year, which included highlighting an in-person visit from LGBTQ activist because of my work, but this allowed me to help others understand and and Emmy-nominated actress Laverne Cox, who emphasized the uncover the larger story of vaccines and society.” importance of living authentically and being resilient. The docuseries explores the basic science of vaccines, reviews “The best way to communicate our diversity at Pfizer is to live it and highlights of vaccine history and examines the many facets of their show it,” says Emily Krassen, Senior Manager, Digital Video Strategy global impact to educate and encourage the dialogue around and Content, Pfizer. “I am proud to work on a campaign that promotes vaccination as preventative medicine. To learn more, listen here. the diversity and inclusion that Pfizer continues to emphasize internally, This article links to: so that we can be a great place to work for everyone.” Lead the conversation This article links to: Unleash the power of our people PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 12 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Enhancing Patient Care Through Digital Combining Upjohn and Mylan to Create Transformation a New Champion for Global Health “Health care is a team sport.” That is how Chief Digital and Technology In July 2019, Pfizer announced the plan to combine Upjohn, Officer Lidia Fonseca, describes her reason for joining Pfizer in 2019, its primarily off-patent branded and generic established medicines with the goal of transforming the way the company uses digital business, with Mylan, a global pharmaceutical company with a diverse platforms and data to improve health outcomes and the experience portfolio and global reach, to create a new champion for global health, of patients, providers and payers. uniquely positioned to fulfill the world’s need for medicine. By bringing The September 2019 pilot launch of the Mabu1 Wellness Coach, together the two companies’ strengths, resources and portfolios, the an artificial intelligence-powered patient engagement robot, is one combined organization will be able to fulfill the growing need for example of how Pfizer is providing useful tools – collectively known accessible medicines around the globe. as Pfizer Digital Companion™ tools – to doctors and patients across all disease categories. Mabu “talks” with patients about how they The new company, which will be named Viatris and have a commercial are feeling and helps answer questions they may have about their presence in more than 165 countries, will drive a sustainable, diverse treatment. The Mabu Care Insights Platform2 then delivers data and differentiated portfolio of prescription medicines, including iconic and insights to clinicians at a specialty pharmacy provider to help brands such as Lipitor® (atorvastatin), Lyrica® (pregabalin) and Viagra® a patient’s caregivers initiate timely and appropriate outreach to the (sildenafil citrate), complex generics like Wixela™ Inhub™ (fluticasone patient. The goal is to help better manage symptoms and address propionate and salmeterol inhalation powder, USP) and biosimilars, patient questions in real time. such as Fulphila® (pegfilgrastim-jmdb). The combination also will enable Pfizer to sharpen its focus on the research and development Another Pfizer Digital Companion™ tool, the LivingWith™ app, aims to connect cancer patients with an oncology support system, enabling of medical innovations to address unmet needs of patients around them to share information with caregivers, friends and family, and the world. remember important information from doctors’ visits. Dr. Albert Bourla, Pfizer’s Chairman and CEO, states, “We are creating Additionally, we successfully completed an unmanned aerial vehicle a new company poised to bring world-class medicines to patients (or drone) pilot program in the Dominican Republic to deliver across a wide range of therapeutic areas. I believe that Mylan’s unique medications to patients in remote, hard-to-reach areas. By partnering profile and strategy has made it the obvious partner of choice with WeRobotics and the Dominican Republic’s Ministry of Health, in creating this powerful combination. By bringing Mylan’s growth Pfizer was able to deliver medicines over mountains 2,500 meters high assets to Upjohn’s growth markets, we will create a financially strong in just 12 minutes, reaching more than 100 patients during a six-week company with true global reach. For Pfizer, this transaction represents pilot. We are encouraged by the pilot and are considering other our sharpened focus on innovative medicines and is a testament to our locations that could benefit from this program. purpose – Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives.” “Pfizer is starting to support patients, physicians and payers in a very Additional information different way than in the past,” says Fonseca. “We are learning about This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to sell or the blind spots in patients’ journeys and working to use insights from data, solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or as well as digital solutions, to deliver a more integrated experience. qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of We want patients, their caregivers and health care providers to ‘sync’ 1933, as amended. In connection with the proposed combination of Upjohn Inc. (“Newco”), a in real time to meaningfully improve experiences and outcomes.” wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer and Mylan, which will immediately follow the proposed separation of the Upjohn business (the “Upjohn Business”) from Pfizer (the “proposed 1. Mabu is a registered trademark of Catalia Health Inc. transaction”), Newco and Mylan have filed certain materials with the Securities and Exchange 2. Mabu Care Insights Platforms is a trademark of Catalia Health Inc Commission (the “SEC”), including, among other materials, the Registration Statement on Form S-4 which includes a proxy statement/prospectus (as amended, the “Form S-4”), and Form 10 which This article links to: includes an information statement (as amended, the “Form 10”), each of which has been filed by Newco with the SEC on October 25, 2019 and subsequently refiled and/or amended. The Win the digital race in pharma registration statements have not yet become effective. After the Form S-4 is effective, a definitive proxy statement/prospectus will be sent to the Mylan shareholders seeking approval of the Transform our go-to-market model proposed transaction, and after the Form 10 is effective, a definitive information statement will be made available to the Pfizer stockholders relating to the proposed transaction. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 13 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Newco and Mylan intend to file additional relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed transaction, including a proxy statement of Mylan in definitive form. Investors and security holders are urged to read the documents filed with the SEC carefully and in their entirety because they will contain important information about Mylan, Newco and the proposed transaction. The documents relating to the proposed transaction (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. These documents (when they are available) can also be obtained free of charge from Mylan, upon written request to Mylan, at (724) 514-1813 or investor.relations@mylan.com or from Pfizer on Pfizer’s internet website at https://investors.Pfizer.com/financials/sec-filings/default.aspx or by contacting Pfizer’s Investor Relations Department at (212) 733-2323, as applicable. Forward-Looking Statements This communication contains “forward-looking statements”. Such forward-looking statements may include, without limitation, statements about the proposed transaction, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transaction, the benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company and products and any other statements regarding Pfizer’s, Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s future operations, financial or operating results, capital allocation, dividend policy, debt ratio, anticipated business levels, future earnings, planned activities, anticipated growth, market opportunities, strategies, competitions, and other expectations and targets for future periods. Forward-looking statements may often be identified by the use of words such as “will”, “may”, “could”, “should”, “would”, “project”, “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “plan”, “estimate”, “forecast”, “potential”, “pipeline”, “intend”, “continue”, “target”, “seek” and variations of these words or comparable words. Because forward-looking “Diverse Perspectives” host Angela Hwang, Group President, Pfizer statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties, actual future results may differ materially Biopharmaceuticals Group, with guest speaker Dr. Isaac Odame, from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the parties’ ability to meet founder of the Global Sickle Cell Disease Network based at the Hospital expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the proposed for Sick Children in Toronto. transaction; changes in relevant tax and other laws; the parties’ ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the conditions to the completion of the proposed transaction, including receipt of approval of Mylan’s shareholders, not being satisfied or waived on the anticipated Conversations That Inspire Us to Think timeframe or at all; the regulatory approvals required for the proposed transaction not being obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule or at all; inherent uncertainties Differently involved in the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of financial statements and the providing of estimates of financial measures, in accordance with accounting principles generally At Pfizer, we continually strive to raise the bar – in our science, patient accepted in the United States of America and related standards, or on an adjusted basis; the integration of Mylan and Newco being more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected; impact and even our internal culture. And as we evolve into a company Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s and the combined company’s failure to achieve expected or with a singular focus on innovation, the impetus to challenge targeted future financial and operating performance and results; the possibility that the combined company may be unable to achieve expected benefits, synergies and operating efficiencies in convention and spark new thinking is stronger than ever. connection with the proposed transaction within the expected time frames or at all or to successfully integrate Mylan and Newco; customer loss and business disruption being greater than That’s the motivation behind a new Pfizer podcast, “Diverse expected following the proposed transaction; the retention of key employees being more difficult following the proposed transaction; any regulatory, legal or other impediments to Mylan’s, the Perspectives,” which launched in 2019. Hosted by Angela Hwang, Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s ability to bring new products to market, including but not limited to where Mylan, the Upjohn Business or the combined company uses its business Group President, Pfizer Biopharmaceuticals Group, it’s a series of short, judgment and decides to manufacture, market and/or sell products, directly or through third one-to-one interviews with thought leaders who are pioneering change parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an “at-risk launch”); success of clinical trials and Mylan’s, the Upjohn across a variety of industries. Business’s or the combined company’s ability to execute on new product opportunities; any changes in or difficulties with Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s From applying simplicity principles at work to delivering medicines manufacturing facilities, including with respect to remediation and restructuring activities, supply chain or inventory or the ability to meet anticipated demand; the scope, timing and outcome of any by drone, guests share their “innovation mindset” and motivation ongoing legal proceedings, including government investigations, and the impact of any such to create positive change in the world. It’s often a powerful reflection proceedings on Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows; Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s and the combined of what inspires us here at Pfizer – and a reminder to keep company’s ability to protect their respective intellectual property and preserve their respective intellectual property rights; the effect of any changes in customer and supplier relationships and thinking differently. customer purchasing patterns; the ability to attract and retain key personnel; changes in third-party relationships; actions and decisions of healthcare and pharmaceutical regulators; the impacts of You can learn more about “Diverse Perspectives” here and subscribe competition; changes in the economic and financial conditions of the Upjohn Business or the business of Mylan or the combined company; uncertainties regarding future demand, pricing and on iTunes and Spotify. reimbursement for Mylan’s, the Upjohn Business’s or the combined company’s products; and uncertainties and matters beyond the control of management and other factors described under “Risk Factors” in each of Pfizer’s and Mylan’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on This article links to: Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. These risks, as well as other risks associated with Mylan, the Upjohn Business, the combined company and the proposed transaction are also more fully Lead the conversation discussed in the Form S-4 and the Form 10. You can access Pfizer’s, Mylan’s or Newco’s filings with the SEC through the SEC website at www.sec.gov or through Pfizer’s or Mylan’s website, as applicable, and Pfizer and Mylan strongly encourage you to do so. Except as required by applicable law, Pfizer, Mylan and Newco undertake no obligation to update any statements herein for revisions or changes after the date of this communication. Participants in the solicitation This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any investor or security holder. However, Pfizer, Mylan, Newco and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information about the directors and executive officers of Pfizer may be found in its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2019, its definitive proxy statement and additional proxy statement relating to its 2019 Annual Meeting filed with the SEC on March 14, 2019 and on April 2, 2019, respectively, and Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 27, 2019. Information about the directors and executive officers of Mylan may be found in its amended Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 30, 2019, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2019 Annual Meeting filed with the SEC on May 24, 2019. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants can also be found in the Form S-4 and will also be included in the definitive proxy statement of Mylan in connection with the proposed transaction when it becomes available. These documents (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 14 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Unbranded Social Video Series Empowers People Collaborating to Raise Awareness of ATTR-CM Living With Chronic Inflammatory Diseases to In honor of World Heart Day, Pfizer partnered with the World Demand More Heart Federation on its “Heart Hero” campaign and contributed educational information and resources on transthyretin amyloid Living with a chronic inflammatory disease like rheumatoid arthritis, cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM) to help raise awareness of this rare, psoriatic arthritis or ulcerative colitis can be isolating – with physical fatal and underdiagnosed cause of heart failure. and emotional symptoms that can impact patients’ work and social and emotional well-being. Since these challenges can be difficult We also drummed up support with the help of more than 700 to discuss, many patients may feel more comfortable seeking Amyloidosis Heart Heroes, who made personal promises to help drive information online. Pfizer made a bold move by launching an better understanding of the disease. Our work does not end here, Instagram TV channel with a series of videos featuring patients as we continue beyond World Heart Day to increase awareness from the UC Narrative advisory board and the of the “red flag” signs and symptoms and help to ensure those living 2018 Real Talk summits. with ATTR-CM are appropriately diagnosed. In these videos, patients speak candidly about the realities of their This article links to: disease – addressing common yet overlooked challenges. Sharing these Unleash the power of our people powerful stories is part of our unwavering commitment to support the Transform our go-to-market model patient community and help them get more out of their care. Win the digital race in pharma Lead the conversation Real Talk A candid conversation about RA This article links to: Lead the conversation PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 15 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Partnering to Uncover Sickle Cell Disease More At-Risk Children in Developing Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa Are Protected From Pneumococcal Disease About 75% of people living with sickle cell disease (SCD) are For the third year in a row, given the strong, ongoing implementation in sub-Saharan Africa. In Ghana alone, about one child in 50 is born of pneumococcal vaccine (PCV) country programs, Pfizer was able with SCD, and without early detection and intervention, 50% to 90% to lower the price of its multidose vial PCV13 for Gavi, The Vaccine with this rare disease will die before age five. Despite the launch Alliance, an international organization focused on improving access of a national newborn screening policy, implementation is not to new and under-used vaccines for children living in the world’s poorest widespread. countries. The reduction, from $2.95 to $2.90 per dose in Gavi-eligible countries, represents a nearly 14% reduction in price since the initial Pfizer is supporting the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and Korle introduction of the vaccine into the Gavi Pneumococcal Advanced Bu Teaching Hospital in Accra to help bring newborn screening for Market Commitment in 2010, reflecting a strong continued partnership SCD to the capital of Ghana. This effort has resulted in the training to enable sustainable access to PCV13 in Gavi-eligible (and formerly of 100 nurses and screening of more than 10,000 newborns, as well Gavi-eligible) countries. as clinical guidelines for a newborn SCD clinic at Korle Bu. We are also engaging key members of the community to help the screening Pneumonia remains the single largest cause of death for children program serve as a model for other hospitals across the subworldwide, and pneumococcal vaccination is an important weapon Saharan Africa region. to fight it1. Pfizer has provided nearly 500 million doses of PCV since partnering with Gavi in 2010. This article links to: 1. https://www.gavi.org/library/news/statements/2019/pneumococcal-vaccine-price-drops-forUnleash the power of our people third-year-running/ Lead the conversation This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 16 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION In October 2019, the Honorable Minister of State for Health, Doctor (Senator) Adeleke O. Mamora, and leaders from the National Hospital Abuja celebrated the initiative. A Home of Hope for Breast Cancer Patients In the heart of São Paulo, Brazil, sits “Coletivo Pink,” a space that, Improving Chemotherapy Access in Nigeria during Breast Cancer Awareness Month in October 2019, became The Nigerian Ministry of Health, in partnership with Pfizer, the Clinton a place of hope for many patients, their families, doctors and other Health Access Initiative (CHAI), American Cancer Society (ACS) and advocates. Pfizer, in partnership with 10 Brazilian patient associations, others, launched the Chemotherapy Access Partnership to deliver opened the doors of this space for the second year in a row to raise lifesaving chemotherapy medicines in seven teaching hospitals across awareness and provide those who are affected by breast cancer a place Nigeria. The program gives Nigerians access to lower-priced, highto learn, share their stories and find support. quality chemotherapy medications – the same ones available today Over the course of the month, many different events and activities took in the developed world – to help address the estimated 100,000 cases place, from discussions with physicians and other experts about and 70,000 deaths due to cancer in the country each year.1 prevention and risk factors to healthy lifestyle sessions to help patients This is the first major government-backed initiative under Pfizer’s and their families improve their quality of life. ground-breaking access agreement with CHAI and ACS, which offers This article links to: access to high-quality Pfizer chemotherapy medications at almost 50% lower cost in Nigeria, Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda, Transform our go-to-market model Zambia, Zimbabwe and Malawi. Lead the conversation 1. https://clintonhealthaccess.org/nigeria-launches-public-private-partnership-to-ensureaffordable-access-to-high-quality-chemotherapies-at-seven-teaching-hospitals. This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 17 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Harnessing the Power of Vaccines for All Ages Ushering in a New Era of Vaccine Innovation Vaccines play an important role in health at all ages, yet they are often Pfizer has a rich history in vaccine research and development. undervalued and underutilized beyond childhood. There is an urgent Today, we are ushering in a new era of vaccine innovation, need to expand the remit of vaccines to other stages of the life course. including investigating a pentavalent meningococcal vaccine, a next-generation vaccine candidate to help protect against That’s why Pfizer established the Immunisation for All Ages pneumococcal disease and a vaccine to help prevent the bacterial initiative – bringing together a diverse group of more than 12 infection, Clostridioides difficile. organizations from around the world, including the International Federation on Ageing, the UN Foundation Shot@Life, the Confederation We are developing maternal vaccines for diseases, including of Meningitis Organisations, the International Longevity Centre, the respiratory syncytial virus and Group B streptococcus. If successfully International Pharmaceutical Federation and the World Federation developed and approved, these vaccines would be delivered to mothers of Public Health Associations. during pregnancy to help protect babies when they are infants and most vulnerable. In 2019, these groups developed a joint statement calling for greater advocacy for lifelong immunization, with an increased focus Combining our expertise in immuno-oncology and vaccines, we are on adult vaccination. also studying therapeutic vaccine candidates across multiple types of cancer, including prostate cancer. This article links to: Lead the conversation This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 18 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Increasing Use of Real-World Data Biosimilars as a Catalyst With the Potential to Help Improve Cancer Care to Drive Real Value in Health Care In April 2019, Ibrance® (palbociclib) was approved for men with Biosimilars are biological products approved by the U.S. Food and Drug HR+, HER2metastatic breast cancer. While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration based on the Agency’s rigorous standards for safety, Administration’s (FDA) decision was based largely on prior efficacy data potency and purity. Pfizer believes biosimilars have the potential to save from randomized controlled studies in women with metastatic breast the U.S. billions of dollars in health care costs – providing a solution that cancer, such as the PALOMA-2 trial, Pfizer’s supplemental regulatory could lower costs for both patients and American taxpayers, as well submission for male breast cancer primarily included realas help improve public health. The 2019 approvals of oncology world evidence. biosimilars Ruxience™ (rituximab-pvvr), Trazimera™ (trastuzumabqyyp) and Zirabev™ (bevacizumab-bvzr) mark a positive step forward Male breast cancer represents <1% of breast cancer cases, making trials for Pfizer in its role to continue expanding access to biosimilars for and research surrounding treatment difficult. Pfizer engaged Flatiron patients around the world. Health to explore real-world data from post-marketing reports, Flatiron’s breast cancer database, electronic health records from IQVIA With more than 10 years of global in-market experience and eight Insurance, Pfizer’s global safety database and controlled studies approved biosimilar products, Pfizer is proud to be at the forefront in women to make the case to the FDA that Ibrance could be used of this vital health care segment. to treat men. This article links to: This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model Transform our go-to-market model Win the digital race in pharma PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 19 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION The Bristol-Myers Squibb-Pfizer Alliance Our Continued Commitment to Chronic Continues Strong Leadership for Nonvalvular Pain Patients AFib Patients It has been estimated that up to one in five adults worldwide lives with Atrial fibrillation (AFib) is a leading risk factor for stroke; however, it can chronic pain, a complex and widely misunderstood condition. often go undetected. In October 2019, the BMS-Pfizer Alliance and Pfizer and Eli Lilly are advancing tanezumab, a potential first-in-class Fitbit announced we are working together to help address gaps in AFib treatment for moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis, an area of significant detection and accelerate diagnosis. The Alliance also announced the unmet need. The submission of a Biologics License Application to the start of the potentially practice-changing GUARD-AF study, U.S. Food and Drug Administration for subcutaneous administration a randomized, controlled trial in a real-world setting, to see if AFib of tanezumab 2.5 mg for moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis was screening and earlier detection and diagnosis could impact the rate completed in December 2019. of stroke, as well as bleeding leading to hospitalization, compared to usual medical care. These opportunities break new ground, Beyond medicines, Pfizer is driven by a commitment to amplify demonstrating our commitment to patients and to trusted leadership awareness of the burden of chronic pain and the unique challenges in this space for years to come. patients face. Mike Gladstone, Global President, Internal Medicine, spoke at the 2019 Atlantic Festival on these topics, engaging leaders This article links to: in health care, business, arts and science. Deliver first-in-class science To further shape dialogue and encourage prioritizing pain on national Transform our go-to-market model health agendas, Pfizer and Lilly co-sponsored a study assessing the Win the digital race in pharma policy environment impacting chronic pain in Europe, producing Lead the conversation data-based conclusions and actionable insights. This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science Lead the conversation PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 20 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Championing Innovation for Children The Promise of Gene Therapy: Investing in the With a Rare Growth Disorder Evolution of Treatments for Rare Diseases In our quest to bring innovative treatment options to patients living Pfizer is at the forefront of the gene therapy space, with established with rare diseases, Pfizer is working with OPKO Health Inc. to develop collaborations, partnerships and acquisitions that bolster our pipeline, and commercialize somatrogon, a potential treatment option for and distinct state-of-the-art manufacturing capabilities to bring this pre-pubertal children with growth hormone deficiency (GHD). GHD next generation of scientific innovation to patients living with rare is a rare disease that affects approximately one in 4,000 to 10,000 diseases. We continue to advance key clinical development programs people. Without treatment, those living with this condition will have in hemophilia A and B, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and additional persistent growth attenuation, a very short height in adulthood pre-clinical research programs. and may experience other health problems. Pfizer currently has plans to invest up to approximately $800 We are encouraged by initial top-line results from a recently million at our Sanford and Durham, North Carolina, gene therapy completed Phase 3 study comparing somatrogon, dosed once-weekly, manufacturing facilities. The goal is to expand capacity, strengthen to daily growth hormone, and the possibility of reducing the burden capabilities and supply critical, potentially life-changing medicines of once-daily treatment on children with GHD and their caregivers, by leveraging an in-vivo recombinant adeno-associated virus gene while potentially also increasing treatment adherence. therapy technology platform for patients with rare diseases around the world. This article links to: Lead the conversation This article links to: Unleash the power of our people Deliver first-in-class science Transform our go-to-market model Win the digital race in pharma Lead the conversation PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 21 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION New Gene Therapy Facility: Inspired Portable. Continuous. Miniature. Modular. by the Opportunity to Help Patients To make medicines available to patients more quickly, Pfizer Global Pfizer celebrated the first phase of our state-of-the-art gene therapy Supply is evolving from traditional batch to continuous manufacturing manufacturing facility in Sanford, North Carolina, and announced processes for certain Pfizer products. an additional investment of $500 million for facility expansion. Pfizer’s first Portable Continuous Miniature Modular (PCMM) Sanford – one of Pfizer’s largest biotech manufacturing sites globally – manufacturing platform for solid oral dose medicines was used for the is a clinical and commercial manufacturer of vaccine intermediates/ development and launch of an oncology product – shortening the drug substances and gene therapy drug substances/drug products. manufacturing process from weeks to minutes. This new gene therapy facility is expected to develop novel methods Pfizer continues to advance our PCMM platform, making important to deliver transformative treatments to patients. Gene therapies strides in 2019. represent potential cures for debilitating and often fatal Three other clinical candidates are being manufactured on the PCMM genetic diseases. platform in Groton, Connecticut, and Freiburg, Germany. Pfizer “These investments provide additional capability and capacity for estimates that 70% of its small molecule, solid oral dose portfolio our growing gene therapy pipeline,” says Tony Mulcahy, Sanford Site will be manufactured on PCMM – yielding shorter cycle times, faster Leader. “Our colleagues are inspired by the opportunity we have technology transfers and reduced process variability – within the to help patients.” next 10 years. Turning the Promise of Gene Therapy Portable. Continuous. Miniature. Modular. Into a Reality Deciphering a complex manufacturing process This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 22 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION One important way Pfizer is accelerating clinical trials is incorporating wearables and other digital technologies to more completely capture the patient experience. Of Pfizer’s clinical study starts in 2019, more than half included a digital element. New Hospital Business Delivers Vital Medicines Where They Are Needed Most Drug Development: The Future Is Now Recognizing the importance of addressing the evolving needs of the Some have called the 21st century “biology’s century.” For others, hospital marketplace and growing alternate sites of care, Pfizer it’s “data’s century.” In Pfizer clinical development, it’s the best of both, established the Hospital Business Unit (HBU) in 2019 to ensure vital as we apply digital advances and quantitative methods to improve the medicines are delivered to patients, providers and customers where odds of success and accelerate drug development to deliver they are needed most. breakthrough medicines to patients faster. As a startup within the Biopharmaceuticals Group, the HBU was quickly Pfizer is using real-world data, alongside clinical data, for better insights formed to be a global business with one of the broadest portfolios into patient outcomes. We’re also applying biostatistical modeling of medicine in the industry. As the only customerand channel-centric to design trials that home in on the most relevant new data and business in Pfizer, the HBU addresses the growing needs of hospitals to repurpose existing data for significant time and cost savings. and the patients they serve. It combines a world-leading sterile injectables portfolio and the number one anti-infectives portfolio We’re automating repetitive processes, integrating clinical trial data with our legacy hospital brands, Pfizer CentreOne and Meridian systems and applying artificial intelligence to enhance our Medical Technologies. decision making. Beyond medicines, Pfizer’s HBU is focused on developing innovative We’re using digital tools to reach people who have not had access delivery systems and advancing our go-to-market model through to trials before and including wearables and devices to help make trial pioneering in contracting. The HBU is also leading the way participation easier for patients, as well as to collect more thorough in promotion of global antimicrobial stewardship through innovative and accurate data. surveillance tools, global policy research and education programs. “By adopting new ways to recruit patients, automating processes, With an unmatched depth and breadth of portfolio and capabilities integrating systems and using the totality of data to optimize our rooted in Pfizer’s decades of experience, the HBU is committed protocols, by 2021, we expect to reduce the average time it takes to Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. to develop a new medicine by about two years,” says Rod MacKenzie, Chief Development Officer, Pfizer. This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model This article links to: Win the digital race in pharma PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 23 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Red blood cells, platelets and fibrin fibers are clustered together in a clot. Patients Pfizer remains dedicated to a patient-centric approach for those with hemophilia have deficient levels of a clotting factor needed to stop bleeding. living with cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Pursuing Scientific Breakthroughs for Committed to Cutting-Edge Research Hematological Diseases in Cardiovascular and Metabolic Diseases In our efforts to change patients’ lives, Pfizer focuses on delivering For decades, Pfizer has been at the forefront of novel treatments breakthrough science to areas of unmet patient needs. One such area for people living with cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Our is in hematology. With internal expertise in gene therapy and antibodycommitment continues to grow as our knowledge of underlying based therapies, combined with strategic collaborations, Pfizer metabolic drivers leads us to new approaches to addressing unmet is working to provide treatment options for diseases like hemophilia A medical needs. In addition to partnerships, such as our recent and B and sickle cell disease (SCD). For example, marstacimab, our licensing agreement with Akcea Therapeutics, our scientists are anti-tissue factor pathway inhibitor, is a novel monoclonal antibody pursuing cutting-edge research to both advance our understanding antagonist and a potential therapy for patients with either and investigate potential therapies for conditions like nonalcoholic hemophilia A or B, including those with inhibitors, that may steatohepatitis (NASH), obesity, Type 2 diabetes and cachexia. help reduce bleeding episodes by promoting coagulation activity. The patient remains firmly at the center of these efforts, inspiring our Following positive Phase 1/2 clinical trial results, we have begun science as well as our educational outreach, including a “Dear dosing patients in our Phase 3 trial with fidanacogene elaparvovec, Scientist” patient story about the challenges of NASH and our investigational gene therapy for the treatment of hemophilia B. a disease primer on cachexia. We are also enrolling patients in our Phase 3 hemophilia A gene This article links to: therapy lead-in trial, which we developed through Phase in partnership with Sangamo. Deliver first-in-class science Transform our go-to-market mode Pfizer is committed to building on our broad hematology expertise; Lead the conversation although our investigational candidate for SCD, rivipansel, failed to meet its Phase 3 endpoints, we are continuing to pursue discovery research to identify potential compounds to treat SCD. Additionally, we have conducted a non-interventional study to better understand both patient experience and biomarkers of SCD. Through partnerships with patients, advocacy communities and fellow scientists, our hope is that research will enable options for patients with hematological diseases using multiple modalities. This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 24 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Sourcing the Best Science: Empowering Health Care Professionals Promising Programs via Partnerships to Partner4Better Pfizer has a long history of successfully partnering with external Partner4Better (P4B) is a global outreach program that empowers organizations that share in our purpose to deliver Breakthroughs health care professionals to deliver better patient outcomes that change patients’ lives. Turning great science into new medicines by delivering relevant medical information and educational content is an outcome that we work toward every day, and it is not always anywhere, anytime. In order to support those health care professionals best achieved in isolation. with the greatest need for high-quality, medical and scientific content, the P4B microsite was created in 2019. Each year, we engage in dozens of research partnerships with innovators who are actively researching bold scientific ideas, Now, health care professionals around the globe can access accurate, capabilities and technologies – all in the service of sourcing the trusted content on Pfizer medical information, health literacy, best science in the world. This year was no exception. counterfeit medicines, medication adherence and even run a literature search. P4B continues to innovate because we believe that empowering Several transactions in 2019 included programs that represent the safe and responsible use of Pfizer medicines paves the way for the potential future breakthroughs. Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives. “To be clear, this isn’t just about creating breakthrough medicines,” says This article links to: John Young, Chief Business Officer, Pfizer. “It’s also about putting those medicines into the hands of patients as quickly as we can. That Lead the conversation aspiration is bold, but achievable.” – Vivet: In March, Pfizer acquired a 15% equity interest and exclusive option to acquire all outstanding shares of Vivet Therapeutics, a privately held gene therapy biotechnology company. The companies are collaborating on the development of a potential breakthrough therapy for Wilson disease. – Array: In July, Pfizer completed the acquisition of Array BioPharma, a commercial-stage biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of targeted small molecule medicines to treat cancer and other diseases of high unmet need. – Therachon: In July, Pfizer completed the acquisition of Therachon Holding AG, a privately held clinical-stage biotechnology company focused on rare diseases. – Akcea: In October, Pfizer entered into an exclusive licensing agreement with Akcea Therapeutics for an investigational antisense therapy being developed to treat patients with certain cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. This article links to: Deliver first-in-class science PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 25 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Ensuring Patient Safety in the Era of Automation The Bot Will Chat With You Now… Pfizer’s pharmacovigilance organization ensures the safe and The demand for information about Pfizer products is steadily appropriate use of the products in our portfolio through the collection, increasing, due to the numerous products launched globally and the analysis and reporting of safety events. As our portfolio grows and greater availability of medical information across multiple channels. technology evolves, the volume of case reports is increasing. To meet Health care professionals, pharmacists, nurses, patients and caregivers this demand, Pfizer launched an initiative focused on the utilization expect quick, accurate, easy-to-understand answers to their questions, of artificial intelligence techniques to automate safety case processing and want information in the most convenient way possible. activities while maintaining the highest levels of quality and compliance. To meet the increasing needs of patients and medical professionals across the entirety of our portfolio, Pfizer launched a first-in-industry As we meet the needs of a growing portfolio and an increasing number solution: medical information chatbots, Medibot (in the U.S.) and Fabi of patients, we are unleashing the power of our people and shaping the (in Brazil). The creation and deployment of “bots” are the first step future of pharmacovigilance by working to streamline and optimize in a journey toward utilizing artificial intelligence to meet the growing adverse event and safety assessment activities. information needs of customers. This article links to: This article links to: Unleash the power of our people Win the digital race in pharma Win the digital race in pharma PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 26 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Ensuring (Bio)ethics Means Acting With Equity Bringing Entrepreneurial Solutions to Scale Pfizer’s Bioethics Advisory Panel is an external group of ethicists, clinical With Accelerate2030 researchers, patient advocates and academics who provide Pfizer with Accelerate2030 is an international initiative that offers mentoring independent, expert perspectives on globally complex issues at the support for entrepreneurs with innovative and scalable solutions crossroads of research, medicine and ethics. to some of the world’s key challenges, including poverty, clean water, The panel’s guidance on emerging issues and scientific trends helps health and well-being. Since its inception in 2016, the initiative has inform Pfizer’s R&D planning and policies, ensuring that the interests supported more than 1,500 entrepreneurs across 24 emerging of the patient and the public remain core to our R&D activities. economies, reaching 2 million people. The panel addresses a range of topics, including conducting clinical In 2019, Pfizer supported Accelerate2030’s efforts in Brazil, working research in vulnerable patient populations, ownership, use, privacy and with entrepreneurs with innovative solutions to address the country’s security of patient data, compassionate access and gene therapies and health care challenges. Pfizer Brazil colleagues had the honor our relationships with academic, research and patient communities. of participating in the finalist selection jury and mentoring program finalists over six months to strengthen and scale their businesses. This article links to: Lead the conversation “Ensuring a healthy life and promoting well-being are at the heart of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals,” says Carlos Murillo, Country Manager, Pfizer Brazil. “To support this cause and achieve a better world, we need to join forces. For Pfizer Brazil, it was a privilege to be part of this journey.” This article links to: Unleash the power of our people PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 27 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION One Step Closer to a Trachoma-Free World Giving Back Around the Globe to Help The World Health Organization (WHO) has called for global elimination End Hunger of trachoma, the world’s leading infectious cause of blindness. In over In 2019, Pfizer achieved an elite milestone with our longstanding 20 years of partnership with the International Trachoma Initiative, partnership with Rise Against Hunger, an international hunger relief Pfizer has donated more than 900 million doses of the antibiotic organization, having packaged 3 million meals since 2010. With the Zithromax®, which can be used to help treat and prevent the infection goal of ending hunger by 2030, Rise Against Hunger’s approach that leads to trachoma, reaching more than 200 million people across to providing meals and building a resilient and sustainable community 39 countries. is making a real impact. Through our partners’ on-the-ground efforts, the WHO reported This year alone, more than 5,500 Pfizer employee volunteers a 91% reduction in the number of people at risk of trachoma, from participated in 45 meal-packaging events around the globe, including 1.5 billion in 2002 to just over 142 million in 2019. Eight countries have Spain, Italy, Dubai, South Africa, the Philippines and across the U. S. been validated by the WHO as trachoma-free as of 2019, bringing us one step closer to a trachoma-free world. This article links to: Unleash the power of our people This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 28 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Reaching Patients in Need Around the World Simplicity Is Designed to Enable Colleagues With Critical Cancer Care Treatments at Pfizer to Remove Needless Complexity Reaching patients with the care and medicines they need is at the core and Focus on Meaningful Work of Pfizer’s purpose. The Max Foundation similarly puts patient centricity Pfizer is removing needless complexity by reducing the time we spend first when it comes to global cancer care. in meetings, managing emails and navigating unproductive processes The organization focuses on reaching those in need with individual and practices, so we have time to focus on meaningful work in support cancer treatments through a variety of partnerships with Pfizer and of our purpose. other multinational pharmaceutical partners, such as the Humanitarian We’ve introduced meeting guidance, developed an app that tracks Partnership for Access to Cancer Treatment. meeting time and provides feedback on meeting quality, and are rolling Through this collaboration, Pfizer is supporting access to four cancer out Outlook training and system changes to support our new way treatments in lowand middle-income countries around the world, of working. reaching nearly 500 patients to date. “Using these tools to simplify our processes and spend less time on unproductive emails and meetings can help us create room for This article links to: meaningful work and make time to focus on what really matters: Transform our go-to-market model Breakthroughs that change patients’ lives,” says Dr. Albert Bourla, Chairman and CEO, Pfizer. Human Resources simplified many of its own processes as well, including an enhanced job posting process, a new candidate care bot on our career site to improve candidate experience, the introduction of automated resume screening and improved interview processes and guidance. Additional work is underway on a reimagined onboarding process for all colleagues. This article links to: Unleash the power of our people Win the digital race in pharma PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 29 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Our global D&I strategy shows that we are all accountable to make Diversity Pfizer Rethinks Performance Management & Inclusion a part of our DNA and unlock its power to serve patients. While achieving measurable objectives is critical to business success, Building a More Diverse Pfizer how those objectives are achieved is equally important. To ensure our At Pfizer, we strive to attract the best and brightest talent and ensure new Values are reflected in everything we do, Pfizer piloted a new that each colleague can do their best work in an environment and approach to performance management in 2019 to give leaders culture where diversity and inclusion (D&I) are championed around the a more holistic view of their leadership and performance. world. We find inspiration for the work we do within the diverse This is a fundamental shift in our approach to performance communities of patients we serve. management that will reward courage and big thinking, and ensure a clear, measurable focus on what matters most to patients. This article links to: Unleash the power of our people Courageous Conversations Pfizer senior leaders have a candid conversation about Pfizer’s continued commitment to diversity and inclusion. DATA & METRICS 33% In 2019, representation of women at the 47% By 2025, Pfizer aims to increase VP level and above was 33% globally representation of women from 33% to 47% globally 19% In 2019, representation of minorities 25% By 2025, Pfizer aims to increase at the VP level and above was 19% representation of minorities from 19% in the U.S. to 25% in the U.S. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 30 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION CRGs & ENGAGEMENT SUPPLIER DIVERSITY 14,000+ $4.1 $3.5 billion billion More than 15% of our workforce, 14,000+ colleagues, are actively engaged in D&I efforts through a global network of 125+ Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) Over the past 5 years, Pfizer spent $4.1 Over the past 5 years, Pfizer spent $3.5 billion with certified Small Business billion with certified Minorty Women Enterprises (SBE) suppliers Business Enterprises (MWBE) suppliers 3,000 1,000 PARTNERSHIP / RECOGNITION Equity & Inclusion Gender Parity During the same time period, we have During the same time period, we have Pfizer Chairman and CEO Dr. Albert Bourla Collaborative partnered with over 3,000 SBE suppliers partnered with over 1,000 MWBE sits on Catalyst’s Board of Directors and suppliers Founding member of Healthcare is one of their CEO Champions for Change. Businesswomen’s Association Gender Pfizer also sponsored Catalyst’s Equity 7 20+ Parity Collaborative to advance and Inclusion research initiatives fostering measurable gender parity progress in the industry Formally engaged in seven mentorships Launched category Matchmaking days, LGBTQ Equality Underrepresented Talent with diverse suppliers across various hosting 20+ diverse suppliers across categories, including Human Resources, the categories of Marketing Received a perfect score of 100% on the Established enterprise partnerships with Business Technology and Marketing Communications and Professional Human Rights Campaign 2019 the Hispanic Association on Corporate Services, creating over 100 touchpoints Corporate Equality Index and Responsibility and Disability:IN to designation as a Best Place to Work for enhance engagement of LGBTQ Equality for the 16th straight year underrepresented talent and benchmark our progress 3 consecutive years 10+ consecutive years Received the Best of the Best Award, Recognized as a Top Corporation Award Center for Talent Innovation a national award for the past 3 years. for the past 10+ years. See here Sponsored research with Center for Talent Innovation, titled Being Black See here in Corporate America: An Intersectional Exploration Women Business Corporate Enterprises Opportunity Award Invested in the development of women Received the Corporate Opportunity business enterprises by hosting an internal Award for the first time from the CLINICAL TRIAL DIVERSITY Pfizer event for local women-owned Women’s Presidents Organization businesses, titled “Female Founders,” (WPO) in New York 49 64% to showcase Pfizer’s partnership with women-owned businesses Clinical studies committed Of 2019 study starts are tracking to tracking diversity diversity (Phases 2 & 3) Dr. Freda Lewis Hall Was elected Chair of the Board of Directors for the National Minority Supplier 2 Development Council (NMSDC). She was elected to a new two-year term during the board’s spring meeting in New York on May 17, 2019. See here Investigator training sessions completed, with diversity as a standalone module (with 2 additional sessions scheduled before the end of the year) 2019 Global D&I Summit Pfizer hosted the first-ever global broadcast of its annual D&I Summit, linking the company’s Diversity & Inclusion strategy to Pfizer’s new Values, with a focus on Equity. The Summit included Pfizer’s CEO, Dr. Albert Bourla, and Chief Human Resources Officer, Dawn Rogers, who shared the results of Pfizer’s first global pay equity study, and members of Pfizer’s Diversity & Inclusion Governance Council. This article links to: Unleash the power of our people PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 31 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Dr. Enas Hajjaj, IRC doctor, checks patients in Ramtha, Northern Jordan. Expanding Access to Overdose-Reversing Naloxone in Health Clinics Across the U.S. Fortifying Health Systems to Improve Access For more than 30 years, Pfizer has developed and implemented to Health Care for Syrian Refugees a variety of innovative partnerships designed to address new and The Pfizer Foundation1, in partnership with the International Rescue ongoing health challenges. The Pfizer Naloxone Access Program reflects Committee (IRC), recently launched an innovative health service this commitment to improving health outcomes by expanding access delivery model to provide essential primary health care services to medicines and ensuring patient safety through educational activities to refugees in Jordan. associated with appropriate use of prescription medicines. As global humanitarian crises persist, unmet health care needs Since 2017, Pfizer has partnered with Direct Relief to make overdosein Jordan and other countries with large refugee communities will reversing naloxone available at no cost to qualified U.S. nonprofit remain significant. Working in collaboration with the Jordanian Ministry health care providers and local public health departments on the front of Heath, the IRC and other partners are leading efforts to increase the lines of the rising opioid epidemic. To date, more than 337,000 resiliency of the health system to meet the essential health needs naloxone doses have been delivered to over 480 health care facilities of some of the most vulnerable populations. The partnership aims and public health departments across 48 states and U.S. territories. to support local efforts to build equitable health systems to ensure This article links to: health for all. Transform our go-to-market model 1. The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. This article links to: Win the digital race in pharma Lead the conversation PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 32 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Providing Assistance to Underserved Patient Unleashing the Power of Our People to Help Populations and Addressing Health Disparities Bring Breakthroughs to Those in Need Access to medicine is a cornerstone of Pfizer’s ongoing commitment In 2019, colleagues from every continent served in global health fellow to patients. For more than 30 years, Pfizer has been helping eligible and team assignments to help reduce health care disparities for U.S. patients in need get access to their medicines through a range patients around the world. of assistance programs.1 In 2019, Pfizer helped more than 214,000 This year, colleagues applied their diverse skills to health system patients receive over 1.3 million Pfizer prescriptions for free strengthening initiatives addressing HIV, hypertension and child health, or at a savings. In the last five years (2015-2019), Pfizer has helped among others, to help partner organizations drive sustainable solutions more than 1.2 million patients receive over 8 million Pfizer prescriptions at the community level. Learn more about our skills-based volunteer for free or at a savings.2 programs and the power of fostering global partnerships. Beyond providing medicines to those in need, we understand that “The fellows program is a really good example of how two global health inequality is a significant public health issue across the country. organizations using different approaches can come together around Lack of or limited access to quality health care is an issue that a common goal to improve the health outcomes of the communities disproportionately affects multicultural communities. Through Pfizer’s that they serve,” says Prisca Rwezahura, Director of Behavior Multicultural Center of Excellence, we focus on improving health equity Change, FHI360. across medically underserved populations in the U.S. by partnering with key multicultural groups whose mission is to ensure the patients they This article links to: serve can access the health care they need and reduce health Unleash the power of our people disparities. Through our partnership with Día de la Mujer Latina, we created a video for the Hispanic patient population that explains Pfizer’s patient assistance program in a culturally relevant manner. 1. This is not health insurance. Terms and conditions apply. 2. Data on file. Pfizer Inc., New York, NY. This article links to: Transform our go-to-market model PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 33 OUR BOLD MOVES CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Responsibility & Transparency Supporting Universal Health Coverage (UHC) UHC aims to ensure that all individuals have access to the health care they need without suffering financial hardship. At least half of the world’s population does not have full coverage of essential health services and over 100 million families are pushed into extreme poverty each year because of out-of-pocket spending on health.1 Investment in health care not only improves patient quality of life, but also can improve productivity, bring skill-intensive jobs and expand economic opportunity. Pfizer believes in the promise of UHC. We agree that all individuals and communities – regardless of race, ethnicity, gender, income or location – should have access to meaningful, affordable health care options. As an innovative pharmaceutical company, we want to be active Market Context: Understanding the External partners and believe we can contribute in important ways, including: Environment Harnessing the power of science – We will continue to innovate not Leading the Conversation only to meet changing burdens of disease, but also to tailor our As an innovator in health care, one of Pfizer’s goals is to lead the products to better suit local conditions. conversation. In order to meet this goal, Pfizer is boldly working Tackling affordability and access head on – We are taking to achieve excellence in the following three ways: a series of actions to dramatically increase the number of patients that The first speaks to the central role that patients play in everything have access to our medicines by 2023. we do – we are taking concrete steps to be the most patientAdvancing local innovation that progresses UHC – We support local centric company. entrepreneurs in developing countries working on UHC solutions by The second acknowledges the policy barriers that delay or prevent providing seed funding, expertise and access to our networks.2 We can access to innovative medicines – we want to drive pro-innovation, partner to bring promising innovations to scale. pro-patient policies to improve access and reimbursement in the Empowering patients, health workers and communities – countries in which we operate. We dedicate significant resources to disease awareness, prevention The final pillar underscores the fact that we are a science-based campaigns and health literacy – critical pillars for UHC that should company with a compelling narrative on the value of our science – be prioritized. we are working to raise the visibility of our scientific contributions Engaging in the policy debate – We partner with a broad range to society in a significant way. of stakeholders, bringing fresh ideas to the table, and are open Changing Patient Demographics to constructive feedback and robust debate. We are a proud, active Non-communicable diseases like cancer, cardiovascular disease and member of the UHC2030, a group of private sector companies diabetes are difficult-to-treat conditions that are often associated committed to advancing UHC. with lifestyle factors, namely diet and exercise. They are also linked We recognize that access to safe, effective, quality and affordable to urbanization and rates of life expectancy around the world. medicines and vaccines is a critical component of UHC and that, We recognize the link between human health and these changing as an innovative pharmaceutical company, we have an important demographics. As the world’s middle class grows at an unprecedented role to play in helping to deliver on this target. rate, increased consumption leads to a larger carbon footprint. At Pfizer, 1. Half the world lacks access to essential health services, 100 million still pushed into extreme we have publicly recognized the impact of climate change on human poverty because of health expenses. World Health Organization. https://www.who.int/ health and have made commitments to mitigate our impact, including news-room/detail/13-12-2017-world-bank-and-who-half-the-world-lacks-access-to-essentialhealth-services-100-million-still-pushed-into-extreme-poverty-because-of-health-expenses a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Published December 13, 2017. Accessed December 10, 2019. Pfizer has incorporated the Task Force for Climate-Related Financial 2. For more information on the Pfizer Foundation’s Global Health Innovation Grants program, please visit: https://www.pfizer.com/files/investors/financial_reports/annual_reports/2018/ Disclosures framework in 2019. Click here to learn more about our-culture-our-purpose/our-purpose/video-catalyzing-innovations-in-global-health/index. meeting our environmental sustainability goals. html?ref=home PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 34 RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Governance and Ethics Engaging Colleagues in Health and Safety At Pfizer, we are committed to exercising strong corporate governance Pfizer’s commitment to ensuring every individual lives the healthiest life practices. We believe that good corporate governance promotes the possible goes beyond health care. Our actively caring approach focuses long-term interests of our shareholders, strengthens Board and on keeping our colleagues and collaborators healthy and safe so that they remain engaged and productive. Our DriverCARE initiative management accountability and improves our standing as a trusted exemplifies how we have applied the actively caring philosophy to member of society. improve driver safety for our U.S. field force (almost 4,700 colleagues). We maintain and enhance our long record of excellence in corporate In late 2017, recognizing that the collision rate remained about average for a sales fleet and lagged our pharmaceutical peers even though we governance by regularly refining our policies and procedures to reflect had a formal fleet safety program in place for a number of years, we evolving practices and issues raised by our shareholders and other established an enhanced engagement plan. Propelled through active stakeholders. sponsorship by senior sales leaders, we set out to reduce driving-related injuries by investing in vehicle safety technology, improving Our governance structure and processes are guided by our Corporate communications and enhancing relationships. We established a Driver Governance Principles and Board Committee Charters, which govern Safety Council comprised of leaders from our sales organizations to set the operation of the Board of Directors and its Committees in the the direction for the program and formed a network of over 50 execution of their fiduciary responsibilities. DriverCARE Ambassadors and Champions to serve as a communication conduit between drivers and the Council, share performance metrics While the governance practices and structures of an organization are and provide information and advice to raise awareness of distracted very important, we believe the key to an effective governance structure driving hazards, causes and remedies. is having a Board of Directors that is committed to protecting and “Our DriverCARE colleagues are truly invested in achieving our goal,” enhancing shareholder value. says Valerie Orsi, Internal Medicine District Business Manager, Pfizer. We are fortunate to have a Board that is diverse, active, independent“A recent example of their work was an Avoiding Distracted Driving minded and collegial, and provides valuable insights with respect to Campaign. Among other things, this educated drivers on what even a momentary distraction can do, breaking unsafe habits that can oversight of management, risk and our overall strategic direction. cause a distraction and reinforcing the need to prepare for safety.” The Read more about our Board of Directors success of the program is evidenced by a greater than 40% reduction in both the frequency and severity of collision-related recordable Read more about our Corporate Governance injuries in the U.S. market in its first full year of implementation. More importantly, we have found enthusiastic road safety advocates in the field force who are passionate about contributing to a risk reduction cause they believe is important. Nick Lagunowich, Regional President, Internal Medicine, North America, Pfizer, echoed these thoughts, summing up the program’s place in Pfizer’s purpose and Bold Moves: “Unleashing the power of our people depends on our colleagues arriving home safe every night. Whatever the email or text message, it can wait.” “With the DriverCARE initiative, we are committed to supporting the goal of having the safest, most productive field force in the U.S., by eliminating distracted and impaired driving. Our year-to-date data show we have lowered the rate of collisions, and also lowered the rate of collisions deemed preventable. The work of our DriverCARE Ambassadors has helped influence and change the mindset and behaviors of our drivers. Through the DriverCARE program, we will continue to motivate, inspire and encourage drivers to continually put safety first when driving.” Steven Sorrells, VP Sales – Internal Medicine, Pfizer, executive sponsor of the program. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 35 RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION In 2019, we made the following progress against the AMR Roadmap commitments: Commitment Update Review our manufacturing and supply Pfizer completed environmental risk chains to assess good practices in assessment of antibiotic discharges managing the release of antibiotic at internal manufacturing sites and discharge into the environment. has nearly completed those assessments in the rest of the world. The assessments conducted indicate good practices are being followed at many sites. Where warranted, action plans have been developed and are being implemented to mitigate risk. Patient Focus Includes Mitigating the Commitment Update Environmental Impact of Manufacturing Establish a common framework for Pfizer has fully adopted the AMR managing antibiotic discharge, Industry Alliance “Common Pfizer’s Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (PiE) Program (learn more building on existing work such as the Antibiotic Manufacturing Pharmaceutical Supply Chain framework,” and has verified here) is advancing according to plan, with a focus on assessment and Initiative (PSCI), and apply these through an audit that the majority wastewater management across our manufacturing supply chain. principles across our own internal of our internal antibiotic manufacturing and external supply manufacturing sites meet the chain by 2018. framework. In addition, the We continue to advance EcoPharmaco Stewardship initiatives through expectations of the framework have our collaborations. Our participation in the Interagency PiE Task Force been conveyed to all antibiotic suppliers, and assessments have and its EcoPharmaco Stewardship (EPS) Initiative has been effective been conducted against the in shaping the EU PiE Strategy, which was published in March 2019 framework for the majority of these suppliers. and commits to risk reduction actions that enable continued access to medicines. Commitment Update The Intelligence-led Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Work with stakeholders to create a In 2019, Pfizer worked with the (iPiE), a research project collaboration between Pfizer, other practical mechanism to transparently Alliance Manufacturing Group pharmaceutical companies and the Innovative Medicines Institute demonstrate that our supply chains to agree on metrics/key meet the standards in the framework. performance indicators and gather (IMI), delivered its project output in 2019. Key outputs are a database performance data to include of environmental toxicity information and fate and effects models. within an industry status report anticipated to publish in early 2020. We continue to support patients with access to information about unused medicine disposal. Pfizer participates in the Pharmaceutical Commitment Update Product Stewardship Work Group (PPSWG), an industry coalition Work with independent technical Pfizer continues to actively managing collection schemes in the U.S. experts to establish science-driven, contribute as a founding member risk-based targets for discharge of the Alliance Manufacturing concentrations for antibiotics and Group. In 2019, the Alliance External collaboration remains a key component of our PiE program. good practice methods to reduce established processes to evaluate Pfizer is an active member of the Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) environmental impact of new data and update, as necessary, manufacturing discharges by 2020. the list of published risk-based Industry Alliance manufacturing group (the Alliance Manufacturing discharge concentrations for Group). Refer to the infographic below for progress made in 2019 with a range of antibiotic compounds. respect to AMR Industry Alliance commitments. Learn more about Pfizer’s policy position on AMR, including antibiotic manufacturing here, and learn more about the AMR Industry Alliance related to manufacturing and the environment here. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 36 RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Meeting Our Environmental Sustainability Goals Our focus and passion for environmental sustainability mean that, for the third year running, we remain on target to meet our 2020 reduction goals for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, waste and water. Since 2012, when these goals were set, we have continued on our Green Journey and globally implemented more than 1,000 sustainability projects, nearly 100 of which were completed in 2019, delivering positive environmental performance and more than $5 million in savings annually. As we continue to implement emissionand resource-reduction projects, we expect that fluctuations in our business may challenge our ability to meet our performance targets. We appreciate the expectations of stakeholders, including the investor community, regarding our environmental impacts, transparency and ability to manage business risks associated with a changing climate. In 2019, we began incorporating the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework into our business risk management system and, this year, we are expanding our voluntary reporting to include information aligned with TCFD recommendations. We continue to encourage key suppliers to implement GHG, water and waste reduction goals. In 2020, we will look for opportunities to accelerate progress toward our Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability goals. We have also begun to develop our next generation of goals aligning with our strategic objectives; as a science-based company, we are committed to setting these goals based on good science. In parallel, we continue to work with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative to explore opportunities for member companies to drive sustainability improvements in the pharmaceutical supply chain collectively. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 37 RESPONSIBILITY & TRANSPARENCY CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Key Performance Indicators Global programs and commercial transactions to increase access to medicines in emerging markets Access to Medicines Top Ten Medicines and Vaccines Global programs and commercial 2015 19 by Revenues in 2019 transactions to increase access to 1. $5,847 million medicines in emerging markets Top 211 global burdens2016 of disease addressed 18 by products and pipeline 2017 17 Prevnar® 13/Prevenar® 13 (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine (Diphtheria CRM197 Protein)) 2018 17 2. $4,961 million 2019 15 Ibrance® (palbociclib) Top 21 global burdens of disease 2015 18 addressed by products and 3. $4,220 million pipeline2 2016 19 2017 19 Eliquis® (apixaban)1 2018 16 2019 16 4. $3,321 million Lyrica® (pregabalin) Overview3 – We currently have 290 active programs for launched medicines 5. $2,242 million Xeljanz® (tofacitinib) in markets that have a gross domestic product (GDP) per capita less than Portugal. – This covers 52 countries. 6. $1,973 million Lipitor® (atorvastatin) – Of these, 20 programs cover multiple therapies while the rest are product specific. – In total, these cover 103 different products in our portfolio. 7. $1,699 million Enbrel® (etanercept) 1. Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, multilateral organization, non8. $1,107 million governmental organization (NGO), private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. 2. Pfizer Foundation programs represent aggregate investment in program areas with several Chantix®/Champix® (varenicline) NGO partners. 9. $950 million 3. As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight and self-inflicted injuries. Norvasc® (amlodipine besylate) 10. $936 million Sutent® (sunitinib malate) 1. Eliquis includes alliance revenues from (Bristol-Myers Squibb) and direct sales. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 38 OUR PERFORMANCE CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Injuries Per 100 Colleagues Total injury rate in 2019 was 13% lower than in 2018 Colleagues1 Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal3 2015 Injuries Per 100 2016 0.39 Colleagues 2020 Total injury rate in 2019 was 2017 0.59 goal 2019 2018 2017 13% lower than in 2018 2018 0.45 Key suppliers supporting Pfizer’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions supplier code of conduct 100% 90% 88% 79% Total scope 1 and 2 GHG 2019emissions 0.39 In million metric tons CO2EQ Key suppliers aligning with GHG emissions in 2019 were 5% lower than in 2018 Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) principles 100% 90% 88% 81% Progress on Our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Goals2 Key suppliers managing their environmental impacts 100% 88% 84% 82% Greenhouse Gas (GHG) 2012 2.05 Key suppliers with reduction goals Emissions for GHG, waste disposal and 2016 1.65 water withdrawal 90% 49% 52% 41% Total scope 1 and Waste Disposed 2 GHG emissions in million metric tons TotalCO2EQ hazardous and non-hazardous 2017 waste 1.56 in thousand metric tons 1. Two serious incidents occurred during work-related travel in 2019 that tragically resulted in the GHG emissions in Total were 5% 2019waste disposed in 2019 was 9% higher than in 2018 deaths of two colleagues. The primary causes of injuries and illnesses recorded in 2019 were lower than in 2018 2018 1.58 ergonomics and slips, trips and falls. 2020 Goals vs Baseline: 2019 1.50 2. Applies to facilities within Pfizer’s operational control as compared with a 2012 baseline. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Decrease by 20% Protocol. The 2012–2018 GHG data were independently verified to the limited assurance level. n Baseline The verification of the 2019 GHG data will be completed in 2020. While we are on track to exceed our GHG emissions and water goals in 2020 and continue to identify and implement Waste Disposed 2012 121.56 resource reduction projects, we anticipate that we will be unable to sustain achievement of our waste reduction goal due to site expansions and increased production. Through 2020 and Total hazardous and nonbeyond we will continue to focus on emission and resource reduction projects. Find more details hazardous waste in thousand 2016 101.28 metric tons Water Withdrawal on our EHS KPIs here. Excluding non-contact cooling 2017 water in million 94.94 cubic meters 3. Key suppliers include 115 major contributors to our external environmental footprint, including Total waste disposed in 2019 was Total water withdrawal (excluding non-contact cooling water) in suppliers of pharmaceutical ingredients, drug products, raw materials, product packaging 9% higher than in 2018 2018 94.10 services, key research and development collaborators and freight forwarders. Key suppliers 2019 was 3% lower than in 2018 2020 Goals vs Baseline: represent only a portion of Pfizer’s overall supply chain for goods and services. Data have been 2019 102.40 adjusted to reflect the transition of our Consumer Healthcare business. Decrease by 15% n Baseline Water Withdrawal 2012 17.82 Excluding non-contact cooling water in million cubic meters 2016 15.83 Total water withdrawal (excluding 2017 14.76 non-contact cooling water) in 2019 was 3% lower than in 2018 2018 15.51 2020 Goals vs Baseline: 2019 15.05 Decrease by 5% n Baseline PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 39 OUR PERFORMANCE CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Financial Performance Three-year summary as of and for the years ended December 311 % Change Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2019 2018 2017 19/18 18/17 Revenues 51,750 53,647 52,546 (4) 2 Cost of Sales 10,219 11,248 11,228 (9) – Selling, informational and administrative expenses 14,350 14,455 14,804 (1) (2) Research and development expenses 8,650 8,006 7,683 8 4 Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 747 1,044 351 (28) * (Gain) on completion of Consumer Healthcare JV transaction2 (8,086) – – * – Other (income)/deductions – net 3,578 2,116 1,416 69 49 Income from continuing operations 16,298 11,179 21,353 46 (48) Discontinued operations – net of tax 4 10 2 (61) * Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc.3 16,273 11,153 21,308 46 (48) Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders3 2.87 1.87 3.52 54 (47) Weighted-average shares – diluted 5,675 5,977 6,058 (5) (1) Number of common shares outstanding 5,534 5,717 5,979 (3) (4) Total assets 167,489 159,422 171,797 5 (7) Total long-term obligations4 66,739 63,807 69,714 5 (8) Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity 63,143 63,407 71,308 – (11) Shareholders’ equity per common share 11.41 11.09 11.93 3 (7) Net cash provided by operating activities 12,588 15,827 16,802 (20) (6) Property, plant and equipment additions 2,176 2,042 1,956 7 4 Purchases of common stock 8,865 12,198 5,000 (27) * Cash dividends paid 8,043 7,978 7,659 1 4 * Indicates calculation not meaningful or result is equal to or greater than 100%. 1. As described in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 1A. Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies: Basis of Presentation in our 2019 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, acquisitions impacted our results of operations in 2019 and 2017, the contribution of our Consumer Healthcare business to the GlaxoSmithKline plc (GSK) Consumer Healthcare joint venture impacted our results of operations in 2019 and divestitures impacted our results of operations in 2017. 2. See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 2C. Acquisitions, Divestitures, Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Arrangements and Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements: Equity-Method Investments and Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale in our 2019 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3. 2019, 2018 and 2017 reflect the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or TCJA on the Provision/(benefit) for taxes on income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note 5A. Tax Matters: Taxes on Income from Continuing Operations. 4. Defined as Long-term debt, Pension benefit obligations, net, Postretirement benefit obligations, net, Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, Other taxes payable and Other noncurrent liabilities. Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A-1+ by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s (Outlook: Under review for downgrade) and AAby S&P (Outlook: CreditWatch Negative). Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organizatio›n. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in our 2019 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 40 OUR PERFORMANCE CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Performance and Financial Guidance1 Revenue (in billions) 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 $51.8 $51.2 to $52.2 $48.5 to $50.5 Adjusted cost of sales as a percentage of revenues4 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 19.4% 19.3% to 19.8% 19.9% to 20.9% Adjusted SI&A expenses (in billions)4 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 $14.0 $13.5 to $14.0 $12.0 to $13.0 Adjusted R&D expenses (in billions)4 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 $8.0 $7.7 to $8.1 $8.1 to $8.5 Adjusted other (income)/deductions4 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 $300 million Approximately $200 Approximately $800 of income million of income million of income Effective tax rate on adjusted income4 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 15.0% Approximately 16.0% Approximately 15.0% Adjusted diluted EPS4 2019 Actual 2019 Guidance2 2020 Guidance3 $2.95 $2.94 to $3.00 $2.82 to $2.92 See notes on page 42. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 41 OUR PERFORMANCE CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Footnotes to Performance and Financial Guidance – Exchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2020. Reflects the anticipated unfavorable 1. Please refer to our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections captioned Risk impact of approximately $0.2 billion on revenues and approximately $0.01 on Adjusted Factors and ForwardLooking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results, for a diluted EPS as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements, compared to foreign exchange rates from 2019. including our 2020 Financial Guidance, included in this Annual Review. – Adjusted diluted EPS guidance assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of 2. Our 2019 financial guidance reflected the following: approximately 5.65 billion shares, which assumes no share repurchases in 2020. – Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than 4. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are defined as reported U.S. revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most GAAP net income5 and its components and reported diluted EPS5 excluding purchase directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, significant items (some of which may recur, such as gains on the completion of joint venture unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses, net gains or losses on investments in transactions, restructuring charges, legal charges or net gains and losses on investments in equity securities and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These equity securities, but which management does not believe are reflective of ongoing core items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP operations). Adjusted cost of sales, Adjusted selling, informational and administrative (SI&A) Reported results for the guidance period. expenses, Adjusted research and development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted other (income)/ deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and therefore – Did not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as components of, the overall Adjusted income measure. As described in the Financial Review – of September 29, 2019. Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Adjusted Income) section of our 2019 Financial Report, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December – Included revenues and expenses associated with Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business 31, 2019, management uses Adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals through July 31, 2019 as well as Pfizer’s pro rata share of anticipated earnings from the and to measure the performance of the overall company. Because Adjusted income is an Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture (JV) with GSK from August 1, 2019, which is recorded on important internal measurement for Pfizer, management believes that investors’ understanding a quarterly basis in Adjusted other (income)/deductions. Pfizer records its share of the JV’s of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. Pfizer reports Adjusted anticipated earnings on a one-quarter lag; therefore, 2019 financial guidance for Adjusted income, certain components of Adjusted income, and Adjusted diluted EPS in order to portray other (income)/ deductions and Adjusted diluted EPS reflected Pfizer’s share of two months the results of the company’s major operations – the discovery, development, manufacture, of the JV’s earnings that were generated in third-quarter 2019, which were recorded by Pfizer marketing and sale of prescription medicines and vaccines – prior to considering certain income in fourth-quarter 2019. statement elements. Reconciliations of certain U.S. GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted – Reflected an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.1 billion due to recent and expected information for 2019 are provided in the Financial Review section of our 2019 Financial Report, generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or were which was filed as Exhibit 13 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December anticipated to soon lose patent protection. 31, 2019. The Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components and – Exchange rates assumed were a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through diluted EPS. Non-GAAP Adjusted income and its components and Non-GAAP Adjusted diluted third-quarter 2019 and mid-October 2019 rates for the remainder of the year. Reflected the EPS are Non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. anticipated unfavorable impact of approximately $1.4 billion on revenues and approximately GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non$0.10 on Adjusted diluted EPS as a result of changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the standardized definitions, Non-GAAP Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S. GAAP net U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2018. income and its components) and Non-GAAP Adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted EPS) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Non-GAAP – Guidance for Adjusted diluted EPS assumed diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of Adjusted income and its components and Non-GAAP Adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely approximately 5.7 billion shares, which reflected the weighted-average impact of share to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. repurchases totaling $8.9 billion completed in 2019. 5. Reported net income is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc., in accordance with U.S. 3. The 2020 financial guidance for Total Company (i) is as of January 28, 2020, (ii) is not being GAAP and reported diluted EPS is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. updated or reaffirmed in connection with this Annual Review, and (iii) reflects the following: common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. – Reflects a full year of revenue and expense contributions from Biopharma and Upjohn, and excludes any impact from the pending Upjohn combination with Mylan N.V. Please refer to the Financial Review – Our Financial Guidance for 2020 – 2020 Financial Guidance for New Pfizer and – 2020 Financial Guidance for Upjohn sections of our 2019 Financial Report, which was filed as Exhibit 13 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, for (i) our 2020 guidance for New Pfizer reflecting a full-year 2020 pro-forma view of the company assuming the pending Upjohn combination with Mylan was completed at the beginning of 2020, and assumes, among other things, $12 billion of net proceeds from Upjohn to be retained by Pfizer, which Pfizer will use to repay its own existing indebtedness, and (ii) our 2020 guidance for Upjohn reflecting the inclusion of revenues and expenses associated with Meridian Medical Technologies, Inc. (Meridian) and Mylan-Japan, which were previously recorded in Pfizer’s Biopharma business. – Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses, net gains or losses on investments in equity securities and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. – Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2019, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. – Includes Pfizer’s pro rata share of the Consumer Healthcare JV anticipated earnings, which is recorded in Adjusted other (income)/deductions on a one-quarter lag. Therefore, 2020 financial guidance for Adjusted other (income)/deductions and Adjusted diluted EPS reflects Pfizer’s share of the JV’s earnings that were generated in fourth-quarter 2019 (to be recorded by Pfizer in first-quarter 2020) as well as Pfizer’s share of the JV’s projected earnings during the first three quarters of 2020. – Reflects an anticipated negative revenue impact of $2.4 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 42 OUR PERFORMANCE CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION About This Review Corporate Responsibility Management This review was developed by a core group of Pfizer colleagues representing each business unit and other key functions. The core group is managed by our Corporate Affairs department, whose leader is a member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Pfizer’s commitment to society is embedded in our business strategy and vision, and our commercial teams and functional groups share the commitment to integrate such values into our daily work. The Global Health & Patient Access team sets the strategic direction for meeting our commitment to society, particularly with regard to underserved populations. A cross-functional Sustainability Reporting Steering Committee advises Scope of Reporting on key environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues and guides the integration and implementation of Pfizer’s non-financial reporting This review covers Pfizer’s worldwide business and provides information processes. We are actively engaged in a dialogue with investors around on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2019. It describes their interest in ESG performance and the impact on the company. key dimensions of our purpose, strategy and performance. It also Today, we strive to have these principles permeate Pfizer at every level describes critical challenges in society – from expanding access – including our Board of Directors, which maintains oversight for these to health care to our environmental impact – and our strategies for issues through the Corporate Governance Committee. The Committee addressing them. Data in this review cover the calendar year from maintains an informed status on our corporate social responsibility, January 1 to December 31, 2019, unless otherwise stated. There sustainability and philanthropic efforts and progress. have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied Improving Our Access to Medicine Offerings in this review. Every two years, the Access to Medicine Index (ATMi) assesses the top Corporate Responsibility Materiality 20 research-based pharmaceutical companies on their strategies to enable greater access to essential medicines, vaccines and diagnostics The content of this report is based on two key factors – its importance in lowand middle-income countries. The Index ranks these companies to stakeholders and its potential to influence business strategy. Pfizer according to their efforts in several areas, including research and aims to address critical issues most relevant for colleagues and external development, capacity building, compliance and others. stakeholders. These include the following topics that influence the sustainability of the organization: In 2018, Pfizer improved its overall ranking by three places, jumping to 11th place from 14th in 2016. The performance increase was – Patient Access. credited to the introduction of our access to medicine strategy, strong – Environmental Sustainability. compliance efforts and continued commitment to health care system – Culture and Human Capital. strengthening. Pfizer obtained improvements in the following – Employee Health & Safety. categories: – Quality, Manufacturing and Supply Chain Management. – Market Influence & Compliance. – Ethics and Compliance. – Capacity Building. – United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). – General Access to Medicine Management. – Pricing, Manufacturing & Distribution. Stakeholder Engagement – R&D. We greatly value our stakeholders’ perspectives, and all Pfizer units globally and locally engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout the year. We continue to explore new ways to engage a broad range of stakeholders to better understand the evolving reporting environment and determine how key non-financial indicators are impacting our financial performance. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 43 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Pfizer supports the goals of the ATMi and recognizes the importance Forward-Looking Information of having a tool that attempts to measure access to medicines and vaccines. Our improved ranking to number 11 on the list This Annual Review includes forward-looking statements about, among is a confirmation of the significant efforts we make to increase access other things, our anticipated operating and financial performance, to our medicines and vaccines, including advancements in our pipeline, business plans and prospects, in-line products and product candidates, the development and implementation of equitable pricing strategies including anticipated regulatory submissions, data read-outs, study and advancing our donation programs. starts, approvals, performance, timing of exclusivity and potential benefits of Pfizer’s products and product candidates, strategic reviews, Our multiple approaches to social investments apply novel, wellcapital allocation, business-development plans, our acquisitions and researched and sustainable approaches to meet the health needs other business development activities, our ability to successfully of the underserved while investing in the health of our communities capitalize on growth opportunities or prospects, manufacturing and and our business. We strive to make the best use of Pfizer’s resources product supply and plans relating to share repurchases and dividends – our people, products and funding – to help build health care capacity that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause and expand access to medicines and vaccines. actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Global Reporting Frameworks Please refer to Pfizer’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to reporting, including December 31, 2019, and Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, reference to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks. including the sections thereof captioned ‘Risk Factors’ and ‘ForwardThese include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Task Force for Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results’, Climate-Related Financial Disclosure and the International Integrated as well as Pfizer’s subsequent reports on Form 8-K for a description Reporting Council. We relied on elements of each framework of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking in developing this year’s Annual Review while formally adhering to none statements included in this Annual Review. These reports are available in its entirety. We included GRI Reference Tables as a tool to help on our website at www.pfizer.com and on the U.S. Securities and readers more readily locate relevant information within this review Exchange Commission’s (SEC) website at www.sec.gov. The forwardand across Pfizer’s web-based resources. looking statements in this Annual Review speak only as of the original Pfizer also considers elements of other ESG indices and sustainability date of this Annual Review, and we undertake no obligation to update indicators – in particular, the ATMi and the United Nations (UN) or revise any of these statements, except as required by law or the rules Sustainable Development Goals (also known as the Global Goals). and regulations of the SEC. Throughout this review, you will see the Global Goals icons alongside various efforts to highlight the work we are doing across Pfizer to meet these goals by 2030. As a signatory to the UN Global Compact – a document that asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the UN – we submit an annual communication to the UN on our progress made toward achieving the Global Goals. View the full progress update. Read more about our Corporate and Shareholder Information, including Forward-Looking Statements. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 44 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Corporate Shareholder Information You can find more information about Pfizer online: – Website: www.pfizer.com – Twitter: www.twitter.com/Pfizer – Facebook: www.facebook.com/Pfizer – LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/pfizer Unless otherwise noted herein, the trademarks, logos and service marks appearing in the Annual Review, whether appearing with the trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc. or its affiliates. Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange. Our stock is also traded on various U.S. regional stock exchanges. Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar Computershare Investor Services P.O. Box 505000 Louisville, KY 40233-5000 Telephone: (800) 733-9393 Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: (781) 575-4591 Internet: www.computershare.com/investor Shareholder Services and Programs Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar, Computershare, with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock transfer matters, and for information on: – Computershare Investment Program. – Direct purchase of Pfizer stock. – Dividend Reinvestment. – Automatic monthly or bimonthly investments. – Book-entry share ownership. – Direct deposit of dividends. Pfizer Public Policy Engagement for Global Public Health To learn more about public policy at Pfizer, visit: https://www.pfizer.com/purpose/contributions-partnerships/ political-partnerships PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 45 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION GRI Reference Table We have included a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review reference to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant – for more information, on our global reporting framework, information across Pfizer’s web-based resources. Pfizer continues click here. to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including Alignment with GRI Indicator Description Reference the UN SGDs * GRI 102: General Disclosures 2019 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization Pfizer Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Chairman & CEO Letter 102-3 Location of headquarters New York, New York (U.S.) 102-4 Location of operations Pfizer Global Sites 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate and Shareholder Information 102-6 Markets served Chairman & CEO Letter 102-7 Scale of the organization Chairman & CEO Letter 102-9 Supply chain EHS Supply Chain Goal 9 Goal 12 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Pfizer manages and reports on our risks and impacts in consideration of the precautionary principle 102-12 External initiatives Governance and Ethics 102-13 Membership of associations Lobbying and Political Contributions Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman & CEO Letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance and Ethics Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance and Ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance and Ethics 102-19 Delegating authority Board Committees and Charters 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Meeting Our Environmental Sustainability Goals Goal 3 environmental, and social topics PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 46 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION GRI Reference Table cont. Alignment with GRI Indicator Description Reference the UN SGDs * GRI 102: General Disclosures 2019 Governance 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, Meeting Our Environmental Sustainability Goals and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Board of Directors Goal 16 and its committees Board Committees and Charters 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 SEC Filings 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Corporate Governance Principles Goal 5 governance body Goal 16 102-25 Conflicts of interest The Pfizer Board: Board Policies Goal 16 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Corporate Governance Principles values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Corporate Governance Principles 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance Corporate Governance Principles 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, Board Committees and Charters Goal 16 and social impacts Governance and Ethics 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Board Committees and Charters 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Board Committees and Charters 102-32 Highest governance body's role About this Review in sustainability reporting Board Committees and Charters 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Financials: Annual Reports 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Financials: Annual Reports Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Services 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Transparency Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated About this Review financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Review 102-47 List of material topics About this Review 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes in reporting since 2016 report 102-50 Reporting period About this Review 102-51 Date of most recent report March 13, 2020 PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 47 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION GRI Reference Table cont. Alignment with GRI Indicator Description Reference the UN SGDs * GRI 102: General Disclosures 2019 Reporting practice 102-52 Reporting cycle We report on an annual basis 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Frank Briamonte, Vice President, Executive Communications 102-55 GRI content index GRI Reference Table Material topics – Economic GRI 103: Management Approach 2019 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary About this Review 103-2 The management approach and its components Product Stewardship 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Product Stewardship Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Our Performance Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Individual Voices 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Understanding the External Environment Goal 1 Manufacturing & Supply Chain Excellence Goal 3 Community Health Access to Medicines Goal 8 Anti-Infectives Goal 10 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Ethics and Compliance Goal 12 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 Material topics – Environmental Water 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts Environment, Health and Safety Goal 6 303-3 Water withdrawal Our Performance Goal 6 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Our Performance Goal 13 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Goal 13 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Our Performance Goal 12 PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 48 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION GRI Reference Table cont. Alignment with GRI Indicator Description Reference the UN SGDs * Material topics – Environmental Suppier environmental asssessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Our Performance Goal 12 and actions taken Material topics – Social Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Our Performance Goal 3 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Goal 8 403-9 Work related injuries Our Performance Goal 3 Goal 8 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Our Culture Goal 4 Goal 5 Goal 8 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Our Culture Goal 8 assistance programs Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Our Culture Goal 5 Goal 8 Goal 16 Human rights assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies Human Rights Statement or procedures Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Living Our Purpose Goal 3 Goal 6 impact assessments, and development programs Goal 4 Goal 7 Goal 5 Goal 17 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Corporate and Shareholder Information Goal 16 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of How We Conduct Clinical Trials Goal 16 customer privacy and losses of customer data * Based on “SDG Compass: Linking the SDGs and GRI,” as available on the GRI website’s resource library. Click here to view. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 49 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) Climate change represents a significant risk to our global society, as well opportunities, both nearand long-term, enabling us to take action as our business. Our strategy to reduce the use of natural resources, limit to increase the resilience of our operations. We are committed to emissions and prepare for the impact of climate change enables us to transparency and continuous improvement of our disclosures, and this deliver on our purpose of bringing Breakthroughs that change patients’ year we are expanding our reporting to include information aligned lives. For almost two decades, Pfizer has been working to address this with Task Force for Climate-Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) global challenge through three generations of greenhouse gas recommendations. reduction goals and other resource conservation efforts. Through our program, we identify, assess and manage climate change risks and Recommended disclosure Comment/disclosure Governance a) Describe the board’s oversight of CDP C1.1a climate-related risks and opportunities. Pfizer’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program provides a framework for risk identification and management of significant risks, including those potentially associated with climate change. ERM is conducted at the direction of Legal, and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has primary responsibility for overseeing Pfizer’s ERM program. Each risk has a defined risk reduction plan directed by a member of the Executive Leadership Team. b) Describe management’s role CDP C1.2a in assessing and managing climateProduct manufacturing at our internal network of sites, managed by Pfizer’s Global Supply division (PGS), accounts for 70% related risks and opportunities. of the company’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The President of PGS has operational control over PGS operations and strategy, including financial investment in emission reduction projects. Environmental sustainability has been integrated into the overarching PGS strategy, and GHG emissions reduction is monitored as a key performance indicator. Performance against our company environmental goals (which include contributions from manufacturing and other business divisions) is periodically reviewed with our Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Supply & Business Operations. Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks CDP C2.3a & C2.4a and opportunities the organization Pfizer has identified risks with the potential to have a strategic impact on our business, including increases in operating costs has identified over the short-, mediumdue to introduction of carbon taxation schemes (shortand medium-term), reduced revenue and potential impact on the and long-term. supply of medically necessary products resulting from disruption caused by climate-related severe weather events (short-, mediumand long-term), and potential impacts to reputation (short-, mediumand long-term). Opportunities include reductions in operating costs resulting from efficiency improvements (shortand medium-term), increased demand for lower-carbon products (mediumand long-term), increased need for medicines resulting from climate-related diseases (mediumand long-term), and increased revenues through demand from new and emerging markets as disease patterns shift (mediumand long-term). b) Describe the impact of climate-r CDP 2.5, 2.6, 3.1c elated risks and opportunities on the Climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced our climate change strategy. In an effort to mitigate the acute and organization’s businesses, chronic physical impacts of climate change on our operations (e.g., more severe weather events, population displacement, strategy and financial planning. etc.), we have taken steps to voluntarily reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in line with a science-based target and are working with key suppliers to do the same. Through our public disclosures and engagement with external organizations (e.g., SBTi, Climate Solutions Working Group/U.S. Chamber of Commerce, World Resources Institute, Pharmaceutical Environmental Group and the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative), we aim to influence other companies to also apply science-based targets to their operations. We have implemented business continuity and disaster recovery programs to ensure our physical operations and supply chains are taking steps to mitigate the risk and impact of interruption. We have identified and leveraged opportunities to progress projects that improve operational efficiency and engage with stakeholders to explore markets for environmentally preferable products. Refer to our 2019 CDP response for additional detail on how climate-related risks have impacted our business, strategy and financial planning. c) Describe the potential impact CDP C3.1g of different scenarios, including Pfizer has completed an assessment of physical risk for all of our manufacturing facilities and for over 5,000 of our suppliers a 2oC scenario, on the organization’s using climate modeling scenarios predicting temperature increases ranging from 0.2⁰C to 3⁰C. For our internal businesses, strategy and financial manufacturing sites, the output of this analysis supports decisions related to business continuity and disaster recovery planning. programs at the sites. We are currently evaluating how the results of this predictive analysis can best support inclusion of climate-related scenario analysis in business strategy development going forward. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 50 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS CHAIRMAN & OUR PURPOSE OUR BOLD MOVES RESPONSIBILITY & OUR PERFORMANCE ADDITIONAL CEO LETTER TRANSPARENCY INFORMATION TCFD cont. Recommended disclosure Comment/disclosure Risk management a) Describe the organization’s process CDP C2.2b for identifying and assessing climatePfizer identifies and assesses climate change risk as part of our Global EHS & Business Continuity risk management process. related risks. Under this process, we conduct Operational Risk Evaluations (OREs) which are structured evaluations of risks with the potential to have substantive impact to Pfizer. Here, we define “substantive risk” as any impact that could adversely impact the company’s business or financial condition or disrupt, delay or inhibit the supply of medically-necessary products to patients. The process further evaluates the controls in place to manage or mitigate the risk and a determination of the adequacy of the control of risk. Climate change risk, including physical, regulatory, reputational, and market and technology, is evaluated by a team that includes relevant program leaders and subject matter experts from EHS, Global Engineering, Business Resilience, Corporate Affairs, Compliance, Legal, and Audit. Outcomes of this risk assessment that meet pre-defined thresholds are escalated to divisional, executive and board level committees and Pfizer’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program which provides a framework for risk identification and management of significant risks, including those potentially associated with climate change. b) Describe the organization’s CDP C2.2d processes for managing climateAcute and chronic physical risks related to climate change are managed through Pfizer’s Insurance and Business Continuity related risks. teams at the enterprise and local levels. Members from those teams participate in the risk review process that addresses Business Continuity/Resiliency and provide input on the potential impact of physical risks that may be related to climate change (e.g., severe weather events, flooding). Reputational risks are managed through our process to transparently disclose information related to our climate change program and engage with key stakeholders to help lead the conversation on voluntary actions companies can take to address their greenhouse gas emissions. Regulatory risks are managed through regulatory development tracking and analysis enabled by our Legal and Global EHS teams. Market and technology risks are monitored and managed through our Global EHS & Business Continuity risk management process. c) Describe how processes for identifying, CDP C2.2d assessing and managing climate-related Pfizer has integrated climate change into divisional and enterprise risk management processes, which include a periodic risks are integrated into the organization’s review of risk that could be material to the company (SEC 10-K reporting). Assessment includes an evaluation of facility and overall risk management. supply chain activities (performed through our insurance and business continuity/EHS functions and Operational Risk Review process) to ensure climate change risks are understood and, if appropriate, acted on. Metrics and targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the CDP C4 organization to assess climate-related risks Pfizer calculates Scope 1 and 2 emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol (revised edition). Our 2018 GHG footprint and opportunities in line with its strategy (including full Scope 3) was independently assured pursuant to ISO 14064-3 by ERM CVS, and verification of 2019 data and risk management process is underway. Emissions are reported annually in our CDP response and are broken down by type, country and business division. We also track metrics relative to our business continuity and disaster recovery programs (e.g., number of supplier assessments completed; sites with fully implemented plans for the management of risk associated with natural perils such as flooding and severe weather, noting it is not possible to state with certainty whether individual weather events are a result of climate change). See our 2019 CDP response for additional information. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if CDP C6 appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas Pfizer discloses our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions annually through our CDP submittal, and publishes our Scope 1 (GHG) emissions and the related risks. and 2 emissions in our Annual Review and on our website. c) Describe the targets used by the CDP C4.1 & C4.1a organization to manage climate-related Pfizer has a science-based absolute target to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to a 2012 risks and opportunities and performance baseline, which keeps us on the trajectory to reduce our GHG footprint by 60%-80% by 2050 from a 2000 base year (based against targets. on IPCC 4th Assessment report, published at the time the goal was set). Pfizer has previously achieved two GHG reduction goals (2000-2007 and 2007-2012). It is our intention to continue this process of setting interim goals that help drive toward our 2050 aspirational target that aligns with the level of ambition needed to limit global temperature rise in line with the best available science. Pfizer expects our sites and suppliers to have fully implemented business continuity and disaster recovery plans. PFIZER 2019 ANNUAL REVIEW 51 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION www.pfizer.com/annual
