Blossom for Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress 3 6 Our purpose 22 Promoting Promoting Working against human rights environmental corruption 8 responsibility and labour standards 48 Our beliefs Reduction, reuse 4 and recycling 10 Ensuring that all workers are provided Reducing emissions safe, suitable and Our best practices through sustainable sanitary work facilities mobility 12 Ensuring fair treatment, fair working hours, 44 Who we are wages and leave 14 Fostering our staff’s growth What we do 16 Promoting gender equality Our allies 24 18 What we have done for our UN allies in 2019 20 Blossom statement of continued support Blossom has been offering In 2019, we have adhered to the Since 2008, we help brands Since our foundation, we have creative services to a broad array UN Global Compact, expliciting discover and express their power, been working on communication of UN agencies for over a decade. our support to the Ten Principles so they can conquer their unique projects for EU/UN/ international Our goal has always been to in the areas of Human Rights, place in the world. organizations, as well as provide those fighting for a better Labour, Environment and Antifor major private commercial world with unique tools and Corruption. This adhesion has Based in Milan (Italy), we are brands. These projects have creative ideas able to engage been a natural evolution of the a service-oriented, client-driven included the design of creative people on global issues and drive continuous affirmation of the agency: we strive to make our concepts and the execution change. GC principles into our business content relevant to the client’s of communication campaigns, Our intense collaboration with strategy, culture and daily business goals, mission and the ideation of visual identities, UN agencies has, in time, operations. culture. We develop a deep the design of full advertising reinforced and permeated our In this annual Communication understanding of our clients, campaigns and of a broad mission: we have fought, side by on Progress, we describe our of their mission and of their array of communication side with our Clients, to disseminate actions to continually improve audience, to make sure our work products both for print and the Sustainable Development the integration of the Global is always “on brand” and digital use. Goals, harnessing the strength Compact in our activities and “on message”. of the initiatives that spur we reaffirm our support to the sustainable change by providing Ten Principles of the Global strong narrative and visuals able Compact. to leverage political will. This information will also be shared with our stakeholders, Valentina Frigerio using our main channels General, Ministry of Beauty, of communication. Blossom. Blossom Presentation 7 Blossom was born out of rebellion against the status quo: against the “already seen it”, “already heard it”, against the “good enough” and the “little bit of everything”, against the “it’s ok like that” and the “more or less”. Blossom researches to understand where the world is going. It starts with a relentless passion for beauty. And in that world it flourishes. It thinks both in and out of the box, to find the right direction, that which seemed impossible to unearth yet was always there, behind the Blossom creates projects that make their owners intuition of a sleepless night. confident and proud. It offers an identity, visual and strategic, to whom has lost it and to whom is searching for it, to whom never had it or didn’t know they needed it. Blossom creates layouts: thousands of words and hundreds of graphs. Blossom takes photos, writes books, creates stories, transforms products into experiences, accompanies brands beyond their confines, or selects Blossom tells stories: exciting, emotional, epic, serious the right journey for them at the time. or funny, but also informative and timely. Be they films, animations, documentaries or songs. They are whatever is needed to make one understand or reflect, to make one cry or dream. Blossom is a hungry crew of broken hearts, throbbing minds, open eyes. Some call it an agency. Others just call it. Our purpose 9 We fight for Beauty to make the world a better place. Our beliefs 11 Unexpected tastes, unimaginable beauty, strong odors You have felt it beat, more than once. During a film which penetrating your head forever. Books that transport you spoke to you, upon the return of someone from far away, to extraordinary worlds, both far and near at the same before a painting with colors you couldn’t imagine existed, time, stories of courage and passion, ideas, discoveries, at the thrill of an incredible goal, in the face of a cold, useful inventions but also simple things, which make the violent and unexpected wave, before a plate of spaghetti everyday world richer and more beautiful, or sometimes which tasted so much of home. just more functional. You have felt it beat, your heart. And it was beautiful. It’s up to you to open that damn window, get on that And it wants to beat again. So you, put it out there everyday. airplane, open that book with pages that smell of paper, To feel it, once again, vibrating, in everything you do. have the courage to turn off Whatsapp, try a different plate of food, search until you’re exhausted, raise your hand and ask. Relentlessly. Because “there are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy”, said a wise man five hundred years ago. There was a day when you felt lost, ill-suited, incapable, It’s up to you: you can remain behind the scenes, opening hopelessly misunderstood. When, despite all your the curtain only when you are told, to let other perform efforts, you continued to fall into a deeper abyss. on the creaky stage. Or you can prepare and train, fall And you couldn’t find a way out. There was also a day down and maybe hurt yourself, figure out the tricks of the when someone found you and helped you up. trade from more experienced than you, throw yourself into They helped you see the right path. They helped acrobatic feats which seem reasonable but perhaps aren’t you understand that, with all of your limits, you could so much, propose alternative choreography, watch the still get up and go forward. And do great things. public’s reaction, stand tall in the face of heckling and boos, take responsibility for failure, adjust the stage boards. Today is the day when another lost soul is looking to yours for help, to grow together. Only then will the applause, warm and toiled, also belong to you. And you will be stronger, better and prouder. If he had imagined all that could have happened, the captain would never have set sail from the safety of his port; the racing pilot would never have driven the Whether you like almond chicken or are a committed Formula One; the twenty-four year old would never vegan. Whether you dress like a rockabilly or in have written that song; the small agency would never monochrome. Whether you listen to heavy metal have accepted that job that was bigger than them. of classical music. Whether you’re a mathematical mind or an experimental barista. Whether you write projects But had they all stopped to think about it, the world that save the world or find solutions to go faster. would never have known about the other world across the ocean; the racer would never have known the joy If we have met up it’s because we have something of speed and rebirth; thousands of young people would in common: a project, a friend, a dream, a vision or, never have felt so free singing Lithium at the top of their perhaps, simply a need. “Nothing of what is human lungs. And the small agency would never have grown is alien to me”, Terence once said. “And it deserves up into something bigger. all of our respect”, we would add. Our best practices Value added design: Quality mindfulness: How you say it matters: Time management: Good housekeeping: We don’t just do great design, Our end goal is fluid and faultless We are a communications The only way to ensure that things Working quickly and under we make content and copy delivery. Quality is pursued agency, so we give the same run smoothly is to plan and pressure on multiple projects relevant and meaningful to the internally both as a collective and importance to the way we manage time. Managing time for demands scrupulous client’s business goals, mission individual effort, so we enhance communicate with the outside us is much more than making a list organization to ensure rapid and culture. That means we study attention to the quality of outputs world as to our project work. of daily tasks or writing reminder access to client briefs / requests, and “know” our clients and by each team member (whether We stop and take the time to notes: it’s all about organizing, supporting files and project work research their audience to make from the Art Director, Junior proofread our e-mails – checking prioritizing, setting targets and files. We dedicate time to sure our work is always “on brand” Designer or Project Manager) as correct grammar and spelling, tracking time. We invest time in organizing project material and and “on message”. the first step to achieve the overall perfecting tone and style, planning our time to limit job archiving our work with proper quality of the entire team’s work. ensuring messages are clear and stress, increase flexibility and file names because that saves us subject lines are appropriate, productivity whilst setting healthy from losing time later to search whether in Italian or in English. boundaries for our personal life for the right file or redo the work and relationships. in line with lost indications. Who we are 15 We are a team of 39 people: dynamic, flexible, alert to new design trends and digital solutions, able to constantly respond to any needs arising from clients. Our weapons are open eyes, hungry minds and wounded hearts, leading us every day in a tireless search for Beauty. What Staff Growth we do 2008 20019 17 2019 8 201 45 17 20 40 engagement 35 16 20 30 Digital ting Exp 25 rke 20 a eri 15 M en Visual Key s Digita ce 20 aign l Des mp ign Ca tis g in 15 1 female ver Ad Films 20 14 1 male nts& e 10 Bra Ev 1 team leader nd l Id ntit y 2 senior staﬀ De en 5 titi de 3 mid-experienced staﬀ dI sig gy es 201 Visu an trate 3 0 4 junior staﬀ Br a n & S insight design egy Strat 2012 CORE l Design rts & Competencies Communica toria Repo tion i ations 1 1 d Strategy lic Pub 2011 E 4 4 high 1 motion command des ign Art direction 2010 Graphic Design 3 2 r age Motion Design an 2009 tm ec Web Design / Development oj desig pr Copywriting & Storytelling n Blossom Women's 3 Social Media Content Design 200 8 distribution over teams and seniority social me 1 Production / Procurement Architecture / Interior Design 2019 dia 3 2 2 spe cial fo NEW s r cop ce Competencies 1 ywr ite ductio n 2 rs pro eo admin vid Production / Video 2 1 1 3 Strategic Communications / Campaign Development 4 1 4 Our allies 19 We believe everyone That’s why we we meet has a great don’t call them value, especially Clients, but Allies, if they ask us to do in our daily fight. what we are good at: having the right Organizations who have vision, create value and inspire. People with purpose who intuition, finding are looking to find their voice and spread their message. the perfect words, creating design with a meaning, moving the right objects, • Agire Onlus • Agra • The Brookings Institution • AIRC • DNDI • The Royal Institute telling untold stories, • A.C.Milan • ECA Of International Affairs • Associazione Promozionale • European Forest Institute • The World Bank Group making them Turistica Bormio Marketing • Find • UNAIDS • Bologna F.C. • Federal Food Safety • United Nations Foundation accessible to the • Ducati Motor And Veterinary Office • United Nations Office Geneva • Fondazione Milan – Onlus • Fondation D'Harcourt • UN Women whole world and • Illumia • GREEN CLIMATE FUND • UNDP • IFAD • GCERF Global Community • UNFPA Engagement And Resilience Fund making them proud • IOM • UNICEF • QC Terme • University College London • UNESCO • Sodexo • Internet Society of their own work. • United Nations Statistics • Spotify • ILO Division • UNHCR • International Union • UNOPS • Yamaha • LDC Louis Dreyfus Company • WHO • Africa Progress Panel • Kofi Annan Foundation • Unitaid What we have done for our UN allies in 2019 21 13 GCF Returning Clients 2 9 1 8 ILO 70 New Clients 3 5 UNAID S 3 8 UNDP 10 1 1 UNES CO 4 1 UNFP A 3 2 17 UNHC R 1 16 UNIC World EF B ank 1 1 1 1 1 UNITA WHO 20 ID 28 2 10 4 8 UN W UN W om om Visual Key 3 UN W 14 en om Clien -P Asia aciﬁc 4 10 56 t 200 Report a Afric en 1 Video en 5 3 Graphic 3 30 Design amount 6 Social Media Campaigns 5 11 Web 5 5 17 n SDGs 16 16 16 A 23 Promoting human rights and labour standards 1 Ensuring that all workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities 2 Ensuring fair treatment, fair working hours, wages and leave 3 Fostering our staff’s growth 4 Promoting gender equality As a small-size strategic communications firm inspired by sustainable principles, we have B promoted the UN Global Compact by focusing on the areas on which we can have a real impact. Promoting environmental Mainly, we continuously promote human rights responsibility and labour standards, achieving great success especially in terms of gender equality and in fostering our staff’s growth; we carefully choose 1 Reduction, reuse and recycling environmental sustainable options every time we can; we fight against corruption and clientelism, 2 Reducing emissions through sustainable mobility keeping our procurement and human resources procedures transparent. C Working against corruption A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption 25 of Blossom’s staff members have participated to health 1 and safety at work trainings Ensuring that all workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities meeting rooms with natural lighting, all equipped with different characteristics according to meeting needs: • Main meeting room (for formal meetings) • Stand-up table room Our policy Our activities Our results in 2019 (for quick and effective meetings) • Sofas meeting room As a creative agency, granting • Blossom has effective health (for informal brainstorming sessions) a safe and pleasant working and safety procedures in place, • Roof Top meeting room environment is fundamental to which comply with industry, (for brainstorming sessions) offer our staff the right conditions national and international to express at the fullest its standards. This includes the creative potential. Functional provision of regular trainings workstations, accessible facilities, to all workers on health and convivial amenities such as game safety at work procedures. workstations + 3 spare laptops stations, libraries and sofas are Responsibilities for health to be provided to staff who needs an integral part of our working and safety tasks are clearly to travel / to activate smart working environment. defined internally. Blossom’s staff is encouraged to • Blossom’s headquarters have take advantage of the benefits been designed to ensure that offered by the working space, workers have the best possible but also to respect it. Good equipment and workstation sanitation facilities housekeeping is one of our best to perform their tasks safely (1 male, 1 female, 1 gender neutral) practices, not only in the way we and comfortably. Providing manage documents, briefs and suitable lighting, ventilation project materials but also in how and temperature are part we manage our physical habitat: of Blossom’s internal policy a tidy-minded environment helps to optimize working conditions us stimulating the outbreak of and to implement kitchen creative, innovative and resilient environmental sustainability thoughts. principles. • Blossom provides safe drinking water for all workers, facilities for clean and sanitary food storage and eating. 27 Before, it was home to a huge Pirelli factory. Then, it was abandoned for years. As in our style, envisioning a lot of potential, we took it and gave a new life. Keeping its industrial and rough style, we have added some contemporary touches. 29 Today our studio is a huge open space, hosting 39 people plus our daily guests and with a professional kitchen for our lunches together. The rooftop is the place to be to enjoy the best sunsets of the neighborhood. And the best summer parties. A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption 31 days worked in weekends, remunerated at premium rate 2 Ensuring fair treatment, fair working hours, wages and leave hours/month overtime maximum for each staff figure Our policy Our activities Our results in 2019 Human capital is the most • All workers have an official new people hired in 2019 • Workweek is limited to important resource for Blossom: employment status, receiving to respond to increasing 40 hours and workers have our people are the pulsating an employment contract prior business turnover no less than a 30-minute break engine of our creative proposals. to starting work for Blossom. for every 4 hours of work. To this end, we are committed Each new staff member is also • We have a system to plan, to ensuring the best possible provided with the “Blossom record and monitor hours contractual conditions to all Book”, a manual containing worked by each employee. months of maternity leave our collaborators, explicitly the company’s internal policies. We regularly evaluate if granted to 3 staff members acknowledging the great value New employees are assigned number of workers is sufficient (male and female) in 2019 that each single worker a Mentor for an initial period to meet production targets represents in the overall value to help them understand how without resorting to overtime. chain. Blossom was born from to implement their daily tasks • Overtime occasionally the desire of its founders to coherently with Blossom’s happens, but it is remunerated create a different workplace: business culture. at premium rate. a place where everybody could • Workers have access to all • All workers who have express him/herself, where rules personal data collected about dependent children are average staff participate exist but are written together, them, excluding confidential granted compassionate daily to collective lunch break where individual thinking is management specific or parental leave when encouraged but collective action information related to other needed. is essential. Only within an equal workers’ performance opportunity and a fair working evaluations, salary environment, able to recognize negotiations, promotions, the great value of individual rotation and similar effort, the right of collective employment decisions. Production of Blossom Book, bargaining, the absence of all • Blossom provides to all distributed to all workers, to forms of forced and compulsory workers living wages that spread the company’s culture labour, this freedom of thinking enable them to meet the needs can truly blossom. of themselves and their Blossom has grown in time, dependents by granting but the desire of contributing salaries above the national to making the world a better minimum wage and by place, starting from within our ensuring that part-time design agency itself and from workers have wages and the way human resources are benefits proportionate to those treated, has never changed. of full-time workers. 33 A black tiny book, that you can You will understand that you are It is the number of Blossom Children are words without filters, keep in your pocket. not alone in your new journey. staff’s sons and daughters. to get back to the origin A book that you receive when you If you read it, you will find We believe that every new life of things, without superstructures. start working at Blossom, together yourself described somewhere. is an enrichment not only for the Children train us to be more with a welcome kit: branded It’s the first time that someone family where he/she arrives, but curious, more emotional, more T-shirt, jacket, mug, water bottle, writes a book for you, to welcome also for the community to which creative. Children are good for us. socks and notebooks. It is a book you, to make you feel part of the mother or father belongs. that tells the story behind a group, a story, a team. That is why we strongly support Blossom, its purpose, beliefs Children are virgin eyes, giving our staff’s desire to expand their and best practices. You will It is another way to make the us the opportunity to watch families, allowing them to take understand that everything in workplace a better place to differently the world where all the time that better responds to Blossom is moved by its purpose: spend most of your time and to we daily live. their maternity or paternity needs. the endless fight for Beauty. live a great part of your life. A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption 35 3 Fostering our staff’s growth Full Blossom Progress Meetings including: • 18 individual presentations Our policy Our activities Our results in 2019 of new team members • 24 presentations of work Although Blossom does not have Career path: We design together “Daily Priorities” meeting among implemented to share a rigid hierarchy, it has a clear with our staff a career path Project Managers and the inspiration and thoughts definition of roles that allows for tailored on the ambitions and Full Blossom Progress Meetings with other working groups each individual to envisage capacities of the single individual. (once a month), but we also professional growth paths whilst This path is characterized have set some specific maintaining creative and cultural by 3 main junctions that each “innovation” moments: freedom. Blossom respects represent new challenges, • A Food for Thought moment, everybody’s aspirations, offering responsibilities and goals: once a month, in which we those who thrive for a stimulating • Learning = becoming excellent nourish and stimulate new career to confront themselves in what one does thinking, explore new trends with new challenges but • Sharpening = defining talent in design and digital, learn Food for Thought respecting the pace of those who and broadening experience about best practices in Moments prefer being stable in their role. and expertise expertise areas, discuss and The individual professional path • Leading = bringing new ideas discover state-of-the-art work. in Blossom is not necessarily a and contributing to all • The Combat Ready days, hike up to a mountain top: it is colleagues’ growth that take place once per year, professional training more a non-linear, different Twice a year, the management in which we encourage activities: participation to journey tailored by each staff meets staff members individually creativity and innovation, international conferences member on the basis of his/her and develop internal and and festivals to discuss the accomplishments, aspirations and inputs received. personal dream projects. challenges and to eventually Blossom also has set the policy These activities are extremely redesign together the next steps of assigning to each project effective both for teambuilding, of the path to make the interdisciplinary working teams, as well as for individual necessary adjustments to to encourage the free flow of professional growth. achieve career objectives. expertise and contaminations Work-related problems are Blossom ensures that among figures with different roles professional trainings discussed, and management apprenticeship programmes and distinct levels of seniority. through internships collects any concerns / or professional internships Blossom does not employ complaints employees might of scholars constitute a minor workers under 18 years of age: wish to raise. portion of the workforce, are however, it has established limited in duration (maximum partnerships with local schools Knowledge sharing and 6 months), are performed whose students are obliged learning moments: As creativity in conjunction with mandatory by Italian law to undertake is the trait-d-union among all of school programmes interns became professional internships Blossom’s workers, no matter the or supervised by Labour employed staff (Alternanza Scuola Lavoro) role, we promote knowledge Organisations, and do not to offer youth the opportunity sharing and learning moments, interfere with the young worker’s to be immerged in a creative e.g. a series of structured compulsory education. and productive environment. meetings to support common vision, new thinking, creativity and learning. We have some “routine” moments, such as the 37 A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption Staﬀ Growth 2008 2019 39 over 39 staff 4 members are female Promoting gender equality Our results in 2019 Of the 21 female Our policy Our activities staff members, • Blossom has established occupy Senior Blossom’s commitment to gender shows in our high-level corporate positions acknowledgment of values leadership for gender equality: and principles of gender equality Blossom is jointly led by and of women’s empowerment. Giacomo Frigerio and by 41% of management roles Valentina Frigerio, the latter 1 2 and senior-level employees being the legal representative 4 are represented by women. of the company. team le ade 4 • We value gender balance r in overall staffing, as well as in assigning both gender members to project teams for each new activity. 5 • We treat women and men fairly at work, respect taﬀ and support human rights ior s sen and non-discrimination, including through equal 7 pay policies. • We promote education, training and professional 8 development for all women and men staff. 3 Visual Key 1 female mid 1 high command ed 2 admin nc rie 3 special forces pe ﬀ ex 5 4 copywriters sta 5 design junior staﬀ 6 motion design 7 project manager 7 9 5 2 8 social media 9 video production Focus on gender equality 41 In the creative sector, one of the big challenges is that only 12% of creative directors are women. In Blossom, women cover leading roles, maintaining their ability to be at the same time happy wives, partners and mothers. It was a natural process having women becoming landmarks due to their dedication, their empathy, their determination in understanding the meaning behind each new project. The partnership with UN Women has been important for us in better understanding how the workplace can be the first place where women can express all their potential and greatly contribute to its prosperity. “By keeping on working on the design of reports talking about Gender Equality, I have started believing more and more in myself”, says Francesca, Blossom Design Officer. A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption 43 Staﬀ Growth Our results in 2019 2008 2019 1 We have avoided the use of an estimated 7,000 plastic bottles and of 10,000 Reduction, Reuse mono-use cutleries. and Recycling All physical products (print communication materials, gadgets etc.) are sourced from environmentally sustainable suppliers. Our policy Our activities Blossom promotes Zero Waste Waste management: Blossom’s Recycling: as a visual design policies, focusing on waste policy is strict in terms of correct studio, a great share of our work prevention, reduction, reuse and separate waste collection. implies the printing of recycling. An internal survey Our staff’s members dispose their communication materials. carried on in 2018 among waste separately under the To this end, we only use suppliers employees revealed that staff are surveillance of the Office that provide us with recycled keenly aware of the waste Manager, who delivers separate paper or paper products that generated within the working waste collected to recycling are certified as coming from environment, and that it is a companies. responsibly managed forests. major issue. To this end, we have reinforced our internal Waste reduction: Blossom has environmental policy to limit banned single use plastics by waste production, especially that introducing a drinkable water of plastic and extend recycling. dispenser that provides natural, We are also dedicated to sparkling and hot water. mono-use cutleries sourcing goods and services from Our Christmas gift to staff was sustainable sources and a branded reusable bottle, collaborating with partners who to be used when staff is outside share our values and of office premises. Mono-use commitments towards cutleries have also been banned plastic bottles sustainable procurement. in the common kitchen. We also fight against food waste: our staff uses a common kitchen to cook meals and leftovers are either taken home or reused the following day. We promote dematerialization wherever possible. No printing is allowed, unless strictly needed; we promote both with our staff and clients the use of digital tools for communication. A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption 45 2 staff members Reducing emissions through regularly ride their sustainable mobility bike to come to work Our policy Our activities Our results in 2019 A report by the World Health • Blossom promotes sustainable Organisation has placed Milan as mobility by encouraging its one of the 3 European cities with staff to commute via public staff members the worst levels of atmospheric transportation, by using use public pollution. Milan “scored” an car-pooling or by riding the transportation to work average of 37μg (micrograms) bike to work. Our headquarters’ of PM10 particulate per cubic location was chosen also in metre – significantly above the relation to its proximity to the recommended upper rate. In the train station, that easily frame of our commitment to connects our office with the environmental responsibility – metropolitan city of Milan. and also for the sake of our own We have also developed health, Blossom targeted a simple internal tool that transport as one of the sectors allows workers to weekly plan on which to directly intervene car-pooling with other to reduce our CO2 emissions. colleagues. Staff members are also encouraged the use of Blossom’s 9-seater van whenever suitable. staff members use • Blossom promotes virtual carpooling meetings and conferences with all of its clients: although we recognized the immense value of face-to-face meetings, we try to promote video conferencing instead to reduce our overall CO2 emissions. 47 Two wheels are better than four. Valentina explains. “I have no In a town where everybody owns regret for having gone with a car, where there are no bike the latter option: on the bike trails and the traffic jam is quite my daughters have a lot of fun, massive, riding a bike is an act I enjoy the fresh morning air of courage. When the bike is on my face, I always find parking a cargo one, you are a fool. in front of the school and the Well, two of these fools work office, I save money from fuel in Blossom. And commute every and I contribute to a better air day to work after dropping their in my town”. According to Mauro, kids to school. “Having four people underevaluate the daughters, I had two options: advantages of riding a bike buying a big SUV comfortably in the north Milan area. “I hope hosting all of them, or “stealing” that, with my example, more from the northern European dads will choose the bike countries the cargo bike mood”, and become less stressed”. “I hope that, with my example, more dads will choose the bike and become less stressed”. A B C Promoting human rights Promoting environmental Working against and labour standards responsibility corruption Blossom has been fostering sustainability since Our policy Our activities its foundation, promoting it both through As a relatively small purchaser • Blossom has assigned different individual and corporate action. This attitude of goods, Blossom has a limited individuals or departments has been enhanced, in the past 10 years, also footprint as it relates to our to be responsible for handling supply chain. However, we expect contracts, placing orders, thanks to the collaboration with our UN allies, our suppliers to understand and receiving goods, processing whose work inspires us every day. comply with our expectations invoices and making regarding human rights and payments. The Senior Tender other provisions that apply to Manager develops proposals; In 2019, we have decided to make a step our third-party service providers. the Senior Administration On the other side, as Blossom officer processes invoices forward in this direction, by adhering numbers among its main clients and makes payments; to the UN Global Compact. This adhesion and UN agencies, we ourselves adhere to the UN Supplier code the Procurement Manager the development of this Communication on deals with suppliers and of conduct. Blossom does not oversees internal procurement Progress was a chance to think in a systematic pay, solicit or accept bribes. of goods and services. way to our contribution to sustainability: This includes prohibition of • Blossom prohibits informal providing payments or anything employment and any ‘off what we have done, what we have achieved, of value directly or indirectly the books’ record-keeping but mostly what we still can do. to any government official, • Blossom has set an internal business partner, or individual procedure foreseeing that for for purposes of obtaining supplies exceeding the overall In our continuous quest for Beauty, we are business in violation or applicable value of 10.000€, at least anti-corruption regulations 3 different offers have to be constantly developing new ideas to strengthen and standards. asked to just as many potential our path towards sustainability. suppliers. • Blossom mentions And our 2020 will be even more inspiring. “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behaviour” in its contracts with business partners.
