Experts dedicated to sustainable partnerships Sustainability report 2019 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Experts dedicated to sustainable partnerships Customers increasingly seek co-creation and trust Outotec to solve demanding challenges together with them. By working closely with customers from as early in the project as possible, we can add significant value to the solution. By sharing knowledge and combining forces with customers, partners and the scientific community, we create solutions that benefit all parties. Read more: www.outotec.com 2 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Contents YEAR 2019 OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI 4 CEO’s message 32 Sustainable technologies and 64 Data collection 81 About this report innovations 6 This is Outotec 66 Economic data 84 Management approach 37 Case: Outotec provides resource 9 Our strategy efficiency and minimized risks for 67 Environmental impact 89 Stakeholder expectations mining companies of our own operations and engagement tools OUR AGENDA 39 Case: New era of alumina calcination: 73 Social data 91 GRI, Global Compact, optimizers boost efficiency and SDG content index 12 Most significant topics 41 Engaged experts 100 Assurance statement 15 Sustainability agenda 2020 44 Responsible supply chain 20 Climate actions CONTACTS 48 Health and safety 22 Case: Smelters find opportunities in circular economy 51 Case: More than rules or slogans – safety is a continuous and common 24 Stakeholder engagement effort 30 Case: Outotec’s partner NLMK pioneers 53 Financial performance in sustainable steel production 59 Ethics, compliance and governance 3 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI CEO’s message Experts dedicated to sustainable partnerships Our mission, ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’, motivates us at Outotec to keep innovating and creating solutions that help our customers succeed and consider sustainability in everything they do. Our core competence comes from the knowledge of our people. Sustainable partnerships I meet our customers frequently, and three major themes seem to run throughout customers’ agendas globally: the availability of energy and cutting emissions, the availability of water and water treatment, and improving operational efficiency through digitalization. Outotec’s proven technologies and services allow customers to develop their operations sustainably and get the best value from their assets. We are in an excellent position as a provider of sustainable, low-emission technologies, as customers have begun to consider the costs related to future CO2 emissions in their investment decisions. We have successfully helped our customers reduce emissions and expect carbon emission controls to start playing a greater role in the future. Water availability and minimizing water related risks have become increasingly a concern and cost factor for both communities and businesses. Outotec provides, for example, tailings management solutions, which significantly reduce impacts on the community and the environment. 4 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Automation and digitalization continue to replace manual tasks in, for example, smelting, where digital process control applications enhance efficiency by determining optimal parameters for the process and automation improves safety by removing operators from high-risk areas. Analytical skills and process control understanding become increasingly important. Outotec’s 4,000 top industry experts are driven by Dedicated experts customers’ unique challenges across the world. Our core competence comes from our people and their knowledge. We work hard to be the best in the industry when it comes to resource efficiency, energy efficiency, water usage and minimizing emissions. A great example we can be proud of is our long-term R&D expertise. In 2019, Outotec Research Center in Pori (ORC) celebrated its 70th anniversary. ORC is unique in the industry – its expertise in the minerals and metals processing value chain ranges from ores to finished metals and recycling. In July 2019, we announced the planned merger of Outotec and Metso Minerals for creating a I also want to highlight our safety performance: our lost-time injury rate covering both employees leading company in process technology, equipment and services for the minerals, metals and and contractors was as low as 0.6 in 2019. That is the result of a systematic long-term safety work aggregates industries. The closing of the transaction is currently expected to take place at the and culture. A strong health and safety program significantly elevates productivity and engagement. end of June 2020. We want to make Outotec the most desirable place to work in our industry and attract great talent. Driving change Professional growth and competence development continued to be key elements of our People strategy in 2019. In the most recent employee survey conducted in November 2019, the employee We want to be an even better partner. Understanding the customer’s needs holistically is key to engagement index was 7.5/10, which indicates a continuing positive trend. We are on the right path, impactful co-operation. Technology and solutions stem from this holistic approach, with continuous but there is still room for improvement. research and development at the core. We want to further improve our ability to quantify and communicate the impacts of our technologies and services to customers. A year of many notable achievements Sustainability is an increasingly significant contributor in creating value to our stakeholders. At We delivered strong growth in order intake and service sales while significantly improving the beginning of 2020, Outotec was ranked 18th in the Global 100 Index of the most sustainable profitability. We booked two large greenfield orders, one in Russia and another in Saudi Arabia. companies in the world. We were included in the Index for the eighth consecutive year. In the Investments in existing operations remained at the previous year’s level. Copper, gold and nickel EcoVadis assessment, we maintained the EcoVadis Gold Certificate for our corporate responsibility continued to be the most active metals. practices. In metals refining, demand in hydrometallurgical technologies for base and precious metals I believe that when we all act with integrity and take sustainability into account, we can deliver continued. We have new smelting projects in the preliminary planning phase as well as projects excellent business performance. We are proud of our contribution to the sustainable use of Earth’s in iron ore pelletizing and sulfuric acid plant solutions. In 2019 we also took a decision to divest natural resources and of being able to help our customers meet their sustainability goals. I want businesses related to aluminum, waste-to-energy and sludge incineration. to thank Outotec experts and everyone working with us for driving sustainable change and boldly thinking ahead. Our must-win battle programs contributed to profitability improvement. One of these is project excellence, where we have strengthened the overall margin of our project portfolio. We also Markku Teräsvasara continued to strengthen our customer focus, service business and product competitiveness. President and CEO 5 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI This is Outotec Outotec develops leading technologies and services for the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. Our comprehensive offering creates the best value for our customers in the mining, metal and chemical industries. Our 4,000 top experts are driven by each customer’s unique challenges across the world. Outotec’s unique position as a leading technology and service provider for the minerals processing processing and metallurgical industry is founded on a century of scientific knowledge and operational experience of processing virtually all types of ores and minerals. The innovative research done at our in-house R&D centers and continuous development work realized together with our customers have resulted in several breakthrough technologies that have become industry benchmarks in sustainability. Our product portfolio includes hundreds of various plant concepts, processes, and pieces of equipment that are marketed under the Outotec brand. In addition, we have a variety of service products related to the maintenance and upgrade of the equipment and plants delivered by Outotec. 6 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our customers are large global mining companies, small and medium-sized mining and Outotec, headquartered in Espoo, Finland, operates globally with subsidiaries and branch offices metallurgical companies in developed countries as well as local mining and metallurgical in 41 countries. The sustainability issues covered in this report are relevant in all the countries companies in emerging regions. Customers are investing either in new processing plants or where Outotec is present. Our major operations, each having over 170 employees, are in Finland, modernizing their existing plants to increase the profitability of their operations, improve their Australia, Germany, South Africa, and Chile. Local customer centers in nine market areas provide resource efficiency, or reduce their emissions, energy consumption or fresh water use. We deliver full support for our customers’ businesses – both in the everyday running of their operations and entire processes or plants, or a single piece of equipment, with related engineering, sourcing, when they make new investments. In addition, we use sales agents in countries where we do not commissioning, training and life-cycle services. New mining or industrial plant investments have an established presence. We announced in December 2019 our decision to divest three of involving also Outotec technologies may be subject to stakeholder questions and public debate. our non-core businesses from the Metals, Energy & Water segment. This enables us to focus on These questions are mainly targeted to our customers. our core businesses in minerals processing and metals refining technologies. We renamed the Metals, Energy & Water segment as Metals Refining to reflect this change. Our two reporting We sell products and services to over 100 countries through our market area network. segments – Minerals Processing and Metals Refining – are dedicated to the creation of sustainable technologies and life-cycle services for our customers. Outotec has been listed on the NASDAQ Helsinki since 2006, and the company was rated in the SALES EUR 1,210 MILLION, BY REGION PERSONNEL 4,088, BY REGION Mid Cap category in 2019. The company’s market capitalization at the end of 2019 was EUR 1054 million. Outotec’s total capitalization was EUR 379 million, of which EUR 229 million was funded by equity and EUR 150 million by a hybrid bond. The parent company Outotec Oyj has 100% ownership of its subsidiaries. In July 2019, Outotec announced the planned merger of Outotec and Metso Minerals for creating a leading company in process technology, equipment and services for the minerals, metals and aggregates industries. The merger is currently expected to be completed at the end of June 2020 (information available in February 2020). EMEA 47% EMEA 68% Americas 32% Americas 17% There were no major changes in Outotec’s company structure, the ownership, or supply chain during APAC 21% APAC 15% 2019. The number of active suppliers is up by 600 from 2018. The legal entities and ownership structure are presented in our Financial Statements 2019 at www.outotec.com/investors. 7 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Highlights in 2019 18th EcoVadis 7.5 / 10 6.6 Women’s most sustainable Gold certification Employee million tonnes mentoring company in the world engagement survey GHG emissions program avoided 90% CDP 0.6 48% 34% of order intake Climate change Lost time injury rate of electricity of key suppliers Environmental Goods score B consumption CO2-free audited and Services 8 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our strategy Outotec’s strategy is to serve customers with leading technologies, superior customer service, and excellent execution. In line with our mission the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources Outotec is committed to protecting the environment in all its activities. We strive to serve our customers using our wide range of leading minerals and metals processing technologies and life-cycle services. We also aim to achieve superior customer service and excellent execution. Our commitment to sustainability binds us to take a holistic view of our customers’ business. As countries start implementing the Paris climate agreement, we expect carbon emission controls to start playing an increasing role in addition to existing stringent restrictions on emissions of harmful substances to air or water. Megatrends such as urbanization, resource efficiency and sustainability, coupled with digitalization bring opportunities for Outotec. While safety has long been a top priority for our industry, environmental performance, use of energy and water, and social license to operate are also increasingly at the forefront of our customers’ minds, not least because of tightening regulation. 9 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our commitment to sustainability binds us To be able to reach our 2020 vision, we are to take a holistic view of our working on five development areas: customers’ business. 1 Customer focus We also see untapped business opportunities and some threats in China, the country producing over half of the world’s metals and owning an increasing share of the world’s mining assets. To deliver the best customer experience we develop our account management, Volatility and the cyclical nature of our business is expected to continue, which drives us to further sales, and leadership competencies and improve responsiveness. grow our service business. 2 Service business The key point in our climate change strategy, made in 2016, is harnessing our technology for the transition to a low-carbon industry. We have complemented the estimated impacts of megatrends Services bring us a steady revenue flow, long-term customer relationships and with the opportunities and risks defined in connection with our climate change strategy work. sustained margins. We will increase local presence and focus on our existing customer relationships and installed base to maximize customers’ return on investment. We Our short-term priority was to improve our profitability to achieve economic sustainability. We also aim to increase productivity through digitalization. work to grow our service business to enhance our ability to create value over the cycles. 3 Product competitiveness > Read more in Financial performance We work to improve the cost competitiveness of our products by further differentiation through digitalization and improvements in energy and environmental performance. By redesigning products, by changing components without compromising on quality, and by searching for lower cost supply alternatives we aim to reduce sourcing costs. 4 Project excellence We work to improve the quality of our project deliveries and bring flexibility to the cost base. 5 Our people Engaged experts are key to our success. To improve employee engagement, we are working to create an environment for our people to develop, succeed and find joy in their work. Leadership development is one focus area in this work. 10 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our agenda 11 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Most significant topics Outotec conducted a materiality assessment in 2018 engaging employees and other stakeholders in the discussion. As a result, three topics regarding Outotec operations were defined as having the most impact on the economy, environment and/or society, and three topics were identified as our foundation for sustainability. In late 2018, our Sustainability Working Group carried out a new materiality assessment, viewing first the company strategy, stakeholder expectations, current sustainability trends, and relevant sustainability frameworks. Potential topics that reflect Outotec’s major economic, environmental and social impacts, or influence the decisions of stakeholders were first identified together with an external partner, based on previous materiality assessments carried out in 2011 and 2014. Representatives of key stakeholder groups and Outotec employees were interviewed, and there was an online survey on the company’s external website www.outotec.com as well as in internal channels so that anyone having an interest in the company could have a say about Outotec’s impacts and matters that affect his/her decisions regarding Outotec. We also asked for feedback and development ideas in the survey. 12 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Customers and investors expect Outotec to show sustainability leadership. Sustainable The Sustainability Working Group discussed and reviewed the results of the survey and interview, technologies prioritized the material topics and redefined the list of key stakeholders. Stakeholders were and innovations evaluated based on their significance to Outotec’s business and Outotec’s impact on the stakeholder group. The Executive Board validated the results of the materiality assessment and our materiality EC’S IMPA approach in October 2018. U TOT CT O Defining the report content and boundaries (GRI 102-46) The materiality principle was applied in the materiality analysis so that we considered the interests and expectations of stakeholders, Outotec values, policies, strategy, and targets. We also considered the externally assured measurements of our positive indirect environmental impacts, environmental regulation, which we assume to be tightening, and increasing emphasis on social license to operate, as well as the main topics and future challenges of the minerals and metals Responsible Engaged processing sector. supply chain experts ON TH E EA RTH In December 2018, the core team of our Sustainability Working Group reviewed the material topics against GRI Standards and defined the boundaries for each material topic and related indicators that form the contents of this report. Material topics (GRI 102-47) Based on the materiality assessment, Sustainable technologies and innovations, Engaged experts, Responsible supply chain, Health and safety, Financial performance, as well as Ethics, compliance and governance were defined as the most material topics for Outotec. Health and safety, Financial performance as well as Ethics, compliance and governance were FUNDAMENTALS considered as the foundation of our sustainability approach that the company must take good care of. Sustainable technologies and innovations, Engaged experts, and Responsible supply chain Health Financial Ethics, compliance, together with our own environmental performance create Outotec’s total impact on the Earth and and safety performance governance climate change. All these topics are reviewed in this report. 13 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI MATERIAL TOPIC MATERIAL ASPECTS BOUNDARIES Sustainable technologies and • Energy The aspects cover the key impacts on our customers’ employees and operations, innovations • Emissions either caused by Outotec, or which Outotec contributes to or is linked with: • Customer health and safety • Operation of customers’ plants • Environmental compliance • Health and safety of people • Local communities • Social acceptance • Resource efficiency • Customer satisfaction • Climate change • Biodiversity • Local environment • Financial performance Engaged experts • Employment The aspects cover the key impacts on Outotec’s employees and operations at project • Labor/management relations sites, either caused by Outotec or which Outotec contributes to: • Training and education • Employee motivation and competences • Diversity and equal opportunity • Talent retention • Customer satisfaction • Financial performance Responsible supply chain • Procurement practices The reporting covers our direct suppliers and supervised contractors. • Supplier environmental assessment Key impacts Outotec may be linked with are: • Supplier social assessment • Reputation • Quality • Respecting human rights • Compliance and ethical business practices • Employment and local development • Climate change • Financial performance Health and safety • Occupational health and safety The reporting covers our employees, premises and project sites as well as supervised contractors. Outotec may cause or contribute to the impacts or be linked with them (e.g. unsafe act or condition): • Health, safety and security • Working environment • Injuries and lost working time • Occupational diseases Financial performance • Economic performance The reporting covers all Outotec’s legal entities (as listed in Financial Statements • Indirect economic impacts 2019, p. 81). The key impacts caused by Outotec include: • Shareholder value • Employment and wealth • Local development • Long-term commitment of stakeholders Ethics, compliance and governance • Anti-corruption The aspects cover Outotec’s employees, suppliers and contractors as well as sales • Anti-competitive behavior representatives and agents. Key impacts caused by Outotec or to which the company • Non-discrimination may be linked with are: These topics are also reported in the • Socio-economic compliance • Relationships with business partners Non-financial Statement published in the • Legal compliance • Reputation and shareholder value Financial Statements 2019. • Company culture • Employee relations Read also • Gender equality • Financial performance • About this report, p. 81 14 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Sustainability Agenda 2020 Our Sustainability Agenda and long-term goals are aligned with Outotec’s strategy 2020. Our Sustainability Agenda and goals for 2020 are aligned with Outotec’s strategy 2020. The agenda as such has not been changed although we conducted a new materiality analysis in 2018. The redefined material topics reflect the earlier most significant topics which continue as the building blocks for our Sustainability Agenda with slightly different names: Sustainable technologies and innovations, Engaged experts, Responsible supply chain, Health and safety, and Ethics, compliance and governance. Based on stakeholder dialogue, Financial performance was added to the list of material topics. Our annual sustainability targets are linked to our 2020 goals. We have integrated the most relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our Sustainability Agenda. We are expecting to renew our long-term sustainability agenda and targets during 2020 acknowledging the planned Metso Outotec merger. We have analyzed Outotec’s impacts on SDGs in an internal workshop: eleven SDGs were identified as most relevant overall in addition to one other SDG, where we have an indirect impact. Our commitment and impact analysis of the SDGs was approved by the Executive Board. 15 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI We have integrated the most relevant SDGs into our sustainability agenda. Development work driven by 2020 goals Sustainable technologies and innovations have a central role in our operations since they represent Health and safety are the foundation of our work. Zero accidents is the ultimate high-level target the key means of improving the resource efficiency of our customers’ operations. Our long-term for our development work, though this very ambitious target requires a lot of effort. Outotec’s goal relates to providing customers with even more sustainable technologies and services, and to management believes that this level of commitment to a safe working environment is a necessity help them reduce their ecological footprint as well as the pollution of air, water and soil (SDG 3). in the challenging project circumstances in which our employees, customers and suppliers work. In line with the goals set by the UN General Assembly, we upgrade our customers’ operations to Financial performance has a great impact on our stakeholders and the company’s success. make them more sustainable (SDG 9), while also improving energy efficiency (SDG 7). Through our Outotec aims to achieve continuous profitable growth and balance the cyclicality of the mining technologies, we support actions to combat climate change every day (SDG 13). We also increase and metals industries by developing and growing service business. the efficiency of water use by reducing the amount of freshwater needed in our processes, by increasingly recycling and safely re-using water, thus decreasing the amount of wastewater (SDG In ethics, compliance and governance, we aim to develop strong common values and a robust 6). In addition, we have identified an indirect impact of our partnerships with our customers, Code of Conduct, as well as a solid governance structure. An integral part of this goal is to ensure suppliers, and other business partners (SDG 17) with our business operations. We cooperate with that all our employees and suppliers know and act according to our Code of Conduct. We have zero universities on R&D (SDG 4) and drive technological upgrades and innovations that will improve tolerance for corruption. We continuously train our own employees on anti-corruption topics and resource efficiency in production (SDG 8). require compliance from our business partners (SDG 16). Outotec implements non-discriminatory company policies and practices globally (SDG 10). Outotec’s business is dependent on engaged experts. We want to make Outotec the most desirable place to work in our industry, and to keep great talent with us. We aim to achieve 70% employee engagement by 2020. Because the majority of Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced, a responsible supply chain is highly important to us. By requiring sustainable practices along our supply chain, we also promote the wider adoption of responsible management practices, thus enabling our clients to use natural resources sustainably (SDG 12). 16 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI TARGETS FOR 2020 PROGRESS RELATED SDG TARGETS FOR 2020 PROGRESS RELATED SDG Sustainable technologies and innovations Health and safety • Share of Environmental Goods and Share of Environmental Goods and Services • Zero harm We have made great progress towards zero Services in order intake permanently in our order intake has remained at 90% or harm and our LTIR has been reduced to an over 90% over since 2014. all-time low of 0.6 in 2019. We will continue our work to maintain and improve our safety • Customers generate 20% less CO2 The reduction in CO2 emissions (16%) has performance. when using Outotec’s metals-related slightly increased since last year but is still below technologies compared to annual the target of 20%. Financial performance baselines • Continuous profitable growth In 2019, Outotec was able to improve its profitability • 50% reduction in freshwater intake Since 2012 water treatment and R&D have focused through improved project execution, provision per tonne of ore in non-ferrous metal on reducing the non-ferrous concentrator water releases related to a few completed projects and a concentrators compared to 2012 consumption up to 80% from that originally planned. higher share of service sales. Between 2015 and The focus of R&D has been the treatment of 2018, Outotec’s profitability was negatively impacted recirculated process water in different process by substantial cost overruns in a few large projects stages. Several innovation notices and patent taken in 2012-2015. The cost overruns arose mainly applications have been filed in 2019. from, but not limited to, new technological applications, insufficient project risk assessment • Double the energy produced through The energy produced through our waste-to-energy before and during execution. Although project our waste-to-energy solutions solutions has not been doubled as planned due to business inherently carries certain risks, to lower compared to 2013 delays in getting waste-to-energy plants operating the risk of future cost overruns, Outotec has as expected. reorganized its risk management procedures throughout the sales and execution process. Engaged experts Ethics, compliance, and governance • Employee engagement index 70% Outotec implemented a new tool for measuring in the employee survey employee engagement in November 2019. 2019 • Strong common values and Code of We have made progress on the Code of Conduct scores are not directly comparable with the previous Conduct; solid governance structure with the strong completion rate of the 2018 training employee engagement index, but results indicate campaign (94%). In addition, we have established a that employee engagement has continued to new Compliance intranet site with various develop positively. (In 2019 the employee Compliance related information and regular engagement index was 7.5/10.) updates e.g. on Code of Conduct related aspects. Responsible supply chain • 100% of our key suppliers audited We have made great progress in regularly auditing regularly with supplier development our key suppliers and in 2019 in line with the actions drawn up according to audit targets, 34% of our key suppliers were audited with findings supplier development actions planned (or implemented) according to the audit findings. 17 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Annual targets Our annual targets are structured to support our 2020 goals and in the same way also reflect the SDGs. Financial performance is reported in our Financial Statements 2019 Not achieved Partly achieved Achieved GRI INDICATOR GRI INDICATOR TARGET FOR 2019 PERFORMANCE IN 2019 TARGET FOR 2020 TARGET FOR 2019 PERFORMANCE IN 2019 TARGET FOR 2020 & RELEVANT SDG & RELEVANT SDG Sustainable technologies and innovations Engaged experts • EGS to account for over EGS accounted for 90% of • EGS to account for OWN • Improvement of Outotec implemented a new • Improvement of GRI 102-43 90% of order intake order intake. over 90% of order 4%-points in the tool for measuring employee 0,2-points (7,7/10) in intake employee engagement engagement in November the employee index compared to the 2019. 2019 scores are not engagement index • 20% reduction in CO2 The reduction in CO2 • 20% reduction in CO2 2018 employee survey directly comparable with the compared to the 2019 emissions to be achieved emissions was 16%. emissions to be results previous employee employee survey using Outotec’s achieved using engagement index, but results metals-related Outotec’s metals-reresults indicate that technologies, compared to lated technologies, employee engagement has industry averages compared to industry continued to develop averages positively (in 2019 the employee engagement index • Receiving at least two In two concentrator plants • Receiving at least two was 7.5/10). new orders for closed sold in 2019, the freshwater new orders for closed water circuit solutions. scarcity meant that the design water circuit solutions. • 2% increase in the number The number of female • 2% increase in the GRI 405-1 of the plants needed to be of female leaders in senior leaders in senior leadership number of female revised. In both cases, the leadership positions positions did not increase. leaders in senior revised design has enabled compared to 2018 leadership positions the reduction of freshwater compared to 2019 consumption by 70-80% of that originally planned. Responsible supply chain • Waste-to-energy plants Due to delays in getting plants • No new target set due delivered by Outotec operational the energy to Outotec’s strategic • Auditing 30% of key 34% of key suppliers were • Auditing 30% of key GRI 204-1 reduce the use of fossil produced through decision to divest the suppliers globally. audited with supplier suppliers globally. GRI 414-1 fuels to exceed our waste-to-energy plants was waste-to-energy development actions planned annual targets from two less than the combined targets business. (or implemented) according previous years combined from the two previous years. to the audit findings. 18 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI INDICATOR GRI INDICATOR TARGET FOR 2019 PERFORMANCE IN 2019 TARGET FOR 2020 TARGET FOR 2019 PERFORMANCE IN 2019 TARGET FOR 2020 & RELEVANT SDG & RELEVANT SDG Health and safety • To proactively identify and The number of hazards • To proactively identify GRI 403-9 We also had a target for our own environmental performance correct unsafe acts and reported in 2019 was 2.2 and correct unsafe GRI 416-1 although the topic was not considered material for Outotec. conditions, the reporting times higher than the target. acts and conditions, Environmental footprint of our own operations of hazards at the following the reporting of annual rates: hazards at the • 2% reduction in CO2 Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions • 2% reduction in CO2 GRI 302-4 • minimum 4 reports/ following annual rates: emissions of Outotec’s decreased by 10% from 2018. emissions of Outotec’s GRI 305-5 person at sites, workshops • minimum 4 reports/ own locations, mainly from own locations, mainly & R&D locations; and person at sites, purchased electricity and from purchased • minimum 1 report/20 workshops & R&D non-renewable fuels electricity and persons at offices locations; and non-renewable fuels • minimum 1 report/­ 20 persons at offices Annual H&S training: • minimum 10 hours/ person at sites, workshops & R&D locations; and • minimum 2 hours/ person at offices Ethics, compliance, and governance • 90% of Outotec’s During 2019, an updated • 90% of Outotec’s GRI 205-2 employees trained on Code of Conduct training employees trained on Code of Conduct. material was distributed to Code of Conduct. all employees and contractors with daily access to a computer for self-study with a new eLearning campaign targeted for 2020. • Global working conditions Working conditions • No new target set. guidelines concerning guidelines were created in blue-collar employees to 2018 and implemented in be created and imple2019. mented in 2018 19 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Climate actions Our actions to address climate change The key to our climate change strategy, made in 2016, is harnessing our technology for the transition to a low-carbon industry. Policies relating to greenhouse gas emissions in different parts of the world are still evolving and we are following these changes, interacting with policymakers as well as acting upon them in business development. In today’s economy, companies are becoming increasingly exposed to risks resulting from extreme weather events and transitioning to a low carbon economy. To assess these risks, investors need information on how companies are dealing with climate-related issues. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) is a voluntary framework to help businesses identify, measure and report the financial implications of climate change. We at Outotec are proud to support the TCFD in the implementation of a voluntary and consistent mechanism for climate-related financial risk disclosures. By supporting the TCFD recommendations, we are not only demonstrating our commitment to sustainable business practice but also hope to encourage others to do the same. 20 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our handprint in 2019 was 6.6 million tonnes CO2-e avoided in total. In 2019, Outotec purchased 7,754 MWh of CO2-free electricity based on renewable hydropower in Finland and Germany, equaling 48% of our electricity consumption and 22% of total energy consumption. We are gradually moving to renewable energy in our major locations in Germany and Finland, excluding Pori and Frankfurt research centers. Science based targets Combating climate change with our products and services (GRI 305-5) In 2018, we committed to the Science Based Targets to reduce our carbon footprint and further enlarge our handprint. Our target is to reduce absolute scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions 13% The most significant environmental impact of our business activities materializes through by 2025 from a 2017 base-year. Outotec also commits to reduce absolute scope 3 GHG emissions our products and services that indirectly reduce various emissions, including global carbon 10% by 2025 from a 2017 base-year. With these actions, we aim to limit global GHG emissions to dioxide emissions. We measure this positive impact on climate change, our handprint, by the a level of decarbonization required to keep global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius emissions avoided by the metallurgical industry using six Outotec technologies, compared to compared to pre-industrial temperatures. For Outotec, this means a reduction of GHG emissions annual industry baselines. These technologies are ferrochrome process; copper flash smelting; of 13% by the year 2025, translating to a yearly reduction of roughly 2%. alumina calcination; ceramic filters; coated titania anodes; and TankCell 300 flotation cells. The emission reductions are directly proportional to energy savings. In 2019, Outotec’s scope 1 and scope 2 emissions reduced 15% compared to 2017 base year. With regards to the scope 3 emissions Outotec’s business travel emissions increased 7% and The GHG emissions avoided by technology are presented in Sustainable technologies and commuting decreased by 19% compared to 2017 base year. The increase in business travel innovations. emissions is partly due to increased travel as well as a change in emission factors for short haul flights. Whereas the decrease in commuting is possibly due to a new pilot in our Espoo office In technology development, we focus on increasing resource efficiency – aiming to reduce energy where Outotec supports the use of public transportation with employer-subsidized commuter and water consumption, emissions, effluents and waste. In 2019, 81% of our R&D projects tickets. In 2019, we also reduced the number of parking spaces available for employees in Espoo. were related to initiatives targeting sustainability improvements. Our efforts to mitigate the Our supply chain (purchased goods and services) emissions increased 6% compared to 2017 environmental impacts of our products and services are presented in Sustainable technologies base year as a direct result of the increase in spending. In terms of the use of sold products, it and innovations. is not yet possible to report total energy or CO2 emission savings from the use of all products as a whole. However, for example the use of Tank Cell products such as C500 and TC640 has Digitalization is seen to play a major role in mitigating climate change. We are continuously resulted to about 50% savings in energy use per reactor volume (kWh/m3) and can be estimated investing in ICT to utilize the opportunities of digitalization. In 2019, our investments amounted to lead directly up to 50% savings in CO2 emissions compared to the existing industry baseline. to EUR 18 million, consisting mainly of IT programs and intellectual property rights. Reduction of energy consumption (GRI 302-4) Read also: We have a certified ISO 50001 Energy Management system in five locations in Finland and • Our targets related to products and services are presented in Sustainability agenda 2020 four locations in Germany. To support the achievement of the CO2 reduction targets in our own • Emissions & climate data operations, we aim to reduce our global energy consumption by 1% annually until 2025. • Financial implications due to climate change 21 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Case: Sustainable Smelting Smelters find opportunities in circular economy With both competition and regulations tightening, the smelting industry is finding ways to enhance both its productivity and sustainability. Digitalization plays a major role in this development, and the principles of circular economy are already applied with good results. Sustainability is often perceived to include three aspects: economic, social and environmental sustainability. In smelting, development can be seen in all three areas as smelters are modernizing their ways of working. In this industry, productivity, safety and environmentally sound practices are improving hand in hand. “In this industry, improving productivity is the main goal for all players and the reason for engaging in development activities. However, productivity can be improved by enhancing resource efficiency, managing energy consumption and reducing emissions. The end result is positive for both business and the environment,” says Mikael Jåfs, Director of Strategic Projects and Innovations. Circular economy enhances material efficiency also enable the extraction of other valuable elements. As an example, the recycling of electronic waste allows for the reuse of many other trace elements. These carrier metals are generally The circular economy is a worldwide trend concerning both environmental and material brought back into circulation through copper, zinc and lead smelting. efficiency-related questions. Material recycling is intensifying in the smelting industry. Recyclable raw material is collected internally in plants as well as from external sources. In the process “Putting waste material into good use is a major trend. Slag dumps are beginning to fade into of smelting non-ferrous metals, there is great interest in recycling the carrier metals as they the past as ways to utilize residue material are developing. Tightening environmental legislation 22 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI is a significant driver in this development and, done through systemic thinking, leads to better “We cooperate closely with educational institutions and hope to see new approaches in the material efficiency and thereby higher productivity,” says Jåfs. “There are, however, regulatory curricula that would provide the necessary knowhow that corresponds to the new skills differences in how this secondary material can be used in different areas. In China, much of the demands. Digital metallurgy would be a good way to combine theoretical metallurgical slag from copper production is used, for instance, in the cement industry whereas less so for knowledge with IT and process control skills to provide a sound base of domain expertise. Of example in Europe.” course, we are also offering our current employees the opportunity to expand their skillsets,” Jåfs says. Increasing automation enhances safety and efficiency In his opinion, the future of smelting is not a one company show. Co-creation among clients Digitalization continues to change the everyday operations in smelting. Manual tasks are and technology providers is the best way to come up with solutions that answer the client’s replaced with automation, improving the safety of workers who no longer need to work close needs in an efficient way. Each party holds a part of the puzzle. The customer has the data and to molten metals. In addition to safety, automation enhances efficiency as process calculations the specific needs that serve as the basis for the work, and Outotec as the technology provider and parameter adjustments to operations are made accurately by process control applications. has the necessary domain expertise and knowledge of its equipment and software solutions – However, there is still a long way to go in increasing the automation level and developing process for example, the possibilities to use tools such as machine learning in improving process and control, particularly in non-ferrous metals. equipment performance. “Compared to, for example, the oil and gas industry, we have a lot of work to do. I believe “This leads to a new business model, in which we need to be able to create added value to both we will see significant developments in automating predictable manual work, data collection the customer and the technology provider on a continuous basis. It is more of a continuous and in process control development. New applications combining a theoretical process model process than a one-off deal. We see this as an opportunity to strengthen our partnerships with with machine learning will emerge and allow us to provide value more efficiently than before. both customers and other partners and are ready and willing to embrace new ways of working Digitalization also plays a part in enhancing the traceability of materials as environmental and to bring the best possible solutions to the market.” social impacts in the production of raw materials start to play a key role in trade,” Jåfs says. From execution to continuous development As new digital technology eliminates repetitive and potentially risky manual tasks, it changes the skillset needed to operate a smelter. The emphasis moves from focusing purely on execution to continuous improvement. This calls for analytical skills and a strong understanding of process control, as well as a development-oriented way of thinking. 23 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Engaging with stakeholders We aim to enhance transparency by maintaining continuous dialogue with our key stakeholders. Outotec defined its key stakeholders in connection with the materiality analysis conducted in 2018. The material topics and key stakeholders are reviewed at approximately 2-3 years intervals by our Corporate Responsibility function and Sustainability Working Group. Identifying and selecting stakeholders (GRI 102-42) In the recent review of key stakeholders, the Sustainability Working Group, complemented by business unit representatives and external facilitators, discussed and evaluated the significance of stakeholder groups using a long list of stakeholders collected by the core team. Each stakeholder group was evaluated by 1) Outotec’s impact on the specific stakeholder group, and 2) that stakeholder group’s significance to the company’s business performance. 24 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Based on the mapping, the most significant stakeholder groups overall were Employees, feedback about the report, future themes and topics of interest in sustainability communications, Customers, Suppliers and contractors, Investors, analysts and financiers as well as Academia using our internal social media. and students. Local communities arose as significant in terms of Outotec’s impact on the stakeholder group, and Authorities, regulators and governments were defined as having a To collect open feedback from our stakeholders we have a form on our website through large impact on Outotec’s business. Other stakeholder groups defined as key stakeholders which feedback can be submitted anonymously. In 2019, all feedback received through this were, Potential future employees, Industry associations and NGOs, and Media because of our form related to operational issues. Further, we have a compliance helpline available globally regular engagement with them. www.outotec.com. We have not identified any stakeholder groups that Outotec would not engage with. Concerns raised by stakeholders (GRI 102-44) Our key stakeholders (GRI 102-40) In the recent materiality survey and related interviews, stakeholders had the opportunity to raise concerns or topics missing from Outotec’s sustainability agenda. Topics raised by employees • Employees included long-term health impacts on local populations close to customers’ sites, supply chain • Customers management, as well as a stronger focus on recycling technologies, social responsibility and • Suppliers and contractors working with local communities to achieve a wider impact. • Investors, analysts and financiers • Academia, research institutes, students and potential future employees Customer feedback included social responsibility topics, such as co-operation with schools, local • Authorities, regulators and governments sports associations and NGO’s to further local miners’ understanding of safety and business • Potential future employees ethics. • Local communities • Industry associations and NGOs The financial community has been putting more emphasis on ESG related KPIs in the last few • Media years. Outotec has been continuously increasing the sustainability related materials in its equity story narrative, for example, through case studies, which portray offered technologies Our approach to stakeholder engagement (GRI 102-43) and benefits to customers. ESG information may often affect the investment decisions. Investors have raised questions related to Outotec’s risk management policies, for example how Outotec We collect feedback from our key stakeholders through regular customer, employee and investor audits and manages the supply chain when sourcing in best-cost countries. Some credit investors surveys. are also expecting to see a business model that balances the company’s cyclicality In 2018, we made a public web survey for all stakeholders about the topics that are most Other stakeholder groups expect, for example, Outotec to communicate its wider role in society, important and impact stakeholders’ decision making regarding Outotec. We also interviewed impact on global water systems, and action against plastic usage, to mention a few. representatives of employees, customers, suppliers, investors and academia. The material topics were selected based on the survey and interview results. These concerns and feedback were discussed in the Executive Board. We are already working with some of the concerns, such as supply chain management, recycling of battery metals, and We have also discussed our sustainability reporting with some investors, and their feedback implementing a policy and programs regarding employee voluntary work with local communities. has been considered when planning the report content. We have also asked our employees for The feedback will also be considered when planning the next sustainability agenda. 25 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our policies relating to stakeholders: Qatar and Saudi Arabia due to legal, taxation or administrative restraints. The Plan rewards employees for their long-term commitment to the company. 779 employees, equaling 20% of • Global Procedure for Stakeholder Engagement eligible personnel, participated in this program in 2019. 743 employees who participated in • HR policies the Plan in 2016 and kept their shares until May 2019 received free shares. Outotec offered • Disclosure Policy beneficiaries one free share (gross, with cash payments for taxes deducted) for each two shares • Social media guidelines bought with the 2016 savings. • Donation and Employee Volunteering Policy • Code of Conduct • Supplier Policy Customers • Technology Policy Customer satisfaction is high on our agenda. We build up our understanding of our customers’ needs and challenges by systematically collecting feedback. We have also invested in Employees internal feedback channels and feedback management to improve our products, services and operations. We regularly measure employee engagement and monitor other people KPI’s such as attrition rate. In 2019, a new employee engagement survey tool was introduced in order to enable more In our customer feedback surveys, we collect Net Promoter Score and Customer Satisfaction continuous dialogue with employees. Response rate in the survey conducted in November 2019 ratings, and analyze the open comment feedback to understand customers’ reasoning of the was 91%. scores. This analysis helps us to tune into customers’ true feelings and hear their voice, and to plan for improvement actions. The most important drivers for Outotec NPS are our equipment Special attention has been paid to employee communications. In CEO’s quarterly internal quality and reliability, care for the customer and project/service delivery quality. briefings over Skype Broadcast platform employees may comment and ask questions, and a video recording of the discussion is available afterwards. To conduct facilitated discussions In 2019, we collected feedback from over 1000 individuals representing nearly 700 customers and on strategic programs with employees, we continued strategy chats with a live video received over 4000 customer comments to analyze for actions. We have continuously expanded broadcast with selected top management representatives. Yammer is also increasingly used our survey sample and continue to focus on this going forward in order to cover our customer as an in-house social media channel. base as well as possible. Our aim is also to close the feedback loop with all customers who provided feedback to us and are currently reaching over 65 % rate globally in contacting the Two Outotec Round-Table events were held during 2019, bringing together some 20 personnel customers to discuss their feedback further. representatives from Europe and top management. During dialogues between the corporate management and the employee representatives different topics were discussed. Those included We continuously cooperate with customers in technology and process development. In joint company business and financial update, our strategy, Metso Outotec merger, Outotec competence R&D or delivery projects, both Outotec and the customers can, for example, increase resource development, the new employee engagement survey O’People, our tools & processes (SAFe / efficiency or improve their digital competences. This can be done for example through flowsheet Scaled Agile Framework for Lean Enterprises) as well as rewarding. Close co-operation with development, design work or test work for customers. local works councils continued in 2019. Employees as owners Suppliers and contractors Many Outotec employees are also shareholders through the Employee Share Savings Plan, Our engagement with suppliers is described in Responsible supply chain, page 44. which was launched in 2013 and offered to employees globally except for Mozambique, Morocco, 26 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Investors, analysts and financiers Academia, research institutes, students and potential future employees Outotec’s approach to investor relations and communicating with the financial markets is based on Finnish law, EU directives, and our own policies on corporate governance and disclosure, as Partnerships and networks with universities and research institutions are an important part well as stock exchange rules and regulations. of Outotec’s everyday business. From the partnerships Outotec seeks high expertise and the cooperation is done to capture the best available knowledge from universities. At the end of 2019, Outotec had 28,104 shareholders. Shares held in 11 nominee registers accounted for 37% of all Outotec shares, while private Finnish investors held 16%. Eleven sellIn Finland, our closest research partners in recent years have been Aalto University, VTT side analysts and one credit analyst conducted research on Outotec. Technical Research Centre of Finland Ltd, Lappeenranta University of Technology, University of Oulu, the Geological Survey of Finland and the University of Helsinki. In Germany, where Outotec In addition to Outotec’s quarterly investor briefings and annual financial statements briefings, also has an in-house research center, we have had good collaboration with technical universities the CEO’s mid-quarter Q&A sessions continued to be an important channel for maintaining in Aachen, Erlangen, Darmstadt, Karlsruhe, Hamburg and Freiberg as well as the Helmholtz and dialogue. These audio casts aim to further clarify information that has already been made public. Fraunhofer Institutes. The scope of these partnerships varies, but they are primarily related to In addition, we met frequently investors and analysts in one-on-one discussions, at industry process technology, resource efficiency, digitalization and IoT development, circular economy, seminars and road shows. hybrid materials and water issues. Besides project-related research cooperation, Outotec has permanent partnerships with many universities and other educational institutes. These All our audio casts are recorded and available for on-demand viewing at partnerships involve contributing to educational steering committees, guest lecturing, software http://outotec.videosync.fi/archive/cmd. licensing, hosting student groups, and collaborating on Bachelor’s, Master’s and PhD theses. 27 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI We offer positions for interns, summer trainees and thesis workers. We also participate in several activities that give students an opportunity to put their academic knowledge to practical Stakeholder interviews gave use, thereby providing them with an insight into working life. valuable feedback on Outotec’s We work with educational institutions of different levels with the aim of widening the students’ sustainability work knowledge of mining and metallurgical industries and getting talented students interested in Outotec. Each year we participate in several career fairs and other student events, where students can meet us and discuss Outotec and their career opportunities. Outotec participates as a collaborating organization in a circular economy co-creation lab Outotec Turula received educator organization of the year prize One example of educational cooperation in 2019 was Outotec’s participation as a collaborating North Karelia Chamber of Commerce, University of Eastern Finland, Karelia university of Applied organization to a circular economy co-creation lab organized by University of Helsinki. The sciences and Riveria vocational education and training provider awarded Outotec Turula as aim of the HELSUS co-creation lab is to bring together students, researchers and societal educator organization of the year. The award comes from Outotec Turula being an extremely actors to explore challenges and solutions on the broad topic of circular economy. The pro education employer. The company educates its own employees continuously and provides expected outcome is a bunch of co-produced, novel and innovative master’s theses on this the possibilities for employees to educate themselves. Outotec is also open to new ways of important matter. collaborating with the educational organizations. HELSUS is a cooperative and facilitated process for master students writing their thesis in Aalto University School of Chemical Engineering nominated Doctor Kari Knuutila, Chief collaboration with societal actors and researchers. The lab brings people from various Technology Officer at Outotec, as Alumnus of the year 2019. backgrounds together to explore challenges and solutions regarding common interests. The recognition results from doctor Kari Knuutila’s significant achievements in his career, a As a collaborating organization we provided the students with a challenge regarding recycling visible role in society, and for his support and continuous collaboration with Aalto University. Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) on a global level. The increasing rate of electronic waste is a highly relevant challenge for circular economy. Every year around 46 million Seventy years of research tonnes WEEE is generated globally, while the official recovery rate is only about 20-40 %. Informal systems with manual sorting are connected to problems regarding backyard leaching, but they Outotec Research Center (ORC) in Pori celebrated its 70th anniversary with a seminar on October still have an overall better outcome than formal systems using mechanical processes. This 15-16, 2019. shows that current processes can be made more effective. Regulative approaches are needed in order to better understand the effect regulation has on recycling and to understand how it is The research center was established in 1949, and since then it has been a part of the company’s possible to increase the recycling rate. long-term research and development strategy. ORC has developed numerous cutting-edge technologies. For example, Outotec Flash Smelting, which is still is one of the world’s most Through the thesis projects we are interested in exploring possibilities for economically viable commonly used processes for the production of primary copper and nickel, was developed in electrical and electronic equipment waste recycling material flow for extraction of valuable ORC at the end of 1940s. The center’s laboratories conduct tests on raw materials for Outotec’s elements. customers and the related production processes. The HELSUS co-creation lab is a pilot project and replaced the Sustainability Master class. The In 2019, ORC welcomed more than 1,400 visitors. Visitors include for example customers, future of these concepts will be determined after results from the pilot project are in. potential customers and students. 28 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Authorities, regulators and governments using joint financing. We also aim to integrate voluntary work into community projects. All community projects must bring measurable benefits to the local community. Outotec is a core partner in the European Institute of Innovation and Technology’s (EIT) Raw Materials Knowledge and Innovation Community. This platform aims to make raw materials In 2018, we revised our Donations and Employee Volunteering Policy (renamed) to include into a major strength for Europe by boosting competitiveness and the attractiveness of the guidelines for employees’ voluntary work with local communities. The company volunteering raw materials sector. Outotec participates in nearly 20 related projects, aiming to create new policy allows each employee to use up to one working day per year for volunteering in designated business by upscaling technologies, while also generating new educational programs and volunteering actions. In 2019, nine company volunteering actions where planned and executed strengthening Europe’s infrastructural network. The volume of these projects in total is ca. one under the Together for the better company volunteering program. Actions were held in five million euros yearly. different countries including Finland, Brazil, Canada, UAE and Australia. All the actions were planned and executed locally. Altogether over 200 Outotec employees participated in the Outotec also has a representative at the high-level steering group of the European Innovation “Together for the better” voluntary actions using an estimated 550 hours doing volunteer work. Partnership (EIP). In addition, to the hours reported some working hours were used in the planning and organizing of the different events. These volunteering actions included elderly support, education and In November 2018, the European Commission invited Finland to coordinate the research related technology development, volunteering at charitable organizations, donation collections, and to recycling in the battery industry. Outotec will lead the project together with Aalto University’s participating in environmental actions such as “One tree planted” and “Coastal cleanup”. Department of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering. The first task is to pilot new ways to collaborate in research and innovations. Further, the goal is to define a long-term vision, The Board of Directors did not propose a budget for donations for 2019 to the Annual General strategic research agenda and action plans for battery recycling in Europe. Meeting. Also, Outotec participates in further EU Horizon 2020 projects in the fields of Industrial As the bulk of our operations involve engineering and business management, we have not Leadership, Societal Challenges and Excellent Science. We have ten Horizon projects ongoing conducted impact assessments in local communities. Neither do we have any development with industrial actors and academic partners, with an overall volume of nearly two million euros programs. Regarding project sites, these are normally done by our customers. yearly. This allows us to develop our technologies in close interaction with our customers, thus achieving a greater impact on real environmental problems. Media Outotec participates in the technical secretariat of the EU’s Operational Environmental Footprint Sectoral Rules (OEFSR), piloting for copper. We interact with media representatives both locally and globally to publicize our sustainability work. Our CEO’s quarterly briefings provide basic information about Outotec’s performance. We • Read more about our representation in industry associations and commitment to external also organize interviews where journalists can discuss our goals, new products and newsworthy initiatives. events with our management representatives. We publish case stories on our website for the media and aim to organize press trips to Outotec’s R&D centers or reference plants at customers’ sites, to show concrete examples of our work to journalists. Local communities Our experts additionally meet trade press representatives at exhibitions and conferences and Outotec aims to support local projects that benefit communities where our major customers share the latest product news with them. operate. These community projects are based on local needs and defined through dialogue with local communities. We strive to realize community projects in collaboration with our customers, 29 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Case: NLMK extended to cover services for installation and commissioning of an expansion of the plant. The expansion will increase the plant’s capacity from 6 to 8 million tonnes. The pelletizing plant and its most recent technological improvements “represent the cleanest pelletizing technology available in the market,” said Kolomytsyn,“It also demonstrates our Outotec’s partner NLMK commitment to environmental compliance.” Outotec’s solutions help improve safety and optimal performance of the pelletizing plant. pioneers in sustainable steel In addition to advisory services and a digital solution package, Outotec’s latest solutions in green production pelletizing, cooling air process and pallet car changing system will be applied to the plant. An optimum level of production in the plant is supported by solutions such as Outotec Pretium Optimus® and Outotec Pellet Size Control® system. The steel industry is seeking ecologically friendly ways to produce steel while striving for optimal Aligning steel production with sustainability goals efficiency. This is not an easy task, considering that the global demand for scrap metals could increase substantially in the next 30 years and complex regulations are setting limitations on In addition to the latest technological innovations, NLMK focuses on social aspects and human operating efficiently, especially in developed countries. capital. State-of-the-art technologies and investments in the workforce are essential for sustainable and The company prioritizes employee trainings and engagement to continuously improve working efficient steel production. Russian steel company Novolipetsk Steel, or NLMK, has paved the way conditions and safety. Outotec’s solutions, for their part, also contribute to the pelletizing for efficient resource use in steel making and integrated sustainability as a core part of its business. plant’s safety. “In 2018, our injury rate was below the World Steel Association industry average,” Kolomytsyn stated. Partnering for sustainable pelletizing NLMK wants to further decrease the air emission intensity and make sure that it reaches the best In the past 20 years, NLMK has been able to double its steel production while reducing its available technology level that’s currently available in Europe,” Kolomytsyn described NLMK’s goals,“If overall emissions by 50 percent. This is a result of using the most modern technologies. “We’re you look at our current air emissions, we are already providing the best available technology in Russia.” constantly looking at equipment upgrades and trying to apply the most advanced solutions,” stated Dmitriy Kolomytsyn, Director for Capital Markets & Investor Relations at NLMK. NLMK is planning to further align its policies with the best possible sustainable practices and deliver projects that would contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, Kolomytsyn Outotec is a long-standing technology partner of NLMK. Outotec’s and NLMK’s collaboration reveals. Companies are adjusting their business models rapidly, seeing what they can do on a dates back to 2011, and in 2019 the collaboration was expanded. Originally helping NLMK standalone basis to fix the current business model or the current way they produce steel. The deliver Europe’s largest pelletizing plant in Russia, Outotec is now helping to ensure operational good news is that the companies in the steel industry are more or less on the same page. efficiency and safety at the plant – and the latest green pelletizing technology. “We all understand that we’re in the same boat,” Kolomytsyn pointed out, “Therefore, we’re Outotec supported NLMK in delivering a large-scale pelletizing plant in Stary Oskol, Russia not trying to hide or create secrets from our competitor. When it comes to sustainability, we between 2012–2014. Outotec’s services included engineering, process technology, plant share views and existing technologies. Everyone has accepted the fact that something needs to equipment supplies and services during the plant’s installation and start-up. In addition to change.” There will be steelmakers who will be leading this process, Kolomytsyn believes, and delivering the latest technology improvements and digital solutions, the collaboration has been there will be steel producers who will be following the innovations and trying to implement them. 30 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our performance 31 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Sustainable technologies and innovation Leading technologies are our core strength. Our comprehensive offering enables our customers to run environmentally sound, profitable and socially acceptable businesses. Outotec’s key strength is the capability to develop and deliver resource-efficient technologies and products. Our product portfolio covers hundreds of various plant concepts, processes, pieces of equipment and services, and we continuously develop our offering according to the principles of sustainable development. Although the processing of minerals and metals has negative environmental impacts, through advanced technology the negative impacts can be managed. For this reason, R&D has a central role in Outotec’s business and managing customers’ environmental impacts and developing sustainable technologies for our customers is at the core of our sustainability work. • Read also Management approach (GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) 32 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI EMISSIONS AVOIDED, THOUSAND TONNES OF CO2e 3,000 2,500 Impacts of our products and services 2,000 GHG emissions avoided using Outotec metals-related1,500 technologies, thousand tonnes of CO2e 1,000 The most significant environmental impact of our business activities materializes through EMISSIONS AVOIDED, THOUSAND TONNES OF CO2e 500 our products and services that indirectly reduce various emissions, including carbon dioxide emissions. We measure this positive impact to combat climate change, our handprint, by the Machinery 43% 0 Basic3,000 metals and fabricated metal 30% 2017 2018 2019 emissions avoided by the metallurgical industry using six Outotec technologies. Electrical 2,500and optical equipment 8% Renting of machinery, consultancy 5% Our solutions utilize primary resources efficiently, reduce energy, emissions and water 2,000 Coated titanium anodes Rubber and plastics 4% consumption, and produce less waste to landfill – while also cutting operating costs. We 1,500 TankCell 300 Other non-metallic minerals 4% additionally offer solutions for processing secondary resources and turning side streams into Ceramic filters Textiles and textile products 1% 1,000 Alumina calcination salable products. Equipment upgrades, plant modernization projects, and our long-term Others, such as chemicals, wood products etc. 5% 500 Copper flash smelting operation and maintenance services all ensure that customers’ plants will always run smoothly, Machinery 43% 0 Ferrochrome process safely, and efficiently, with minimum environmental impact. Basic metals and fabricated metal 30% 2017 2018 2019 Electrical and optical equipment 8% Outotec’s products and services – if defectively manufactured, installedconsultancy Renting of machinery, or used – 5% have the *Calculated based onanodes Coated titanium 2018 production volumes. potential to cause health and safety problems for ourRubber employees, contractors, and plastics 4% and customers TankCell 300 as well as indirectly harm the environment and local communities surrounding Other non-metallic mineralsour 4% customers’ Ceramic filters Textiles and textile products 1% plants. Indirectly, Outotec’s products and services also have an impact on climate change. • Read ourcalcination long-term and annual targets regarding products and services and our performance Alumina Others, such as chemicals, wood products etc. 5% in 2019 in Our agenda Copper flash smelting To mitigate these risks, we offer training and other services to our customers to help them Ferrochrome process maintain safe and environmentally sound operation. Furthermore, we train and audit our Our impacts on biodiversity (GRI 304-2) suppliers to ensure good product quality. We have included information on our impacts on biodiversity in this report due to increased Outotec continuously works to reduce the negative environmental impacts of its technologies stakeholder interest. By describing our role and impacts we can better meet the information through R&D and product development. needs of investors, customers and local communities. Our handprint, reduction of GHG emissions (GRI 305-5) In the metallurgical industry, emissions and eco-toxic substances can cause negative environmental impacts. If not appropriately manufactured, used, or maintained, Outotec’s By selling advanced technologies Outotec reduces the global CO2 emissions through its customers’ products also have the potential to harm the biodiversity surrounding our customers’ plants. industrial processes. We measure this positive impact to combat climate change, our handprint, by the emissions avoided by the metallurgical industry using Outotec metals-related technologies. Outotec’s direct impacts on biodiversity could be traced to the equipment manufacturing sites Emission reductions are directly proportional to energy savings. In 2019, we calculated the positive and five assembly and service workshops globally. However, these workshops are in industrial impact of six technologies. The amount of emissions avoided depends on actual production rates parks (zoned for industrial use), in which the environmental permitting takes into consideration by the industry. Our handprint in 2019 was 6.6 million tonnes CO2-e avoided in total. biodiversity impacts and endangered species already in the planning phase. 33 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Developing sustainable technologies The first step is to calculate how much CO2 is emitted during the manufacture of our products. We for our customers is at the core can already provide customers solid data about the environmental impacts of the manufacturing of our sustainability work phase, and hence assist them in their own carbon footprint calculations. So far, we have made the estimations for thickeners and fine grinding mills and are currently preparing this data for further product systems. In 2019 Outotec sponsored M.Sc thesis on “Process model based environmental footprints of When Outotec opens new sites, they are built with tight control over their environmental copper smelting”. In this work, the environmental issues related to copper smelting as well impacts, and we check whether the construction requires an environmental permit. In case the as their relationship to technological differences were studied. A process model based life construction could have an impact on biodiversity, an environmental impact assessment will cycle assessment (LCA) procedure was developed for Outotec to calculate and evaluate the be carried out (impacts on flora, fauna, endangered species, water management, pollution or environmental footprint of seven process models based on seven different copper smelting habitat conversion). However, Outotec’s impact on biodiversity is materialized mainly through technologies. The results showed clear differences between the seven process technologies. the entire value chain. Biggest differences could be seen for climate change impact, depletion of fossil fuels, metals, and water as well as energy demand and the quality of the total ecosystem. The major reasons for Our customers’ industrial sites, to which Outotec products and technologies are being delivered, variations between the technologies and locations can be attributed to the source of energy for can be in vulnerable areas, or otherwise potentially have a heavy impact on biodiversity due to the the smelter and the raw materials produced for the process. As a direct consequence, favoring nature of activities. In cooperation with customers, we design the processes in such a way that cleaner energy sources and raw-material processing methods greatly reduces a smelter’s they have minimal effluents to water and emissions to the atmosphere, and ultimately require environmental footprint. The next most effective way to reduce the environmental footprint is less raw materials to be mined. Outotec’s technological know-how in this regard is mainly the correct selection of technology. based on closed water loops, nutrient cycling, raw material efficiency, tailings management and emissions management systems. These have a positive impact on conserving natural habitats, Outotec’s experts were co-authors in the paper “Simulation-based exergy, thermo-economic and reducing land-use impacts, preventing pollution and reducing groundwater consumption. environmental footprint analysis of primary copper production” which studies the performance and environmental footprint of the complete primary copper flowsheet. This is done through Calculating the carbon footprint for the entire life cycle of our products a combination of several indicators such as recovery rates, exergy, material and energy consumption and life cycle assessment (LCA) indicators, with the main objective of evaluating In the metals value chain, 90-100% of its climate impacts (i.e. carbon footprint) relate to the the sustainability of the process. energy use of the sector. Throughout the years, we have worked intensively to reduce the energy consumption of our technologies. Nevertheless, different stakeholders have started asking for Our long-term plan is not only to give the customers the data they need about environmental exact numbers in terms of what a products’ carbon footprint is. impacts but also to be able to use this data internally for finding the sources of competitive advantage or guide us in finding hotspots for further development. The carbon footprint estimation can be roughly divided into two parts: • How much carbon is emitted in the manufacture of our products (incl. equipment, processes Reference: A. Abadías Llamas, A. Valero Delgado, A. Valero Capilla, C. Torres Cuadra, M. Hultgren, M. Peltomäki, or plants) A. Roine, M. Stelter, M.A. Reuter (2019): Simulation-based exergy, thermo-economic and environmental footprint • How much carbon is emitted during their use phase (or in the end-of-life phase) analysis of primary copper production. Minerals Engineering, 131, 51-65. 34 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Product safety (GRI 416-2) EFFORTS TO MITIGATE THE ENVIRONMENTAL 2019 2018 2017 IMPACTS OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Outotec has a Product Compliance Management process in place to make sure that our products and services reliably meet all applicable safety standards during all phases of the product lifeR&D expenditure, EUR million 55 54* 56 cycle. We follow negative impacts and incidents through our QEHS management and product R&D expenditure, % of sales 5 5 5 compliance management systems, as well as through customer feedback collected after each Share of R&D projects targeting major delivery and in customer surveys. In 2019, we continued to improve our competencies sustainability improvements, % 81 80 79 by training, improving instructions supporting our processes, verifying compliance in project execution based on audit findings, engaging in review meetings and collecting employee Number of new patent applications filed 28 26 38 feedback. In 2019, a new product incident reporting process was developed and will be rolled New national or regional patents granted 661 558 672 out in 2020. Number of patent families 775 761 763 Compliance with applicable laws, regulations, standards and customer requirements is the *Restated due to business divestments in Metals, Energy & Water segment being classified as discontinued prime focus in Outotec’s product compliance management work. We maintain an extensive operations. database of product compliance procedures and documents including the development, sales and delivery of our products and services. Outotec’s digital strategy was updated in 2019 by a cross-functional team consisting of We provide relevant information to our customers about the impacts of our products and services, members from all business units, as well as Operational Excellence and market areas. In including their energy consumption, emissions, metal recovery rates, and water usage, as well addition, we have established Outotec Digital Business Program, which is a collaboration as safety information provided according to industry standards. Outotec manuals cover the entire structure for the digital community across Outotec. life cycles of the products delivered and contain information on transport, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning. In addition, we offer our customers maintenance services. Outotec extended its offering towards digitalization-based products (Pretium products). By We also routinely provide safety training for our customers regarding the use and maintenance applying optimizers in zinc roasting plants, significant increase in production rate, improvement of our products. in product quality and reduction of SO2 emissions have been achieved. Outotec’s customers can give feedback about our products and services in regular customer In 2019, Outotec also expanded its grinding portfolio with a new range of mills and a new polymer surveys and through an external feedback channel and Compliance Helpline on our website. In bearing system. Along with the new mill offering, Outotec introduced the Outotec® Polymer 2019, no issues were raised regarding Outotec products and services through external feedback Hydrostatic Shoe Bearing (HSB) system for large and mid-sized grinding mills. The Polymer channels. HSB system is fitted to all new Outotec grinding mills (greater than ~3MW) as standard and is designed to maximize grinding mill availability and simplify maintenance, increasing revenue R&D and innovations and reducing maintenance costs. In technology development, we focus on increasing resource efficiency – aiming to reduce energy In addition, Outotec introduced a cost effective, Modular Paste Backfill Plant (MPB 80) for mines and water consumption, emissions, effluents and waste. In 2019, 81% of our R&D projects were with low-range throughput requirements. The plant features a combined paste mixer and hopper related to initiatives targeting sustainability improvements. 35 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI in place of separate units which enables significant reductions in both plant size and maintenance requirements. The plant components are pre-assembled off-site and delivered in larger, preengineered modules, enabling a significantly shorter interval between order placement and installation and start-up. In 2019, Outotec and Neste introduced 100% bio-based diluent as a new solution for metals extraction. Outotec and Neste have jointly verified the viability of applying Neste MY Renewable Isoalkane™ as a fully bio-based diluent for extracting metals in hydrometallurgical processes. The diluent is based on Neste’s NEXBTL technology and produced entirely from bio-based waste and residue raw materials. Thanks to its renewable origins and being readily biodegradable, the bio-based diluent reduces environmental risk and has a remarkably smaller carbon footprint over its life cycle when compared to fossil equivalents. Moreover, Neste MY Renewable Isoalkane evaporates at a lower rate, which improves copper extraction efficiency and safety due to significantly reduced volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Rewarding innovations Outotec presented Technology Awards to 18 employees on October 10, 2019. Technology Awards are granted to encourage Outotec employees to create new inventions and innovations and to reward individuals or teams for their significant contributions to Outotec and the industry in general. The Technology Award comprises a certificate of honor and a significant financial reward. • R&D data • Environmental data 36 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Case: Water usage & tailings management Outotec provides resource efficiency and minimized risks for mining companies Water availability and environmental risks have become increasingly significant issues for mining companies. Climate change and uncertainty of resources press miners to look into tailings management solutions for increased efficiency and sustainability. Mining companies are faced with a myriad of challenges, with perhaps the most significant ones currently being water availability and resource efficiency. Water is a scarce resource in many parts of the world and local communities are using the same water sources as companies. Decreasing ore grades mean that it is becoming necessary to extract higher volumes of ore to generate the same amount of refined product. In general, the lower the ore grade, the more water-intensive the processes to extract the ore. This sets importance on investing in resource efficiency and minimizing impacts on the local communities from the start. Outotec’s solutions have been used to help future proof operations and prevent mining water-related risks via taking advantage of different tailings management solutions. 37 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI “These risks are major sustainability issues for miners, because the impact on the community can be massive if operations are not carried out well,” says Jason Palmer, Director of Tailings and Water solutions at Outotec, “By changing the way you handle mining waste, you can significantly reduce the impact on the community and the environment.” Minimizing risks with tailings solutions UMMC’s Uchalinsky mining and processing plant, which processes copper-pyrite ores and produces copper and zinc concentrates, was facing a problem with the almost-full tailings pond in 2014. The solution was Outotec® Thickened Tailings and Paste Plant, which turns concentrator waste into an environmentally-friendly paste. Outotec’s plant allows efficient recovery of process water and decreases the energy consumption of slurry and water pumping. The plant also reduces the area occupied by the tailings pond and the risks of environmental contamination. In Uchalinsky’s case, for example, moving away from the traditional method of disposal also meant that the operating life of the tailings pond was increased significantly, from 20 to 50 years. “We can help our customers to use less energy and water in their production and reduce CO2 emissions,” Palmer says. Dry tailings is the future Currently mining companies are tackling the issue of tailings with a range of solutions, and they need to combine efficiency with environmental considerations. “Mining companies are constantly managing the effluent from the sites,” says Palmer, “Dry stacking means that they would have the possibility to quickly reclaim the site after the life of mine has come to an end, compared to a wet tailings dam, which can remain a long-term responsibility.” Dry tailings solutions signify a substantial reduction of not only the amount of water used, but also the risk of failure – something that carries endless value. 38 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Case: Alumina calcination “Most of this energy is supplied through combustion of fossil fuels. We have more than 60 delivered installations, and some of these are already becoming outdated in terms of efficiency. By modernizing them, we can reduce their emissions. Even a small improvement can have a significant impact, not only on emissions but also on plant economics, and therefore we are placing more and more focus on upgrading the large installed base,” says Dr. Linus Perander, Head of New era of alumina Calcination at Outotec. Heavy reliance on fossil fuels for energy is one of the sustainability challenges of alumina and calcination: optimizers boost aluminum production. The highly endothermic and high temperature processes require large amounts of energy, which generates CO2 emissions. Research into alternative fuels is ongoing, efficiency with some of the larger producers looking into supplementing or substituting fossils with e.g. solar or hydrogen-based concepts. Significant fuel savings with calcination optimizers The aluminum industry is taking steps towards Calciner optimizers have already been shown to significantly reduce the energy consumption of a greener future as new technology reduces fuel alumina calcination by stabilizing and optimizing the process. These digital solutions help run the plants more efficiently and find the optimal operating points, which may sometimes seem consumption and emissions. Calcination optimizers counter-intuitive and difficult to deduce for a human operator. Optimizers are especially useful introduce digital process control technology that has a in the installed base and older plants, playing a major part in improving the efficiency. significant impact on the carbon footprint of the entire Outotec’s Pretium Calciner Optimizer has sparked significant interest among customers. The production process. two already active cases in alumina calcination have proven the tool’s usefulness and potential, driving both fuel savings and increased output. In recent years, a new generation (GEN 5) of alumina calciners has been introduced, enhancing “We applied our calcination optimizer in an old generation plant and were able to reduce its the sustainability of the entire process. The new calciners are more fuel efficient than the previous energy consumption by up to 10 per cent. To put that in context, a 10% fuel reduction means 5500 generation. They are also more compact, making them more sustainable from a construction and tonnes of CO2 avoided per year. That is equivalent to the yearly CO2 emissions of more than 600 manufacturing perspective as well. average EU citizens. In newer plants, the potential for specific fuel energy reduction is somewhat lower, but then again newer plants operate at higher capacity, so the overall impact can still be For the alumina industry, energy efficiency is one of the main drivers for technology development. quite significant,” Perander says. Alumina is the main feed stock for aluminum metal production and calcination is one of the major energy consumers in that production chain. Alumina calcination requires approximately 3 GJ of “What sets us apart from the competition is our fundamental process knowledge about these energy per ton of alumina produced, which can be more than 30% of the total energy for the plants. We can provide advanced analytics and diagnostics as well as operational advice. This alumina production process alone. adds a lot of value to our customers. The same principles have also been applied to e.g. roasters that are used to refine copper concentrate before refining.” 39 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Experts in the spotlight With digitalization technology and solutions becoming more prevalent, new skills are needed in order to maintain the position of a technology leader. A shift must be made from pure engineering expertise to the ability to apply machine learning and AI, for instance. Outotec has already taken steps to enhance the company’s digital capabilities and recruited a number of new experts. External collaboration is also important in this regard. “Digital solutions require openness between customers and vendors which in turn requires a trust-based relationship. Customers must be willing to share their data, as that is the basis for optimization. In turn, vendors must take cybersecurity and information integrity seriously. The customer also needs to have a systematic approach to their systems architecture while making it flexible to cater for digital applications. Restricting themselves too rigidly early on will limit possibilities in the longer term,” Perander says. Future focus on decarbonization The aluminum industry continues to seek ways to further improve efficiency. While in new installations theoretical limits are getting closer and closer, gains to be had are still significant especially in the older installed base. At the same time, global emission limits are still becoming more and more stringent, so not doing anything is not a viable option. However, many players are realizing that it is not enough to simply meet the regulatory limits. Being a good corporate citizen goes above and beyond the minimum requirement, and many have launched initiatives to improve their sustainability and benchmark themselves against each other. A good example of this development is the Aluminium Stewardship Index, which has started to gain traction globally in the last couple of years. There is also talk of introducing new classes of exchange traded aluminum, based on the level of environmental footprint, driven mostly by consumer demand. “We at Outotec have distinct advantages when it comes to sustainable technology and process expertise, and we aim to maintain that edge. In the longer term, there is interest in the industry in decarbonizing the entire production chain. Alumina refining and calcination is part of this equation. We invest quite heavily in internal research and development, using our pilot plants to optimize existing designs and employing people in new fields. As always, we are pioneering to help our customers meet their sustainability goals,” Perander concludes. 40 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Engaged experts Outotec aims to employ the best experts in the industry to serve customers with leading technology, superior customer service, and excellent execution. Developing our people and our culture is an essential part of Outotec strategy. Competent and engaged employees are key to Outotec’s success. We mitigate risks related to employee retention and competence gaps via various competence development programs, ongoing leadership and working culture development, fair and competitive compensation as well as talent management and internal job rotation. 41 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI We regularly measure employee engagement and monitor other people KPI’s such as attrition Global mobility rate. In the recent employee survey conducted in November 2019, the employee engagement index was 7,5/10 (above global benchmark). Although the KPI was new due to the change in the International assignments are an important part of Outotec’s business. In 2019, there were engagement survey tool, the results indicate a positive trend continuing (2018: 61%). Outotec’s nearly 900 project assignments abroad in 65 countries. Our Global Mobility Policy provides the target has been to achieve 70% employee engagement by 2020. The new employee engagement terms and conditions that apply to Outotec’s temporary and permanent cross-border employee survey tool with dialogue functionalities enables managers to respond to employee feedback in transfers globally. The policy provides the framework for transparent, fair and equal treatment a more effective and timely manner. The tool was extremely well received by employees, and the for global mobility. response rate in 2019 was record high: 91% of the employees gave their feedback in the survey. We aim to provide competitive compensation and benefits for employees, considering different New values launched late 2018 have been promoted throughout the year both locally and globally, working conditions, and ensure equal and fair terms and conditions for all the international and customer focus as a theme has been built in all cultural initiatives. Leadership development assignments as well as secure compliance in employment regulations, taxation and social continued to be high on the agenda, and results were visible also in the employee engagement security. In 2019, focus has been to ease the life of those project assignees whose families survey; leadership score was above the global benchmark. remain in the home country by increasing the assignment home leave rotation and supporting their families at home with different child care options. Two Outotec Round-Table events were held during 2019, bringing together some 20 personnel representatives from Europe and top management. During dialogues between the corporate Equal opportunities and diversity management and the employee representatives, various topics were discussed. Those included company business and financial update, our strategy, Metso Outotec merger, Outotec competence Outotec is a global employer. For example, in Finland our employees represent 37 nationalities development, the new employee engagement survey O’People, our tools & processes (SAFe / and in Germany 28 nationalities work either as expatriates or on local agreements. In total, our Scaled Agile Framework for Lean Enterprises) as well as rewarding. Close co-operation with employees represent 67 nationalities. We continuously monitor diversity and equality within local works councils continued in 2019. Outotec. Employment and labor practices As a company operating in a male-dominated industry, gender equality is an important topic for Outotec, and special emphasis is put on supporting career development of women. One important Outotec’s responsibility as an employer is to provide decent working conditions, treat people in initiative in this area has been the Women’s mentoring program that continued also in 2019. a fair manner, and follow the principle of equal opportunities. Our Code of Conduct provides the basis for our labor conditions, substantiated by Equality and Anti-harassment policy, HR policies We have in a global Equality and anti-harassment policy in place, as well as Equality plans in and HR Handbook that enable fair employment globally. Our HR practices are always compliant Finland and Sweden based on the local laws. 33% of our Executive Board members and 21% with international labor standards and local legislation. of our employees are female. Our target for 2019 was to increase the share of women in senior leadership positions by 2% from 2018. Unfortunately, this target was not reached in 2019. Blue-collar workers account for approximately 14% of our employees. Our working conditions guidelines for blue-collar workers are aligned with the UN Guiding Principles. The guidelines Most of the senior management in our major locations have been hired locally. The percentage describe Outotec practices and principles regarding fair working conditions, compensation and varies from 71% to 100%. To enhance equal opportunities and transparency, all open positions recognition, employing migrant workers, employee communication and grievance mechanisms. are published internally to enable all Outotec employees to apply for positions. Employees also have an opportunity to promote their career in the employee profile and let our organization know • Read also Management approach about their expertise. We encourage our employees to be active in their own career development • View the Social data and promote new tools to support this target. • View diversity data 42 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI We have put a lot of emphasis on implementing global policies and processes and clarifying roles and responsibilities to ensure smooth operations and equal treatment of our employees in global mobility cases, for instance. Dialogue with our people, strong Employees as owners leadership culture and continuous Many Outotec employees are also shareholders through the Employee Share Savings Plan, competence development continue which was launched in 2013 and offered to employees globally except for Mozambique, Morocco, to be at the core of Outotec’s culture Qatar and Saudi Arabia due to legal, taxation or administrative restraints. The Plan rewards employees for their long-term commitment to the company. 779 employees, equaling 20% of development and strategy. eligible personnel, participated in this program in 2019. 743 employees who participated in the Plan in 2016 and kept their shares until May 2019 received free shares. Outotec offered beneficiaries one free share (gross, with cash payments for taxes deducted) for each two shares bought with the 2016 savings. onboarding modules/curricula for different employee groups. Several e-learning modules, e.g. Programs for upgrading employee skills (GRI 404-2) Ground transportation safety, Metals Processing, Internal Controls and Marketing modules, were developed and launched for all employees. Customer focus has been promoted as a key In 2019 professional growth and competence development continued to be a key element of theme in several programs. Outotec’s people strategy. More than 81% of all employees participated in training activities in 2019. In addition, 6,318 persons, including both employees and supervised contractors, received In addition, more than 95% of all managers at Outotec have participated in leadership programs health and safety training. Our global training offering is built on Outotec Career and Competence during 2017-2019. All our employees are in the scope of talent management, and career and Framework and consists of global competence development programs designed for key roles. development planning are key components of manager responsibilities. 99% of employees General skills and onboarding modules are available for all employees. Renewed training have regular performance development discussions with their managers (GRI 404-3). The offering site for all employees was launched in June 2019 to support easy access to trainings. performance reviews of blue-collar workers have not been registered in the data system and not included in the percentage. Our largest competence development initiative also in 2019 was the services certification program. Approximately 307 service professionals have completed level 1 certification program Depending on local needs, we provide transition assistance to support employees who have been and 118 level 2 certification program since the start of the program in late 2017. The certification terminated or are retiring. These may include training, counseling or severance pay. program is available currently for 12 technologies. Sales development program was officially closed in 2019 with close to 300 certified sales and sales leadership professionals. Project Please note that we report only global programs that are administrated through our learning manager certification and Metallurgist Competence Development programs initiated in the management system (Learning Point). In addition to global trainings, a lot of training is delivered second half of 2018 continued in 2019. A new global training program was developed and locally in different countries. launched in 2019 for supply professionals, and approximately 100 professionals participate in the program. Also, a new development program for steering group chairmen was launched in 2019 to support project excellence targets. Special emphasis has also been put into developing • View full employee and training data 43 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Responsible supply chain Supply chain management affects the quality of products and services, our reputation, as well as local employment and businesses. The main challenge for our supply chain management concerns the need to improve cost efficiency without compromising on product quality, safety and sustainability. As approximately 90% of Outotec’s manufacturing, based on monetary value, is sourced from external suppliers, responsible sourcing and supply chain management are highly important for Outotec. Our wide product range and a high number of different delivery locations make our supply chain development and management challenging. Standardization, harmonization and focusing on fewer suppliers are key drivers in establishing a sustainable supplier base. 44 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI In 2018, our revised Supplier Policy was published and taken into use. We took our project risk SUPPLY SPEND BY CATEGORY assessment process and tool into use and trained 133 persons to use it. The risk assessments have provided our management with important information about major risks and planned mitigation actions and those benefits have carried over into the new year. Local sourcing covered 50% In 2019 Outotec appointed Anna-Maria Tuominen to lead the Supply function globally as the Senior Vice President of Supply and Manufacturing and she is a member of Outotec’s Executive Board. She has a long history of solid supply chain experience in Finland and around the globe and works with Supply Quality to promote a sustainable and socially responsible supply chain for Outotec deliveries. Machinery 50% 99% of our key suppliers were committed to Outotec’s Supplier Policy in 2019. We define key Renting of machinery, consultancy 18% suppliers as companies that are categorized as important suppliers in financial, strategic and Basic metals and fabricated metals 16% operational dimensions, or in terms of product quality and delivery time. All potential new direct Electrical and optical equipment 9% of our total suppliers are assessed through our Supplier Assessment and Approval Process before getting Rubber and plastic 3% Textiles and textile products 1% supply spend approved supplier status. Others, such as chemicals, non-metallic Outotec’s compliance helpline and an external feedback channel on the company website are minerals etc. 3% available for anyone to raise concerns related to corruption, human rights or any unethical behavior in Outotec’s business activities. In 2019, one supplier was rejected due to compliance concerns found in further review. Supplier environmental assessment (GRI 308-1, 308-2) • Read also Management approach Material toxicity and chemicals have been ranked as the greatest environmental risks in the supply chain. If not appropriately manufactured, used, or maintained, Outotec’s products have Our suppliers (GRI 102-9, 102-10) the potential to harm the environment. To mitigate product quality related risks, we provide training to our suppliers and audit them regularly. Outotec delivers large and complex solutions and services globally to a relatively small number of customers, and typically the supply chain differs in each project. Most of our direct suppliers Outotec screened 99 suppliers, equaling 14% of all new suppliers using environmental and social are either manufacturing workshops or component/equipment manufacturers. The rest are criteria in 2019. In addition, Outotec audited 71 suppliers, equaling 33.6 % of all key suppliers, logistics, engineering and construction companies, and other service providers. In addition, using environmental criteria. Screening is a spot check on certain topics, and we select the thousands of our direct suppliers’ own suppliers form part of Outotec’s supply chain. The companies for environmental screening from the high and medium risk categories based on allocation of more business to fewer suppliers enables better management and development information collected with a supplier self-assessment questionnaire. It includes 12 questions partnerships, in turn enhancing delivery excellence and cost competitiveness. related to environmental aspects, hazardous substances, and waste management. In case any risks are identified based on the received information, detailed environmental assessment is In 2019, we had approximately 4,400 active suppliers, of which 211 were categorized as key included in the audit, which is either performed by phone interview or site visit. Audit results suppliers. As product competitiveness is one of Outotec’s strategic development areas, our work and findings are reported as an official audit report in our Supplier Data Management system. focused on the supply base management with a target of having fewer suppliers and increasing Audit findings are categorized into observations and deviations. best-cost-country sourcing in China, India, Eastern Europe and Mexico. Our total spend on customer-related purchasing in 2019 was EUR 663 million. 45 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI In our supplier audits, none of the audited suppliers were identified as having significant Supplier social assessment (GRI 414-1) negative environmental impacts. We evaluated supplier’s approach to waste management and environmental controls. The audit teams reported that the suppliers are making strong efforts As the majority of Outotec’s manufacturing is sourced from external suppliers, there are to minimize their negative environmental impact. potentially more human rights-related risks in the supply chain than in our own operations. We have categorized our suppliers into three risk categories. Country risk is one criterion in The carbon footprint of our supply chain (GRI 308-2) determining the scope of the supplier assessment. To mitigate social sustainability related risks, suppliers are required to commit to Outotec’s Supplier Policy, which reflects the principles of The sustainability of our supply chain also has an impact on climate change. The methodology the company’s Code of Conduct. of calculating supply chain emissions is based on Outotec’s spending and carried out using a scope 3 screening tool developed by GHG Protocol and Quantis. To be able to use the scope 3 In 2019, we audited 33.6% of our key suppliers on quality, health and safety as well as human screening tool, Outotec’s spend on supply was converted from EUR into USD. In 2019, the EUR rights-related issues. Supplier development actions are drawn up according to audit findings. to USD annual average exchange rate was 1.102 (source: http://x-rates.com). The long-term target is to audit all key suppliers with these criteria regularly with supplier development actions drawn up according to audit findings. The carbon footprint of our supply chain, at 574,730 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, was considerably larger than the footprint of Outotec’s own operations (includes scope 1, scope 2, business travel In supplier selection, Outotec screened 123 suppliers, in a combination of field and desk and commuting emissions), which amounted to 22,458 tonnes of CO2e. The biggest sources of assessment. This included reviewing human rights and labor practices criteria. Screening is CO2e emissions in Outotec’s supply chain were machinery, representing 43% of the total. In 2019, a spot check on certain topics, and we select the companies from the high and medium risk the carbon footprint of our supply chain increased 10% due to increase in spend. categories based on information collected with a supplier self-assessment questionnaire. The questions relate to social program accreditation, respect for human rights of employees, Child labor (GRI 408-1) and forced or compulsory labor (GRI 409-1) prohibition of child labor, health surveillance, incident management and occupational safety. In case any risks are identified based on the received information, a detailed environmental Outotec does not tolerate any child labor or forced or compulsory labor as stated in our Code of assessment is included in the audit conducted either by a phone interview or a site visit. The Conduct and Supplier Policy. According to our human rights self-assessment made in 2017, no audit result and findings are reported as a formal audit report in our Supplier Data Management notable risks related to the use of child labor, or forced or compulsory labor, have been identified system. Audit findings are categorized to observations and deviations. in Outotec’s own manufacturing units. All the screened companies qualified as new suppliers, as none of the companies were identified The main sustainability-related risks in the supply chain, identified in our internal workshop as having significant potential negative human rights or social impacts. Suppliers that we do consisting of our global supply team, include bribery and kickbacks, occupational safety, not normally screen are for example, one-time indirect suppliers, such as consultants. Some of protecting information and reporting misconduct. Child labor is a recognized risk in any supply these non-screened suppliers have, however, signed our Supplier Policy. chain, and Outotec has taken steps to reduce the possibility that our approved suppliers utilize child or forced labor. We have identified three countries in our supply chain, namely China, India Negative social impacts in the supply chain (GRI 414-2) and Mexico, with potential risks regarding child labor or hazardous work. In 2019, 5.6% of our suppliers were based in China, 1.7% in Mexico, and 1.1% in India. To mitigate these possible In our supplier audits, four suppliers, equaling 5% of the audited suppliers, were identified as risks, our dedicated supply personnel in each of our Market Area offices assesses suppliers having potentially negative health and safety impacts. However, none of those were considered according to our approval process and make observations during audits and other visits. significant and improvement measures were agreed with these suppliers. Audit findings were 46 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI related to missing health and safety practices and equipment, and wrong storage of chemicals causing a potential risk for employees. No relationships have been rejected because of health and safety findings in our supplier audits. There were no incidents filed through formal grievance mechanisms related to our suppliers’ human rights impacts, impacts on society or labor practices. Spending on local suppliers (GRI 204-1) Outotec’s supply chains often combine global project deliveries and purchases from local suppliers. Our most significant operations, based on the number of employees, are in Finland, Australia, Germany, South Africa, and Chile. We report ‘local supply’ as the percentage of our supply spend in these countries. The calculation method was changed in 2017 to fulfill the reporting requirements. In our large delivery projects, we prefer to use suppliers in the target country. Normally we buy steel structures and detail engineering, for example, in the target country. The amount of such supply in the country of the project site can be significant. This, in turn, creates local employment and benefits local businesses. Our spending on suppliers that are local to the purchasing operations in 2019 amounted to EUR 258 million, equivalent to 50% of our total supply spend. In terms of spend in 2019, our largest suppliers in alphabetical order were ABB, Nordpipe Composite, Siempelkamp Giesserei GMBH, and Swiss Tower Mills Minerals Ltd. • Historical supply data Teknikum is a locally sourced supplier in Finland used to support filter projects designed and built locally in Finland. These assemblies are also shipped to global customers from our facilities in Finland. 47 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Health and safety – the fundamentals for our operations Zero harm is the ultimate target for Outotec’s work on occupational health and safety. Our main safety risks occur on roads in different driving cultures and when working at project sites and manufacturing units. We have a track record of good safety performance in large projects with several safety awards from customers. Health and safety were defined as fundamentals for Outotec in the recent materiality analysis. Zero harm is the ultimate target for our development work on occupational health and safety. Outotec’s management is committed to continuously enhance safety performance throughout the company’s operations. 48 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI All employees and contractors working under Outotec’s direct supervision have the responsibility Occupational health and safety related risks are considerable in minerals and metals processing to work safely and follow our globally harmonized procedures and work instructions. The company plants due to chemicals, ecotoxic substances, dust and fumes that are typical in process provides the necessary procedures, instructions, training and personal protective equipment. We industries. Outotec’s specialists follow customers’ safety regulations when working on their check annually our procedures and work instructions for organizational and regulatory changes. sites. The greatest safety risks arise in countries with low awareness of safe working practices and underdeveloped occupational safety culture. When working in a work environment, where • View also Management approach safety culture and procedures are lower than Outotec’s minimum requirements for safety, our employees are instructed to follow Outotec’s safety principles. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) management system (GRI 403-1, 403-8) Increasingly Outotec’s employees travel and work in high-risk countries where security, medical Outotec is committed to safety at all levels of business. Top management defines targets and and road safety risks have lately increased. In 2019, approximately 328 Outotec employees or ensures resources, line management provides processes and tools and employees are properly supervised workers traveled in countries with high or medium medical risks and less than 10 trained and empowered to choose safety. persons in countries with high security risks. Outotec’s approach to safety is systematical. We have defined clear roles and responsibilities. Risks are managed in each location and project site based on risk categories. Regarding We start everything with a proper risk assessment, document safe ways of working and ensure traveling, risks are managed based on country security risks, medical risks, and transportation that every worker is competent, properly trained and has the latest safety information available. risks. We prepare a risk matrix to define the risk level, and the responsibilities and mitigative actions are defined according to the risk level in question. If risks are defined at an extreme or For Outotec trust and transparency is important in safety. We expect every person to act when high level, alternative options or canceling the trip will be considered. they observe an unsafe situation or behavior, regardless of whether the worker is a manager, supervisor, experienced employee, new hire or contractor. The company follows incidents, hazards and development initiatives through its QEHS management and product compliance management systems, as well as through customer In our health and safety work, we follow the ISO 45001 standard and Outotec’s operations feedback, which is collected after each major delivery and continuously in the service business. globally are externally certified against it. Our OHS management system covers all Outotec’s 4,088 employees (100%), and 2,230 contractors (100%) working under our direct supervision, Our hazard and incident reporting system for the identification and elimination of hazards and including all locations and project sites. minimization of risks is externally audited to ensure the quality. All incidents, identified hazards, and unsafe conditions must be reported with 24 hours and they require proper investigation, We ensure the quality of our OHS processes through internal and external audits and training. root cause analysis and corrective and preventive actions. The local unit head or site manager We follow key performance indicators set for safety, have regular management reviews, all our is responsible for managing the hazards in its respective unit or project site. The statistics operations are managed through risk analyses and if any near misses or incidents occur, we are regularly shared with employees. We also publish safety alerts of major incidents, lessons analyze root cause properly, do preventive and corrective actions and continuously improve our learned and positive observations in our intranet and internal discussion groups. performance. Healthcare services (GRI 403-3) Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation (GRI 403-2) Each Outotec location has an external partner for healthcare services who also makes workplace Our OHS management is based on risk assessments. We have assessed our operations globally assessments and proposes preventive and corrective actions to avoid work-related injuries and for health and safety risks and made mitigation plans. In addition, each Outotec location diseases. Outotec has not identified any major risk of specific occupational diseases. continuously assesses risks for hazards and applies the hierarchy of controls to eliminate hazards and minimize risks. Our employees and contractors have a ‘Stop Work Authority’ if Our local healthcare service partners conduct regular health checks to ensure that our employees there is a safety risk in their work area. are in good physical and mental condition. The focus is on preventive healthcare. In addition, 49 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Outotec supports employees’ sports and well-being activities, for example in many locations from 1-5 years’ intervals. Persons who participate in high-risk work get more specific and there are various company-supported sports clubs organized by the personnel association. frequent training. We have a global health insurance for our employees covering business travel. In most countries, All Outotec employees and supervised contractors working on project sites are regularly trained we have additional health insurance to complement national social security services. in health and safety matters, such as the use of protective equipment, first aid preparedness, hazard identification, risk assessment and required control actions. Our e-learning course about Outotec has a medical and security services agreement with the global service provider travel safety is recommended to all employees and mandatory for all employees who travel for International SOS. This 24/7 service covers all Outotec employees and supports also our service business. Outotec continuously develops its training materials for safety based on current risks. providers and supervised workers in emergency situations during business trips. Through the As a result of the fatality in a road accident in 2018, Outotec developed new requirements, related related Medical Alerts and Travel Security Online service, travelers can find information about instructions and training materials on road safety. endemic diseases and other health, safety and security issues, as well as country-specific security risk ratings. Before any trip, travelers should check risk levels and find out what actions Work-related injuries (GRI 403-9) may be needed to reduce security, road safety and health risks. Most work-related injuries happen during service trips or at our own manufacturing or assembly Worker participation, consultation and communication on OHS (GRI 403-4) workshops. The main types of work-related injuries at Outotec are hand tool or instrument injuries, as well as trip or slip injuries. Road safety accidents are not frequent, but they are Our entire workforce (100%) is duly represented in formal joint management-worker health critical to Outotec, as they can have serious outcomes. and safety committees to monitor business activities, collect feedback, and manage health and safety issues in their respective location or project. The safety aspects regarding contractors Outotec’s primary focus is on leading indicators; amount of hazard reporting and safety training and visitors are also discussed in these committees. hours. We also measure our lost-time injury rate (LTIR, lost-time injuries per 1 million work hours). In 2019, our LTIR was 0.6. This is a significant improvement from 2018 when the LTIR Outotec has a QEHS responsible person in each location with more than 10 employees. Units was 2.0. For Outotec, safety comes first and the company has focused on safety activities, such that have less than 10 people are represented in the health and safety committee of their closest as campaigns, hazard management, and communication at all levels of organization in 2019. larger unit. The EHS Manager as employer’s representative is leading the local committee, and Safety Officers as employees’ representatives follow the health and safety matters and report of LOST-TIME INJURIES PER 1 MILLION WORK HOURS, 2019 2018 2017 INCLUDING EMPLOYEES AND SUPERVISED WORKERS his/her observations to the EHS Manager. The HS committees meet at least quarterly. LTIR 0.6 2.0* 1.7 Health and safety topics are not covered in formal agreements with trade unions, because they Number of employees and supervised workers 6,318 6,762* 6,556* are duly addressed by statutory regulations and laws that Outotec complies with. Total working hours 13,400,000 14,400,000 13,300,000 Training (GRI 403-5), promotion of health (GRI 403-6) and mitigation of health and safety *2018 figure restated due to internal validation. impacts (GRI 403-7) We have a comprehensive training program for the use of OHS procedures and instructions, • View also Social data. and the training hours are recorded in a training register. Trainings consist of a range of e-learnings and class room trainings as well as verbal training during work. Required trainings Product safety are determined based on employee’s role as well as the risk of the work conducted. The basic training for local safety issues is mandatory for all employees and contractors and it is renewed • Sustainable technologies and innovations 50 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Case: Safety first More than rules or slogans – safety is a continuous and common effort Safety comes first in everything we do at Outotec. We are very proud of the extraordinary safety figures we have been able to achieve. The results are no stroke of luck. Safety is important to any company. The reasons range from the societal and ethical responsibilities of the company towards their employees to the economic benefits that are realized as a result of good safety performance. The overriding goal is that all employees return home at the end of the day in the same physical condition as they arrived in the morning. Our goal at Outotec is to continually improve workplace health and safety of all our employees, contractors and clients until the goal of zero harm is reached. We had only eight lost time incidents in the whole global organization during 2019. The positive results did not happen by chance, as we have systematically developed our safety culture, processes, competencies and performance with our personnel. 51 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Workplace wellbeing and engagement with safety Two of the main safety campaigns in 2019 were about hand and driving safety. Numerous studies demonstrate that having a strong health and safety program and culture within Over the 4-week driving safety campaign, Outotec employees explored topics ranging from a company significantly elevates the morale, productivity, and engagement of the employees. general rules to unsafe driving practices to new Outotec requirements and finally external factors that lead to hazards while driving. “This translates into reduced injury numbers, higher productivity, lower turnover, improved customer relations, and ultimately higher NPS scores both internally and externally,” says The hand safety campaign focused on another serious issue. “Globally it is estimated that Kevin Solski, Director of Quality, Environment, Health & Safety for the Services Business Unit between 50% and 80% of all recordable workplace injuries in the industrial sector involve the at Outotec. hands. In the past two years, hand injuries accounted for 42% of all recorded injuries at Outotec,” Solski says. Much the same as any other workplace initiative, health and safety must be developed and implemented from the top levels of the organization all the way through to the field level worker. Hand safety awareness was highlighted through a series of focused safety messages, which culminated in the “Hands Up for Safety” day. The aim was to bring attention to the things we “The commitment to the health and safety of the employees cannot be reduced only to common use our hands for and how we can keep them safe and free from harm. slogans such as ‘safety first’ or ‘safety starts with me’. There must be a tangible concerted effort put forth by the management of the company to show that the safety of employees is a top “Our hand campaign also brought to light that hand injuries are not isolated to the job site, as priority,” Solski says. “Once this has been established a true culture of safety begins to develop.” musculoskeletal injuries are also very common in office settings,” Solski says. Focus on travel and hand safety The ongoing establishment and elevation of the safety culture will continue to show positive gains in all areas that are influenced by improved health and safety performance. These include In 2019, Outotec safety campaigns have taken the important step of identifying areas for improved employee morale and engagement, increased productivity, strengthened customer improvement and bringing them into focus. We have established methods or new procedures relations, and higher retention rates of our world class personnel. to mitigate the hazards and communicated the advancements throughout the organization in a manner that is both informative and fun. “The idea behind the safety campaigns was to focus on, and bring attention to, areas where we could improve as a company. We want to make sure that employees return home at the end of the day safe and healthy and therefore strive to develop the overall safety culture within Outotec,” Solski says. 52 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Financial performance, value creation and our impacts Financial success is one of the fundamental aspects of being able to create value for all stakeholders. Outotec’s long-term financial targets are based on continuous profitable growth. Solid financial management is of key importance to Outotec’s success. In the recent review of material topics with stakeholders, financial performance was raised as a topic. It has an important impact on all stakeholders, a fundamental aspect that Outotec must manage well. The company’s financial performance has a direct impact on employees’ wealth and commitment, stakeholder value, available jobs and tax paid in local communities. Our financial performance as well as risk management are comprehensively covered in Financial Statements 2019 and Corporate Governance Statement 2019, whereas the sustainability report focuses on value creation, company’s impacts, and financial implications due to climate change. • Read also Management approach • Financial Statements 2019 • Corporate Governance Statement 2019 53 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Value creation The key resources for value creation are the deep know-how of Outotec’s 4,088 experts (as per At the end of 2019, Outotec’s market capitalization was EUR 1,054 million. The total wealth headcount), 6,928 national technology patents, three research and development centers, as created by Outotec in 2019 was EUR 425 million. Due to the negative result in 2018, no dividend well as the Outotec brand. In addition, long customer and supplier relationships are essential was paid to shareholders in 2019. resources for the company. As employees are Outotec’s key asset, the most significant economic value distributed is wages Outotec generates employment and wealth in local communities as an employer and a buyer and salaries, which amounted to EUR 321 million in 2019. of goods and services. The company also contributes to local communities through university cooperation and subcontracting R&D work. Outotec technologies often improve the conditions Long customer relationships and 4,400 active suppliers are also essential resources for Outotec of the environment surrounding customers’ plants. since some 90% of our manufacturing (based on monetary value) is sourced from external suppliers. In December 2019, Outotec announced its decision to divest three businesses from the Metals, Energy & Water segment’s portfolio. These businesses relate to aluminum, waste-to-energy and Significant indirect economic impacts (GRI 203-2) sludge incineration. The businesses that will be divested have been classified as discontinued operations, including the transfer of assets held for sale and liabilities directly attributable to Large mines and processing plant investments – including Outotec technology – considerably boost them on separate lines in the statement of financial position. The comparison figures in the the development of the host country and its economy. They may create altogether hundreds or statement of income have been restated for 2018 to show the discontinued operations separately thousands of new jobs, while also leading to the establishment of new industrial plants and growth from continuing operations. At the same time the segment was renamed as Metals Refining. of businesses along the value chain from natural resource extraction and secondary resources to finished products. In such plants delivered by Outotec, the indirect economic impacts are In 2019, Outotec paid EUR 9.1 million in current income taxes. Outotec neither paid dividends considered significant. Outotec has been active in developing the resource-based industries in nor contributions to charities in 2019 due to negative earnings per share in 2018. To enhance many developing countries, such as Mongolia, Kazakhstan, and Zambia, to mention a few. its ability to create value over the cycle, Outotec aims to maintain its leadership in sustainable technologies and grow its service business. Supporting local businesses Direct economic value generated and distributed (GRI 201-1) As the majority of Outotec’s manufacturing is sourced from external suppliers, we play an important role in supporting local businesses and generating employment and wealth in local We made significant progress in several areas in 2019. Our order intake increased 29%, sales communities. In large projects, our indirect impact can be considered significant, as several increased 1%, and profitability continued to improve. The improvement in the adjusted EBIT for hundred local engineers and other specialists, contractors and service providers work for us. 2019 was mainly due to improved project execution, releases of provisions in a few completed A single large project can consist of over 10 million working hours at the customer’s site. Most projects and a higher share of service sales. Our cash flow was nearly at the same level as the of this work is done by local suppliers or subcontractors. In 2019, we spend EUR 258 million previous year with EUR 68 million. on suppliers that are local to our major operations (Finland, Australia, Germany, South Africa, and Chile). This represents 50% of our total supply spend. The remaining supply spend was Our service sales in 2019 were EUR 550 and increased 16 % compared to the previous year. distributed among 42 countries. Service order intake increased 14%. The growth came mainly from spare parts, long-term service agreements and service projects. Our long-term service contracts, as well as modernizations • Our procurement practices are described in Responsible supply chain prolonging the lifetime of older equipment, counteract the highly cyclical mining and metals industry. 54 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Our value creation Customers • Sustainable products and services • Long-term support and partnership • Social license to operate Intellectual • Outotec brand and reputation • IPRs, 775 patent families Planet Earth • Tacit knowledge Business activities • Emissions avoided 6.6 million tonnes of CO2e, valued at EUR 166 million • 2 R&D centers, 1 Dewatering technology center • R&D, raw material testing, product • Increased resource efficiency management, EUR 55 million Operational • Operations in 42 countries • Sales EUR 1,210 million Employees • Marketing • Wages and salaries EUR 321million • 2 manufacturing units, 6 assembly or service workshops, 1 ceramic plate • Wealth and professional growth • Engineering production unit, several warehouses • Safe workplace, LTIR 0.6 • Sourcing EUR 663 million • Respecting human rights Natural • Manufacturing • ISO 14001 global certification for environmental • Delivery management Suppliers • Materials used (steel, wood packaging, etc.) • Installation and commissioning • Long-term partnerships • Energy consumption: 156 TJ • Life-cycle support for customers • Economic sustainability, EUR 663 million spent on suppliers • Water withdrawal: 64,018 m³ • Responsible business practices Human Academic community • 4,088 employees • Subcontracted R&D work EUR 7 million • Outotec culture • Thesis opportunities and internships for students • 2,230 supervised contractors Local communities Social • Employment and wealth • Long customer relationships • EUR 258 million spent on local businesses • 4,400 suppliers • Current income taxes EUR 9 million • Relationships with the academic community • Community investments 0 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED • Employee volunteering Investors and financiers • Market capitalization EUR 1054 million Financial • Capitalization EUR 379 million, of which Sales EUR 1,210 million ./. Operating costs EUR 687 million • Compliance and transparency EUR 229 million funded by equity and = Value generated EUR 425 million • Net finance expenses EUR 14 million • Interest on hybrid bond EUR 11 million EUR 150 million by a hybrid bond EUR 85 million retailed in the company • Dividends 0 55 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Tax impacts In 2019 the effective tax rate for Outotec was 22.2%. In 2019, Outotec paid a total of EUR 6.5 million in corporate income taxes. The table below lists Outotec also pays, collects and remits other taxes and tax-like payments, such as value added the corporate income tax rates for Outotec in the countries where we were subject to corporate and sales taxes, payroll taxes and capital taxes. Our total tax contribution varies depending on income taxation in 2019. the geographical distribution of sales, which in turn is affected by our product mix and locations of customer projects. We have transparent communication with the tax authorities in every country where we operate. COUNTRY CORPORATE INCOME TAX, % COUNTRY CORPORATE INCOME TAX, % As a globally operating company, Outotec engages in a variety of tax laws, regulations, practices Australia 30 Namibia 32 and interpretations. The international tax environment is challenging to navigate; however, we Austria 25 Netherlands 19 – 25 are committed to be a responsible, compliant taxpayer in each country where we operate. We pursue transparency and fairness in our tax practices and do not engage in aggressive tax Bahrain 0 New Caledonia 30 planning. Brazil 34 Norway 22 Bulgaria 10 Panama 25 Outotec delivers large projects, and there may be only one on-going customer project in a given country. Due to the confidential nature of the information, we cannot disclose country specific Canada 25.8 Peru 29.5 financial information, including country specific tax numbers. Chile 27 Philippines 30 • Read also Financial Statements 2019 China 25 Poland 19 Finland 20 Qatar 10 Other local impacts Germany 29.8 Russia 20 Where Outotec has long-term service contracts with customers, maintenance and service Ghana 25 Saudi Arabia 20 personnel are normally hired locally and we train them for their specific tasks after the plant has been built. Greece 28 Serbia 15 India 30.9 South Africa 28 Often Outotec technologies help to improve the environmental conditions of the communities surrounding customers’ plants, which improves the living conditions of people, contributes to a Indonesia 25 Spain 25 healthier population and boosts agriculture and small businesses. Iran 25 Sri Lanka 28 Sweden 21.4 Outotec also contributes to local communities through university cooperation and subcontracting Kazakhstan 20 R&D work, which generates local jobs and enhances skills and knowledge development. Ongoing Mexico 30 Turkey 22 research and development activities run together with our external partners received EUR 1.75 Mongolia 10 – 25 United Arab Emirates 0 million in public funding. We additionally subcontracted work packages out to universities and mainly small and medium sized enterprises for more than three times this sum, over EUR Morocco 10 – 31 United Kingdom 19 7 million. We also cooperate with local universities to enhance the skills and knowledge of Mozambique 32 United States 25 students and decision-makers and train future plant operators and service personnel. Zambia 35 • View also Stakeholder engagement 56 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Financial implications due to climate change (GRI 201-2) The megatrends identified as impacting Outotec’s business most are: Urbanization, Resource efficiency, Sustainability, Digitalization, and Volatility. Overall, these global megatrends appear to bring Outotec more opportunities than threats. Of these, Urbanization, Resource efficiency, Sustainability and Digitalization have the largest impact on our key stakeholders in terms of climate change. The financial impacts for Outotec are estimated mainly to be changes in revenue due to changing regulation, customer needs and expectations of local communities. Regulatory opportunities and risks Most of Outotec’s opportunities and some risks caused by regulation changes relate to resource efficiency and sustainability. Eco-toxic substances from metallurgical operations can impact air quality, water, and soils and cause health problems. If customers do not fulfill the tightening environmental regulation or gain social acceptance, they may be forced to close their operations, which may reduce our possibilities to sell technology and services in the long run. With declining ore grades and more complex ore bodies, together with stricter environmental regulation, our customers will need to replace inefficient processes with new sustainable solutions, which provides business opportunities and revenues for us. As the concept of circular economy gains ground, we can sell more solutions for metals production from electronic waste, metallic scrap, battery paste or scrap, and mining and metallurgy related wastes. The transition to electric vehicles will bring more business opportunities for our technologies for battery metals and chemicals processing and recycling. The regulation and demand for closed water cycles, tailings management and renewable energy will increase. Our tailings and water management solutions enable mining companies to solve their environmental challenges. 57 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Carbon taxes favor our energy efficient technologies that fulfill even stricter future standards. In Our ways to mitigate climate change related risks emission trading, customers can get positive cash flow which they can use for new investments or buying services from us. Outotec’s advanced technologies and inclusion in the Global 100 We continuously develop our technologies, new business concepts and modular products. Index of most sustainable companies help customers to gain social acceptance and financing In 2019, we spent EUR 55 million in R&D and product development to further improve the for their projects. If we fail to keep our portfolio competitive, we may lose market share, which resource efficiency and competitiveness of our products. 81% of our R&D projects were related may impact stakeholders’ decisions on us. to initiatives targeting improved metals recovery, energy saving, waste minimization, emission reduction and/or safety improvement. Other opportunities and risks Digitalization is seen to play a major role in mitigating climate change. We are continuously Urbanization and digitalization offer mainly new business opportunities and revenues for investing in ICT to utilize the opportunities of digitalization. In 2019, our investments amounted Outotec. Our customers need greater production capacity and sustainable technologies to fulfill to EUR 18 million, consisting mainly of IT programs and intellectual property rights. the needs of the fast-growing middle-class consumers. Digitalization enables unprecedented possibilities to meet the future demands of sustainable business. Targeting sustainability in • R&D data and Emissions and climate data the production of raw materials by the means of digitally enhanced continuous improvement opens the potential for decreasing production costs, reducing emissions, improving safety and maximizing profitability; all of which can play a part in fighting against climate change. New digital tools, such as visualized real-time data, enable key decision-makers to interact, gain detailed insights and make better decisions. Outotec’s global network of value-adding partners support mutual gains and performance-based earnings when combined with our unique process technologies. Digitalization enables closer and faster engagement with our customers, as possible maintenance needs can be predicted with device and asset analytics proactively. Globally utilized advanced ICT systems offer sustainable business benefits, continuous improvement tools and cost efficiency for Outotec. Financial impact of emissions avoided The financial impact of the annual emissions avoided by Outotec’s customers using six Outotec technologies is 6.6 million tonnes CO2 in total. The CO2 European Emission Allowances Commodity Price [https://markets.businessinsider.com/commodities/co2-european-emissionallowances] (accessed Jan 17, 2020) was EUR 25.01/tonne CO2. By using this price, the value of the emissions avoided in 2019 was approximately EUR 166 million. Using a similar calculating method, the financial impact of our own emissions was EUR 562,000, and that of our supply chain EUR 14 million. 58 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Ethics, compliance and governance We foster good governance and ethical business practices, value integrity in all contexts, and strive for protecting Outotec’s good reputation. In the recent materiality review with stakeholders, Ethics, compliance and governance was regarded as one of the fundamentals constituting the foundation for our sustainability. • Read also Management approach (GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) • Read about equal opportunities and labor practices in Engaged experts 59 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI 94% These values and Code of Conduct define our common way of working. Our Code of Conduct sets out the principles of business conduct and gives guidance to our employees and external stakeholders on ethics, compliance with laws and regulations, solid governance and management of sustainability and risks. The Code is approved by the Board of Directors, and all employees and business partners are expected to follow it. Outotec’s target is that employees participate in e-learning on the Code of Conduct or attend of permanent employees with daily the related classroom training on a regular basis. During 2018, 94% of permanent employees access to a computer completed the with daily access to a computer completed the Code of Conduct training. During 2019, updated Code of training during 2018. Code of Conduct training material was distributed to all employees and contractors with daily access to a computer for self-study. A new Code of Conduct eLearning campaign is planned for 2020. All Executive Board members, Market Area heads and their respective direct reports have signed a specific declaration of compliance related to Outotec’s compliance program and policies and additionally, those senior managers with business roles are required to complete Ethics an e-learning module of internal controls. In addition, a summary of anti-corruption risks and required business behavior and actions was made available for all employees and contractors Outotec respects the internationally proclaimed human rights in line with the company’s through Outotec’s internal Compliance portal. commitment to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The company has also joined the United Nations Global Compact Initiative and is committed to its Outotec requires its new sales agents and representatives, as well as the existing ones when their Ten Principles, as well as the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These contract is renewed, to commit to Outotec’s principles. The company also conducts compliance commitments are re-iterated in Outotec’s Code of Conduct and substantiated in the HR policies, checks on new customers, suppliers and selected other project related third parties through a QEHS Policy and Supplier Policy. screening portal with checks for sanctions as well as legal and reputational risks. Mission, values and Code of Conduct (GRI 102-16) All projects of a certain size or complexity are subject to a risk assessment which includes various compliance and ethics queries and escalations for the identified risks. They may In line with our mission, Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources, Outotec is committed involve more detailed investigations internally, or through a third party, and may result in to protecting the environment in all its activities. We strive to serve our customers using our Outotec declining to bid for certain projects. In addition, unknown and potential risk customers, wide range of leading minerals and metals processing technologies and life-cycle services. suppliers or agents are regularly being assessed for compliance risks using an external tool Our commitment to sustainability binds us to take a holistic view of our customers’ business. with escalation paths. Outotec’s values were redefined during 2018 using virtual co-creation; all employees were Assessing human rights risks invited to share their thoughts and participate in shaping the values that guide Outotec people going forward. The new values are: Potential risks and human rights impacts in Outotec’s business relate to project site work in high-risk countries. Outotec has assessed the human rights risks in its own operations, with • Care for the customer the focus on service and manufacturing sites. As a result, no significant human rights risks • Take ownership were identified. Based on the assessment, working conditions guidelines regarding blue-collar • Foster renewal workers were implemented during 2019. These guidelines were aligned with the UN Guiding • Perform together Principles. 60 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Compliance In 2019, internal audits were conducted in the Middle East and Southeast Asia Pacific market areas and for agents used by Outotec (in process). Outotec also conducted compliance due Outotec endorses responsible business practices and complies with national and international diligence checks relating to identified high-risk countries. laws and regulations. The company has zero tolerance against corruption, works against corruption in all its forms, and requires its suppliers and business partners to follow the same Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures (GRI 205-2) principles and fully comply with all applicable anti-corruption laws. Outotec’s internal and external audit processes consider any corruption suspicions and Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics (GRI 102-17) fraudulent acts that may occur. We train our employees in connection with audit activities at our market area operations regarding anti-corruption policies and procedures for preventing Our SVP – Legal, Contract Management and Corporate Responsibility, who is a member of the misconduct and crimes. Virtual training, processes and guidelines on anti-corruption are also Executive Board, has the overall accountability for corporate responsibility including mechanisms available to all employees. In 2019, an anti-corruption campaign regarding anti-corruption risks to seek advice about and report on unethical behavior. The Chief Compliance Officer reports and required business conduct was made available for all employees and contractors. unethical behavior, non-compliance cases – reported through Compliance Helpline or otherwise – and actions taken quarterly to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors. There Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken (GRI 205-3) are no independent mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics in use. Compliance investigations led to the termination of twelve employment contracts during 2019. Outotec’s Compliance Helpline on the company website is available for anyone to raise concerns Outotec did not have to pay any fines or fulfill any non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance related to corruption, human rights or any unethical behavior. All concerns raised are treated with compliance laws in 2019. confidentially, and there is a clear no-retaliation policy. More severe compliance cases may be submitted to Outotec’s Compliance Board, whose members are the Chief Compliance Officer, Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken (GRI 406-1) the General Counsel, the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Human Resources. In 2019, there were in total 36 Compliance cases investigated and received from all channels (website, We monitor the number of filed, addressed and resolved grievances about labor practices. intranet, email, verbal, etc.). Outotec’s Compliance Helpline and other feedback channels are available for all employees and external stakeholders for raising concerns. In 2019, six reported incidents of discrimination Operations assessed for risks related to corruption (GRI 205-1) were filed through formal grievance mechanisms within Outotec. These incidents were reviewed locally, in cooperation with the global Human Resources function and/or the Chief Compliance Outotec’s strategic and operational risks are described at (www.outotec.com/company/investors/) Officer and have been closed with remediation action plans implemented and results reviewed and the company’s risk management policies, responsibilities and processes are set out in our through our routine management review processes. Corporate Governance Statement 2019 on pages 9-10. • Read about product compliance in Sustainable technologies and innovations. Our risk management is based on our Enterprise Risk Management Policy. Environmental, social and economic sustainability related risks are covered in the project risk assessment tool, which Governance structure (GRI 102-18) is used to assess all new projects worth at least one million euros. Appropriate follow-up actions are defined based on these findings. The assessments are project-specific, and for this reason, The work, duties, composition, committees, and remuneration of the Board of Directors are the number and percentage of operations could not be reported. described in our Corporate Governance Statement 2019. There is no correlation between the compensation for Board members and Outotec’s social or environmental performance. 61 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI The Board of Directors’ diversity principles are also detailed in the Corporate Governance Sustainability-related personal targets are included in the annual bonus plans of the Executive Statement. Based on these principles, the Board members must have the necessary knowledge Board members, QEHS managers, and environmental and sustainability managers. Inventors and experience regarding the business, social, and cultural conditions in the most significant working with new, patentable solutions receive monetary rewards for their inventions. markets to Outotec’s business; while they must also constitute a fair and balanced combination Furthermore, Outotec rewards all employees for making proposals that improve the sustainability of professional experience, skills, gender, nationality, knowledge, and variety of opinions and of the company’s internal processes. backgrounds considering Outotec’s current and future needs. Outotec’s long-term objective is to have a fair and balanced representation of both genders in the Board. When preparing for nominations to the Board of Directors, Outotec’s Nomination Board aims to ensure that these diversity principles are followed, that the Board functions well as a Board of Directors whole, and that the competence profile of the Board of Directors supports Outotec’s existing and future businesses and is consistent with our strategic goals. Managing sustainability CEO / The Code of Conduct, Supplier Policy, HR policies, Donation and Employee Volunteering Policy, as Executive Board well as Quality, Environment, Health and Safety Policy define the basic requirements for Outotec’s environmental, social and economic sustainability. We continuously train our employees and suppliers on these principles. Head of Legal Product Board Outotec’s Executive Board reviews and approves our Sustainability Agenda as well as the & CM & CR CTO sustainability strategy, targets and reporting. The Board of Directors approves our Statement on Non-financial Information, published as part of the Financial Statements, covering the environment, social and employees, anti-corruption and human rights related topics. Our SVP – Legal, Contract Management and Corporate Responsibility, who is a member of the Executive Board, has the overall accountability for corporate responsibility. Sustainability Working Group Our corporate level Product Board is responsible for the sustainability of our products and services. It oversees and steers Outotec’s approach in product and technology development and the related innovation ecosystem and consists of the Executive Board members, Chief Technology Officer (chairman), and business unit representatives. Corporate Product board decides, among other People Supply chain Governance Strategy things, the sustainability measures and development targets of Outotec’s products. In addition, each Head of Human Head of Sourcing and compliace Head of Strategy business unit has its own Product Board to manage the sustainability of its products and services. Resources and Manufacturing Head of Legal & CCO Sustainability is integrated into all relevant organizational functions, such as Quality, Environment, QEHS Communications Health and Safety; Supply; Human Resources & Communications; Legal & Contract Management Finance and Tax Investor Relations Head of Operational Head of and Finance & Control. We have a Sustainability Working Group, whose core team coordinates CFO Head of IR Exellence Communications sustainability work and meets frequently whenever needed. 62 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Data 63 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Data collection Economic data The economic data in this report is based on data collected through our enterprise resource planning and management reporting systems. The figures used in Outotec’s consolidated Financial Statements 2019 have been prepared according to the International Financial Reporting Standard. In addition, some data has been collected manually from Microsoft Excel spreadsheets. Outotec announced in December its decision to divest three of its non-core businesses from the Metals, Energy & Water segment. Outotec’s income statement, order intake and order backlog related figures presented in the financial statements relate to our continuing operations and financial information for the comparison period 2018 has been restated accordingly. The same figures have been used in the Sustainability report 2019.The divestment plans have only impacted economic figures presented in the Sustainability report. All other figures are for Outotec as a whole. • Financial performance and value creation • Financial Statements 2019 64 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Environmental data Social data Environmental data has been collected through our Environment and Health and Safety reporting Data on our employees was collected applying a global master data system based on SAP Human platform. Each location’s data is compiled on Microsoft Excel spreadsheets in Sharepoint and fed Capital Management. The system includes accurate data on Outotec employees globally, covering into our Power BI database. The data is then analyzed and calculation are performed. all business units and providing basic information on all employees. Data on performance development dialogues (PDD) is compiled from the PDD tool based on Success Factor system. The environmental data is available for Outotec’s largest business units. Our smallest offices with typically fewer than 10 persons were not able to report environmental data, because they Our Learning Management System provides information on Outotec’s own global training are in large office premises together with other companies. They pay a monthly lump sum to programs and e-learning modules concerning vocational training and Code of Conduct training. office space providers, and therefore it is not possible to determine their specific electricity, However, it is not possible to categorize training hours by gender, region or employment category heat, or water consumption. in the current system. Local training data is collected with Microsoft Excel sheets from HR personnel in the market area offices. The training of blue-collar workers normally takes place Our principle in collecting the environmental data is financial control, and leased assets are in classroom and those hours are not reported in the Learning Management System. included in the reported figures. Training hours on health and safety are compiled from the Health and Safety reporting system Performance data on environmental aspects has been collected from our major business units and they cover both Outotec employees and supervised contractors on project sites. for electricity use, district heating and cooling, owned and leased company cars, water use, recycled waste, and landfilled waste. The report also includes information on the combustion Outotec’s global health and safety reporting system is used for data collection and to map out of fuels in company-owned combustion sources (scope 1 emissions), and figures on hazardous and monitor progress towards common health and safety targets in all Outotec operations. Data wastes, which were mainly generated in our research centers, manufacturing workshops, and about employees traveling in high-risk countries was collected from the Travel Tracker system ceramic plate production plant. used as part of our Global ISOS service. Scope 3 emissions regarding business flights is received from our partner CWT Travel. Supply chain data is collected using the Global Supplier Database and from the SIEVO spend management software. The methodology of calculating supply chain emissions are based on Our positive impact to combat climate change, the handprint, is measured by the emissions Outotec’s spending and carried out using a scope 3 screening tool developed by GHG Protocol and avoided by the metallurgical industry using six Outotec metals-related technologies. We have Quantis. To be able to use the scope 3 screening tool, Outotec’s spend on supply was converted calculated the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from the use of six significant Outotec technologies, from EUR into USD. In 2019, the EUR to USD annual average exchange rate was 1.102 (source: combined this information with production data, and then compared it with emissions from other http://x-rates.com). corresponding technologies on the market. To collect data on human rights and compliance, a questionnaire in the form of Microsoft Excel Environmental data from Outotec’s project site operations was excluded from the data collection. sheets was sent to the persons responsible for human resources in each location. Compliance All the local subsidiaries from which the data was collected are fully owned by Outotec, and for data was also collected from the feedback received through Compliance Helpline and other this reason, no allocations to subsidiaries regarding the environmental indicators were made. feedback channels. • Social data • Environmental impact of our own operations • Health and safety • Environmental data • Responsible supply chain • All historical data 65 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Economic data Economic data is presented in the Financial performance and value creation chapter. Please also see Financial data in online data tool. 66 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Environmental impact of our own operations Although the environmental impact of our own operations is relatively modest in comparison to our value chain, as the work is mainly done in offices, we strive to operate with minimum inputs of energy and materials. We closely monitor our consumption of electricity, heating and water. Sustainability, pollution prevention and sound environmental management are required in all our operations. The bulk of our operations involve engineering and business management in subsidiaries and branch offices located in 41 countries in addition to Finland. Only a few of them require an environmental permit, and the risks related to these operations are managed by certified environmental management systems. Approximately 90% of Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced, and we report the carbon emissions of our supply chain separately. Our reporting of environmental data covers Outotec’s premises and employees, as well as supervised workers at our project sites. 67 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI In 2019, we had research centers in Finland, Germany; a pilot plant and R&D unit in Australia; a Energy consumption within the organization (GRI 302-1) Dewatering Technology Center, two manufacturing workshops and a ceramic plate production plant in Finland; assembly shops in Northand South America, Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and Our total electricity and fuel consumption from non-renewable sources remained at the same Middle East as well as several warehouses. None of these sites are in or adjacent to protected level as in 2018. We did not directly consume any renewable fuels, or sell any electricity, heating, areas or areas of high biodiversity value (GRI 304-1). Outotec closed its service workshop in the cooling or steam in 2019. However, we purchased 7,754 MWh electricity based on renewable United Arab Emirates at the end of 2018. This workshop was included in the 2018 environmental hydropower in Finland and Germany. This corresponds to 48% of our electricity consumption data, but not in the 2019 data. In addition, the size of the operations in Philippines was reduced and 22% of total energy consumption. and it did not fall under the scope of reporting in 2019. Figures for energy consumption are collected globally from our operations based on the energyOur management’s commitment to the continuous improvement of our environmental performance related invoicing in each location. The conversion factors between energy units are taken from is reflected in both ambitious target-setting and results. We evaluate the environmental aspects Statistics Finland of our offices, research centers and manufacturing workshops, and set annual targets based on this evaluation. Outotec operates according to globally harmonized business processes. The ENERGY CONSUMPTION, TJ 2019 2018 2017 company is globally certified to ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment) and ISO 45001 (safety) standards. In addition, the locations in Finland and Germany are certified to ISO 50001 (energy). Direct energy consumption: 61.1 52.5* 50.4 Our performance is followed-up regularly through internal and external audits. Propane gas 8.6 8.4 11.4 Environmental criteria are considered whenever we select new office premises. Outotec’s two Light fuel oil, gasoline and diesel 38.2 27.3* 24.2 largest offices, in Espoo, Finland, and Oberursel, Germany, fulfil LEED® Gold requirements Coal, coke, semi coke 0.0 0 0.03 regarding the construction. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a globally recognized green building certification program. Natural gas 14.3 16.8* 14.8 Indirect energy consumption: 95.2 103.6* 109.4 At our research centers, we record monthly our consumption of electricity and natural gas and other fuels used for test purposes. Electricity (incl. cooling) 57.6** 60.4* 62.9 District heating 36.5 42.1 45.4 Our target is to reduce the amount of waste produced and our waste management system provides collection, sorting, storage and disposal of waste on our own premises. Outotec employees are Steam 1.1 1.1 1.0 instructed to separate different types of waste for sorted collection. Where hazardous wastes Total energy consumption 156.3 156.1* 159.8 such as radioactive, flammable, explosive, toxic, corrosive or bio-hazardous materials need to be handled, specialized contractors are commissioned to dispose of these materials safely and * Figure restated as a result of data validation. in line with local legal requirements and customers’ requirements at construction sites. **Converted to TJ from 15,992 MWh 68 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Energy intensity (GRI 302-3) ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN 2019 2018 2017 2016 FINNISH UNITS, TJ Our energy intensity calculations include fuel, electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumed Pori research center and Turula works within Outotec. Energy consumption 31.0 36.0 35.7 38.3 ENERGY, TJ/EUR 1 MILLION SALES 2019 2018 2017 Energy saved due to efficiency improvements, Energy intensity 0.13 0.13* 0.14 TJ compared to base year 2.6 0.5 1.0 base year Lappeenranta works *Restated due to business divestments in the Metals, Energy & Water segment being classified as discontinued operations. Energy consumption 15.0 15.4 17.2 18.8 Energy saved due to efficiency The denominator for the energy intensity calculations is our annual sales: improvements, TJ compared to base year 3.8 1.4 0.7 base year Turku works DENOMINATOR 2019 2018 2017 Energy consumption 11.5 9.4 11.3 13.2 Sales, EUR million 1,210 1,198* 1,139 Energy saved due to efficiency *Restated due to business divestments in the Metals, Energy & Water segment being classified as discontinued improvements, TJ compared operations. to base year 1.7 3.6 1.2 base year Total Reduction of energy consumption (GRI 302-4) Energy consumption 57.5 60.8 64.2 70.3 To support the achievement of Outotec’s CO2 reduction targets, Outotec has a global annual Saving compared to 2016, % 11.5 7.8 4.2 base year energy reduction target of 1% until 2025. Interactions with water as a shared resource (GRI 303-1) Outotec implemented an Energy Management system based on ISO 50001 in five locations in Finland in 2017 and four locations in Germany in 2016. All these locations are committed to Even though our direct impact of our operations on water quality and availability is relatively low continuously improve energy efficiency and have been certified by TÜV Rheinland Cert GmbH and mainly constrained to the usage of municipal water services, Outotec’s wider value chain has in the respective years. In Finland, we renewed our official energy saving agreement which a significant impact on water availability and water-related environmental factors. The mining consists of short-term (4% savings until 2020) and long-term (7.5% savings until 2025) targets industry uses extensive amounts of water for minerals processing and refining, which is why with 2016 as the base year. The principles will be expanded globally to other Outotec locations water scarcity and sometimes also excess water constitute risks for Outotec’s customers. When in the coming years, and a certification will be considered case-by-case. planning water related activities it is recommended to take a wider water management approach, as it is imperative to guarantee the availability of right quality water for processing and production The consumption figures include different types of fuels, purchased electricity, and district purposes, as well as for discharge. In the case of Zero Liquid Discharge requirements, suitable heating. The conversion factors between energy units were taken from Statistics Finland. effluent and process water treatment and recycling consideration with a predictive outlook 69 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI are imperative. Outotec believes that tailings and water are interconnected and conventional Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) (GRI 305-1) tailings ponds are of special interest, since they pose an extensive risk and cover large areas and contaminated water that can interact with the environment. Also, mining operations can Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are calculated based on the consumption of nonchange sites’ topographical and hydrological conditions in the long run. Minerology and therefore renewable fuels in our locations globally, plus the carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions water chemistry also differ by site and by time, which is why every mine site requires activities released by company cars, excluding vehicles used in site operations at customers’ plants. targeted to their own operations. The conversion factors for the fuel specific CO2e emissions are taken from Statistics Finland. For the company cars, the CO2e emissions are calculated based on the reports of the leasing To tackle these problems, Outotec offers solutions and technologies to reduce water consumption, companies in Finland (annual kilometers, CO2 emissions/km/car type). For other locations, increase water recyclability, as well as monitor and predict water balances. In some of the cases, the CO2e emissions were calculated by using the reported fuel consumptions, kilometers and we apply life-cycle assessment to estimate the potential impacts and benefits. average CO2e emissions. The GHG emission calculations only relate to CO2, as we do not release emissions of other greenhouse gases. The gas included in the calculations is CO2 from fossil fuel We manage and monitor closely our own water consumption and report it annually. We also sources, excluding bio-based CO2 emissions (Outotec has no biogenic emissions). In terms of interact with other stakeholders in increasing sustainability in global water supplies. consolidation, the figures include operations in which Outotec has full financial control, i.e. our own operations and offices, with site operations at customers’ premises excluded. Water withdrawal by source (GRI 303-3) DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2e 2019 2018 2017 We purchase water locally from municipal water suppliers and channel wastewater into Scope 1 emissions (own fuel combustion, company cars) 4,206 4,344* 4,287 municipal waste water systems. The water volumes are calculated mostly based on invoices, except for certain locations in Africa that use water from drill wells. Because our workshops Company car emissions in Finland, g CO2e/km 93 103 110 are mainly assembly shops, no process water is discharged. Our research center in Pori uses measured amounts of river water for cooling purposes in test facilities. After use, this water is * Figure restated as a result of data validation. channeled back to the river. Outotec stores no rainwater; neither do we use seawater, produced water or wastewater from other organizations. Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) (GRI 305-2) WATER CONSUMPTION, M3/YEAR 2019 2018 2017 INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2e 2019 2018 2017 Municipal water 61,235 60,653* 48,556 Scope 2 market-based emissions 6,164 7,123 7,883 (purchased electricity, district heating and steam) Surface water 1,476 2,458 5,521 Ground water 1,307 4,447 23 Total water consumption 64,018 67,558* 54,100 In line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we used the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. The emissions are indicated in CO2. The * Figure restated as a result of data validation. country specific emission factors were retrieved from RE_DISS for the European countries (AIB, European Residual Mixes Results of the calculation of Residual Mixes for the calendar year 2018, The reported total water consumption has decreased by 5% since 2018. Version 1.1), for the other countries from GaBi databases or for those not found in these, we 70 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI used the Protocol’s calculation tool ‘GHG emissions from purchased electricity’. In calculations for SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2e 2019 2018 2017 market-based emission for Europe we used ‘Residual mix CO2e emission’ factors (AIB, European Residual Mixes Results of the calculation of Residual Mixes for the calendar year 2018, Version Air transactions 10,890 10,100* 10,170 1.1). In terms of consolidation, the figures include operations in which Outotec has full financial Rail transactions 48 54 57 control, i.e. our own operations and offices, with site operations at customers’ premises excluded. Commuting 1,150 1,402 1,420 In 2019, Outotec purchased 7,754 MWh of CO2-free electricity from renewable energy sources Supply chain (Purchased goods and services) 574,730 520,680 544,100 in Finland and Germany, equaling 48% of our electricity consumption and 22% of total energy consumption. We are gradually moving to renewable energy in our major locations in Germany Total Scope 3 emissions 586,818 532,236* 555,747* and Finland, excluding the Pori and Frankfurt research centers. *Restated due to internal validation. Market-based Scope 2 emissions decreased by 13 %, mainly due to reduced electricity consumption. Location-based Scope 2 emissions were 7,617 tonnes of CO2 in 2019. Approximately 90% of Outotec’s manufacturing CO2 EMISSIONS is outsourced. The carbon footprint of our BY SUPPLY CATEGORY supply chain amounted to 574,731 tonnes of CO2e in 2019. This represents an increase of 10% In 2018, Outotec set new GHG emission targets for the combined Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions compared to 2018, which is due to increase in spend. The largest source of CO2e emissions was which are in line with the Science Based Targets requirements. The Science-based targets the category of machinery, representing approximately 43% of the total. The calculations are framework is based on climate science, according to which a global carbon budget is estimated based on Outotec’s spending and carried out using the Scope 3 screening tool developed by to keep global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial Quantis and GHG Protocol. temperatures. In Outotec’s choice of methodology, the carbon budget is equated to global GDP and our share of emissions is determined by our gross profit, that is our share of the global CO2 EMISSIONS BY SUPPLY CATEGORY economy. In practice, for Outotec this means a reduction of GHG emissions of 13% by the year Machinery 43% 2025, translating to a yearly reduction of roughly 2%. Basic metals and fabricated metal 30% Electrical and optical equipment 8% Renting of machinery, consultancy 5% Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) (GRI 305-3) Rubber and plastics 4% Other non-metallic minerals 4% We include business travel, commuting and supply chain in our scope 3 GHG emissions. The Textiles and textile products 1% data about business travels are received from our globally centralized travel agency that covers Others, such as chemicals, wood products etc. 5% Machinery 43% all major locations. According to our Travel Policy, the preferred travel agency is to be used for Basic metals and fabricated metal 30% all travel purchases, and no purchases from local travel agencies are allowed. Thus, we have Our travel-related Electrical and opticalemissions equipment 8%and traveled kilometers increased slightly from 2018. This is partly estimated that the coverage of the travel agency report is higher than 98% but no extrapolation due to increase Renting in travel of machinery, 5% as change in emission factors for short haul flights. The CO2e as well consultancy was made to cover the unknown share. The commuting related emissions are estimated based emissions Rubber andfor flight plastics 4%and rail travel are reported directly by our travel agent Carlson Wagonlit Other non-metallic minerals 4% on average numbers realized in Espoo and extrapolated to cover the all employees. Travel. Textiles and textile products 1% Others, such as chemicals, wood products etc. 5% 71 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI CO2e emissions from commuting have decreased 18% possibly due to a new pilot in our Espoo Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, and other significant air emissions (GRI 305-7) office where Outotec supports the use of public transportation with employer-subsidized commuter tickets. We also decreased the number of parking spaces available for employees in VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (VOCS), TONNES 2019 2018 2017 Espoo in 2019. In addition, we encourage employees to use bicycles for commuting by offering them a season ticket for the Helsinki and Espoo citybikes, as well as providing a citybike parking VOC emissions from paint shops 7.8 5.8 8.8 station on Outotec premises. We report only VOC emissions, as nitrogen and sulfur oxides as well as other air emissions are We use teleconferences and Microsoft Teams Meetings for internal meetings. Video conferencing not relevant in our operations. We estimate the VOC emissions based on the paint consumption in systems are also available in our major locations. After the Office365 collaboration and our manufacturing, assembly and service operations. The VOC emissions have increased in 2019 information sharing tools were taken into use in 2015, traveling to internal meetings has reduced. due to new paint shop being purchased by our Turula works (previously painting in Turula was outsourced). We have used 300 g VOCs per one-liter paint as the emission factor in our calculations. Outotec strives to use responsible air carriers and hotels. Lufthansa and Finnair, for instance, use relatively new fleets, which generally produce lower emissions. In agreements with hotels, Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (GRI 306-2) Outotec prefers hotels with favorable social responsibility policies. WASTE, TONNES 2019 2018 2017 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS, TONNES OF CO2e 2019 2018 2017 Waste recycled 835 415 599 Total GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) 597,188 543,703* 567,917* Landfill waste and incinerated waste 464 429 609 *Restated due to internal validation. Hazardous waste 69 24 41 Total waste 1368 867 1,249 GHG emissions intensity (GRI 305-4) Paper recycled 73 57 83 TONNES OF CO2E/EUR 1 MILLION SALES 2019 2018 2017 We follow global guidelines in waste management, which are applicable for all Outotec offices, Scope 1+2 8.6 9.6* 10.7 workshops and test facilities. We have instructed our locations to sort waste according to local Scope 3 (includes business travel, commuting and regulations and the guidelines provided by facility owners. Waste disposal method has been supply chain emissions) 485 444 489* determined either from information provided by the waste disposal contractor or directly by locations. Waste amounts increased significantly because of higher sales volumes in 2019. Relative total GHG emissions 494 454* 499* Relative flight emissions 9 8.4* 8.9 Significant spills (GRI 306-3) *Restated due to internal validation. No significant spills were reported in Outotec operations and project sites in 2019. Our relative Scope 1 and 2 emissions per one-million-euro sales decreased by 10% from 2018. A small amount of hazardous waste is produced in the final surface treatment of filter presses in our Lappeenranta works. In addition, oily waste from lubricants used in the Turula works is classified as The overall positive impact of Outotec’s business travel and commuting can be best illustrated hazardous. Our research centers produce small amounts of different kinds of hazardous chemicals. by comparing our total annual GHG emissions in 2019, which were 22,458 tonnes CO2 (includes These hazardous wastes are sent to local hazardous waste treatment facilities. scope 1, scope 2, business travel and commuting emissions), with the emissions avoided by using six of our metals-related technologies, which amounted to 6,644,791 tonnes of CO2e. 72 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Social data Employees (GRI 102-8) Outotec had 4,088 employees at year-end 2019, which was 76 employees more than the previous year-end. Temporary personnel accounted for about 6% of the total payroll. Some of the temporary employees are self-employed, typically retired Outotec experts who work shorter periods in our customer projects. During annual vacation seasons, we hire students as trainees. 73 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI The average age of employees was 42.4 years. EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT EMPLOYEES BY REGION 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 AND GENDER* EMEA permanent 2593 2,537 2,662 Male permanent 3037 3,028 3,176 temporary 193 153 151 temporary 182 182 175 EMEA all 2786 2,690 2,813 male all 3219 3,210 3,351 Americas permanent 676 704 723 Female permanent 795 751 745 temporary 15 33 35 temporary 74 51 50 Americas all 691 727 758 female all 869 802 795 APAC permanent 563 538 536 All employees permanent 3832 3,779 3,921 temporary 48 47 39 temporary 256 233 225 APAC all 611 585 575 Total number of employees at year end 4088 4,012 4,146 Employees on average 4143 4,095 4,149 EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY * Outotec has started to report the number of employees in external reporting as full-time equivalent (FTE) starting from PART-TIMERS PER REGION IN 2019 PART-TIME FULL-TIME the beginning of 2019. Since FTE is adjusted as per working hours (employee working 50% is counted as 0.5FTE), it gives a better understanding of the resources than headcount. In the annual report number of employees has been reported EMEA female 44 562 as 4045 FTE in the end of the year. For sustainability reporting the number of employees is reported as headcount (each employee is one head), since it is a more relevant figure for the KPIs reported in the sustainability report than the FTE. male 60 2120 EMEA all 104 2682 EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY Americas female 0 134 male 3 554 Senior management 6% Americas all 3 688 Middle management 27% APAC female 18 111 Specialists 54% Blue-collar workers 14% male 13 469 APAC all 31 580 Total 138 3950 Senior management 6% Middle management 27% Specialists 54% Blue-collar workers 14% 74 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI New employee hires and employee turnover (GRI 401-1) Compensation (GRI 102-38) NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES 2019 2019 2018 2018 2017 2017 The total compensation paid out to employees in 2019 amounted to EUR 321 million. Outotec’s compensation policy is described on www.outotec.com/cg. We define countries with over 170 by gender # % # % # % employees or more as significant operations. In 2019, those countries were Finland, Australia, Female 173 4 162 4 123 3 Germany, South Africa and Chile. Male 439 11 504 13 599 13 by age group COMPENSATION 2019 2018 2017 <30 186 5 238 6 227 5 Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 321 293* 326 31-50 339 8 349 9 392 9 Ratio of annual total compensation of CEO to mean compensation of employees 10.6 15.1 11.3** >51 84 2 76 2 63 2 Finland 10.7 15.0 11.8 by region EMEA 401 10 404 10 401 9 Australia 3.5 3.7 3.6 Americas 103 3 169 4 200 5 Germany 2.0 2.3 2.4 APAC 108 3 93 2 81 2 South Africa 4.1 4.0 3.5 Total 612 15 666 17 682 16 Chile 2.5 4.6 4.1 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio, % -29.55 33 10 Change in annual total compensation of CEO, % -26.85 26.5 14.5 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER RATE 2019 2019 2018 2018 2017 2017 Change in annual mean compensation of employees, % 3.56 -4.8 0.2 by gender # % # % # % Female 97 2 122 3 96 2 n = 3,063, coverage 76% Male 388 9 506 13 439 11 *Restated due to business divestments in Metals, Energy & Water segment being classified as discontinued operations. by age group **Restated due to an error in calculation <30 59 1 70 2 92 2 31-50 307 8 400 10 311 8 The ratio of annual total compensation of the CEO to mean compensation of employees was 10.1, >51 119 3 158 4 131 3 which was 4.5 %-points lower than in 2018. The annual total compensation ratio is calculated for all employees globally. The calculations do not include blue-collar workers, because their by region information is not included in our SAP Master data system. EMEA 295 7 431 11 312 8 Americas 129 3 116 3 162 4 72 key employees were part of the company’s share-based incentive program in 2019. In addition, 799 employees equaling 20% of eligible personnel participated in our employee share APAC 61 1 81 2 61 1 savings plan. This plan was not offered to employees in Mozambique, Morocco, Qatar and Saudi Total turnover rate 485 12 628 16 535 13 Arabia due to legal restrictions. In May 2019, Outotec paid out a total of 99,981 shares and cash 75 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI payments to cover estimated taxes to 743 employees who participated in the employee share Minimum notice periods for significant operational changes (GRI 402-1) savings plan in 2016. The provisions for consultation and negotiations with employees are included in the collective Outotec runs several pension plans in various countries. These plans are mainly classiﬁed as bargaining agreements in some of the countries where Outotec has operations. In Finland, legally deﬁned contribution pension plans. Other post-employment beneﬁts include medical the collective bargaining agreements include provisions for consultation and negotiations arrangements for retired employees in Germany. lasting from two to six weeks; in Australia four weeks, in Sweden four weeks, in Chile 30 days, and in Brazil 12 weeks. The minimum notice periods that must be observed in advance Collective bargaining agreements (GRI 102-41) of significant operational changes depend on locations and national legislation, and therefore differ significantly. In Finland, the notice periods range from two weeks to six months, and in 50% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. This information other countries, the notice periods range from two weeks to one year. was collected with a separate questionnaire sent out to all our locations. Binding collective agreements are followed in each country where they are applicable to Outotec employees. Occupational health and safety Benefits provided to full-time employees (GRI 401-2) Work-related injuries (GRI 403-9) BENEFITS BY REGION, % FINLAND AUSTRALIA GERMANY SOUTH AFRICA CHILE P = PERMANENT, LOST-TIME INJURIES PER 1 MILLION WORK HOURS, 2019 2018 2017 TEMP = TEMPORARY P TEMP P TEMP P TEMP P TEMP P TEMP INCLUDING EMPLOYEES AND SUPERVISED WORKERS Life insurance Yes Yes No No Yes Yes Yes No Yes No LTIR 0.6 2.0* 1.7 Health care Yes Yes No No Yes Yes No No Yes Yes Number of employees and supervised workers 6,318 6,762* 6,556* Disability/ Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Total working hours 13,400,000 14,400,000 13,300,000 invalidity coverage Parental leave Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes *Figures restated due to internal validation. Retirement provision Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Yes Yes Stock ownership Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No n= 1364 100 342 43 370 9 265 8 177 1 76 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Work-related injuries, own employees (rate per 1,000,000 work hours) Average hours of training (GRI 404-1) 2019, # 2019, RATE 2018, # 2018, RATE 2017, # 2017, RATE Our reporting of vocational, compliance and Code of Conduct training hours covers Outotec’s employees. Human rights issues are covered in the Code of Conduct e-learning and classroom Fatalities 0 0 1 0.1 0 0.0 trainings. Only the training provided by Outotec is included in this report. Data on training pursued High-consequence by individual Outotec employees externally is not reported as data is not stored into our systems. injuries (LTI) 6 0.7 20* 2.4* 19 2.4 Recordable injuries 17 2.0 37 4.5 42* 5.4* Our learning management system including vocational, compliance and Code of Conduct training does not provide information of the training hours by gender and employee category. It collects Number of hours the information on Outotec’s own global training programs and e-learning modules. Local worked 8,600,000 8,200,000 7,800,000 training data is reported by HR persons in the market area offices. Number of employees 4,088 4,012 4,146 The health and safety training hours cover employees and supervised workers on project sites. * Figures restated due to internal validation. Training hours on health and safety are compiled from the health and safety reporting system. Work-related injuries, supervised workers (rate per 1,000,000 work hours) TRAINING HOURS 2019 2018 2017 2019, # 2019, RATE 2018, # 2018, RATE 2017, # 2017, RATE Health and safety training Fatalities 0 0 0 0.0 0 0.0 Number of employees and contractors 6,318 6,762* 6,556* High-consequence Hours 84,000 133,000 109,000 injuries (LTI) 2 0.4 8* 1.3* 4 0.7 Average hours of health and safety training per person 13 20* 17* Recordable injuries 5 1.0 9* 1.4* 9* 1.6* Vocational, compliance and code of Conduct training Number of hours worked 4,800,000 6,300,000 5,500,000 Number of employees 4088 4,012 4,146 Number of Hours 24,412 30,288 61,847 supervised contractors 2,230 2,750 2,410 Average hours of vocational, compliance * Figures restated due to internal validation. and Code of Conduct training per employee ￼7,5 8 15 Average hours of training per employee 18 27 31 * Figures restated due to internal validation. 77 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews (GRI 404-3) Diversity and equal opportunity (GRI 405-1) PERFORMANCE REVIEWS, % 2019 2018 2017 EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP, % 2019 2018 2017 by gender Executive Board Female 99 99 99 < 30 years 0 0 0 Male 99 99 99 31-50 years 67 40 44 by employee category > 51 years 33 60 56 Senior management 99 98 100 Senior management Middle management 99 99 100 < 30 years 0 0 0 Specialists 99 99 100 31–50 years 56 58 55 Blue-collar workers N/A N/A* N/A* > 51 years 44 43 45 Middle management n = 2019: 3,086 2018: 3,165, 2017: 3,290, coverage 75% < 30 years 1 1 1 *) Performance reviews of blue-collar workers and casuals have not been registered in the data system, and they are not included in the above numbers. 31–50 years 65 66 65 > 51 years 34 33 34 Specialists < 30 years 19 17 13 31–50 years 61 62 67 > 51 years 20 20 19 Blue-collar workers < 30 years 21 23 20 31–50 years 60 61 65 > 51 years 19 15 15 Board of Directors < 30 years 0 0 0 31–50 years 0 0 0 > 51 years 100 100 100 Coverage 100% 78 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men (GRI 405-2) SHARE OF WOMEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY, % 2019 2018 2017 Board of Directors 50 38 29 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF WOMEN FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE TO MEN BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY AUSTRALIA CHILE FINLAND GERMANY SOUTH-AFRICA Executive Board 33 20 22 (MALE = 1) Senior management 13 13 13 2019 Middle management 15 15 13 Senior management 0.67 * 0.96 1.17 * Specialists 30 28 28 Middle management 0.90 0.98 0.98 0.95 0.80 Blue-collar workers 3 3 3 Specialists 0.82 0.88 0.97 1.02 0.81 Blue-collar workers N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A All employees 21 20 19 2018 The share of men in the mining and metallurgical industry has traditionally been high, which Senior management 0.75 * 0.92 1.07 * partly explains the current low share of women. Middle management 0.80 0.88 0.97 0.94 0.75 We have not identified any minority or vulnerable groups amongst our employees, and thus the Specialists 0.83 0.93 1.00 1.02 0.78 topic is not relevant to Outotec and not reported. Blue-collar workers N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 2017 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community (GRI 202-2) Senior management 0.74 * 0.94 0.86 * When Outotec starts a new operation in a new country, an expatriate employee is typically Middle management 0.76 1.00 0.96 0.86 0.70 assigned to integrate the new operation into Outotec. Our goal is nevertheless that senior Specialists 0.81 0.86 1.00 0.95 0.76 management should be hired locally. We define local as a person having the nationality of the country of the location in question. Our significant locations are defined as countries with over Blue-collar workers N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 170 employees. *) No females in senior management % OF LOCALS IN SENIOR MANAGEMENT 2019 2018 2017 Outotec uses KornFerry’s job evaluation system when determining the demand for each job. The BY SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION average ratio is based on the ratio of each job evaluation grade which are then grouped together to Australia 81 84 84 more broader report categories. In 2019, the overall average of the ratio of the basic salary of women Chile 71 83 67 to men in significant locations of operations is 0.94 (2018: 0.94). 1,178 white-collar (2018: 1,971) employees are included in the calculation. There is no data available about blue-collar workers. Finland 95 96 96 Germany 78 76 76 Our significant locations are defined as countries with over 170 employees. South Africa 100 100 100 79 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI 80 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI About this report Our reporting meets the requirements of the Finnish Accounting Act on disclosure of non-financial and diversity information. The required non-financial information is disclosed in the Review by the Board of Directors in Outotec Financial Statements 2019, whereas this Sustainability Report is prepared to meet the expectations of a wider audience and the requirements of several sustainability indices. We report our performance on economic, environmental and social sustainability annually in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 102-52). Outotec Sustainability Report 2019 is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option (GRI 102-54) and covers the calendar year 2019 (GRI 102-50). Some information relating to developments from January to March 2019 have also been included in the report. The General Disclosures as specified in the GRI Standards are presented in a wider scope than required by the Core option. Topicspecific Standards are reported with respect to the material topics defined in late 2018. We also report the environmental impact of Outotec’s own operations and some other indicators that are not material to Outotec but are published to meet stakeholders’ expectations using the GRI indicators. A comparison of the contents of the report and the GRI Standards is given in the GRI and Global Compact Index (GRI 102-55). 81 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI The report is published in English at www.outotec.com. Outotec has reported its sustainability performance annually since 2010. The previous report for 2018 was published in March 2019 (GRI 102-51). Global Compact and UN Sustainable Development Goals reporting This report also describes how Outotec has progressed on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact initiative regarding human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption principles, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The GRI index also shows the indicators used by Outotec to evaluate the progress in these areas. Report coverage (GRI 102-45) We report on our global operations including Outotec’s premises and employees in full, and partly include information on our contractors working under our supervision on project sites, our products and services, the use of Outotec’s technologies by customers, and our supply chain. The legal companies, in which Outotec has 100% ownership and are listed in the Financial Statements 2019 , are covered by this report. The information compiled for the report is collected from our local offices, and some local environmental impacts are described in addition to global data. We continuously aim to improve our internal processes as well as the completeness of data disclosure through developing our data collection systems and more accurate explanation of omissions when the data is not available. We also aim to describe both positive and negative aspects of our performance. In the report, we use graphics to show trends in our performance and increase clarity. We have also included the data from two previous years in the tables and graphs to improve comparability. 82 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Report content and boundaries (GRI 102-46) Stakeholders Outotec’s business is based on the company mission, ‘Sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’, As part of the recent materiality assessment, we identified our key stakeholders, namely Employees, which drives us to work towards overcoming the world’s environmental challenges and provides Customers, Suppliers and contractors, Investors, analysts and financiers, Academia and students, the wider context for our sustainability work. We have also defined our approach to global and Authorities, regulators and governments, Potential future employees, Local communities, and local social and economic objectives and committed ourselves to the relevant UN Sustainable Industry associations and NGOs, as the main users of this report. Development Goals. • Stakeholder engagement The materiality principle was applied in the materiality analysis [link to Most significant topics] conducted at the end of 2018 so that we considered the interests and expectations of stakeholders, Restatements (GRI 102-48) Outotec values, policies, strategy, and targets, the externally assured measurements of our positive indirect environmental impacts, the regulation regarding social license to operate Our policy for restatements in case of significant changes in our company structure, or changes (assumed to be tightening) as well as the main topics and future challenges of the minerals in the general validity of the data, is that the data is recalculated for previous years if the changes and metals processing sector. have led to discrepancies of more than 10%. Restatements are indicated in the report. The core team of our Sustainability Working Group reviewed the material topics against GRI In 2019, we had approximately 4,400 active suppliers and the figure (2,600) reported in Outotec’s Standards and defined the boundaries for each material topic and related indicators that form Statement of Non-financial information 2019 has been corrected due to internal validation. the contents of this report. Changes in reporting (GRI 102-49) Material topics (GRI 102-47) There have been no major changes in the reporting scope. Based on the materiality assessment, Sustainable technologies and innovations, Engaged experts, Responsible supply chain, Health and safety, Financial performance, as well as Ethics, compliance Contact persons for questions regarding this report (GRI 102-53) and governance are the most material topics for Outotec. • Contact information Health and safety, Financial performance as well as Ethics, compliance and governance were considered as fundamentals that the company must take good care of. Sustainable technologies Assurance (GRI 102-56) and innovations, Engaged experts, and Responsible supply chain, together with the environmental impact of our own operations, create Outotec’s total impact on the Earth and climate change. This report has been verified by an independent third-party assurance provider selected by the These topics are reviewed in this report. Management approaches for all these topics are presented Sustainability Working Group. The scope, conclusions, observations and recommendations are on one Management approach page. presented in the assurance report. A member of Outotec’s Executive Board has commissioned the assurance, and the Executive Board has approved the report. • Most significant topics • Assurance statement 83 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Management approach Management approach (GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Outotec Management System defines governance, management principles, operational model, roles, responsibilities and authorities within Outotec. The documentation, based on European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM) management system and processes framework criteria, defines the compatibility and fulfilment of Outotec systems against such standards as ISO 9001 for Quality Management and ISO 14001 for Environmental Management. Outotec’s Code of Conduct, approved by the Board of Directors, sets the company’s business conduct for all employees. Outotec’s main impact to the environment is created by our products and services. Our management approach to environmental sustainability is described below in ‘Sustainable technologies and innovations’. To a lesser degree, our environmental footprint arises from our own operations. Outotec continuously aims to reduce the impacts of its operations and has annual targets related to CO2 emissions, and energy consumption. The company also monitors its emissions related to flights. Only a few of Outotec’s operations require an environmental permit, and the risks related to these operations are managed by certified environmental management systems. The Code of Conduct, Supplier Policy, HR policies and Donation and Employee Volunteering Policy, as well as Quality, Environment, Health and Safety (QEHS) Policy, define the basic requirements for Outotec’s environmental, social and economic sustainability. The management approaches for the material topics and aspects are presented below according to GRI 103 (2016 Standard). The management approach for Health and Safety is presented using GRI 403 (2018 Standard). 84 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES AND INNOVATIONS SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES AND INNOVATIONS Management Developing sustainable offering for our customers is at the core of our sustainability Goals and targets The most significant environmental impact of our business activities materializes approach work. In line with our Technology Policy, we continuously develop our offering through our products and services that minimize the harmful emissions and indirectly according to the principles of sustainable development. Although the processing of reduce various emissions, including the global CO2 emissions. We measure our minerals and metals have negative environmental impacts, through advanced positive impact on the environment (carbon handprint), by the amount of CO2 technology the negative impacts can be managed. For this reason, R&D has a central emissions avoided using Outotec technologies. Six of these technologies are role in Outotec’s business. Our Product Compliance Management process ensures measured annually. The amount of emissions avoided depend on the actual production that our products and services reliably meet all applicable safety standards during all amounts of the technologies involved. phases of the product life-cycle. We maintain an extensive database of product compliance procedures and documents including the development, sales and delivery Responsibilities Our business process Manage and Develop Products and Technologies guides all the of our products and services. We use a gated process as a precautionary principle or activities from idea and product development to productization as well as technical approach (GRI 102-11), in which the first phase of product development includes and commercial product management. Outotec’s business lines are responsible for criteria related to risks and especially opportunities to mitigate climate change, i.e. their products and services and following the company’s business processes. energy savings, emissions reduction, water savings, waste minimization, improved Commitments, • Outotec Technology Policy metals recovery and safety improvement. policies and • Outotec IPR Policy Reported topics and • Energy (302-1, 302-3, 302-4) standards • ISO 12100 and IEC 62061 for the safety of machinery indicators • Water and effluents (303-1, 303-3) • All safety-related industrial standards applicable where they are utilized • Biodiversity (304-1, 304-2) • Procedures for detecting hazards such as explosion, fire, and lightning, and related • Emissions (305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-7) IEC 61882 HAZOP studies • Effluents and waste (306-2, 306-3) • SIL Allocation Assessments (mandatory at Outotec) • Environmental compliance (307-1) • The SafExpert risk assessment tool, which ensures that equipment designed by • Local communities (413-2) Outotec fulfills all relevant safety standards. • Customer health and safety (416-2) Evaluation of the We follow negative impacts and incidents through our QEHS management and Product • Environmental Goods and Services in order intake (own indicator) management Compliance Management systems, as well as through customer feedback collected • CO2 emissions avoided using Outotec’s metals-related technologies (own indicator) approach after each major delivery and in customer surveys. The Corporate Product Board • Percentage of reduction of fresh water/tonne of ore by non-ferrous metals follows the development work of the business units to ensure that our offering is being concentrators using Outotec technology (own indicator) developed in line with our mission ‘sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources’. • Increase of energy produced using Outotec waste-to-energy solutions (own indicator) Topic boundaries Our customers’ employees and operations (Energy, water and effluents, scope 1 and 2 emissions, effluents and waste, environmental compliaance and EGS are reported for Outotec’s own operations only.) 85 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI ENGAGED EXPERTS RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Management Competent and engaged employees are key to Outotec’s success and one of the most Management Because the majority of Outotec’s manufacturing is sourced from external suppliers, approach material topics. Outotec aims to employ the best people in the industry and follows the approach responsible sourcing and supply chain management is highly important for Outotec. principle of equal opportunity. All employees are entitled to good leadership and Our Supply Policy steers supply activities throughout the company, defines ways to professional growth. Outotec respects and is committed to the principles of the enhance supply quality, and provides guidelines for everyone involved in supply-relatUniversal Declaration of Human Rights and the Ten Principles of the UN Global ed activities. A parallel Supplier Policy imposes strict requirements on Outotec’s Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, wherever we suppliers. It sets out our principles on ethical conduct, compliance with laws and operate. We see as our basic responsibility to provide decent working conditions and regulations, respecting human rights, environmental impacts, health and safety, labor, to treat our people in a fair manner. Our Code of Conduct provides the basis for our intellectual property and improper benefits. Outotec does not tolerate any child labor labor conditions, substantiated by HR policies and HR Handbook that enable fair or forced or compulsory labor as stated in our Code of Conduct and Supplier Policy. employment globally. Our HR practices are always compliant with international labor Suppliers are expected to ensure compliance with Outotec policy, identify any standards and local legislation. deviations, manage corrective actions, ensure the transparency of these actions, and communicate with us systematically on such issues. Reported topics and • Employment (401-1, 401-2) indicators • Labor/management relations (402-1) Reported topics and • Supply chain (102-9, 102-10) • Training and education (404-1, 404-2, 404-3) indicators • Procurement practices (204-1) • Diversity and equal opportunity (405-1, 405-2) • Supplier environmental assessment (308-1, 308-2) • Employee engagement (own indicator) • Child labor (408-1) • Forced or compulsory labor (409-1) Topic boundaries Our employees and operations at our own premises and project sites • Supplier social assessment (414-1, 414-2) Goals and targets Key target is to achieve 0,2-points increase (7,7/10) in the employee engagement index Topic boundaries Our direct suppliers and supervised contractors in 2020 compared to the 2019 employee survey results. Goals and targets Standardization, harmonization and focusing on fewer suppliers are key drivers in Responsibilities Senior Vice President, HR and Communications is responsible for the human establishing a sustainable supplier base. We measure our performance by the resources and the HR and Communications function globally and reports to the CEO. percentage of new suppliers screened and key suppliers audited using labor practices, environmental and human rights criteria. Commitments, • Code of Conduct policies and • HR Handbook Responsibilities Senior Vice President, Sourcing and Manufacturing is the Head of Supply. Our Global standards • Competence Development Policy Supply function manages our supplier base and global sourcing. Operational Supply • Recruitment and Onboarding Policy personnel are involved in day-to-day supplier management during the delivery phase • Compensation Policy of customer projects. Outotec’s Supplier Relationship Managers work with our most • Global Mobility Policy important global or local suppliers. They facilitate collaboration between Outotec and • Job Description and Job Title Policy the suppliers across and above individual projects. This procedure enhances visibility, • Grading Policy alignment and the management of supplier-related risks, while also improving overall collaboration between Outotec and individual suppliers. Evaluation of the The Human Capital Committee of the Board of Directors follows regularly that all Commitments and • Outotec Supplier Policy management employee related topics, such as ethics and values, resourcing, competence and policies • Code of Conduct approach performance management, and compensation arrangements support the strategic Evaluation of the The Executive Board reviews regularly the effectiveness of the supply chain aims of Outotec. It also evaluates our performance regarding diversity. management management and the work is evaluated also in internal and external audits. Outotec approach audits its key suppliers on quality, health and safety as well as human rights-related issues regularly. Compliance Helpline and an external feedback channel are available for anyone to raise concerns related to corruption, human rights or any unethical behavior in Outotec’s business activities. 86 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI HEALTH AND SAFETY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 403 (GRI 2018) According to Outotec’s QEHS Policy, safety is a priority in the company’s operations. Management In the recent review of material topics with stakeholders, financial performance was Management Outotec’s management is committed to continuously enhance safety performance approach raised a topic having a major impact on employees’ wealth and commitment, approach throughout the company’s operations. We have globally harmonized procedures and stakeholder value, jobs available and tax income of local communities. Our financial work instructions. Our OHS management system covers 100% of Outotec’s employees, performance and risk management are comprehensively covered in Financial contractors working under our direct supervision, locations and project sites. The OHS Statements 2019 and Corporate Governance Statement 2019, whereas this report management is based on risk assessments. The main health and safety risks for focuses on the value creation, our impacts, and financial implications due to climate Outotec employees occur on roads in different driving cultures and when working at change. Outotec management annually evaluates the global megatrends that impact project sites and manufacturing units. our business. Sustainability related risks are addressed in routine risk management processes. Outotec’s approach to economic sustainability is demonstrated by our Reported topics and • Occupational health and safety (403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7, long-term financial targets involving profitability and continuous growth. We base our indicators 403-8, 403-9) decisions on sound business reasons and commercial rationale. Outotec follows all applicable accounting and financial reporting rules. Accurate and objective records Topic boundaries Outotec’s employees and premises, supervised contractors as well as project sites. and reports support our business decisions and help us meet our responsibilities Regarding health services, our reporting covers Outotec employees only, as these towards stakeholders. As project deliveries represent the majority of Outotec’s sales, services are typically covered by the employing company. Local Safety Committees are project risk management and project control are the key processes for providing set up in Outotec’s permanent locations and largest project sites, and they cover information for financial control and reporting. Outotec is committed to being a Outotec employees and premises, contractors and visitors. responsible, compliant tax payer in each country where it operates. We strive for Goals and targets Zero harm in occupational health and safety transparency in our operations and fairness in our tax practices, and we do not engage in aggressive tax planning. Our tax management has a proactive approach. Responsibilities The head of each permanent location has the responsibility of the persons working there. Each location has a Safety Committee consisting of employees’ representative Reported topics and • Key impacts, risks and opportunities (102-15) and company representative, and local Safety Committees report to head of location, indicators • Economic performance (201-1, 201-2) who reports to global business owners. If there are less than 10 people working in a • Market presence (202-2) location, they are represented in the closest larger location’s Safety Committee. Our • Indirect economic impacts (203-2) site managers are responsible for the management of safety at project sites. Topic boundaries Outotec’s legal entities with 100% ownership (Financial Statements 2019, page 81) Commitments and • Operations globally certified against ISO 45001 standard Goals and targets Outotec’s long-term financial targets focus on continuous profitable growth: policies • Outotec QEHS Policy • Sales growth faster than the market Evaluation of the The global HSE Steering Group follows the state of OHS and sets targets and the • Annual average service sales growth over 10% (previously 5-15%) management roadmap for the future. The Executive Board reviews regularly the safety performance, • Profitability (adjusted EBIT) 10% of sales by 2020 approach and we ensure the quality of our OHS processes through internal and external audits • Gearing at maximum 50% and training. In 2019, external audits were successfully conducted by TÜV Rheinland Responsibilities The general governance principles and Outotec’s self-regulatory framework provide Cert GmbH at our locations in Finland (Espoo, Lappeenranta, Turku), in South Africa the basis for Outotec’s operations. Finance & Control function headed by the Chief (Centurion), in China (Suzhou), in USA (Coeur d’Alene) and in Germany (Oberursel, Financial Officer coordinates the financial management and control, maintains Cologne), as well as a construction sites in Peru, South Africa and UK. The certificates common instructions for financial reporting and controls centrally the reporting can be found on www.outotec.com platforms. The application and interpretation of accounting standards for group-wide purposes is done by Finance & Control and those principles are documented in the Outotec Accounting Policy and reporting manual, guiding the work of all units globally. Commitments and • UN Sustainable Development Goals policies • Outotec Corporate Governance Policy • Outotec Code of Conduct • Outotec Disclosure Policy • Outotec Risk Management policies • Outotec Accounting Policy • Outotec Supply Policy • Outotec Export Control Policy • Outotec Tax Policy 87 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Evaluation of the The Board of Directors and its Audit and Risk Committee follow Outotec’s internal Responsibilities The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing the Code of management control and risk management systems and efficiency of the control measures. Conduct with the support of the Executive Board and the Chief Compliance Officer. Our approach Outotec’s monthly financial reviews forms the key mechanism when measuring the Board of Directors monitors and reviews implementation of the Code periodically. effectiveness of operations and the development of the company versus the set Outotec’s Legal, Contract Management & Corporate Responsibility function is financial targets. Financial performance and outlook are reviewed monthly on all responsible for the compliance program and related policies. The Chief Compliance organizational levels. Special emphasis is put on the review of project related Officer reports the issues raised through grievance mechanisms to the Board of contractual risks, project provisions and financial performance. Project related Directors. financial performance and risks are reviewed also by the Audit and Risk Committee quarterly. Commitments and • Universal Declaration of Human Rights policies • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • UN Global Compact • UN Sustainable Development Goals • Outotec Corporate Governance Policy • Outotec Code of Conduct ETHICS, COMPLIANCE AND GOVERNANCE • Outotec QEHS Policy • Outotec Supplier Policy Management In the recent review of material topics with stakeholders, Ethics, compliance and • Outotec Anti-Corruption Policy approach governance were regarded as fundamentals Outotec must take good care of. Outotec’s • Outotec Anti-Money Laundering Policy management is based on the principles of good governance and transparency, as well • Outotec Agent Policy as group-wide policies and globally harmonized business processes. We follow the • Outotec Enterprise Risk Management Policy Finnish Corporate Governance Code issued by the Securities Market Association for • Outotec Operational Risk Management Policy listed companies. Our management system documentation is compatible with and • Outotec Data Protection Policy audited against such standards as ISO 9001 for Quality Management, ISO 14001 for • Outotec Trade Secret and Data Policy Environmental Management, and ISO 45001 Safety Management. In addition, the • Outotec Donation and Employee Volunteering Policy locations in Finland and Germany are certified to ISO 50001 for Energy Management. Outotec endorses ethical business practices and complies with all relevant national Evaluation of the The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors reviews regularly the and international laws and regulations, which sets the minimum level in the way we management compliance of the company and concerns raised through Outotec’s compliance operate. The company works against corruption in all its forms. Outotec has zero approach helpline and internal and external feedback channels. The Chief Compliance Officer tolerance against child labor, forced or compulsory labor, harassment or discriminareports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board in issues raised through tion, anti-competitive behavior or other illegal or unethical business practices. grievance mechanisms. Our performance is also followed-up regularly through Suppliers and business partners, sales agents and representatives are required to internal and external audits. follow the same principles and fully comply with all applicable laws. All Executive Board members and their direct reports have signed specific declarations of compliance related to Outotec’s compliance program and policies in 2018. Reported topics and • Anti-corruption (205-1, 205-2, 205-3) indicators • Anti-competitive behavior (206-1) • Non-discrimination (406-1) • Socio-economic compliance (419-1) Topic boundaries Outotec’s employees, sales representatives and sales agents, suppliers and contractors Goals and targets Outotec’s target is to have employees participate in e-learning on the Code of Conduct or attend related classroom training on a regular basis. 88 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Stakeholder expectations and our engagement tools Outotec defined its key stakeholders in connection with the materiality analysis conducted in 2018. The material topics and key stakeholders are reviewed at approximately 2-3 years intervals by our Corporate Responsibility function and Sustainability Working Group. Outotec’s key stakeholders, their expectations and engagement tools are presented in the table below. 89 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI EXPECTATIONS OUR ENGAGEMENT TOOLS EXPECTATIONS OUR ENGAGEMENT TOOLS EMPLOYEES ACADEMIA AND STUDENTS • Safe working environment • Regular briefings and info sessions • Relevant technological and scientific challenges for • Joint programs • Company values and a culture that enables • Regular meetings with employee representatives research • Involvement in university courses professional development • Global intranet, collaboration tools and social media • Feedback and encouragement from the industry • Seminars, lectures, visits • Long-term economic perspective • Performance development dialogues • Operational data • Thesis work • Compliance and transparency • Outotec Round-Table • Partnerships • Internships • Fair and competitive compensation • Employee surveys • Thesis opportunities • Networking • Proper communication and feedback channels • Compliance helpline and feedback channels AUTHORITIES, REGULATORS AND GOVERNMENTS • Young Professionals network • Compliance and transparency • Memberships and chairmanships in EU’s and national • Employment working groups CUSTOMERS • Industry insights • Counseling on expert matters • Creating value for customers • Regular meetings held by Outotec’s Account • Seminars on sustainable mining and metals • Sustainable and safe products and services Management, and as part of Sell and Deliver processing processes • Social license to operate • Customer satisfaction surveys POTENTIAL FUTURE EMPLOYEES • Quick reaction to requests • Joint R&D projects • Reliable technology • Information of the company’s purpose, values, • Careers website and social media channels • Training, user meetings, workshops principles, learning and career opportunities and • Knowledgeable experts • Recruitment events • Seminars, conferences, trade shows leadership style • Long-term commitment • Student cooperation • Asset walks • Fair recruitment process • Internships • Newsletters, website, social media • Solid financial performance • Hosting visitor groups SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Fair treatment • Contacts through Outotec’s Delivery process • Transparency and proactivity • Joint social programs with customers • Long-term partnership • Supplier Policy and Code of Conduct • Employment opportunities • Support for local initiatives • Economic sustainability • Supplier assessments and audits • Engagement and local presence • Volunteering programs • Safe working conditions at sites • Joint continuous improvement of processes • Environmental and social responsibility • Proper communication • Outotec Supplier Days • Training events and programs INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS AND NGOS INVESTORS, ANALYSTS AND FINANCIERS • Transparency and proactivity • Active membership in industry associations • Total shareholder value • Quarterly briefings • Engagement in joint initiatives • Employee volunteering work • Long-term economic perspective • CEO’s mid-quarter Q&A sessions • Environmental and social responsibility • Dialogue on circular economy and sustainable processing of minerals and metals • Compliance and transparency • Audited/assured reporting • Accurate, consistent and reliable information • Capital Markets Day MEDIA • Management’s views • Roadshows, one-on-one meetings, industry seminars • Annual General Meeting • Transparency and access to information • Interviews with Outotec managers and experts • Excursions to Outotec sites • Accurate and reliable information • Quarterly media briefings • Annual surveys • Interesting stories • Audited/assured reporting • Walk the talk • Success stories on the website • Management views • Active use of social media • Excursions to Outotec sites 90 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI, Global Compact, and SDG content index Based on our own assessment, Outotec has self-declared this report to be prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Compliance has additionally been checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. In this table, we have applied General Disclosures, Management Approach and topic specific GRI Standards and Disclosures published in 2016, except for the Occupational Health and Safety (GRI 403) and Water and Effluents (GRI 303) for which we have applied GRI Standard published in 2018. Indicators in General Disclosures and Management Approach comply with the European Directive on non-financial and diversity reporting. The table also indicates our progress on the United Nations’ Global Compact principles and Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Some indicators are reported and shown in the index although they are not material to Outotec but reported to meet stakeholders’ expectations. 91 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG 101 Foundation 102 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization This is Outotec, p.6-7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services This is Outotec, p.6-7 There were no banned products in 2019 102-3 Location of headquarters Espoo, Finland 102-4 Location of operations This is Outotec, p.6-7 102-5 Ownership and legal form This is Outotec, p.6-7 102-6 Markets served This is Outotec, p.6-7 102-7 Scale of the organization This is Outotec, p.6-7 Financial performance, p.53-58 Financial Statements 2019 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social data, p.73-79 6 Health and safety, p.48-50 102-9 Supply chain Responsible supply chain, p.44-47 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain This is Outotec, p.6-7 102-11 Precautionary principle of approach Management approach, p.84 102-12 External initiatives www.outotec.com/sustainability 102-13 Memberships of associations www.outotec.com/sustainability Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s message, p.4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Financial performance, p.53-58 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Ethics, compliance and governance, p.59-62 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics, compliance and governance, p.59-62 92 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Governance 102-18 Governance structure Ethics, compliance and governance, p.61-62 102-19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement 2019 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Corporate Governance Statement 2019 (www.outotec.com/cg) body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement 2019 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Corporate Governance Statement 2019 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Ethics, compliance and governance, p. 61-62 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement 2019 (www.outotec.com/cg) 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Social data, p.75 Blue-collar workers are not included in the calculation. 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio Social data, p.75 Blue-collar workers are not included in the calculation. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Engaging with stakeholders, p.25 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social data, p.76 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Engaging with stakeholders, p.42-43 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Engaging with stakeholders, p.25 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Engaging with stakeholders, p.25 17 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Financial Statements 2019, p.80 (www.outotec.com/investors) About this report, p.82 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About this report, p.83 Most significant topics, p.12-14 102-47 List of material topics Most significant topics, p.12-14 102-48 Restatements of information About this report, p.83 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report, p.83 102-50 Reporting period About this report, p.81 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report, p.82 93 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG 102-52 Reporting cycle Annually 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contacts, p.101 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this report, p.81 102-55 GRI content index GRI, Global Compact, and SDG content index, p.91-99 102-56 External assurance External assurance statement, p.100 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Management approach, p.84-88 103-2 The management approach and its components Management approach, p.84-88 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Management approach, p.84-88 TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Sustainable technologies and innovations 302 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental impact of own operations, p.69 8, 9 13 Sustainable technologies and innovations, p.32-36 305 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate action, p.21 9, 13 Sustainable technologies and innovations, p.33 307 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Outotec has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws, regulations or voluntary codes, neither has the company paid any fines in the environmental area. 413 Local communities 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Outotec has not identified any significant negative impacts of 1 impacts on local communities its operations, products or suppliers on local communities. No issues emerged concerning the rights of indigenous people. 94 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG 416 Customer health and safety 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety Outotec has not identified any significant negative impacts of its impacts of products and services products on customers’ health and safety. No fines were imposed in relation to non-compliance with laws and regulations or voluntary codes regarding the use of Outotec products. OWN Environmental Goods and Services in order intake Sustainability agenda, p.17-18 9 OWN CO2 emissions avoided using Outotec’s metals-related Sustainability agenda, p.17-18 13 technologies Sustainable technologies and innovations, p.33 Climate action, p.21 OWN Percentage of reduction of fresh water/tonne of ore by Sustainability agenda, p.17-18 6 non-ferrous metals concentrators using Outotec technology OWN Increase of energy produced using Outotec Sustainability agenda, p.17-18 7 waste-to-energy solutions Responsible supply chain 204 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Responsible supply chain, p.47 12 308 Supplier environmental assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Responsible supply chain, p.45 8 environmental criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Responsible supply chain, p.45 8 and actions taken 408 Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk Responsible supply chain, p.46 5 for incidents of child labor 409 Forced or compulsory labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Responsible supply chain, p.46 4 forced or compulsory labor 414 Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Responsible supply chain, p.46 2 12 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Responsible supply chain, p.46-47 2 95 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Engaged experts 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social data, p.75 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Social data, p.76 provided to temporary or part-time employees 402 Labor/management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Social data, p.76 3 404 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social data, p.77 Our learning management system does not provide data 6 by gender and employee category. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Engaged experts, p.43 1 4 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Social data, p.78 6 and career development reviews 405 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social data, p.78 Data of minority groups is not relevant and thus not 5 collected. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Social data, p.79 Data is not available about blue-collar workers. OWN Employee engagement index Engaged experts, p.42 4 Health and safety 403 Occupational health and safety (2018 Standard) 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Health and safety, p.49 Management systems, p.87 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, Health and safety, p.49 and incident investigation 403-3 Occupational health services Health and safety, p.49-50 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication Health and safety, p.50 on occupational health and safety 96 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety Health and safety, p.50 Social data, p.77 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and safety, p.50 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and Health and safety, p.50 safety impacts directly linked by business relationship 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health Health and safety, p.49 1 and safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries Health and safety, p.50 3 Social data, p.76-77 Ethics, compliance, governance 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Ethics, compliance and governance, p.61 Number and percentage of operations not reported 10 because we assess projects only. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies Ethics, compliance and governance, p.61 Anti-corruption communication not separately reported, 10 8, 16 and procedures Social data it is part of Code of Conduct trainings. Our learning management systems does not provide information of the training hours by gender and employee category. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethics, compliance and governance, p.61 10 206 Anti-competitive behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Outotec was not subject to any legal actions for anti-competiand monopoly practices tive behavior, anti-trust cases or monopoly practices. 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Ethics, compliance and governance, p.59-62 Data of minority groups is not relevant for Outotec and 6 10 thus not collected. 419 Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Outotec did not have to pay any fines or fulfil any non-mone8 and economic area tary sanctions for non-compliance with anti-corruption laws. We have not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations or voluntary codes, neither has the company paid any fines in the social or economic area. 97 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Financial performance 201 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial performance, p.54 Country-specific tax information not fully reported as it would not give a comprehensive picture of the fairness of the tax distribution. 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due Financial performance, p.57 7 to climate change 202 Market presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired Social data, p.79 from the local community 203 Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Financial performance, p.54 Environmental footprint of Outotec’s own operations 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental impact of own operations, p.68 7, 8 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental impact of own operations, p.69 8 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental impact of own operations, p.69 8, 9 13 303 Water and effluents (2018 Standard) 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environmental impact of own operations, p.69-70 7, 8 303-3 Water withdrawal by source Environmental impact of own operations, p.70 Information about the amount of fresh water not available and water withdrawal not specified for areas with water stress. 304 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Environmental impact of own operations, p.68 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Sustainable technologies and innovations, p.33-34 13 biodiversity 98 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI GRI GLOBAL COMPACT STANDARD DESCRIPTION DISCLOSURE OR LINK TO RELATED PAGE COMMENT/ OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental impact of own operations, p.70 7, 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental impact of own operations, p.70-71 7, 8 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental impact of own operations, p.71-72 7, 8 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental impact of own operations, p.72 8 305-7 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, Environmental data, p.72 Only VOCs are reported as the other emissions are not 8 and other significant air emissions relevant in our operations. 306 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental impact of own operations, p.72 8 306-3 Significant spills Environmental impact of own operations, p.72 8 99 OUTOTEC / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEAR 2019 OUR AGENDA OUR PERFORMANCE DATA GRI Independent Assurance Report – (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. The assurance process was Outotec Sustainability Report 2019 performed utilizing Ecobio’s internally developed GRI assurance tool, covering the principles, standard disclosures and indicators of the GRI Standards. The Standard Disclosures were assessed based on a sampling plan composed by Ecobio. To the Management of Outotec Oyj Concerning limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) has been commissioned by Outotec Oyj (hereafter Outotec) to for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained. This assurance perform a limited third-party assurance engagement regarding the content of Outotec’s engagement was conducted from November 2019 to February 2020. The assurance process included: Sustainability Report for 2019. Interviewing employees responsible for data collection and reporting at Outotec’s group level. Outotec’s Responsibility Evaluating procedures for gathering, analyzing, and aggregating quantitative data for the Sustainability Report 2019 as well as performing cross-checks on a sample basis concerning Outotec was responsible for the collection, preparation and presentation of the information in the the reported sustainability data. Sustainability Report (hereafter Sustainability Information) according to GRI Sustainability Reporting Checking the internal guidelines of the data collection. Standards (GRI Standards) set up by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Ecobio, as an independent Checking the sufficiency of the documentation of the data gathering process. assuror was not involved in the data gathering and preparation of the Sustainability Information, Checking the consistency of the Sustainability Report 2019 compared to the GRI Standards. apart from the Independent Assurance. The Management of Outotec has approved the information provided in the Sustainability Report. Conclusions Practitioner’s Responsibility Based on the work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the information presented in Outotec’s Sustainability Report 2019 is not fairly stated, Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conclusion on the Sustainability Information subject to in all material respects, or that it would not comply with the Reporting Criteria stated before. the assurance performed by Ecobio. Practitioner’s Independence and qualifications The scope of work included assurance of completeness and correctness of information presented by Outotec in the Sustainability Report 2019. The assurance engagement was limited to the nonEcobio is an independent consulting company that specializes in environmental, health and safety financial performance data disclosed in the Sustainability Report for the reporting period of management with 30 years of history. Ecobio provides corporate sustainability and environmental January 1st 2019 to December 31st 2019. consultancy services, combined with training, modelling, research and planning, for companies in the infrastructure, industry and service sectors. Ecobio’s assurers are skilled and experienced within The Sustainability Information assured covered the Standard Disclosures in accordance with non-financial assurance and have good knowledge of industry-related sustainability issues. the core-level option, including the reported Environmental and Social Performance Indicators. In addition, the level of the consistency of the Economic Performance Indicators reported was As an independent consultancy, Ecobio has no financial dependencies on Outotec beyond the scope checked against the GRI Standards. of this engagement. Ecobio has conducted this assurance independently and objectively, and there has been no conflict of interest. Ecobio disclaims any liability or responsibility for any third-party decision based upon this assurance report. Helsinki, 2nd of March 2020 Methodology Ecobio Oy Ecobio based the assurance process on the following guidelines and standards: the GRI Taru Halla Leena Tähkämö Sustainability Reporting Standards, the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Managing Director (M.Sc.) Senior Consultant (D.Sc.) 100 Contact Tea Maasalo Director, Corporate Legal & Corporate Responsibility tea.maasalo@outotec.com Satu Man Manager, Corporate Responsibility satu.man@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Director, Corporate Communications saija.kinanen@outotec.com Outotec Oyj PO Box 1000, FI-02231 Espoo, Finland Tel. +358 20 529 211 www.facebook.com/Outotec www.linkedin.com/company/outotec www.twitter.com/outotec www.youtube.com/outotec Outotec develops leading technologies and services for the sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources. Our 4,000 top experts are driven by each customer’s unique challenges across the world. Outotec’s comprehensive offering creates the best value for our customers in the mining, metal, and chemical industries. Outotec shares are listed on NASDAQ Helsinki. www.outotec.com Copyright © 2020 Outotec Oyj. All rights reserved.
