SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 YEaR In BRIEF In 2019, we continued to establish new partnerships and capabilities – all to further develop our customer offering. YEAR IN BRIEF All Recipharm facilities ready for First ISO 45001 certification for serialisation ahead of EU deadline Recipharm All our 15 manufacturing facilities were The Wasserburg sterile manufacturing ready to deliver drug serialisation ahead facility in Germany became our first site to of the 9 February 2019 deadline. This be certified to the ISO 45001 occupational followed a EUR 35 million investment in our health and safety (OH&S) management operations between 2016 and 2018 to provide system. The certification is being rolled out a compliant serialisation solution for our across our other facilities to ensure we have customers. the latest OH&S management systems in place. Launch of end-to-end offering Analytical services launched for inhalation products as stand-alone offering Recipharm Inhalation Solutions™ was The new stand-alone service Recipharm launched as an end-to-end inhalation Analytical Solutions™ supports offering to provide customers with a pharmaceutical companies with their quality fully integrated service from early stage control and analytical requirements, including development through to commercial method development, method validation, manufacturing. The offering aims to include and stability programme design and metered dose inhalers (MDIs), dry powder implementation. The service draws on our inhalers (DPIs) and nasal sprays. brand-new analytical chemistry laboratory and additional stability walk-in chambers in Bengaluru, India. New partnership expands Recipharm joins the Indian injectable capabilities AMR Industry Alliance The partnership with our long-term We became a member of the AMR Industry Indian partner, the Sobti family, involves Alliance during the year as part of our Recipharm purchasing an 8 per cent ambition to contribute to tackle growing stake in the newly created company concern around antimicrobial resistance Nichepharm for an investment of INR 800 (AMR). Joining the AMR Industry Alliance million (approximately SEK 110 million). takes our work with AMR to the next level Nichepharm is establishing a new facility in and allows us to collaborate with over 100 northern India, which is expected to be fully industry stakeholders. operational by 2022. 2 RECIPHaRm 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report Recipharm makes offer to acquire KEY FIGURES leading inhalation company 2019 2018 We made a recommended offer to acquire Net sales 7,457 6,374 Consort Medical – a leading global inhalation EBITDA 1,294 987 drug delivery and device company and Operating profit, adjusted 546 425 integrated CDMO. The acquisition, which Net profit 343.0 159.9 was completed on 4 February 2020, is highly Sales growth 17% 20% complementary to our customer offering EBITDA margin 17.3% 15.5% and makes Recipharm a top five global Operating margin, adjusted 7.3% 6.7% CDMO, with sales of over USD 1 billion. Dividend per share 0 1.25 Net debt to equity 0.7 0.7 Earnings per share, adjusted 5.78 2.73 Employees (FTE) 51 5,316 4,822 c Commercial manufacturing of Talicia® to begin We commenced large-scale commercial manufacturing of RedHill Biopharma’s drug Talicia®, following FDA approval and with a planned launch in the first quarter 2020. SALES SPLIT PER EBITDA PER The product, which is the first rifabutinSEGMENT 2019 SEGMENT 2019 based therapy approved treatment for the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection, has been developed in partnership with RedHill since 2015. Investment in US inhalation development service We installed a SprayVIEW® system in our Research Triangle Park facility in the US to support inhalation and nasal product Steriles & Inhalation 46% Steriles & Inhalation 46% development. SprayVIEW® characterises Solids & Others 39% Solids & Others 34% aerosols or sprays emitted from MDIs, soft Development & Technology 15% Development & Technology 20% mist inhalers and nasal sprays through the measurement of spray pattern and plume geometry. Substantial growth in manufacturing volumes in India I am excited at the prospect Our recent investments in Bengaluru have really started to pay off with solid dose of combining Recipharm volumes increasing by around 50 per cent in 2019 to 1.9 billion solid doses. Further with Consort, which is growth in volumes is expected in 2020 as four new products are launched during the extremely complementary. year. – Thomas Eldered, CEO of Recipharm RECIPHaRm 2019 3 CEO statement Placing Covid-19 aside, I am particularly pleased with our financial performance in 2019 and how everything came together in terms of integrating recently acquired units. Significantly, our acquisition of Consort Medical will further enhance our customer offering and operations and makes us one of the five largest CDMOs in the world. PROUD TO BECOME A TOP FIVE GLOBAL CDMO Covid-19 Continued strong financial performance At the time of writing, the world is facing unprecedented During the year, we continued our good performance on all events with the Covid-19 pandemic. The pharmaceutical our financial KPIs. Sales increased 17.0 per cent during the industry, whilst by no means immune to the effects is ceryear, and our revenue amounted to SEK 7.5 billion. Organic tainly in a better position to weather the storm than many growth started a little slowly, but picked up from Q3 to other sectors. Our industry is at the forefront in the fight increase by 5.0 per cent for the year. We met our EBITDA against this terrible virus and we at Recipharm are doing target with a margin of 17.3 per cent, which represents a our best to play our part. We supply vital medicines used significant improvement and I am very pleased with our in inhalation as well as antibiotics and anti-virals which are performance for the year. used on the frontline in this fight. Patients also continue We have basically done what we set out to do in terms of to need all of the other medicines we manufacture and our our financial performance, and this has laid solid foundations demand remains as strong as ever. I am both heartened for our revised financial targets that we announced at our and amazed that we have so far managed to remain largely Capital Markets Day in November. operational amid the interruptions to our supply chains and challenges with staff absence caused by various lockdowns. Good market development We are of course operating in a sub-optimal manner but Our core European market was business as usual in 2019, most of the credit for this must go to our dedicated and as we continued to gain customers and win new projects. ­ committed staff who continue to support the needs of our I think our excellent reputation in the market is particularly business partners and patients and I sincerely thank them helpful in creating new business. for this. I am proud of our progress in India during the year as we Under these circumstances, it is extremely difficult to grew faster than the rapidly growing Indian pharma market, predict what is going to happen and the situation certainly which is quite remarkable. We are well positioned to capitalintroduces a high level of uncertainty for all businesses. ise on the many good opportunities in India. During the year, Recent events have highlighted the risks of relying on supwe began a joint venture together with our long-term Indian pliers who are located on the other side of the world and I­ partner to create production capacity in India for a range of anticipate that our customers will re-evaluate their supply sterile dosage forms. The Nichepharm facility is currently chains and business continuity plans. This is likely to favour under construction and will provide access to competitive more localised production and focus on reliable suppliers sterile manufacturing to supply customers in Europe and in a way we have not seen previously which with our global elsewhere when completed in 2022. footprint means we should be well placed. It is also not The US is still a relatively small market for us with signifunlikely that we will see a slowdown in our development sericant growth potential. We made good progress during the vices business as our partners struggle to complete (or even year following the establishment of a completely new US initiate) clinical trials or focus on established projects. sales organisation. We are however confident of one thing – our patients will continue to rely on the products which we research, develop Recipharm becomes a top five global CDMO and manufacture long after Covid-19 has been brought In February 2020, we finalized the acquisition of Consort under control. In the meantime, we will do our job to the Medical, which is our largest acquisition to date and an best of our ability and maintain supplies to our business extremely complementary fit for both companies. I warmly partners and patients. welcome the 2,000 Consort employees to the Recipharm family. 4 RECIPHARM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report gathers our entire development expertise under one roof to enable us to solve very challenging development tasks for our customers. Building on our sustainability leadership I notice a growing interest in how we work with sustainability from both our customers and investors, and I am pleased to say that we are very much ahead of the curve in our industry in this area. For example, we are one of the few CDMOs that responds to CDP’s climate questionnaire each year. In fact, I am proud to report that we increased our CDP rating to Bin 2019, which is third-party recognition that we take coordinated action on climate change. During the year, three of our manufacturing units were certified according to both the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System – in line with our objective to certify all newly acquired units within two years – and the ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety standard. We also continued our efforts to promote energy efficiency in our various operating units, for example to optimise lighting and ventilation systems. Aesica, one of Consort’s two divisions, is characterised In 2019, we joined the AMR Industry Alliance, which is one by contract manufacturing and will integrate well with our of the largest coalitions to provide solutions to curb AMR. As existing operations. I think people at Aesica will feel at home a manufacturer of antibiotics, we want to be at the forefront as part of Recipharm. of contributing with solutions to this global issue. The Bespak division develops drug delivery devices and The principles of the UN Global Compact, which we have was our main strategic driver behind the acquisition of followed for many years, continue to form the basis for our Consort. By combining Bespak’s device expertise and innoglobal sustainability work. vation with Recipharm’s pharma expertise in device content, we will create a unique customer offering. I don’t think any Preparing for further success in 2020 and beyond of our competitors have this capability, so it will present As we continue to integrate the Consort Medical business plenty of great opportunities for us to offer unique inteinto Recipharm, we have the target of realising cost saving grated solutions. The acquisition also offers more immediate synergies by delisting Consort from the London Stock synergies, such as enhancing our inhalation offering – to Exchange and reducing business overlap. This will be a make us a leader in the field. challenge, in the current climate but I am hopeful that we We will be busy with the integration of Consort in the will succeed with these extremely important cost saving short term, but we will continue to identify interesting new opportunities. In the longer term, we will increasingly focus acquisitions for the future. I believe that acquisitions will on commercial synergies, which will ultimately enable us to continue to be an important driver of our growth. provide services for our customers that neither company could offer on their own. Driving operational excellence In 2020, Recipharm celebrates its 25-year anniversary. Further optimising our operations by continuously making This milestone underlines the fact that we are one of the improvements is an ongoing activity for all our units. We oldest companies in the industry, which is the foundation for made good progress during the year but still have work our reputation and demonstrates our core value of tenacity. to do. In addition, higher capacity utilization is supporting I would like to thank all employees for their efforts over the further efficiency and we will focus on increasing volumes in years – and particularly our veteran employees that have recently expanded steriles capacities in the coming years. been with us for the entire 25-year journey since 1995. You The closures of the Ashton and Stockholm facilities in the are the embodiment of our strategy to ‘Employ excellent UK and Sweden respectively, which will be completed before people’. Q3 2020, will contribute towards streamlining our business. Having built this company brick by brick over the past ­25 We will of course deal with the closures with great care and years, we have a fantastic platform to weather the storms consideration for our staff involved. we face and capitalise on the latest trends and developments in the pharmaceutical and CDMO markets. This Excellent progress in development services sound platform will be the basis of our continued success as Whilst I am now predicting a slow-down in demand for our Recipharm develops over the next 25 years and beyond. development services offering caused by Covid-19, I am very satisfied with how the new organisation enriched our customer offering during the year. It has improved how our development centres in Europe, the US, India and Israel collaborate, and is increasingly providing a pipeline of new business for our manufacturing units. The organisation also Thomas Eldered, CEO RECIPHARM 2019 5 Sustainability We continuously work to mitigate our sustainability impacts and take advantage of any opportunities to maximise our positive impact. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AS PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS aim to improve human health (CDP). All our operating companies are requested to have and quality of life, there is an expectation that the indusan ISO 14001 Environmental Management certification and try contributes positively to society. We take a responsible an ISO 45001 Occupational Health and Safety certification approach to all aspects of our operations and we believe (or equivalent). Ethical standards are clearly defined in our that high ethical standards, accountability and good stakeCode of Conduct and suppliers are managed through our holder relations create long-term benefit. This approach is a Supplier Code of Conduct. guiding principle for all our decisions, policies and activities. Enabling research and development Our business responsibility Recipharm enables research and development by supportAs a leading CDMO, our stakeholders expect that sustainaing our customers with Development Services – including bility topics are managed in a structured and comprehensive method and process development services as well as manumanner. The standards of Recipharm’s operations must not facturing materials for clinical studies. Within both preclinonly be state of art in terms of technology, but also for enviical development and clinical studies, many of the issues ronmental responsibility, ethics and a holistic approach to that arise are ethical issues. As our clients are responsible responsibility for all aspects of our business. Sustainability for these issues, such as animal testing and ensuring good is embedded into all our business processes and ensures we clinical practice, it is essential we have close collaboration operate responsibly. and dialogue with our customers to ensure we can positively influence them by offering solutions that are more efficient Our approach to sustainability and ethical. Our sustainability work helps us achieve our overall objecIn manufacturing, sustainability issues typically concern tives and is guided by our sustainability framework. The environmental impact, supplier management, labour condiframework ensures we make continuous improvements tions, and social responsibility. In sales and marketing, we through clear objectives and are transparent on sustainaencounter queries on ethical conduct in customer activities bility topics. It also helps to mitigate risk, including reputaand sales activities. Our sustainability work is what guides tional risks, that may impact our company negatively. us and ensures that these issues are always actively and The company is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and responsibly addressed. reports its GHG emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project About the Sustainability Report Recipharm’s 2019 Sustainability Report has been report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI prepared in accordance with the Swedish legal requireStandards: Core option. Additionally, this report serves ments, including the Annual Accounts Act. The Statutory as Recipharm’s Communication on Progress Report to the Sustainability Report and Recipharm’s Sustainable UN Global Compact. Recipharm’s entire GRI Appendix Report can be found on pages 26-39. Recipharm also with the GRI Index and associated reporting information reports sustainability information in accordance with the is available on Recipharm’s website www.recipharm.com/ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and this our-story/sustainability/. 6 reCipHarM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report RECIPHARM’S FOCUS AREAS We have identified three focus areas and developed relevant objectives. More information about the rationale behind our priorities is included in our GRI Appendix. REDUCED Objective: Outcome: Objective: Outcome: 1 GREENHOUSE Our overall Our greenhouse To maintain In 2019, 85 GAS EMISSIONS objective is gas emissions ISO 14001 per cent of our to reduce the per employee in certification in manufacturReduce greenhouse gas emissions amount of 2019 amounted all Recipharm’s ing operations by targeting energy consumption greenhouse gas to 11.5 tonnes, manufacturing where certified and transportation. emissions a reduction of operations. according to per employee 22 per cent ISO 14001. by at least 3 compared with Our Brescia per cent each the previous facility in Italy year. year. Read and Karnal and more on page Paonta Sahib 32. facilities in India received certification during the year. SUPPLIER Objective: Outcome: 2 ASSESSMENT To have A total of 93 conducted suppliers have AND MONITORING 40 additional been audited in on-site reviews connection to Our long-term goal for managing at suppliers quality audits supplier sustainability performance in accordwhich is an is to establish a clear overview of ance with our increase of 31 all their operations in relation to Supplier Code per cent comour Supplier Code of Conduct. of Conduct. pared to last year. DEVELOP Objective: Outcome: 3 INTERNAL To further A cross-funcdeveloped tional risk GOVERNANCE guidelines assessment around our of corruption Deliver value for our stakeholders processes risks has been and develop clear internal profor review, conducted cesses to ensure alignment with communication during the the UN Global Compact. and training year, as well to strengthen as establishing procedures a mitigation to prevent plan. Actions in corruption. this plan will be implemented in 2020. reCipHarM 2019 7 Sustainability As a decentralised company with relatively small Group-level functions, Recipharm’s company-wide culture is essential to attract and retain talent – as well as promote an entrepreneurial spirit, local accountability and the company’s common management model. OUR COMPANY CULTURE The importance of our company culture This helps us to implement common ways of working that add Operating in a competitive environment and supplying highly value throughout the company and contribute towards a demanding customers requires talented people. It is vital that shared company culture. For example, we have established we attract, develop and retain excellent individuals. Our coma company-wide network in areas such as procurement and pany culture ensures Recipharm has a strong employer value lean manufacturing to promote cooperation, share knowlproposition that extends through the employee life cycle – edge and promote best practices throughout the Group. Attract, Recruit, Develop and Retain. Our culture is therefore We also promote cross-unit employment opportunities by essential to secure two of our strategic pathways – employing advertising internally as well as externally. excellent people and supplying innovative expertise. Employee competence and commitment is crucial to Recipharm has always worked to develop, promote and Recipharm’s future success. We value the knowledge and retain talent, creating a win-win situation for Recipharm and collective industry experience of our employees, and we its employees. We have also established collaborations to encourage personal development and initiatives for inforrecruit young talent interested in an international career. mation sharing. At Recipharm, the exchange of professional As a listed company, Recipharm can offer its employees skills and knowledge is similar to that of a small company, a broad long-term incentive programme. This acts as both but within an international network and brand. a cost-efficient benefit that attracts potential candidates, Strategic competencies, positions and special areas increases employee interest in the Recipharm share and critical for Recipharm’s success are identified. Employee serves as a financial incentive for employees to stay with the development is therefore in line with the role and needs company long term. of the company. Individual performance and development reviews are generally carried out on an annual basis Management model and the adequate training and development of people is Our Global Policy sets out a clear management model and ensured at a local level. guidelines for operating companies, whilst appreciating that one size does not fit all. This allows our operating companies Acquisitions – transferring our culture to work in the way that best suits their needs and market Newly acquired companies are quickly integrated into our conditions. The Global Policy includes Recipharm’s vision, business by working on three key areas – reporting, policy mission and long-term objectives, as well as the governing and management. In addition, helping new employees to principles for operating companies, including the delegation understand and embrace the Recipharm culture is a natural of authorities. It also comprises of a framework for other part of integrating new companies. In the most recent Group policies, such as financial reporting, financial audits, examples, Leganés and Holmes Chapel, the Recipharm purchasing and our Code of Conduct. This allows General core values were introduced soon after the transaction Managers within our operating companies to work with a high closed and actively communicated and interpreted by the degree of managerial freedom within a clearly defined framelocal organisations. Key Recipharm employees have quickly work. Internal compliance to the Global Policy and the Code interacted and involved with the newly acquired companies of Conduct is reviewed on an annual basis. and provided support where needed. Another way of integrating new companies in the culture is by immediately inviting Strengthening our culture through synergies and engaging representatives from the newly acquired comWe are increasingly drawing on synergies between our panies in the internal network groups – for Quality mangrowing number of operating companies around the world. agement, Lean and Procurement, to mention a few. 8 reCipHarM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report OUR EMPLOYEES 27 2018: 27 Number of facilities 6,873 2018: 6,806 Total number of employees 41% 2018: 42% Women 59% 2018: 58% Men Recipharm operates in a competitive environment, and we need talented people. It is vital to attract, develop and retain excellent individuals. Diversity and equality are essential to our business behaviours. reCipHarM 2019 9 Sustainability In a competitive industry, increasingly focused on cost, our culture is what differentiates us. Maintaining our culture At year end, 16 (13) operating companies out of 26, repAs we grow and become increasingly global, maintaining resenting 61.5 (50) per cent of Recipharm have an OHSAS our culture of entrepreneurship, local accountability and 18001/ISO 45001 or similar health and safety standard in our decentralised management model continues to be an place. The Wasserburg manufacturing facility in Germany ongoing challenge – but remains important. In a competitive became our first site to be certified to the new ISO 45001 industry, increasingly focused on cost, our culture is what occupational health and safety (OH&S) management system, differentiates us, helps us to attract and retain employees, which will be rolled out across our other facilities in 2020 and ultimately promotes the success of our local operating and beyond. Occupational health and safety systems include companies and the Group as a whole. procedures for risk management, the reporting of hazards, incidents and accidents, and the management of health and Employee health and safety safety matters. Recipharm aims to provide safe and engaging workplaces. The majority of operating companies provide access to All our companies have detailed employee health and safety occupational healthcare. Recipharm also provides addimanuals to ensure compliance with all relevant requirements. tional health initiatives, such as wellness grants for physical These are locally adapted to ensure they meet the relevant exercise. local legislation. During the year, a total of 169 (150) work-related accidents Around 50 (44) per cent of the total workforce is reprewere reported. Most involved minor injuries among manusented by worker health and safety committees that help facturing facility employees. The accident rate (number of monitor and advise on occupational health and safety. These accidents per number of scheduled working hours per 500 committees are chaired by senior managers of the respective employees) in 2019 was 1.65 (1.01), which is relatively low in operating companies, with regular meetings. our industry. All employees have the right to join trade unions, and we When introducing new equipment, manufacturing prowork actively with unions on health and safety issues where cesses and new chemical compounds, a risk assessment is they are active. Around 57 (55) per cent of Recipharm’s mandatory. Based on this assessment, relevant procedures, employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. training, instructions and protective measures are put in place. All operating companies have reporting systems for employees to actively monitor work-related incidents and accidents and take corrective actions in the event incidents or accidents occur. This is communicated to all employees concerned. Recipharm’s management approach to health and safety also applies to workers that are not employees but whose work or workplace is managed by the organisation, such as contractors, self-employed personnel and agency workers. Health and safety initiatives are part of the daily continuous improvement work throughout our operating companies. In parallel, certain upgrades and organisational developments can lead to gradual changes in the approach. One example in 2019 was work to develop fire safety systems in the plant in Paonta Sahib, India. Equality and diversity Newly acquired companies are quickly integrated into our business by working on three key areas – reporting, policy and management. In addition, helping new employees to understand and embrace the Recipharm culture is a natural ­part of integrating new companies. In our most recent acquisitions, Leganés and Holmes Chapel, the Recipharm core values were introduced immediately they joined Recipharm and were actively communicated and interpreted by the local organisations. Key Recipharm employees have engaged and involved the newly acquired companies and early on provided support where needed. Another way of integrating new companies in the culture is by immediately engaging and inviting company representatives in our internal network groups – for Quality Management, Lean and Procuremen, to mention a few. 30 RE C IP H AR M 2 0 1 9 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report OUR CORE VALUES Reliability Professionalism Entrepreneurship Tenacity • We create trust by always • We maintain a high level • We are innovative and • We show commitment in delivering on promises of competence to deliver a creative in finding ways to everything we do • We deliver with quality and return on investment to our develop and improve our • We are committed to in time stakeholders business reaching our goals • We are honest and always fol• We are flexible, service • We are open to change but • We are persistent and we low our Code of Conduct minded and always looking respect that it can take time will not give up easily for the best solutions to achieve • If we encounter an obsta• We learn from our mistakes • We have a ‘can do’ attitude cle, we try harder to find a and always take on chalsolution • We show respect – to cuslenges with a mindset that tomers, peers, partners and nothing is too difficult managers reCipHarM 2019 11 Sustainability Mitigating our environmental impacts from energy consumption, emissions and waste at our manufacturing and laboratory facilities involves some of our most important sustainability work. ENVIRONMENT The importance of our environmental work Acquisitions In order to succeed in the long-term, Recipharm needs Environmental due diligence is one of the most important to use natural resources in a sustainable manner and to activities when Recipharm is considering potential acquisicontinuously find ways of minimising our environmental tions. Due diligence reviews are primarily conducted through impact. As a world-leading provider of CDMO services reviews of material provided by the seller, but when required it is therefore essential that we reduce greenhouse gas more information is collected through on-site investigations emissions from our production and transport in the face such as the sampling of soil and water. Recipharm uses of climate change and the potential future impacts on external expertise for these investigations. our business and society. Operating in accordance with legislation and relevant permits and licenses also involves Energy and greenhouse gas emissions mitigating the risk of discharges and effluents, and propReducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) erly taking care of them if they occur. This is particularly emissions are Recipharm’s most important environmental important in antibiotic production. objectives. In 2019, Recipharm’s direct and indirect carbon Our proactive environmental work has also always difemissions amounted to 61,224 (70,766) tonnes. This is ferentiated Recipharm from competitors and helps us to be equivalent to 11.5 (14.7) tonnes per employee, or a reducthe customer’s first choice. By continuously improving our tion of 22 per cent compared with the previous year. This environmental work, Recipharm also reduces the environcorresponds to 0.008 tonnes CO² per 1,000 SEK turn­over. mental impact of its operations. This ultimately reduces Direct emissions are primarily a result of heating our facilithe environmental footprint of the products and services ties and from company-owned vehicles. Our indirect emiswe deliver to customers. It also helps us to reduce costs sions are a result of energy use in our m ­ anufacturing and through more efficient operations. development facilities, which mostly relates to consumption. Indirect GHG emissions also include transport emissions Environmental management system related to our suppliers and inter­company transportation. Recipharm’s facilities all have the relevant environmental The reduction in our GHG emissions in 2019 was primarpermits required by law in each country. All facilities are ily a result of more efficient energy use in manufacturing actively monitored, and no deviations were noted in 2019. plants, as well as switching to low-carbon energy sources. We are committed to ensuring that all our operating comThe work to promote energy efficiency is managed locally panies are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental manat facility level and follows normal business practices for agement system standard. The goal is that newly acquired capital investments. Our experience has demonstrated that facilities are certified within two years of them being incorenergy efficiency investments are sound investments that porated into the Group. At the end of the year 22 (18) out save more money over time than the cost of the investment. of 26, representing 84.6 (73.1) per cent of Recipharm have One key initiative has been the use of solar panels an ISO 14001 certificate. Certification ensures robust profor electricity generation at our manufacturing plant in cess and shows customers and other stakeholders a clear Bengaluru, India. Projects to reduce energy use have also commitment to environmental management with a global been introduced in several operating companies. standard. In 2019, certification was achieved for Brescia We report our GHG emissions and how we manage our (Italy), Paonta Sahib and Karnal (India). In 2020, Lainate environmental impact in the annual CDP Climate Change (Italy) and Bengaluru (India) are expected to complete questionnaire. Responding to CDP promotes further their ISO 14001 certification process. improvements in our environmental and climate work and provides us with feedback on our climate reporting and actions. Recipharm’s CDP reporting in 2019 was graded at level B-, an improvement on the previous year’s C rating. The CDP data for 2019 will be submitted in July 2020. 12 reCipHarM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report RECIPHARM’S 2019 INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD WINNER The Recipharm 2019 International consequences from exposure to the Environmental Award winner plethora of chemical and microbial The Recipharm 2019 International contaminants that are present in the Environmental Award was granted to Dana environment. Kolpin, Research Hydrologist at the U.S. We are delighted to present Geological Survey Central Midwest Water About Recipharm’s International the 2019 award to Dana Kolpin. Science Center in Iowa City, Iowa. Environmental Award Kolpin’s long-term source-to-receptor Since Recipharm was founded in 1995, our His work represents a pioneering research includes the effects of environmental agenda has been a central approach to exploring the environmental contaminants that are used part of the way we do business. It is our in society, including in pharmaceuticals belief that transparency, cooperation and potential effects and risks of and pesticides. Kolpin has led two national encouragement are necessary if we are to contaminants, including projects for the U.S. Geological Survey’s achieve sustainable development. In order pharmaceuticals, Toxic Substances Hydrology Program: the to promote this belief, we introduced the Contaminants of Emerging Concern international environmental award in 2008 on the environment. Project (1998-2017) and the Food to showcase the best environmental – Lars Backsell, Chairman of the Board of Resources Project (2018 to present). practice or innovation within the Recipharm These projects have increased our pharmacy and health care industries or understanding of the environmental academia. reCipHarM 2019 13 Sustainability 14 reCipHarM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report Water and waste Antimicrobial resistance We compile water and waste data for all our manufacturAMR is currently one of the most serious health coning and development facilities. Our process wastewater is cerns worldwide. As Recipharm manufactures antibiotics predominantly produced from the cleaning of equipment. in Sweden, Italy and India, it is important that we are The quantity of drug residues in our wastewater is small and involved in developing solutions to combat AMR. During all Recipharm facilities are authorised to release wastewater 2019, we joined the AMR Industry Alliance in order for us to into normal sewage systems for processing in treatment improve our work on AMR and allow us to engage with other plants. The exception is in India, where we operate our own stakeholders. local water treatment plants and recirculate purified wasteAs well as joining the AMR Industry Alliance, Recipharm water by using it for irrigation. is also involved in a number of other initiatives focused on The availability of fresh water is generally good in the AMR. For example, the multisector collaboration platform, locations where Recipharm operates. The exception again is PLATINEA, led by Uppsala University, designed to find ways India, where the availability of fresh water varies from year to preserve and enhance the value of existing antibiotics and to year. In India, Recipharm uses groundwater that is prethe Reducing Emissions from Antibiotic Production (REAP) treated at our facilities before it is used in manufacturing to project, which was launched at World Water Week 2019 in minimise the burden on municipal fresh water supplies. Stockholm by the Stockholm International Water Institute Where organic solvents are used, emissions undergo (SIWI). pre-treatment to minimise quantities of organic solvents. All our units comply with their respective environmental permits by a wide margin. Solvent emissions in 2019 amounted to 1,859 (1,657) tonnes, with plants in Uppsala and Paderno Dugnano accounting for the majority of our emissions. WATER AND WASTE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2019 2018 80,000 14 Water 1,972,639 m3 1,751,790 m3 12 Tonnes CO2/SEKm sales Of which own sources 1,347,375 m3 1,142,648 m3 60,000 10 Tonnes CO2e 8 The water used is municipal water and groundwater from our 40,000 own sources. Most of the consumption is used in production 6 processes at one specific facility in Italy. 4 20,000 2 2019 2018 0 0 2017 2018 2019 Waste 9,852 tonnes 10,293 tonnes Total emissions Of which hazardous waste 5,539 tonnes 5,463 tonnes Emissions per SEKm sales The table shows the total amount of waste generated and waste defined as The table shows Recipharm's total amount of green­house gas emissions and hazardous. emissions per SEKm of sales. r e C i p H a rM 2 0 1 9 15 sUstainaBiLity As Recipharm’s operations can affect people’s lives and health, we must not only comply with laws and regulations, but also act in a responsible and ethical manner. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As Recipharm’s operations can affect people’s lives and health, we must not only comply with laws and regulations, but also act in a responsible and ethical manner. Recipharm as a responsible business We have always had high sustainability ambitions, which we believe is as an advantage when working with customers. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE For example, being a responsible and reliable CDMO differentiates Recipharm from its competitors. GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED As a publicly listed company, Recipharm is required and requested to provide formal reporting and transparency regarding sustainability. We are also expected to engage with relevant associations and networks (e.g. CDP and AMR Industry Alliance), which help to communicate our position as a CDMO with a strong sustainability profi le. Governance and business ethics Our business ethics are managed by our ethical guidelines – our Code of Conduct. The guidelines cover all aspects of business ethics and relations with employees, customers, suppliers, authorities, competitors and other stakeholders. The Code of Conduct also covers Recipharm’s policies on anti-corruption and human rights. Our guidelines explicitly Operating costs 49% prohibit any interference that aims to create undue advanEmployee wages and benefits 33% tage for Recipharm, or for individual employees. Payments to providers of capital 2% During the year, there were no reported deviations from Payments to government 0% our Code of Conduct. As part of our 2020 sustainability Economic value retained 3% objectives, we will continue to develop the model for how we monitor our Code of Conduct. In 2019, a risk analysis relating to the Code of Conduct was conducted. Based on Net sales in 2019 totalled SEKm 7,457 (6,374). this analysis, Recipharm is now looking into developing The diagram shows how much was reinvested the methodology for the implementation, monitoring and and distributed to Recipharm's stakeholders. employee training of the Code of Conduct. We also follow ongoing developments concerning anti-corruption legislation and will continue to strengthen the organisation and our competence to ensure the necessary adaptation. During the year, an initiative to analyse corruption risks has been pernised principles on human rights, the ILO core conventions, formed involving relevant functions throughout the Group. the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and In 2019, a process and model for whistleblowing, which is the United Nations Convention Against Corruption and we possible to use both internally and by external parties, has continue to develop our work around these principles. also been implemented. Supplier requirements UN Global Compact Our suppliers provide active ingredients, raw materials and Recipharm has been a signatory of the United Nations Global packaging materials, as well as machine and laboratory Compact (UNGC) since 2016. This means that Recipharm equipment. We also have agreements with service providis committed to abiding by the UNGC’s ten principles on ers. To enable us to maintain our commitments to customers human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our and other stakeholders, we place particular emphasis on commitment includes support for all internationally recogsafety, quality, price, performance and the ability to deliver. 16 reCipHarM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN INDIA reCipHarM FULFiLs its respOnsiBiLity Around 35 children are currently provided accommodation and a day-care centre and legal obligation to optimise societal with accommodation, and 42 children to elderly homeless people and mentally benefit in the communities surrounding its with hearing and speech impairments disabled people. facilities in India. It does this by donating receive vocational training. to a variety of non-profit organisations. The company also supports a variety Supporting communities in Bengaluru of non-profit organisations that provide In Bengaluru, Recipharm donates to a Social initiatives in northern India better access to healthcare, and educalocal NGO that works closely with govRecipharm contributes to the communitional and vocational training to disadernment schools on various projects. The ties around the Group’s Nitin Lifesciences vantaged people. Many of the initiatives NGO provides educational workshops facilities in Karnal and Paonta Sahib by have a clear focus on underprivileged at local schools, and has established an supporting a variety of organisations – children, the elderly, mentally disabled academic excellence awards programme including the Helpline Charitable Trust. people and disadvantaged women. for its employees’ children. Other projects The trust works with a variety of initiaFor example, Recipharm donates to a include tree planting, the construction tives that support education, health and non-profit organisation that provides of toilets, hand washing facilities and a career opportunities for under privileged education to children in rural areas. It school kitchen and the donation of school and destitute children – primarily girls. also supports a foundation to provide desks, computers and uniforms. reCipHarM 2019 17 Sustainability Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct covers business physical hazards and have programmes in place to prevent ethics, labour practices, anti-corruption, human rights or mitigate excessive releases of chemicals and other idenand environmental management. We strive to ensure that tified major risks. Recipharm also requires that suppliers suppliers actively endorse the requirements of the Supplier identify and assess emergency situations and minimise their Code of Conduct, and we communicate and follow-up the impacts by implementing emergency plans and response Code. procedures. Safety information regarding hazardous For direct materials, Recipharm has more than 700 differmaterials should be available to educate, train and protect ent suppliers. Most of these suppliers are located in Europe, workers from hazards. During 2020, we will focus on taking but our supplier base is global. Suppliers to the pharmaceufurther steps towards ensuring fair and reliable supplier tical industry work under well-defined quality criteria and assessments. many are covered by the pharmaceutical industry’s quality We engage in social initiatives relevant to our operations system, Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). Our operations and in response to local priorities within the surrounding are normally automated with low labour intensity. During communities of our facilities. Our internal guidelines for 2019, there has been no significant change in our supply ethical behaviour – the Code of Conduct – govern which chain. activities local companies can engage in. We take responsiThere are legal requirements for us to make regular bility and operate within the framework of competition law quality audits of our suppliers to verify their compliance in all our activities. with GMP requirements. In connection with these audits, the The Recipharm Code of Conduct complements this legislacompliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is reviewed. tion and prohibits partnerships or agreements with competIf necessary, specific audits focusing on sustainability matitors regarding price, terms or other areas. We operate in a ters will be conducted. The code has been communicated to strictly regulated market, where all our products and ser1,876 suppliers, and 1,413 of these suppliers have accepted vices are subject to regulation and requirements regarding the code. There have not been any specific sustainability ingredients, preparation and quality control. audits in 2019, but 93 of our suppliers were reviewed in conRecipharm takes advantage of funding opportunities nection to quality audits. from local authorities in the countries in which it operates. Through our Supplier Code of Conduct, Recipharm Recipharm runs an internship programme in collaboration requires that suppliers provide a safe working environment, with Business France, which provided four French graduates including any company-provided living quarters, and protect with year-long internships, including two in Sweden, one in employees from overexposure to chemical, biological and India and one in the UK in 2019. 18 reCipHarM 2019 About Recipharm Our operations Sustainability Annual Report Recipharm's responsibility in relation to stakeholders such as customers, owners and employees requires the company to manage its risks correctly. The risks vary between different geographies. As Recipharm continues to expand, the need for new knowledge and monitoring activities increases. The following sustainability risks have been identified as essential for Recipharm. SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Environmental and safety risks continuously evaluates supply interruption risks in its Manufacturing and development operations are associated operating companies. In several cases, mitigation plans are with environmental impact and risks associated with accialso requested by and presented to customers. Suppliers dents. Recipharm’s management of environmental risk is are managed within the framework of the Supplier Code of continuously developed in accordance with new regulations Conduct and quality audits. The scope of these reviews is on sustainability reporting. Risks related to the environment continuously developed. and work safety are addressed within the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 systems. Regulatory risk Recipharm's operations are subject to regulatory approvals Business ethics in several areas. According to legislation, all factories must Risks associated with business ethics are also identified in have a manufacturing license to produce pharmaceuticals the risk analysis. Additionally, suppliers present risks, both and the corresponding conditions are required for developin terms of supply reliability and business ethics. Human ment laboratories depending on the extent of the developrights and anti-corruption risks are continuously developed ment work being carried out. The operations also require in accordance with new regulations on sustainability reportlocal environmental permits the extent of these varies ing. Risks regarding business ethics are addressed through depending on the business and legislation in each country. adequate routines for communication, follow-up and control to ensure the correct implementation of, and compliance Quality-control risk with, the company's Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of All products require the necessary regulatory approvals Conduct. in the countries in which they are to be sold. The Market Authorisation Holder (MAH), our customer, is primarily Supply chain and reputational risk responsible for this but Recipharm must comply with the Most risks are believed to be in the manufacture and supply terms of the registrations. Recipharm actively works with of products, where manufacturing interruptions may impact quality systems within the framework of GMP and maintains delivery performance and supply reliability. Recipharm environmental management systems at its facilities. AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Recipharm AB, corporate identity number 556498-8425 Engagement and responsibility RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding Opinions It is the Board of Directors who is responsible the statutory sustainability statement. This A statutory sustainability statement has been for the statutory sustainability statement for means that our examination of the corpoprepared. the year 2019 on pages 26-39 and that it has rate governance statement is different and been prepared in accordance with the Annual substantially less in scope than an audit Stockholm 3 April 2020 Accounts Act. conducted in accordance with InternaErnst & Young AB tional Standards on Auditing and generally The scope of the audit accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We Jennifer Rock Baley Our examination has been conducted in believe that the examination has provided us Authorized Public Accountant accordance with FAR’s auditing standard with sufficient basis for our opinions. re C ipHarM 2019 19 RECIPHARM GRI APPENDIX 2019 Recipharm’s sustainability report is in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standard (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines, level Core. Our sustainability report is presented yearly as part of our annual report, and this document supplements the information provided in the annual report. No third party has audited the sustainability report and we will evaluate the need for external review. In this document, we present our GRI-index, describe our stakeholder dialogue and how we have selected our most material sustainability aspects. We also outline the underlying methods and assumptions used for the sustainability data. 20 GRI INDEX The following list references the GRI indicators that Recipharm has decided to report on. AR = Annual Report; GRI = GRI Appendix. General disclosures GRI 102: 2016 Description Reference 102-1 Name of the organisation AR 40 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 19–23 102-3 Location of headquarters AR 1 102-4 Location of operations AR 1 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 106–107 102-6 Markets served AR 0–1 102-7 Scale of the organisation AR 1, 50, 68 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI 4 102-9 Supply chain AR 36, 38 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain AR 2–3 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach GRI 3 102-12 External initiatives AR 26 102-13 Membership of associations GRI 3 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker AR 4–5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour AR 11–13, 31, 36–38 102-18 Governance structure AR 44–46 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI 3 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements AR 30 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI 3 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement GRI 3 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised GRI 3 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements GRI 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries GRI 3 102-47 List of material topics GRI 3 102-48 Restatements of information GRI 4 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI 3 102-50 Reporting period GRI 1 102-51 Date of most recent report April 2019 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI 1 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report GRI 3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI 1 102-55 GRI content index GRI 2 102-56 External assurance GRI 1 GRI 201: 2016 Economic Performance 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 12–14, 36 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 36 GRI 305: 2016 Emissions 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 26–27, 32–35 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) GRI 4 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) GRI 4 GRI 308: 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 26–27, 36–38, GRI 3 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 4 GRI 403: 2018 Occupational Health and Safety 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 26–27, 30, GRI 3 403-1 403-7 Management approach AR 23–24 403-9 Work-related injuries GRI 4 GRI 414: 2016 Supplier Social Assessment 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Management approach AR 26–27, 36–38, GRI 3 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken GRI 4 Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2019 21 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Recipharm has identified employees, customers, owners, investors, analysts, suppliers and government agencies as key stakeholders. The company has an ongoing dialogue with all relevant stakeholders regarding important business topics, including sustainability. As part of preparing priorities and reporting, Recipharm has had specific meetings with the four largest institutional owners, carried out a survey with employees and conducted two workshops within the Group Management Team. Recipharm’s key stakeholders Forum for dialogue Key topics and Recipharm’s response Owners, investors • Regular meetings • Scope and objectives and analysts • Ongoing contact • Prioritised areas • Capital Market Day • Current performance • Annual general meeting • Planned activities • Annual Report Employees • Regular dialogue • Performance reviews • Performance reviews • Personal and team contribution to sustainability • Conferences • Wider input survey open for all employees Customers • Ongoing contact • Customer meetings addressing sustainability • Responding to several customers’ • Customers’ sustainability requirements sustainability surveys • Recipharm’s performance regarding sustainability Suppliers • Procurement requirements • Start of implementation of Recipharm’s Supplier Code of Conduct • Ongoing contact • Sustainability assessments included in supplier quality audits • Supplier audits Government agencies • Ongoing contact • No specific topics raised in 2019 The table shows Recipharm’s key stakeholders, the forum for dialogues and sustainability report, we continuously describe the impact of each their key topics and Recipharm’s response. Recipharm is also responding to sustainability aspect, both within and outside the company. the key topics and concerns in the annual report and this GRI Appendix. GOVERNANCE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES As a company listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Mid Cap Recipharm follows Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Recipharm has develRecipharm conducted a materiality analysis during 2016. The analysis oped a number of governing documents, such as the Code of Conduct was based on Recipharm’s strategy, sustainability context and stakeand Internal Control Standards. Auditing and monitoring are achieved holder expectations. Recipharm’s management team made the priorwith the help of external resources and through self-evaluation. Self-­ itising of the most material sustainability topics. The table below lists evaluation includes monitoring of local companies’ compliance with the sustainability topics that have been defined as the most material to Recipharm’s Code of Conduct, Internal Control Standards and other Recipharm. rules and guidelines through a Letter of Assurance process. Targets are monitored regularly and Recipharm’s operating companies Material GRI Standard aspects are responsible for implementation and management. Overall control is carried out at the group with direct feedback to the CEO and the Board. • Economic Performance Recipharm applies an ISO 14001 certified environmental manage• Emissions ment system and a management system for health and safety, certified according to OSHAS 18001 or ISO45001, across the majority of • Supplier Social Assessment operating companies. Internal governing document Global Policy was introduced 2005 and complemented in 2008 with Recipharm’s Code • Occupational Health and Safety of Conduct. Recipharm became members of the UN Global Compact The table shows Recipharm’s material sustainability aspects. in 2016, a commitment to support the ten principles regarding human rights, anti-corruption, labour and environment. Recipharm is takRecipharm’s sustainability report focus on the material topics but also ing the precautionary approach into account in the company’s risk addresses other aspects of sustainability when relevant. Recipharm will management processes. Work methods and processes are constantly develop the sustainability work gradually and have an active dialogue adapted to external expectations, requirements and legislation relewith stakeholders for input on Recipharm’s priorities and improvements. vant to ­Recipharm. Recipharm is a member of the Swedish Life Science­ Industry Organization, SwedenBIO. Boundaries During 2019, Recipharm joined the AMR Industry Alliance in order to Recipharm’s sustainability report covers the entire Group, unless other improve work on AMR and enable engagement with other stakeholders. is stated. The material sustainability aspects have impacts on our own AMR is currently one of the most serious health concerns worldwide. business and our employees. As Recipharm manufactures antibiotics in Sweden, Italy and India, it is Some of the aspects have impacts beyond Recipharm’s organisational important that we are involved in developing solutions to combat AMR. boundaries, such as assessment and monitoring of suppliers. In the Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2019 22 BACKGROUND DATA FOR GHG CALCULATIONS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS All calculations are made according to the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. This section contains data on disclosures that are not fully reported in Direct GHG emissions in Scope 1 includes combustion of natural gas and the annual report. oil for our factories and premises and fuel for company vehicles. Energy indirect GHG emissions in Scope 2 include consumption of electricity, Greenhouse gas emissions 2019 2018 2017 district heating, cooling and steam. Emissions of other indirect GHGs Scope 1 (Use of natural gas and oil in in Scope 3 include business travel by train and airplane. premises, and fuel in company vehicles) 22,293 20,914 17,080 This year previous years’ data for emissions has been restated as we Scope 2 (Electricity, district heating, have detected inaccuracies in reported data, e.g. we have detected that cooling and steam) 37,713 49,209 49,233 a meter has shown incorrect information, which is now corrected. Scope 3 (Business travel by train and airplane) 1,218 643 934 Total 61,224 70,766 67,247 Calculation of The table shows the total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the GHG emissions Source of data reported sources. Combustion of natural Conversion factor for natural gas and oil gas and oil from Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Number of Share of Share of Share of Fuel from business Statistics on fuel consumed or distance employees 2019 women 2018 women 2017 women travel in company travelled gathered from employee expenvehicles ses. Assumptions of gasoline cars when Total number unknown and conversion factors from of employees 6,873 41% 6,806 42% 5,630 49% Greenhouse gas protocol. Permanent contract 5,221 40% 5,633 41% 4,589 49% Electricity Country by country data for converFull time 4,940 38% 4,813 38% 4,350 46% sion factors from “Reliable Disclosure Systems for Europe – Phase II” (RE-DISS Part time 281 88% 820 64% 239 91% II) project, which was supported by the Temporary European Commission through the Intellicontract 1,652 44% 1,173 42% 1,041 52% gent Energy Europe (IEE). When specific agreement for 100% renewable energy, The table shows the total number of employees by employment contract zero emissions assumed. and gender. District heating, cooling Statistics from suppliers. and steam Work-related injuries 2019 2018 Business travel Data on emissions from travel agencies Recordable work-related injuries 169 150 when possible, conversion factors from Greenhouse gas protocol when only disRate of recordable work-related injuries 15.50 15.20 tance travelled is known. High-consequence work-related injuries 18 10 Rate of high-consequence work-related injuries 1.65 1.01 Fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0 0 SUPPLY CHAIN Rate of fatalities as result of work-related injury 0 0 During 2019, 93 suppliers where assessed for environmental and social impacts, whereof 19 has been identified as having significant actual and/ The table shows the rate of recordable work related injuries, and high-­ or potential negative environmental impacts. 18 suppliers have received consequence work related injuries for our own employees. High-consequence work-related injuries are defined according to local legislation. No work-related an amber assessment during 2019. This indicates that the supplier has fatalities in the reporting period. No information on independent contractors. not acknowledged the Recipharm Supplier Code of Conduct and/or has The rate has been calculated based on 1,000,000 hours worked. Total working shown deficiencies with regards to environmental management system hours for Recipharm were 10,902,041.27. certification according to ISO14001 or occupational health and safety according to ISO45001/OHSAS18001. One new API supplier in India showed clear deficiencies in its qualificaEconomic value generated tion audit. Consequently, this supplier was not approved and is not supand distributed 2019 2018 2017 plying Recipharm. Revenues 7,709 6,374 5,332 Operating costs -3808 -3,36 -3,011 Employee wages and benefits -2578 -2,229 -1,909 Payments to providers of capital -138 -134 -200 Payments to government -0 -197 -168 Economic value retained 947 454 44 The table shows the direct economic value generated and distributed. Contact For questions regarding our sustainability report, contact Erik Haeffler, Head of Sustainability, erik.haeffler@recipharm.com. Re ci p ha rm GR I Appen di x 2019 23
