UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S BUSINESS REG. NO.: 52 84 31 11 SLOTSMARKEN 1, DK-2970 HØRSHOLM ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • TABLE OF CONTENTS TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 FOREWORD 26 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 27 Environment and climate at RDG 4 OUR BUSINESS 28 SUPPLIERS 5 FACTS & FIGURES 28 Amfori BEPI 6 DENMARK’S LEADING DESIGN HOUSE 29 Forest Stewardship Council 8 SUPPLY CHAIN AND RISKS 33 TRANSPORTATION 10 CSR AT RDG 33 Transporting goods 33 Employee transportation 11 BRANDS 34 RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND WASTE 12 Kay Bojesen 34 Waste 13 Rosendahl 35 Resource consumption 14 Bjørn Wiinblad 36 OUR OUTSOURCED WAREHOUSES 15 Kähler 37 PRODUCT SAFETY 16 Holmegaard 37 Own-check programme 17 GLOBAL 37 Risk assessments for new products 17 Lyngby Porcelæn 18 Arne Jacobsen Clocks 18 JUNA 19 DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIPS 21 PEOPLE 22 Human and employee rights 23 Amfori BSCI Code of Conduct 23 Amfori BSCI Audit 23 Supplier segmentation 24 Carriers 24 Psychosocial environment 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION 25 Anti-bribery policy 25 Gifts and entertainment 25 Ongoing initiatives to prevent anti-competitive agreements 2 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • FOREWORD FOREWORD At Rosendahl Design Group A/S, we know we run a bet(SDGs) and to increase supplier compliance to our Code of ter business if we behave in a fundamentally more decent Conduct and sustainability in sourcing raw materials, among manner than is necessary. In other words, we wish to take many others. responsibility for the people and the environment our business affects in a way that supports sustainable developThis report comprises RDG’s “Communication on Progress” ment. Our corporate values, objectives, and ambitions form (COP) for the UNGC, in which we document the progress of the framework for how we understand and manage that our sustainability and responsibility initiatives. The report responsibility. can be read independently or as a supplement to the Annual Report 2019. Since our commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in 2018, we have continuously supported the 10 principles Happy reading of the UNGC which cover human rights, employee rights, the environment, and anti-corruption. Last year was no exception, as we took steps to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals Henrik Rosendahl Chairman of the board and owner, Rosendahl Design Group A/S 3 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS OUR BUSINESS 57% Living 56% 43% Denmark Function Distribution of net revenue 9% among activities and Sweden geographical markets 5% Other markets 5% Germany 25% Norway POLAND SWEDEN LITHUANIA GERMANY DENMARK FRANCE SPAIN PORTUGAL JAPAN CHINA THE CZECH VIETNAM HONGKONG REPUBLIC INDIA SLOVAKIA BANGLADESH ROMANIA THAILAND SRI LANKA TURKEY INDONESIA Countries where RDG goods are produced 4 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS FACTS & FIGURES DEVELOPMENT IN NET REVENUE NUMBER OF NEW Rosendahl Design Group A/S PRODUCTS LAUNCHED 2015-2019 (TDKK) 2019 + 290 527.028 500.796 487.693 448.489 416.393 ITEM NUMBERS Spanning all brands 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 + 4000 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) As an international design company, workplace, and business partner with suppliers around the world we work actively to take responsibility for the impacts we have on the environment and the climate as well as the people involved in our business. In 2019 we identified the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we want to focus on and we work eagerly to implement these goals in all relevant parts of our business: 5 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS DENMARK’S LEADING DESIGN HOUSE RDG is Denmark’s leading multi-brand design house locasubsequently sold through wholesale distributors and retail ted in five countries and with an annual revenue of over stores to thousands of customers. DKK 530m. As a value-based design company dating back The RDG range features nine brands: Rosendahl, two generations, our mission is to design new products and Holmegaard, Kay Bojesen, GLOBAL, Bjørn Wiinblad, Arne rediscover Danish design classics for home décor and kitJacobsen Clocks, JUNA, Lyngby Porcelæn, and Kähler. chen, to be sold to customers in Scandinavia and in carefully selected export markets. RDG Property is our subsidiary that is responsible for facility management services at our headquarters in Hørsholm, Our designs are created, and our iconic sketches are revilocated north of Copenhagen. ved, by our designers and external talents. They are then 6 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDG) In our work with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we have chosen to actively contribute to the following 3 goals and continuously strive to implement the SDGs everywhere applicable in the organization and the supply chain. NO. 8 DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH RDG is a member of amfori BSCI and use the amfori BSCI Code of Conduct (amfori BSCI CoC) in our supplier relationships and contracts. Find more information regarding our work with amfori BSCI in the PEOPLE part of this report. NO. 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION RDG is involved with nationwide organizations and networks where sustainable production is a main focus. More information regarding this is to be found on page 10 in the section “CSR at RDG”. For more information on our work with new and more sustainable materials and certifications, please refer to pages 29-32. Our work with product safety and chemical control is described on page 37. NO. 15 LIFE ON LAND RDG is a member of the amfori Business Environmental Performance Initiative (amfori BEPI). Through this engagement we want to emphasize the importance of environmental work at supplier sites to reduce the negative impact environment and ecosystems.Read more about our amfori BEPI engagement on page 27-28. RDG also work with FSC™ and GOTScertified products to ensure sustainably managed forests and halt biodiversity loss. Read more on pages 29 and 30, respectively. 7 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS SUPPLY CHAIN AND RISKS A core aspect of our sustainability and corporate social and waste management. The figure below, as well as the responsibility (CSR) work is mapping human and environfollowing page, outline the most important risks in our busimental risks associated with our activities. ness model and where to read more about them in the COP report. The journey from raw materials to finished products is long and often involves many processes and a range of suppliers The global corona pandemic that hit the world in Q1 of across the globe. As these processes potentially involve risks 2020 has had a substantial impact on our business. Sudden, to humans and the environment, we do our best to contiall-encompassing global crises carry considerable business nuously improve transparency. risks that extend beyond the risks that are described in the section below. More information about our response to naviIn 2019, we continued our dedicated effort toward mapping gate the corona crisis can be found in the Annual report for potential risks in our supply chain. Our aim is both preventive 2019. and forward-looking. We want to identify potential areas of improvement, such as production, the use of raw materials, RAW MATERIALS WASTE PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT CUSTOMERS TRANSPORTATION HEADQUARTERS SALES CHANNELS WAREHOUSES 8 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS RAW MATERIALS P. 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 SALES CHANNELS P. 25, 34 Many raw materials are used to produce our products. We We sell our products in intensely competitive markets and use textiles, wood, glass, and metal. Obtaining raw channels. This exposes us to the risk of anti-competitive materials, such as wood and cotton, can be associated with agreements, such as pricing agreements, and agreements the risk of breaching human rights and environmental risks about the division of market shares, or of supply chains and could arise if the raw materials are not grown or sourced suppliers. This area is also associated with environmental sustainably. risks due to waste generated from primary packaging and the packaging needed to transport goods to the channels. PRODUCTION P. 22, 23, 25, 27, 28 Our suppliers are based in different countries and use a CUSTOMERS P. 37 variety of materials and manufacturing processes With thousands of products under nine brands, there is a to manufacture our products. Potential risks may relate to potential risk of faulty products and exposure to harmful human rights, employee rights, environmental issues, climate ingredients. We must also consider the legislative footprint, and various forms of corruption. requirements for new materials as well as amendments to existing legal requirements. TRANSPORTATION P. 22, 24, 33 Our products are often transported over long distances— WASTE MANAGEMENT P. 34 from production facility to warehouse, and from warehouse Generally, RDG’s products are durable and are designed for to customers. Regardless of where our carriers are based, use over many years. Many of our products are subsequently there is a potential risk of breaching human rights and sold via resale outlets and also passed down through generaenvironmental risks associated with transportation. tions. Products may eventually break, requiring disposal, and incorrect disposal may harm the environment. WAREHOUSES P. 36 The main and most visible risk associated with our warehouse HEADQUARTERS P. 24, 25 is the environmental impact of the waste generated from the RDG’s work is based on knowledge and creativity and we thepackaging that is needed to transport our products. refore depend on the extensive expertise and ideas of highly skilled people. Thus, we focus on attracting and retaining the right employees with the appropriate skills and dedication. 9 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • OUR BUSINESS CSR AT RDG RDG’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) department We joined DIEH in the beginning of 2019 and have benereports to the Production and Supply Chain Vice President. fited from several inspiring workshops and seminars at Our CSR Manager is responsible for developing and implewhich colleagues from different parts of the organization menting CSR initiatives, which cover people, environment, have participated (CSR, Compliance, Design and Product and climate change mitigation. Together with the Executive Development). Management Team, our CSR Manager carefully monitors All the above-mentioned memberships and partnerships progress in these areas. The CSR area is always on the contribute to keeping us updated on new developments and agenda in discussions of the Executive Management Team, provide inspiration, as well as generating discussions on the as well as in board meetings. During the development of the sustainability. new business strategy (read more about this in the Annual Report for 2019), CSR was discussed in relation to new In 2020, we will be an active partner and contribute to the initiatives, such as sponsorships or certifications for several agenda at the members’ meetings in some of the aboof the brands in the portfolio. Likewise, CSR is an integrated ve-mentioned organizations to encourage companies to part of our daily business routine. adopt sustainable practices and to integrate sustainability information into their reporting cycles (SDG 12.6). We are members of the UN Global Compact, the Danish Chamber of Commerce, the Forest Stewardship Council™ In the remainder of the COP report for 2019, we describe our (FSC™), FSC™ Denmark, OEKO-TEX, amfori (BSCI and policies, actions, and ambitions regarding brands, people, BEPI), and the Danish Ethical Trading Initiative (DIEH). and the environment and climate. The figure below summarizes the UNGC principles associated with each relevant area. Principle 10: The company should Principle 1: The company should support work against corruption in all its forms, and respect the protection of internationally including extortion and bribery proclaimed human rights 10 1 Principle 9: The company should Principle 2: The company should make encourage the development sure it is not complicit in human rights and diffusion of environmentally 9 2 abuse friendly technologies EN V O PE IRO PL E NM Principle 8: The company 8 3 Principle 3: The company ENT AND should undertake initiatives to BRANDS should uphold the freedom of promote greater environmental association and the effective responsibility recognition of the right to E AT collective bargaining IM CL Principle 7: The company should 7 4 Principle 4: The company should support a precautionary uphold the elimination of all forms of approach to environmental forced and compulsory labour challenges 6 5 Principle 6: The company should support the Principle 5: The company should elimination of discrimination in respect to uphold the effective abolition of child employment and occupation labour 10 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS BRANDS Our nine brands, and the many products they encompass, shouldering our responsibility as an international design are the backbone of our business. When our brands grow, our company. In this section we describe each of our brands and business grows, and with it our opportunities for our expectations for them in 2020. 11 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS KAY BOJESEN You never outgrow the Kay Bojesen universe, it simply grows The FSC™ certification means that products have been with you. The aesthetic and materials last for generations. sourced in ways that respect both nature and the local social The Monkey and other figurines are especially talented at communities in the forests where the wood originate. winning our hearts—like only a brand with a personality can. The product portfolio includes more than 25 figurines of variWe launched 25 new products under the Kay Bojesen brand ous sizes and models, and new animals from Kay Bojesen’s in 2019, including a special FSC™ certified Panda in support comprehensive design archive are constantly joining the of the Danish branch of WWF. Read more about this sponportfolio. sorship in the relevant section of the COP report on page 19. In 2018, we also joined the Forest Stewardship Council In 2020, we expect continued sales of the panda and the (FSC™) and continued to increase our commitment to certiMonkey, which year-on-year is the best-selling product. We fying Kay Bojesen products, with 62 products certified by the also have great expectations for our new Kay Bojesen Babies end of 2019. The FSC™ is an international concept. certification for wood and paper. 12 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS ROSENDAHL Since 1984, Rosendahl has made everyday moments more We launched several new concepts to supplement the classic beautiful with consistently functional designs and a series, including the new stoneware line Grand Cru Sense and crystal-clear style. Rosendahl is a young brand fuelled by the the festive tableware Grand Cru Moments. Both lines are elecourage and in-depth appreciation of how people live – here gant updates to the classic Grand Cru line. and now. With products spanning classic kitchen equipment to exquisite table decorations, functional In 2020, we will continue to focus on the new lines Grand Cru and accessible designs are hallmarks of Rosendahl, one of Sense and Grand Cru Moments, which will be supplemenScandinavia’s most popular lifestyle brands. ted by Grand Cru Take a robust line of products which are easy to bring along, and more suitable for outdoor use. We In 2019, we sent a total of 99 new Rosendahl products on also have great expectations for a new and very different the market. However, the Rosendahl classic – the Grand Cru Rosendahl lighting concept. tumbler – was still the top-selling product in 2019. 13 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS BJØRN WIINBLAD For more than 50 years, Bjørn Wiinblad was one of In the years ahead, we will launch products that accentuate Denmark’s most productive artists. He was loved for his Bjørn Wiinblad’s original works more closely. We expect this exquisite, humoristic designs, maximalist style, and an amainternationally acclaimed artist to continue to boost revenue zing palette of colours. Since 2014, Rosendahl Design Group and penetrate markets outside Denmark and Norway. has owned the rights to his extensive design archive encompassing textiles, pottery, glass, porcelain, and everything in between. New launches and various Christmas products contributed to increasing sales in 2019, with two new products in the Eva series topping the list as the best-selling products for the year. 14 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS KÄHLER Since 1839, when Herman A. Kähler founded his pottery For nearly two centuries, Kähler has been at the forefront of workshop in Næstved, Kähler has become synonymous with Danish, democratic ceramic arts. The brand draws on a traditop-class Danish ceramic designs. Kähler’s designs have taken tion of innovative glazings, creative design, and notable artist the world by storm – with a signature respect for history, focus collaborations. In the fall of 2019, Kähler continued to make on the craft, and in modern times, stamping the classic “HAK” design history, this time in collaboration with ceramist Turi logo on the base of each piece. Rosendahl Design Group welHeisselberg Pedersen. With Kontur, the renowned ceramist comed Kähler into its family in 2018, making this distinguished put her matt glaze work and architectural shapes to a series of ceramic company the newest addition to our brand portfolio. vases in five styles which fit with different floral moods – from the simplistic, exotic stem to big and rich bouquets. In 2019, we worked hard to integrate the new brand into our design house. This was also the year in which we celebrated We launched 66 new Kähler products in 2019 and the list of Kähler’s 180th anniversary with a range of special annibest-selling products show that the Hammershøi tableware is versary products and an exceptional exhibition of new and growing in popularity among customers. We have great expeclassic designs at Den Frie, Centre of Contemporary Art in ctations for Kähler in 2020, in which the popular Christmas Copenhagen. tableware will be supplemented by, among other things, an Easter version of the same series. 15 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS HOLMEGAARD Holmegaard shines as brightly as a beacon of contemporary We launched a total of 47 Holmegaard new products in design today as it did when the Holmegaard Glassworks 2019, including the new Flow series that is designed by opened its doors in Næstved, Denmark, in 1825. Marion Fortat, who is Holmegaard’s Design Brand Manager. Aesthetic, relevant, and playful, this functional and decoraThe Flow design is based on water movement and ripples tive brand exudes an organic style. This style highlights quathat, according to Marion Fortat, have similar characteristics lity craftsmanship and respect for the brand’s proud heritage. as glowing glass. The product portfolio spans everything from vases and glasses to lanterns to Christmas decorations. At the top of the list of the best-selling products in 2019, we find the modern wineglass series, Cabernet and Perfection, Rosendahl Design Group welcomed Holmegaard in 2008. along with the small Design with Light lantern designed by Since, RDG has teamed up with both recent and established Maria Berntsen. We expect continued growth in these series designers to develop innovative products as well as to reinin 2020 and look forward to more colourful products in the terpret classics from a design archive dating back more than Flow series. 190 years. 16 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS LYNGBY PORCELÆN The Danish porcelain brand, Lyngby Porcelæn, has sound historical roots with more than 80 years of experience creating handcrafted designs. Since 1936, Lyngby Porcelæn has pioneered elegant and innovative design characterized by stunning simplicity and clean functional lines. Added to RDG’s brand portfolio in 2016, this classic porcelain brand has made a lasting impact on Danish porcelain production. Since then, we have launched many new Lyngby Porcelæn items and expanded, among others, the Rhombe series which is designed with inspiration from an old rediscovered set from the archive at the Danish porcelain factory in Lyngby, Denmark. Sales of the Rhombe series gained a solid footing in 2019 and continued to generate attention to the series by launching new additions to the tableware as well as the first in a row of stunning, richly coloured decorative eggs for Easter and decoration. It is our continued aim to further develop the series and expand distribution significantly. One of the most popular products in 2019 were the classic, white Lyngby vase and the dinner plate in the Rhombe line. GLOBAL Since 1983, Komin Yamada’s GLOBAL knives have combined modern designs with traditional Japanese crafts, as well as quality and cutting-edge ergonomics. The GLOBAL product portfolio, which in Denmark includes more than 45 knives and a wide range of kitchen utensils, reflects a passion for unique steel, a special sharpening process, and production without joints making the knives more hygienic. Rosendahl Design Group has owned the rights to distribute GLOBAL knives in Denmark, Norway, and Finland since 1991. In 2019, we launched 7 new products with the classic chef’s knife G-2 and the bread knife G-9 as some of the most popular GLOBAL products. In the years ahead, we will continue our efforts to re-brand GLOBAL. The rebranding process began in 2018 and has already had a visible effect on both our social media and our webshop. We expect continued growth in the GLOBAL brand in 2020, especially propelled by the Norwegian market and a series of accessory products, which are designed in-house and are being produced on a license. 17 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS ARNE JACOBSEN CLOCKS For more than 80 years, Arne Jacobsen’s timeless architecture and designs have won critical acclaim world-wide. Since 2008, Rosendahl Design Group has had the global rights to produce and distribute Arne Jacobsen’s iconic wall and table clocks. The clocks, which are marketed in both Northern Europe and Japan, are based on Arne Jacobsen’s three original wall clocks: ROMAN inspired by Aarhus City Hall (1942), CITY HALL inspired by Rødovre City Hall (1956), and BANKERS for Danmarks Nationalbank, the central bank of Denmark (1971). All the clocks are still produced in full compliance with the master architect’s original designs. The bestselling Arne Jacobsen Clocks product remains the classic white Bankers wall clock in the 29-cm version. In 2020 we expect to grow the brand through a series of table clocks in new colours which will be launched during the spring of 2020. JUNA JUNA is a Nordic textile brand with strong roots in Denmark, drawing inspiration from the Danish landscape. For more than 45 years, JUNA has delivered high-quality textiles to chain stores and customers. The RÅ apron was the bestselling product for the JUNA brand in 2019. We believe JUNA has a promising future. By highlighting the brand’s sustainable and eco-friendly materials, we will do our best to promote JUNA to customers who prefer high-quality textiles with a sustainable image. To align with JUNA’s sustainable identity, we are determined to develop a series with more than a season-specific appeal to encourage less season-specific consumption. The Picnic blanket in the RÅ line is a good example of a new, sustainable product as it is made from approximately 120 recycled plastic bottles. 18 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS DONATIONS AND SPONSORSHIPS Charlotte, supplerer du her? KAY BOJESEN DENMARK AND THE PANDAS AT THE ZOO In 1952 Kay Bojesen created the charming Bear with inspiration from Copenhagen ZOO where a bear cub called Ursula was left by her mother and thus grew up with the manager of the zoo. Kay Bojesen loved Copenhagen ZOO and frequently visited the park and particularly the monkeys. In 2019, more than 65 years later, Kay Bojesen Denmark once again drew inspiration from the zoo as the park opened the doors to a spectacular, new Panda house designed by the world-renowned architects Bjarke Ingels Group (BIG). We are convinced that had Kay Bojesen still been alive, he would have created a panda for the occasion. Consequently, that is precisely what we did in close cooperation with the Kay Bojesen family. The irresistible playful shape of the Panda is designed based on the well-known Bear and dressed in a black and white for an original design with lots of the beloved Kay Bojesen charm. For RDG, the panda represents the relationship between nature, sustainability and modern design. Our panda is also made to support the world’s endangered species in collaboration with WWF Denmark. For each panda sold in Denmark we donate an amount to WWF Denmark and their work with forests and protection of wildlife. By buying a product like the panda, Danish customers can support wildlife around the world and take part in a very current agenda. Doing good and at the same time buying a piece of sustainable Danish design has proven meaningful to many. Like the majority of our wooden products, the panda is made from FSC™-certified wood. 19 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • BRANDS BJØRN WIINBLAD AND ”THE BLUE HOUSE” Bjørn Wiinblad owned many residences in Denmark and throughout Europe, but his heart belonged to The Blue House in Kongens Lyngby. The Blue House was both his home and his workshop until he died in 2006. One of Bjørn Wiinblad’s dearest wishes was to transform The Blue House into a working museum for young artists. However, the house required some tender loving care before this dream could be realised. So, for each Bjørn Wiinblad product sold, a percentage is donated towards renovating and maintaining The Blue House in the hope that it will one day be possible to make the multitalented artist’s wish come true. THE ROYAL DANISH THEATRE As a sponsor for the Royal Danish Theatre, we supply Grand Cru tableware to the restaurants and bars within the Opera House, the Old Stage and the Royal Danish Playhouse. Through the Rosendahl brand, we wish to strengthen culture in societies and foster settings that help it thrive. Therefore, we are particularly proud that this sponsorship is helping to put Danish design on the menu. KAREN BLIXEN MUSEUM RUNGSTEDLUND With the Karen Blixen’s Christmas series, the Rosendahl brand has had the honour of officially sponsoring the Karen Blixen Museum at Rungstedlund, just north of Copenhagen, since 2007. We are pleased to help preserve and pass on the legacy of this courageous and world-famous authoress. For every Christmas decoration sold from the collection, a percentage of the price goes towards funding new exhibitions, special exhibitions, and events such as readings and literary discussions. 20 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • PEOPLE PEOPLE Our corporate social responsibility encompasses both people working at RDG and those linked to our business via our global supply chain. We want to be a workplace where employees are happy and develop personally and professionally. We want to promote respectful relationships and excellent cooperation with our business partners – regardless of where they are in the world. 21 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • PEOPLE HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS RDG cooperates with suppliers in many different countries. • Principle 1: The company should support and respect We wish to collaborate with suppliers who meet their counthe protection of internationally proclaimed human try’s requirements for employee working conditions, enforce rights international rules, and engage in continuous human rights • Principle 2: The company should make sure it is not improvements. We require that our suppliers’ production complicit in human rights abuse should never take place under conditions which violate • Principle 3: The company should uphold the freedom of human rights. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining As a member of the UNGC, we support the principles for • Principle 4: The company should uphold the elimination human and employee rights, including principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and 6: • Principle 5: The company should uphold the effective abolition of child labour • Principle 6: The company should support the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation 22 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • PEOPLE As well as complying with the UNGC’s principles, we are a remediation plans developed with suppliers to ensure the member of the amfori Business Social Compliance Initiative relevant problems are addressed. (BSCI). The amfori BSCI is a business association for companies and interbranch organisations that base their SUPPLIER SEGMENTATION1 work in the supply chain on the ‘amfori BSCI Code of To create an overview and prioritise initiatives in our supply Conduct’ (amfori BSCI CoC). chain, we systematically divide our suppliers into segments based on amfori BSCI’s global mapping of risk countries. We AMFORI BSCI COC have come far in the work of mapping the suppliers that have The amfori BSCI CoC consists of 11 principles covering the not conducted third party audits in our supply chain. Most prohibition of child labour, forced labour, and corruption and of our suppliers are now third party audited and we only miss discrimination, among others. The amfori BSCI CoC also a few; 50% of our suppliers are high-risk classified countries stipulates requirements that safeguard labour conditions, and of this 88% are third-party audited (according to amfori employee rights to freedom of association, and reasonable BSCI or corresponding standards). These third-party working hours and pay. Amfori BSCI is a recognised audited suppliers represent 95% of the purchase value from framework applied by more than 2,000 companies in more risk-classified countries. All new suppliers in 2019 identified than 40 countries. This helps us raise the standards of our as high-risk countries were thirdparty audited. business partners and promote constructive cooperation in target areas (SDG 8.8). • The goal in 2020 is to achieve a 100% rate for third party audited suppliers in high-risk classified countries. As part of their contract with RDG, our suppliers must sign the amfori BSCI CoC. During 2019 we have made sure that Suppliers are prioritised for amfori BSCI audits based on the this applies to all our suppliers in high-risk countries and all following criteria: have now signed the amfori BSCI CoC. 1. RDG volume of purchases • During 2020, we will broaden our focus to also include 2. Special factors (e.g. location, importance for supply or suppliers in countries classified as low-risk, to raise comspecial risks) pliance to and awareness about the amfori BSCI CoC among these. For all new suppliers, the amfori BSCI CoC Suppliers who fall into the above categories are the backis a compulsory part of their contract with RDG. We will bone of our production. Thus, we are particularly interested train our staff located in Portugal in the amfori BSCI CoC in carefully monitoring these and solving any challenges to support the work with European suppliers. through close cooperation. Our initiatives cover first-tier suppliers in our supply chain and agents’ first link suppliers AMFORI BSCI AUDIT in their supply chain. In other words, partners with whom we In addition to the amfori BSCI CoC, RDG initiates 3rd party a have a direct relationship and whom it is easier for us to amfori BSCI Supplier Audits. These audits help us contiinfluence. nuously improve the transparency of the processes in our global supply chain. With our amfori BSCI membership, we are During 2020 we will have a risk-based approach to our the responsible party for initiating amfori BSCI audits for our secondand third-tier suppliers. Our aim is to map the risks suppliers and following up on remediation plans. of the related processes in the supply chain and identify actions. We aim to map our supply chain in third and second Amfori BSCI audits result in scores from A-E, where E is tiers and for full transparency of the supply chain in 2023. ‘Unacceptable’. We, therefore, accept levels A-D after an The approach will be risk-based and initially we will focus on audit is completed. However, we urge suppliers to achieve at high-risk processes. least a C. RDG generally emphasises close cooperation with our suppliers and supports continuous improvements. We achieve this through dialogue and following up on the 1 RDG suppliers covered by this policy are suppliers of physical products including product-related Point of Sale (e.g., cardboard, paper, plastic), but not suppliers of furniture, lights, equipment, etc. for displays and trade fairs. 23 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • PEOPLE 119 Total number of suppliers 59 Number of suppliers in risk-classified BSCI countries 52 Number of amfori BSCI (or corresponding standards/ certifications) audited suppliers in high risk-classified countries 88% amfori BSCI (or corresponding standards/certifications) audited suppliers in high risk-classified countries 95% Invoiced amount in 2019 from suppliers in low-risk countries or from audited suppliers RDG suppliers as of 31/12/2019 CARRIERS In 2019, we followed up on our organisation-wide job satisWe also focus on human and employee rights at RDG’s faction survey conducted in 2018, with a pulse survey and carriers. We, therefore, ask all our primary carriers action plans going forward. The survey keeps track on our transporting goods to and from warehouses to sign the overall job satisfaction and development objectives which amfori BSCI CoC. During 2019 all our carriers have reviewed constitute the following: and signed the CoC, which is an integral part of the contract when onboarding a new carrier. • Annual management development with a score in the top 10% of comparable businesses measured with the PSYCHOSOCIAL ENVIRONMENT same survey (conducted by external supplier) As a creative design house, our dedicated, enthusiastic, and passionate employees are our most important resources. Our • Annual job satisfaction with a score in the top 10% of ambition is to create a workplace that focuses on improving comparable businesses measured with the same survey job satisfaction and developing individual talents. It is vital (conducted by external supplier) that our psychosocial and physical conditions enable this, as well as helping to attract and retain the best employees. We • Development plans and programmes for all employees offer our employees benefits including a canteen scheme with organic, healthy, and varied food, a fitness centre, and a running club. Through supplementary training and courses, we focus continuously on professional and personal development. 24 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • PEOPLE 2018 2019 Number of employees 141 151 Average seniority 4.5 5.5 Average age 43 43 99 women 111 women Composition 42 men 40 men 12 women and 20 women and 8 men in management 12 men in management 4 women and 2 men 4 women and 1 man in the Executive Management in the Executive Management Sickness absence 2.37% 2.24% Employee composition at RDG ANTI-CORRUPTION As a member of the UNGC, we also support the antiCONTINUOUS INITIATIVES TO PREVENT corruption principle: COMPETITION AGREEMENTS At RDG, we endorse free competition and under no • Principle 10: The company should work against circumstances accept illegal price agreements or other corruption in all its forms, including extortion anti-competitive clauses. Our approach includes, but is not and bribery limited to, price agreements, division of supply sources and suppliers, and agreements on potential supplementary As such, RDG condemns all forms of corruption and bribery. services for inclusion in a contract. ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY At all times, in compliance with competition legislation, RDG´s anti-bribery policy is simple. RDG has zero-tolerance dealers themselves, and market trends will determine how, for all forms of direct and indirect bribery. Employees at where, and at what prices RDG’s goods are sold. RDG may not offer or receive illegal or unauthorised gifts of money or other forms of payment or incentives to obtain RDG exclusively issues recommended retail prices and we business or private benefits. RDG’s attitude is the same train our sales force in compliance with competition regarding our business partners, who also may not receive, legislation in force at any time. give or in other ways be associated with bribery. Once again, no reports of corruption or bribery at RDG were GIFTS AND ENTERTAINMENT filed in 2019, and in 2020 we will continue to focus on In RDG’s opinion, employees may receive and give gifts to maintaining our current policies and initiatives. suppliers and customers, provided this does not generate any doubt about the employees’ loyalty to RDG. We also believe participation in some kinds of events can reinforce and/or maintain relationships and are in RDG’s interests. RDG’s gift policy specifies rules for when and under which circumstances employees may offer gifts and entertainment, as well as when and under which circumstances, gifts, and entertainment may be received from customers and suppliers. 25 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Through our UNGC membership, we have complied with the following environmental and climate principles: • Principle 7: The company should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: The company should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: The company should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 26 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE AT RDG The processes involved in our products’ journey from raw We run a value-based, international design company materials to finished products must support a sustainable with focus on responsibility and sustainability. This environment for local areas, as well as the people who live means, for example, that we are working to ensure that and work in them. RDG will not contribute to an adverse our production processes do not harm the environment impact, directly or indirectly, on the environment above or lead to unnecessary environmental damage in areas permitted limits. where production takes place. The many products in RDG’s catalogue are produced from many different materials and Our initiatives on this topic involve all parts of the value our supply chain spans large parts of the world. We strive chain throughout our products’ lifecycle (see the figure on to continuously improve the transparency in our supply page 8) – from sourcing the raw materials, to production, chain and among our suppliers. Thus, we have the following to transportation, to warehouses, sales, use, disposal, and ambitions: recycling. • Membership of and engagement in the UNGC, with In 2019, we have focused on reducing our negative impact comprehensive COP reports that reflect our initiatives. on environment and climate. We have initiated our work with amfori BEPI and several suppliers have been onboarded • Reporting on CO2 emissions (according to Greenhouse and informed about the planned BEPI roll-out over the Gas Protocol) for SCOPE 1 and 2 to be included in the coming years. Identification and monitoring of improvement Annual Report for 2020. areas of our carbon footprint in terms of transportation and packaging are still focal areas, as is waste management. • Active members of amfori BEPI to monitor and initiate We have intensified our work with different certifications of improvements in environmental practice within our our products. The FSC™ certification has had high priority supply chain where needed. during 2019 and more products are certified every month (for more information on FSC™ see page 29). More products and materials will be included in the work with certifications during 2020 (SDG 12 and 15). 27 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE SUPPLIERS Across the RDG global value chain, we strive to help raise environmental areas. In 2019, a few suppliers were onboarstandards among our suppliers to minimise the environded and the SAQ was completed by one supplier. mental footprint. In principle, we would rather engage in We will continue to work with the result of the SAQ in order to constructive dialogue with our agents and suppliers about identify focus areas and initiate improvements. problematic issues, rather than immediately terminating the collaboration. When choosing which suppliers to onboard in the initial stage of the work with amfori BEPI, we will focus on our predomiHowever, we terminate collaborations with suppliers who do nant materials to identify the areas where each supply chain not wish to improve conditions or repeatedly fail to respect creates the largest impact. agreement with RDG on such matters. Our ambition for 2020 is to: In particularly serious cases of conscious environmental damage, we would immediately terminate the relevant col• Conduct amfori BEPI SAQ with a minimum of three RDG laboration, even if the violation does not necessarily conflict suppliers. with the legislation of the country in question. • Initiate and follow up on the next step for the already onboarded supplier with a completed SAQ. AMFORI BEPI The selection of the next three suppliers will not be limited to The amfori BEPI is a tool devised to promote improvement in production facilities in an amfori BSCI risk country but will the supply chain within 11 environmental areas. These areas include all our suppliers. span everything from energy consumption to green-house gases to managing chemicals. The amfori BEPI tool helps specify the most important environmental focus areas and promotes a more targeted approach to implementing specific environmental improvements. The most important amfori BEPI tool is the Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ), that is used to assess suppliers’ environmental standards. Amfori BEPI is a recognised system for assessing, following up, and resolving issues within 28 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE FOREST STEWARDSHIP COUNCIL™ (FSC™) 219 WOODEN PRODUCTS OFFERED IN 2019 100% FSC™ Policy 62 At RDG we want to support sustainable forestry. The CERTIFIED WOODEN majority of the wooden products we sell are made from PRODUCTS OFFERED FSC™ certified wood and our goal is to phase out nonIN 2019 certified wood products and offer our customers only certified wood products in the future. This goal also includes paper. At RDG, we will only use FSC™ certified 28% paper for the production of paper-based products and OF WOODEN for internal use in the company. PRODUCTS OFFERED IN 2019 WERE FSC CERTIFIED At the end of 2019, one of our biggest suppliers of gift boxes • All paper-based printed material will be ordered in FSC has become FSC™ certified. This means that a big part certified paper from 2020 and onwards. This includes of our gift boxes will be changed to FSC™ certified paper pricelists, fair decorations, posters, and logo notebooks. during 2020. The certification was a priority for us to be able to fulfil our target of using only FSC™ certified paper, At the beginning of 2020, one more supplier of wooden paperboard, and cardboard in our primary packaging. products will go through an FSC™ audit and become In 2020, we will expand this target to include secondary certified. This means that at re-ordering, even more of the packaging: wood products range can be offered as FSC™ certified. And we will be closer to fulfilling our target of 100% FSC™ • All paper, paperboard, and cardboard used for our certified wood in our products by the end of 2020 (SDG 15). secondary packaging (brown boxes) must be continuously enhanced to meet FSC certification and/or originate from responsible and sustainable sources.2, 3 KAY BOJESEN AND FSC™ 88 57 65% WOOD WOOD FSC™ PRODUCTS PRODUCTS CERTIFIED OFFERED FSC CERTIFIED IN 2019 2 We also accept Programme for The Endorsement of Forest Certification™ (PEFC™) in cases where it is not possible to purchase FSC™ certified wood of the right quality. 3 FSC™ 100 %, FSC™ MIX and FSC™ RECYCLED 29 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE GLOBAL ORGANIC TEXTILE STANDARD (GOTS) GLOBAL RECYCLE STANDARD (GRS) We plan to become GOTS certified in 2020. We estimate the In 2020, RDG also plans to become GRS certified. We certification process will be finished in Q1 making us able to estimate the certification process will be finished in Q1. offer GOTS certified products to our customers for the AW20 Initially, the GRS will cover textiles but it can be used for season. Our aim is that most organic cotton products offered all our materials where applicable. We are working with by JUNA and Kay Bojesen for AW20 are GOTS certified. recycled materials within several of our product categories and plan for the GRS certification to be used for many The GOTS certification and logo tell customers that the products and material types in the future. It will (similar to organic product is produced in a controlled supply chain the GOTS logo) make it easier for our customers to make where the cotton is monitored, and the flow of cotton is sustainable choices. documented via transaction certificates. The GOTS logo on our organic products will make it easier for customers to make sustainable choices. It will mainly be used for JUNA and Kay Bojesen products but we plan to roll out GOTS for all brands (where applicable) in the coming years (SDG 15). CASE: GOTS AND GRS CERTIFICATION SUPPORT At RDG we value supplier relations highly and we urge our suppliers toward sustainable development wherever possible. Deciding on becoming GRS and GOTS certified and to offer certified products to our customers, requires that we ensure that all our suppliers are certified accordingly. When one of our long-term suppliers was willing to become certified in 2019 but did not have the resources to complete a certification on their own, RDG decided to provide the necessary financial support. The supplier will go through the audit process in Q1 of 2020. After gaining the certifications the supplier will be able to offer certified products, not only to RDG but to other partners and customers. We are happy to support and take part in this development. 30 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CASE: THE FSC™ MONKEY FAMILY Entering 2019, only a small part of our famous monkey family designed by Kay Bojesen was FSC™ certified. During 2019, as new orders were placed at our FSC™ certified suppliers, all monkeys were transferred into FSC™ certified wood. By the end of 2019, all monkeys in the family are now FSC™ certified – mini, small, medium and large. The monkey family, among other Kay Bojesen products, in the department store Åhléns in Sweden have the label “bra val” (meaning ‘good choice’) – which signals to consumers that the product is sustainable. SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS RDG is constantly searching for new and sustainable or with stickers and a simple, non-printed, brown box for materials. In the course of 2019, research was conducted for protection during transportation. This way, the packaging new production methods for glass, plastics, and porcelain. material can be re-used or recycled in the best possible way. We will continue to explore in 2020 and we plan to develop products in recycled glass and recycled plastic for the AW20 collection. In 2019, JUNA changed the packaging for Bed linen from plastic to paper-based FSC™ certified packaging from the In 2019, we decided to change the paint on all thermoses AW19 collection. Moving forward, only the tablecloths will (where applicable) from oil-based to water-based, as this have plastic packaging. In 2020, these will be changed from reduces the use of chemicals used in the production process. plastic to primarily FSC™ certified paper boxes to reduce use As previously stated, we also focus on the packaging used for of plastics. We will phase out all plastic used in the primary products and are changing our gift boxes to FSC™ certified packaging for the JUNA brand during 2020. This will be a paper as we move forward. pilot project for implementing more non-plastic packaging for other brands in the portfolio and reducing our material When it comes to gift boxes, we have explored different use in packaging in general. solutions. From removing them entirely for some products to changing to a more recyclable paper for others. The challenge with most of our products is that they are fragile in transportation, making it difficult to remove the packaging while still keeping fragile products undamaged. In the cases below, we describe some of our ongoing efforts to include more sustainable packing materials. Rosendahl Grand Cru Sense a new line produced for the Rosendahl brand was released with the AW19 collection. This line is only wrapped with a sleeve and the traditional gift box has been removed. This will save a substantial amount of packing, while also creating new challenges keeping the fragile products undamaged. Therefore, to protect the products during shipping from supplier to RDG and onwards to customers, a simple, non-printed, brown box with a sticker will be used to avoid breakage during transportation. The brown box is more applicable for recycling or reuse than the traditional gift box. In 2020, Kähler will launch two or more product series presented and sent in a similar way. Either with paper sleeves 31 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CASE: JUNA PICNIC BLANKET MADE FROM PET In 2019, the JUNA brand developed a picnic blanket made from 120 recycled 1L plastic bottles. The bottles were cut into smaller pieces and melted to plastic granulates, and then made into a thread that can be used to weave textiles. By using bottles instead of raw oil to develop the synthetic thread, less CO2 is created and bottles which would otherwise have been burnt or disposed of in other non-ideal ways are now used in a new way. This product received a warm welcomed by the market and more JUNA products made of recycled fibres will be found in the SS20 and AW20 collections. 32 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE TRANSPORTATION TRANSPORTING GOODS Often our goods are transported long distances by ship, CO2e for 2019. Airfreight stands for 39% of the total. plane, truck, and train. The primary transportation modes The major part of the road transportation is outbound goods for our products are ship and truck. All our agreements about from our warehouse to customers. transporting goods from production by air must be approved before an order is placed. Our ambition in the area of transportation is: By year-end 2019 we have, for the first time, collected a • To reduce the use of air shipments where possible. full view of our CO2 emissions concerning inbound and outbound transport of goods (including samples, production, • To investigate more environmentally friendly options for and sales). It comes as no surprise that even though the transportation offered by our carriers. number of air shipments is low, air shipments were the biggest contributors to our total CO2 emissions. During EMPLOYEE TRANSPORTATION 2020, we will investigate options for reducing air freight We strive to use digital solutions where applicable to as this is what will have the biggest effect on reducing the minimize air travel. RDG employees must only use flight CO2 emissions from the transport of goods. The total CO2 transportation where a digital solution or other transport is emissions from the transportation of goods were 971 tons not applicable within a reasonable time and price range. Sea Road 39% 22% 213,6 TONS CO2E 378,7 TONS CO2E CO2 EMMISSIONS FROM TRANSPORTATION OF GOODS IN 2019: 971 TONS CO2E Air 39% 378,7 TONS CO2E 33 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND WASTE WASTE As a company, it is unavoidable that we generate waste interRDG will join and gain membership in a start-up initiative nally and externally. Nevertheless, it is our ambition to reduce called Upcycling Forum. This initiative aims to take what is total waste volumes. seen as waste in one industry and upcycle it in another where it can create value. We aim to engage in several projects with We have many deliveries sent to our headquarters in Upcycling Forum and to explore what “waste” we might have Hørsholm, including material samples, production samples, to offer other industries. exhibition materials, purchases for events, and canteen deliveries. Most of our activities produce waste in the form of Our ambitions regarding waste management remain the either packaging or food waste. following: In 2019, we have added even more sorting solutions to our • We will continuously monitor and explore our options for waste depot in Hørsholm to minimize the volume of small reducing our consumption of transport packaging, flammable/residual waste, as well as landfill waste. We have including filling materials. This also includes the handling added the following waste fractions: Metal, batteries, hard of used transportation materials (received from plastic, and soft transparent plastic. All employees have suppliers) at the warehouses. been informed of the new fractions added and will be continuously updated on this area to improve the efficiency of the • We will continuously monitor waste volumes at our locasorting. tions and launch activities to reduce this. In 2019, we also began exploring the waste generated in our • We will have a special focus on minimizing the volume production and possibilities to reduce this. There are numeof small flammable/residual waste, as well as landfill rous pieces rejected in our production due to flaws. These volume. can be big or small and we are, therefore, investigating whether some of them can be accepted and sold in our outlet • We will continuously focus on the waste management at a discounted price. In the beginning of 2020, we will carry of our products and design for disassembly enabling out a trial with some rejected Lyngby vases that will be sold the products to be recycled at the end of their product in our outlet in Ringsted. Depending on the outcome, we will life-cycle. consider this option for other products. 34 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE RESOURCE CONSUMPTION We wish to reduce our consumption of electricity, water, In the our newly-opened addition to our Head office, only heating, and gas. This requires that we monitor our resource LED lights are used and automatic water taps for saving consumption – both at our facilities and at our business water have been installed at all sinks. Similar water-saving partners’ where we have a direct influence on consumption options have been applied for all toilettes. In the older part (such as at our storage facilities). Therefore, our ambition for of Head office, bulbs are continuously changed to LED bulbs reducing our resource consumption is: where applicable. • We will continuously strive to identify ways to promote more sustainable consumption of electricity, water, heating, and gas. • The source of electricity at the head office as well as at the warehouse will be changed to renewable sources in 2020. WASTE HØRSHOLM: 43 TONNES Other waste 8% Bottles and glass 3% Small flammables Organic waste 18% 49% Cardboard and paper Clear PE 17% 4% Disposal options for electronic products that may be particularly harmful to the environment are covered by the European “Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment” (WEEE) rules and are documented via inserts and pictograms in our products. 35 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE OUR OUTSOURCED WAREHOUSES Our storage is outsourced to a subcontractor responsible Likewise, the focus is on reducing the second biggest waste for warehouse operations and quality assurance. RDG has category, flammables. a major impact on the scope and character of resource consumption at our warehouse location. In 2019 we initiated a pilot project changing the plastic air pillows to paper fill for our online orders, across all brands. We continuously map and monitor information about energy consumption, resource consumption, and waste handling • In 2020, we will evaluate the result of the project (e.g., at our warehouses. In 2019, a new storage hall was finalized the potential reduction in CO2 emissions, user at the warehouse location, and only LED lights are installed in applicability, and shock-resistance) and implement a the new hall. more sustainable solution for all orders sent from the warehouse (online orders, as well orders to retail and The new storage hall was finalized in order to make room for e-tail customers). Kähler. The waste volumes have of course grown in the course of 2019, due to the acquisition of Kähler. In 2020, we will focus • In 2020, we aim to change the supply of electricity from on bringing down the waste volumes in the warehouse with conventional to green energy at the warehouse. extra focus on reducing the amount of paper and cardboard sent to recycling and potential re-use of this at the site will be • In 2020, we will investigate different solutions regarding investigated. reusable packaging to be used for our online orders where applicable. When the right solution is found, we will initiate a pilot project with the JUNA brand to increase preliminary information before adding the WASTE NAKSKOV: solution to other brands. 228 TONNES Bottles and glass 4% Other waste 9% Cardboard and paper 62% Flammables 20% Plastic 5% Disposal options for electronic products that may be particularly harmful to the environment are covered by the European “Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment” (WEEE) rules and are documented via inserts and pictograms in our products. 36 ROSENDAHL DESIGN GROUP A/S UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 • ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE KPI: Number of recalls 0 Recalls in 2019: PRODUCT SAFETY OWN-CHECK PROGRAMME At RDG, we accept nothing but 100% transparency from our Our own-check programme is based on Danish and suppliers about the substances used in our products. European legislation, as well as the principles of the We will not accept the presence of substances in our internationally recognised “Hazard Analysis and Critical products or packaging that could harm the health of Control Points” method (HACCP). Our own-check customers. All our products comply with the demands speciprogramme describes the prescribed written procedures that fied in the shared UN Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation we follow and document to ensure food safety. and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) regulation. We are subject to Danish and European legislation for all OEKO-TEX products produced from plastic, porcelain, metal, We work continuously on certifying our textile products with and glass that will come into contact with food. We, OEKO-TEX, a textile label devised to safeguard consumers therefore, prepare declarations of compliance and docuagainst exposure to toxic substances e.g. those that could ments as evidence that our products meet the appropriate cause skin irritation. Certification is obtained following an legislation. When changing production or the materials in an inspection of textiles for the presence of chemicals. The existing product, new tests and documentation are required. requirements for achieving OEKO-TEX™ certification are stricter than the legislation itself and are continuously adjuOur own-check programme covers all the company’s activisted to reflect new research findings. ties and all locations. RISK ASSESSMENTS FOR NEW PRODUCTS Before new products are approved for production, thorough risk assessments are conducted that consider production, testing, materials, usage situation, and disposal. 37 PUBLISHED BY Rosendahl Design Group A/S DESIGN, LAYOUT AND PROOFREADING Geelmuyden Kiese IMAGES Rosendahl Design Group A/S / Getty Images
