ANNUAL REVIEW 2019-20 Protecting ocean ­industries SKULD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SERVICE AND COMPETENCE YOU CAN RELY ON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 1 CONTENTS 01 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 4 02 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 7 03 SKULD SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM 8 04 ABOUT THIS REPORT 9 05 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS 13 06 ALIGNMENT WITH UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 18 07 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPATION 20 08 SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 21 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 23 10 TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY 27 11 RISK MANAGEMENT 28 12 ENERGY AND EMISSIONS 31 13 WASTE AND RECYCLING 35 14 CRISIS RESPONSE 36 15 (CREW) HEALTH AND WELL-BEING 38 16 SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS 39 17 NEW, SUSTAINABLE REVENUE STREAMS 42 18 EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 44 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 FIGURES Figure 1 Skuld Sustainability Platform.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Figure 2 Skuld organisation chart. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Figure 3 Skuld Materiality Matrix 2019. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Figure 4 UN Global Compact COP. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 TABLES Table 1 GRI Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Table 2 Material Topic description.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Table 3 Impact Day status. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Table 4 Energy consumption.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Table 5 Emission factors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Table 6 Business travel breakdown. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Table 7 Estimated number of unique tickets.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Table 8 Estimated CO2 emissions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Table 9 The Seven Women’s Empowerment Principles and Skuld’s initiatives.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 everst/Shutterstock.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 3 katatonia82/Shutterstock.com 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 01 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Skuld’s commitment to our members, clients and brokers, to the world’s ocean industries, and to global society is underlined in our purpose statement, ‘protecting ocean industries’. That ­commitment includes awareness of climate ­challenges and the imperative to pursue sustainable development. We have embraced ­sustainability as a strategic initiative. Skuld’s sustainability programme incorporates development targets and focussed activities within all relevant ­operational areas. It is supported by Skuld’s board and management and it is ­integrated in our core business process areas: claims, loss prevention, underwriting, finance, ­human resources, and communications. ADAPTING TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Today, the shipping industry faces social, environmental, and technological challenges, shedding special light on the case for sustainability. The professional ­expertise within Skuld benefits society every day, because it fosters and s­ upports our customers’ precautionary ­approach to foreseeable health, safety, and environ­mental impacts arising from the ocean industries. We will continue to build on that important foundation, and to assist our members, clients, and brokers as they adapt to global sustainability. Skuld will add value by identifying and addressing areas in which our organisation has material e ­ nvironmental and social impacts. We are committed to UN ­Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our ambition is to e ­ xert expertise and influence within our sector to ensure positive impacts at sea. ACCOMPLISHMENTS AND GOALS 2019 was an exciting year. We strengthened and formalised our commitment to sustainability. Skuld’s p ­ ortfolio of ­innovations and improvements expanded alongside employee engagement, which together will help us ­prepare for and protect the future. SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS 2019 UN Global Compact signed High-impact areas for intensified effort identified, ­defined, and targeted Skuld’s cross-functional sustainability Working Group established Ocean Farm 1, the world’s first sustainable offshore fish farm, insured Global Maritime Forum’s Getting to Zero 2030 ­Coalition joined Skuld Impact Day launched UN Women’s Empowerment Principles adopted Skuld’s sustainability goals for 2020 finalised under Focus 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 5 FOCUS 2020 Our 2020 sustainability focus is the implementation of planned activities and the transparent presentation of ­outcomes. We will build internal competences, engage ­actively with sustainability throughout our organisation, and pursue the initiatives outlined below. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Maximise the number of employees competent in areas including Skuld’s Code of Conduct, financial crime like anti-money laundering regulations, whistle­blowing, responsible procurement, and the General Data ­Protection Regulation •­ Improve identification, escalation, and follow-up of compliance shortfalls TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY • Share Skuld’s sustainability expectations with key stakeholders • Raise internal awareness of Skuld’s commitment to UN SDGs • Lead in the promotion of sustainability through our participation in industry organisations • Reinforce third-party assurance of Skuld’s sustainability reporting RISK MANAGEMENT • Extend Skuld’s understanding of climate-change risks and their impacts • Intensify Skuld’s efforts to establish ­climate-change risk measurement ENERGY AND EMISSIONS • Map global emissions-related fines • Rationalise Skuld’s business travel policy • Include all Skuld offices in future Scope 2 ­emissions reporting • Deepen cooperation with the International Group of P&I Clubs and the Nordic Association of ­Marine ­Insurers (Cefor) WASTE AND RECYCLING • Establish office recycling stations CRISIS RESPONSE • Optimise organisational resources to mitigate the impact of ocean casualties • Educate employees about Skuld’s business ­continuity plan (CREW) HEALTH AND WELL-BEING • Enhance crew wellbeing through Skuld’s Ship Survey Programme • Strengthen Skuld’s measures for crews’ health, well­being, and stress management SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENTS • Expand Skuld’s understanding of ESG • Incorporate SDGs into Skuld’s investment policy • Develop a framework to assess external ­managers’ sustainability approach NEW REVENUE STREAMS • Increase Skuld’s underwriting support for ­renewable ocean industries, including offshore aquaculture, ­ floating windfarms, and electric ferries EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION • Promote an inclusive and diverse leadership culture • Foster gender equality • Maintain unbiased and objective recruitment 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Igor Grochev/Shutterstock.com SKULD: A P&I CLUB, A MARINE the International Group clubs insure more than ­INSURER, AN ADVISOR 90% of the world’s commercial shipping. At Skuld’s core is an organisation known as a Skuld also acts as a commercial insurer. Through ­Protection & Indemnity (P&I) Club. Such clubs Skuld Hull, we insure many of our members and are independent, not-for-profit mutual insurance many other clients against physical damage to ­associations which cover their members against ­marine ­property, and against machinery breakthird-party liabilities arising from their operation of down. Our clients and our members combined ships. Skuld caters to the needs of shipowners, the are sometimes referred to together as Skuld’s offshore and energy sector, charterers and traders ­customers. and the superyacht community. Skuld is owned and overseen by its members. Skuld’s day-to-day operations are handled by ­experienced professionals and a global network of Skuld P&I insures against a wide range of our corresponding marine services specialists. Skuld ­members’ liabilities to third parties, from crew ­delivers high quality claims handling ­services ­personal injury to pollution clean-up. With 12 other and comprehensive loss prevention advice to clubs, Skuld is a member of the International Group all ­customers. This advisory role is critical to the of P&I Clubs, which cooperates to procure ­mutual ­reduction of injuries and loss incidents, to the ­reinsurance, and to pursue the joint goals and ­mitigation of marine accidents, and to the r­ eduction ­interests of our collective membership. ­Together of emissions, and therefore to sustainability. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 7 02 MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CEO and encourage members to introduce o ­ n-board ­practices which reduce p ­ ersonal injuries among their seafarers. We adopt policies and offer ­advice which e ­ ncourage or ­compel customers to adopt the highest emissions standards. This risk management a ­ dvice and support, ­especially among P&I members of Skuld where our ­influence is greatest, naturally improves ­sustainability. Some of our members and clients are involved in the production or distribution of fossil fuels. Here our loss ­prevention work is even more critical. As the world continues its transition to a zero-carbon economy, we work ­diligently to ensure their operations reach the maximum level of sustainability through the prevention of ­accidents at sea. When such measures fall short and accidents ­occur, we double-down our effort to minimise their impact. In this way we contribute to sustainability within these still-critical areas of the global economy. We do so too through support of emerging green alternatives. These currently include insurance for ­organisations pursuing exciting new sustainable Together with Skuld’s members we have defined our ­technologies such as electric ferries, offshore wind organi­sation’s purpose as ‘protecting ocean ­industries’. It ­generation and aqua­culture. In this way, Skuld plays a is a commitment we take very seriously. key role in the transition to a carbon-neutral world. Because our primary role is as a marine insurer, part of However, many of the key challenges that the ­shipping the financial services sector, we do not o ­ perate vessels, industry is facing cannot be solved by ­individual let alone manufacturing plants, mines, or other facilities ­organisations alone but require a broad coalition of which contribute to the world’s s­ ustainability c ­ hallenge. ­partnership to reach the goals. We are in close c ­ ollaboration But our role places Skuld within the community of with industry ­partners like ­International Group and Cefor in ocean ­industries, and we feel very much part of it. That order to collectively impact the ­sustainability a ­ genda. ­positioning allows our ­commitment to sustainability to be exercised in two ways. As this report shows, we have begun to engage every ­individual at Skuld with our sustainability agenda, from First, like any organisation, we have a direct impact the boardroom to all levels of the organisation. Their on global sustainability. Through multiple initiatives ­enthusiasm is tangible. When members, clients and ­described in this, our first formal sustainability r­ eport, brokers ask about our sustainability programme, as they we are working very hard to reduce that impact in areas do with increasing frequency, we are able to explain our which range from employment practices to air travel. multiple, broad initiatives, and to encourage them to Second, and more importantly, we are using our role as ­expand their own. When we meet with potential new, a financial services provider ­within the ocean industries young recruits, we find our energised sustainability ­focus community to promote and i­nfluence the sustainability has great appeal to them. Our effort is for them and their of our unique global sector. peers, the future generations who will ­inherit our Earth. We wish to leave them with a planet and ­societies which Some of this is achieved directly through the normal are no longer threatened. course of our business. Like all P&I clubs, an essential part of our job is to provide customers with loss-prevention ­expertise and support that informs and improves their own comprehensive risk management work. We help them, for example, to minimise the likelihood of vessel­­casualties, STÅLE HANSEN and to mitigate ­impacts when they do o ­ ccur. We educate President and CEO 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 03 SKULD SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM Skuld sustainability platform supports our purpose statement ‘protecting ocean industries’ and our firm ­commitment to future sustainable global ocean industries. Our principles and commitments in the platform reflect the governing elements of sustainability at Skuld, including selected Sustainable Development Goals, the UN’s Global Compact and Women’s Empowerment Principles, and the Global Reporting Initiative. The Skuld Sustainability Platform highlights the main areas of our work. SKULD SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM 1 2 3 4 5 6 SELECTED UN SELECTED STAKEHOLDER SKULD CONTINUOUS GLOBAL ESG SUSTAINABLE REPORTING COOPERATION SUSTAINABILITY ESG RISK REGULATIONS DEVELOPMENT COMMITMENTS PROJECTS AND ASSESSMENT AND GOALS INITIATIVES REQUIREMENTS Figure 1 Skuld Sustainability Platform 1 The 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 3 In cooperation with members, clients, brokers, constitute a universal call to action to end ­poverty, employees, correspondents, authorities, industry ­protect the planet, and improve the lives and ­organisations, and suppliers, Skuld contributes to prospects of everyone, everywhere. As part of our multiple sustainability initiatives. ­commitment to ­sustainability, Skuld focuses on five key SDGs:­ 4 Skuld’s Sustainability Working Group is dedicated to various sustainability projects and activities, internal • SDG 3, GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING. and external. Skuld ensures health and safety at work, o ­ n-shore and off-shore. 5 Skuld conducts continuous internal assessment of • SDG 10, REDUCED INEQUALITIES. Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) risks. Skuld promotes diversity internally and ­externally. • SDG 13, CLIMATE ACTION. 6 Skuld complies with all mandatory ESG risk Skuld integrates climate change measures in its ­assessment and reporting requirements. ­strategy, decision-making, and ­investment practices. • SDG 14, LIFE BELOW WATER. Skuld encourages resource-sensitive b ­ ehaviours. • SDG 16, PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS. Skuld acts against corruption and bribery in all their forms. 2 Skuld commits voluntarily to the Global ­Reporting Initiative (GRI), supports the Ten Principles of the UN ­Global Compact (UNGC) on human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption, adheres to the ­seven UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, and reports to the SHE Index. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 9 04 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report’s content was compiled following a materiality assessment conducted in 2019 by Skuld’s S ­ ustainability Working Group (see Section 8). It covers activities during the calendar year 2019 and refers to areas of ­material ­importance to Skuld and our stakeholders. We aim with this report to provide more information about Skuld’s ­approach to sustainability to everyone interested in or affected by our activities. The information it contains is based on data acquired from different parts of the organisation and is as accurate and complete as possible. REPORTING BOUNDARY All Skuld units lie within the boundaries of this report, although for energy consumption and emissions we have ­chosen to focus on selected units due to data quality. Figure 2 Skuld organisation chart As this is Skuld’s first substantial s­ ustainability r­ eport, and the first to follow Global Reporting ­Initiative ­Standards, the majority of the effort ­focusses on Skuld’s Oslo ­headquarters, where most of our ­business is ­managed. GRI STANDARDS This report has been prepared in accordance with Core GRI Standards. Skuld’s internal auditor has r­ eviewed and confirmed the document and its c ­ ontents. The table which follows indexes this report against GRI reporting guidelines, and in some instances refers to pages of the Skuld Annual Report 2019/20 or Skuld.com. Millionstock/Shutterstock.com 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 GRI INDICATOR DISCLOSURE TITLE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SDG UNGC GRI GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization Assuranceforeningen Skuld (Gjensidig) Fully 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services skuld.com/about/facts--figures/ Fully skuld.com/products/ skuld.com/about/service/ 102-3 Location of headquarters Oslo, Norway Fully 102-4 Location of operations skuld.com/about/facts--figures/ Fully skuld.com/contacts/ 102-5 Ownership and legal form Skuld statutes Fully skuld.com/about/governance/ 102-6 Markets served skuld.com/about/facts--figures/ Fully 102-7 Scale of the organisation skuld.com/about/facts--figures/financial-­ Fully reports/ 102-8 Information on employees and other skuld.com/about/facts--figures/financial-­ Fully 8 3 ­workers reports/ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Sustainability report/Risk Management Fully 102-12 External initiatives skuld.com/about/sponsorships/ Fully Sustainability report/Transparency and integrity 102-13 Membership of associations skuld.com/about/sponsorships/ Fully 15,17 Sustainability report/Transparency and integrity 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Sustainability report/Message from the Fully 16 1 ­President and CEO 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of skuld.com/about/purpose-vision-and-values/ Fully 16 10 behaviour skuld.com/about/code-of-conduct/ 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns Sustainability report/Corporate governance Fully 16 10 about ethics skuld.com/about/compliance/complaint-­ handling-procedure/ 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability report/Governing elements Fully 16 10 skuld.com/about/governance/ 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability report/Governing elements Fully 16 10 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, Skuld Sustainability Working Group Fully 16 10 environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, Sustainability report/Materiality and stakeholders Fully 16 10 ­environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance Skuld statutes Fully 16 10 body and its committees skuld.com/about/governance/ 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest Skuld statutes Fully 16 10 ­governance body 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting Sustainability report/Governing elements Fully 16 10 purpose, values, and strategy 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, Sustainability report/Governing elements Fully 16 10 ­environmental, and social impacts­ Skuld statutes 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability report/Materiality and stakeholders Fully 16 10 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability report/Materiality and stakeholders Fully 16 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability report/Materiality and stakeholders Fully 16 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability report/Materiality and stakeholders Fully 16 10 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated finanSkuld annual report Fully 16 10 cial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Sustainability report/About this report Fully 16 10 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability report/Materiality and stakeholders Fully 16 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 11 GRI INDICATOR DISCLOSURE TITLE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SDG UNGC GRI GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements Fully 102-49 Changes in reporting First report – no changes Fully 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2019 Fully 102-51 Date of most recent report No previous report Fully 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Fully 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Chief Human Resources Officer Trude S. Fully report Husebø, E-mail: trude.husebo@skuld.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance Fully GRI Standards with the GRI Standards: Core option. No external assurance. 102-55 GRI content index Sustainability report/About this report Fully 16 102-56 External assurance Sustainability report/About this report Fully 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Sustainability report/Materiality and Fully 16 boundary ­stakeholders 103-2 The management approach and its Sustainability report/Materiality and Fully 16 ­components ­stakeholders 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability report/Materiality and Fully 16 ­stakeholders GRI ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES 201-1 Direct economic value generated and skuld.com/about/facts--figures/financial-reports/ Partially 12 distributed Most figures are reported, however not set up as information required by GRI due to business complexity unavailable 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Sustainability report/Risk management Fully 12,13 7 opportunities due to climate change Sustainability report/Sustainable investments 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other skuld.com/about/facts--figures/financial-reports/ Fully 8 3 retirement plans 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Sustainability report/Corporate Governance Partially 16 10 corruption Sustainability report/Risk management information All business areas conducts risk analysis on unavailable compliance. However, we are not currently able to provide the percentage of operations which have been assessed. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corSustainability report/Corporate Governance Partially 16 10 ruption policies and procedures Partially due to not broken down by business information partners. unavailable 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Sustainability report/Corporate Governance Fully 16 actions taken GRI ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Partially 10,13 7,8,9 information unavailable 302-3 Energy intensity Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Fully 10,13 7,8,9 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Fully 10,13 7,8,9 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Fully 10,13 7,8,9 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Partially 10,13 7,8,9 information unavailable 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Partially 10,13 7,8,9 information unavailable 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 GRI INDICATOR DISCLOSURE TITLE DISCLOSURE DESCRIPTION SDG UNGC GRI GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Fully 10,13 7,8,9 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability report/Energy and Emissions Fully 10,13 7,8,9 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Sustainability report/Corporate Governance Partially 13 7,8 environmental criteria Sustainability report/Waste and recycling information Partially reported due to lack of data for all unavailable business segments. GRI SOCIAL DISCLOSURES 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover skuld.com/about/facts--figures/financial-­ Partially 8 6 reports/ information Sustainability report/Employee diversity and unavailable inclusion 403-1 Occupational health and safety Sustainability report/(Crew) health and 8,10,14 1,2,4 ­management system ­wellbeing 403-6 Promotion of worker health Sustainability report/(Crew) health and Fully 8,10,14 1,2,4 ­wellbeing 403-9 Work-related injuries Non reported Fully 8,10,14 1,2,4 403-10 Work-related ill health Non reported Fully 8,10,14 1,2,4 404-1 Average hours of training per year per Sustainability report/chapters 12 – 21 Fully 4,5, 1,2, employee All training is a mix of online and in-person 8,10 4,6 activities. Average hours per employee is not yet calculated. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular All Skuld employees receive regular perforFully 4,5, 1,2, performance and career development mance and career development reviews at 8,10 4,6 reviews twice a year. Sustainability report/chapters 12 21 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Sustainability report/Employee diversity and Partially 10 1,2, ­employees inclusion information 4,6 unavailable 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Sustainability report/Corporate Governance Partially 13 1,2, social criteria information 10 unavailable 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Sustainability report/Corporate Governance Fully 16 10 in the social and economic area Table 1 GRI Index Related information: GRI Standards >> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 13 05 MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDERS MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 2019 Skuld’s Sustainability Working Group has undertaken a materiality assessment to help prioritise areas for action. Ten material areas were identified and targeted for Skuld’s sustainability activities during 2020. Figure 3 reveals these areas and maps their relative impact on Skuld and our stakeholders. Each is linked to one of the five UN SDGs that the Sustainability Working Group has selected to adopt. Figure 3 Skuld Materiality Matrix 2019 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 MATERIAL TOPIC WHAT THE TOPIC COVERS WHY IS THE TOPIC MATERIAL TOPIC BOUNDARY CORPORATE Zero tolerance of financial This initiative aligns with SDG16, compliance All of Skuld, including all crimes including, corruption, with mandatory regulatory requirements, and offices and subsidiaries GOVERNANCE facilitation payments, money ­implementing the industry’s best practice while laundering, and bribery. reducing reputational risk. TRANSPARENCY AND Ensure ethical commitments Insurance buyers and other stakeholders ­increasingly Skuld’s underwriting, and requirements. expect Skuld to behave sustainably. We can make the claims, and loss prevention INTEGRITY Set expectations for greatest impact by influencing ­customers’ ­operations functions ­personal conduct and and behaviours. Skuld ­requests information and ­sustainable business ­presents our clear e ­ xpectations of c ­ ustomers’ ­practices. ­sustainability areas including emissions, risk ­management, and crew treatment. RISK MANAGEMENT Make informed ­decisions Climate change, environmental degradation, Skuld’s general risk about risks related to and ­social risk issues all affect Skuld, potentially ­management framework; the ­underwriting and risk ­increasing insured loss potential. The transition to measurement of financial, ­management. a ­carbon-­neutral economy will bring substantial reputational, operational, costs to ship­owners. Enforcement of new regulation and regulatory risk; undercould disrupt the shipping industry. Falling behind writing policy in the general development and being perceived to have insufficient measures in place with regard to sustainability will increase reputational, regulatory, and financial risk. EMISSIONS Drive decarbonisation Shipping is a highly energy-efficient form of All Skuld offices, and through collaboration and transport yet yields significant emissions due to its particularly claims and loss measurement. volume. Skuld contributes to emissions reduction prevention by refusing to insure fines for non-compliance with emissions regulations. WASTE AND RECYCLING Promote and e ­ ncourage A substantial volume of consumables is received All Skuld offices ­resource-sensitive on ships each year. Inadequate planning and poor ­behaviours. ­choices sometimes result both in wastage and in excessive handling and incorrect disposal of packing materials. DISASTER RESPONSE Maintain and develop Improved responses limit the impacts of marine All Skuld offices, and ­sufficient resources, casualties to safeguard life and health, protect the parti­cularly claims, loss ­structures, and unobstructed environment, and preserve financial assets. ­prevention, and Casualty lines of communication to Response Teams support fast and efficient ­casualty (ship loss) responses. (CREW) HEALTH AND Ensure health and safety at A ship can be a challenging workplace a long way All Skuld offices, and work, onshore and offshore. from home. Making on-board life safer and ­healthier ­particularly claims, loss ­WELLBEING will benefit all those on board, and their families prevention, facilities at home, who are impacted when seafarers suffer ­management, HR health issues. Skuld also ensures a safe and healthy ­workplace for our own employees. SUSTAINABLE Integrate UN SDGs in Sustainable investment aligns with SDG 13, while risk Skuld’s investment portfolio ­investment decision-­ and return impact may be substantial. ­INVESTMENT making. NEW REVENUE STREAMS Develop products and Supporting global demand for renewable and All Skuld offices, particularly ­services to protect environmentally friendly energy and sustainable underwriting ­customers in sustainability-­ food production aligns with SDG 14, and fits Skuld’s focussed sectors. underwriting ambitions and policies. EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND Promote and support In alignment with SDG10 and compliance with All of Skuld, including offices diversity in recruitment and ­regulatory requirements, the wellbeing, health, and and subsidiaries INCLUSION career development. safety of Skuld employees, and the opportunities we grant to them, are of high importance to Skuld. A diverse and inclusive culture is essential to achieve our strategic goals. Table 2 Material Topic description SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 15 STAKEHOLDERS age give teeth to our influence. For example, we will not Our main stakeholders – identified based on our cover fines levied against customers for breaches of ­frequency of interaction – are our members, clients, emissions limits. brokers, employees, correspondents, regulatory authorities, industry organisations, and suppliers. BROKERS Many of these groups are interdependent, and already Brokers are the agents of Skuld’s customers and play a comply with sets of common rules such as those of critical role in our commercial relationships. We rely on the International Group of P&I Clubs, the International them to source much of our business, and to provide Maritime Organisation, and others. feedback on customers’ interests, concerns, and the risks they face – including sustainability risks. We are convinced that neither individual companies nor regulatory authorities and the governments they Much of Skuld’s work to influence customers’ ­represent are able, acting alone, to effect maximum ­behaviours is facilitated by the brokers with whom beneficial change to the rules which govern ocean they work. We rely on these intermediaries to position industries. Instead, regional and global organisations Skuld among their clients as a sustainable insurance must help to set the rules. Only when consensus partner, and to help raise awareness of the i­mperative has been reached at the sectoral level will regula­ of our approach. This often includes, for example, tory authorities be able to introduce the regulations working to ensure that brokers, and therefore their ­necessary to enforce sustainable behaviours. Skuld ship-owning customers, understand that sustainability will exercise its influence and promote sustainable encom­passes far more than emissions control. This ­behaviours beyond our direct stakeholders through too is a dialogue: we are asked increasingly by brokers the organisations to which we belong. Meanwhile we to d ­ iscuss our sustainability focus and are proud to will work actively to build sustainability among our ­describe our advancing accomplishments. direct stakeholders through our day-to-day actions. EMPLOYEES MEMBERS AND CLIENTS Skuld and its customers rely on the expertise, actions, Our customers – P&I club members and ­commercial and commitment of our employees. Their activities insurance buyers – are the consumers of Skuld’s are the foundation of Skuld’s differentiated offering, ­insurance-related products and services. They which is bolstered by their professional competence ­comprise companies which represent the spectrum in ­multiple areas. These include Skuld’s sustainability of ocean industries. By engaging the necessary activities, the success of which will be limited only by ­expertise, Skuld has worked actively and successfully our employees’ ability and enthusiasm to deliver them. to b ­ roaden our customer base to include ­organisations active in emerging green technologies, from offshore We have structured processes in place to measure wind ­generation facilities to electric ferries. Our role is engagement and competence, and to develop our to provide them, through insurance, with ­contingent ­employees. Through annual work environments ­capital which will ­allow them to survive and ­continue surveys measuring both employee engagement and when their typically emerging technologies and ­leadership, we receive valuable feedback from all ­activities collide with c ­ ertain obstacles. In this way, employees. A common feedback both internally and Skuld ­enables low-carbon and other sustainable­ ­externally is the importance of the Skuld values and ­industries to develop. the way we live them. We work constantly to sustain Skuld’s workplace culture, to see that it is imbued with Skuld’s greatest impact on sustainability is through a sustainability outlook, and to ensure staff wellbeing. the normal course of our work with customers. A ­Employees in Skuld are regularly updated on the suscritical component of this is to foster loss-prevention tainability initiatives through or intranet, information best practice. This directly reduces, for example, ship ­meetings and leadership gatherings. We also focus on ­casualties and crew injuries. Further, Skuld improves sustainability as a key message when branding Skuld the remediation of accidents when they occur, for as an attractive employer in recruitment processes example by ­financing sustainable wreck removal or where we acquire feedback from external candidates the rapid, thorough clean-up of spills. We maintain a who apply for vacancies in Skuld. dialogue with ­customers to inform them of our sustainability work, and to influence their sustainability CORRESPONDENTS behaviours. In some cases, the terms of Skuld’s coverOcean industries may require assistance at any 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 hour, anywhere in the world. To provide this ­essential part of wider industry associations, we sometimes ­support, Skuld maintains a network of highly share insightful data with regulators. We believe our ­experienced, independent corresponding firms that role is to contribute to and even lead formation of provide ­emergency and other services to our customthe wide consensus required to improve regulation. ers. These may include cargo surveys, major catastroMeanwhile, Skuld ­actively encourages, and somephe responses, support for injured crewmembers, and times requires, customers to follow the sustainability even dealing with stowaways. ­regulations, ­guidelines and other non-statutory advice set out by international authorities such as the Inter­ Given this role, correspondents are part of Skuld’s frontnational Maritime O ­ rganisation. line work to minimise the impacts of any loss-­related incidents which impact sustainability. As organisations INDUSTRY ORGANISATIONS which operate as part of Skuld’s extended enterprise, Skuld cooperates with international industry we expect them to apply the same high standards of ­organisations such as the ­International Group of business and personal ethics which Skuld consistently P&I Clubs, ­Cefor, and the Getting to Zero 2030 follows across our global operations, and in all our busi­Coalition to follow and influence r­ egulatory ­changes, ness dealings, including in matters of s­ ustainability. We share ­information on c ­ utting-edge loss p ­ revention maintain regular dialogue with these organisations to ­techniques and other topics of i­mportance to Skuld share best practices, discuss new local regulations, and and our stakeholders, and to improve the behaviours ensure that we operate ­sustainably. of our stakeholders and peers. Through this ­collective ­activity we have ­tangible impact on sustainability REGULATORY AUTHORITIES ­beyond our stakeholder groups. We maintain an open dialogue with regulatory authori­ ties in the various world-wide jurisdictions in which SUPPLIERS Skuld operates and is regulated. We monitor and of Skuld relies upon a wide range of suppliers. We have course implement the various regulatory requirements increased our work to ensure that ­suppliers to Skuld which arise. ­behave in sustainable ways, and our deter­mination to engage, when feasible, only with ­companies that Through these dialogues we work to advance and ­proffer the best green credentials. ­improve sustainability regulation. Acting alone or as Tawansak/Shutterstock.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 17 06 ALIGNMENT WITH UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the blueprint to achieve a better and more s­ ustainable future for all. Adopted by world leaders in 2015, the SDGs address the global c ­ hallenges faced by everyone on the planet and help us to understand how our efforts will make a difference. Skuld has selected five SDGs to be the current focus of our ongoing commitment to sustaina­bility. They were ­chosen based on an assessment of their relevance to the marine insurance industry, their impact on Skuld’s customers and e ­ mployees, and our ability to begin contributing immediately to their ­realisation. We have initiated a syste­matic ­approach to implementation which connects Skuld’s business strategies with the five selected SDGs and the UNGC’s Ten Principles. SDG 3: GOOD HEALTH AND SDG 10: REDUCED WELL-BEING ­INEQUALITIES Skuld ensures health and safety at Skuld promotes diversity internally work, onshore and offshore. and externally. We will measure crew health and wellbeing, share the Skuld will promote and support diversity in recruitment knowledge gained, and advise our customers and and career development. Diversity is integrated with the wider ocean-industries community on areas for our culture and leadership-development programmes, ­improvement. and with our recruitment practices and career-­ development paths. Skuld recognises that an inclusive culture is ­important both to secure a future talent pool Information and education directed towards seafarers and to achieve our strategic goals and will share this about workplace health and safety contribute not only to understanding with customers and other stakeholders safe and sustainable operations at sea, but also to l­ocal both by example, and through knowledge-sharing taccommunities, as seafarers bring their knowledge and tics. Skuld is also a signatory to the UN Women Empowgood practices shore-side and into their homes. Skuld erment Principles. will deploy risk-based analysis methodology to measure health and safety risks, carry out vessel ­condition and targeted loss prevention surveys, and assess customers’ SDG 13: CLIMATE ACTION technical management skills. Skuld will integrate climate-change One goal of this activity is to reduce the frequency of measures in strategy and workplace personal injuries and accidents. Skuld will ­decision-making. promote initiatives which go beyond regulations, in part through lectures and seminars for customers. These Skuld will integrate climate change measures into our include crew and officer conferences which focus on operational functions including investments, business injury, illness, and environmental topics. The aim of these practices, and underwriting. events is to raise awareness and contribute to a ­reduction of ­incidents at sea by building a robust health and safety To reduce the climate-change impact of our investculture among our clients and the wider s­ ector. ment activity, Skuld will evaluate external fund managers’ approaches to sustainable investing, and apply a framework for recording, monitoring, and reporting on their sustainability actions. Skuld will assess the impact 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Milan Gonda/Shutterstock.com of the low-carbon transition on our investment portSDG 14: LIFE BELOW folio and decide how to adapt to the new exposures WATER and r­ egulations it brings. Based on the conclusions we reach, Skuld will structure our investment portfolio to Skuld will promote resource-sensitive contribute most effectively to climate change reduction. behaviours. All Skuld offices will focus on the carbon emissions Skuld will measure, share, and advise members on ship of their day-to-day business practices, and introduce recycling practices and sulphur dioxide emissions. measures including in-house recycling and reduced use Seafarers’ knowledge and expertise are paramount to of plastics. Skuld will evaluate its travel choices, reduce safeguard the high seas against pollution, protect ocean flight frequency whenever possible, and choose hotels habitats, and preserve life below water. Ship recycling with a green profile. practices and the use of low-sulphur fuels – mandated under the International Maritime Organisation’s Sulphur Cap 2020 – are global issues in shipping sustainability. SGD 16: PEACE, JUSTICE, Skuld will advise customers on applicable regulations AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS and compliance and encourage and support best ­practice. We will evaluate our underwriting policies Skuld acts against corruption and and assess opportunities to introduce incentives that ­bribery in all their forms. influence and encourage environmentally sensitive ­behaviour. We will continue to promote and adopt Skuld will continue to act against corrupt ­practices by the most environmentally efficient casualty response refusing to participate in them and actively ­promoting ­methodologies where possible. knowledge of relevant regulations among our ­employees and partners. The principles which govern Skuld will develop and market new products and employees’ individual judgements and ­choices are ­services within emerging ocean industries which deliver set out in our Code of Conduct, which describes our a positive climate-change impact. We see opportunity ­ethical commitments and requirements. The Code sets in expanding sustainability initiatives and are exploring ­expectations for personal conduct and s­ ustainable the development of products and services to support, business practise based on Skuld’s culture, core for example, offshore aquaculture and offshore wind ­values, g ­ lobal policies and guidelines as well as legal farms. In more traditional ocean industries, we will strive ­requirements. The Code applies to everyone at Skuld ­constantly to help customers reduce their climate world-wide, and to all those businesses and individuals change impacts through the imposition of strict health who provide ­services on Skuld’s behalf. and safety measures and environmental controls. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 19 07 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PARTICIPATION Skuld committed in 2019 to make the UN ­Global ­Compact and its principles part of our corporate ­strategy, ­culture, and day-to-day operations. Skuld ­supports the Ten ­Principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, l­abour, ­environment, and anti-­corruption. Figure 4 UN Global Compact COP This report serves as our first Communication on Progress towards implementing the Ten ­Principles and marks our ­continued commitment to them. The principles are: HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support and ­respect the protection of a ­precautionary approach to ­internationally ­proclaimed human ­environ­mental challenges; rights; and PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives to PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they are not c ­ omplicit ­promote greater environmental in human rights abuses. ­responsi­bility; and PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and ­diffusion of environmentally friendly LABOUR technologies. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the f­ reedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to c ­ ollective bargaining; ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against and compulsory labour; ­corruption in all its forms, PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labour; ­including ­extortion and ­bribery. and PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in ­respect of employment and Related information: ­occupation. Skuld’s participation profile at UNGC >> 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Ryan Loughlin/Unsplash.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 21 08 SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Skuld became a signatory of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in September 2019. This signals our resolve to conduct our business responsibly and sustainably by aligning our strategies and operations with the Ten P ­ rinciples of the UNGC on human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. We will take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals such as the UN SDGs, with emphasis on collaboration and innovation. See S ­ ection 7. SKULD SUSTAINABILITY WORKING GROUP The Skuld Sustainability Working Group was formed in 2019. It comprises representatives from all core b ­ usiness processes. Its membership includes ­participants from Skuld’s management, and from Operations, Human Resources, Claims, Loss Prevention, ­Under­writing, I­nvestment, Enterprise Risk Management, Legal, M ­ arketing & Communication and Compliance. The ­Working Group mandates the directions of Skuld’s sustain­ability activities, guided by the Ten Principles of the UNGC, the GRI, and the UN’s SDGs and WEPs. GETTING TO ZERO 2030 COALITION Launched at the 2019 UN Climate Action Summit held at UNHQ in New York City, the Coalition is a partnership b ­ etween the Global Maritime Forum, the Friends of Ocean Action, and the World Economic Forum. It is a powerful alliance of more than 90 companies within the maritime, energy, infrastructure, and finance sectors. The Coalition’s ambition is “to have commercially v ­ iable zero emission vessels (ZEVs) operating along deep sea trade routes by 2030, supported by the ­necessary ­infrastructure for scalable zero-carbon energy s­ ources including ­production, distribution, storage and ­bunkering. The coalition is defined by this ambition and a set of core principles that all members share. Delivery of these shared objectives will require collaboration and c ­ ommitment from the broad range of stakeholders that form the Coalition.” “In Skuld we are dedicated to protecting ocean ­industries. As a marine insurer we support our ­members and clients in their ­sustainable s­ hipping initiatives. We are now ­delighted to join the Global Maritime Forum’s Zero 2030 C ­ oalition to contribute to ­achieving ­decarbonised ­shipping for the future.” Skuld President and CEO Ståle Hansen 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 23 UN WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT THE SHE INDEX ­PRINCIPLES Skuld believes transparency is an important part of any Skuld has signed the UN Women’s ­Empowerment commitment to enhance gender equality and diver­Principles (WEPs). By adopting the seven sity. We therefore report on gender equality at Skuld under the SHE Index. The index acts as a catalyst for ­principles, Skuld signals its pledge to support the companies to focus on achieving gender equity, equal ­advancement of equality between women and ­compensation, and work-life balance among their leadmen within our ­organisation and in wider society. ership and workforce. The 2019 report was launched in See Section 18. March 2020, and shows an improved score since 2018, rising from 39 to 54 points. See Section 18. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 “At Skuld we promote an organisational ­culture which values gender equality and ­diversity. ­Providing equal employment and career d ­ evelopment opportunities and ­increasing the percentage of women in ­managerial and key positions, are closely linked to our strategy for the future.” Skuld President and CEO Ståle Hansen PerryGrone/Unsplash.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 25 SKULD IMPACT DAY protecting ocean industries, or one of our selected Skuld Impact Day is an important part of our sustainSDGs.Activities chosen for the upcoming ­Impact Day ability initiative. It raises internal awareness of Skuld’s vary from beach-cleaning to establishing bee hotels commitment to SDGs and works to build an inclusive and nest boxes. culture at Skuld. Impact Day connects people and fosters a sustain­able mindset among colleagues at work and in During the first Impact Day activity, held in ­December their homes and wider communities. 2019, Skuld’s Hamburg colleagues spent the day ­supporting Hanseatic Help, a local charitable organisaEach employee is invited to spend one paid day per year tion which aims to improve the lives of people in need. contributing to an external charity or cause in their local Unfortunately, global measures to stem the spread of community. Each office worldwide has selected a cause the Covid-19 virus required remaining scheduled 2020 to support, one which reflects either Skuld’s purpose, Impact Day activities to be postponed. OFFICE ORGANISATION ACTIVITY SDG HAMBURG Hanseatic Help e.V. Assisted in setting up their Christmas market 16 OSLO The Norwegian­­Society for Sea Rescue Beach clean and ‘Elias club’ workshop* 14 COPENHAGEN Canal clean up and rubbish removal* 14 SINGAPORE The Soup Kitchen Prepare, cook and distribute meals to people in need* 3 BERGEN Set out 10 nest boxes and 3 insect hotels and place them 13 in Bergen city centre. PIRAEUS Hellenic Beach clean-up* 13, 14 Marine Environment ­Protection Association NEW YORK TBD Planting of sea grass to avoid beach erosion or beach 13, 14 clean-up TBD* HONG KONG Hong Kong TBD* 3 Shipowners Association or S ­ eaman Union -TBD LONDON Marine Beach clean-up* 13, 14 Conservation ­Society TBD BERMUDA Speaker at the Bermuda City Hall ­celebration of UN’s International ­ 10 Woman’s Day Marine piloting and boat safety course for woman* Table 3 Impact Day status Related information: Getting to Zero 2030 Coalition>> *Activities postponed due to Covid-19 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles >> SHE Index >> 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 MIA Studio/Shutterstock.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 27 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 09 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Skuld has operated under high standards of governance since it was established in 1897. Our Purpose Statement, protecting ocean industries, and our values, Accurate, Bold, Caring, Dedicated, are practised at all levels of Skuld to ensure a holistic approach to sustainability. By implementing and living our purpose and values in day-to-day operations, we demonstrate our commitment to sustainable solutions that create value and protect our customers and stakeholders. THE STATUTES realisation of Skuld’s vision in its day-to-day operations, The document central to understanding Skuld’s and therefore in the execution of Skuld’s ­sustainability ­governance is its Statutes, which set out the ­structure and activities. roles of Skuld’s governing bodies, election ­procedures, and scopes of authority. In addition, Skuld has created a INTERNAL GOVERNANCE SYSTEM ­comprehensive system of internal ­regulations. It includes: All of Skuld’s governing bodies have expressed their firm • Policies approved by the Board of Directors commitment to sustainability, which they see as central to • Instructions which are the responsibility of a member Skuld’s governance system and all of our activities. How­ of Skuld’s executive management team ever, the responsibility extends further. Good corporate • Guidelines for specific areas of Skuld’s operations governance involves accountability, transparency, fairness, and effective engagement between all internal and external These ‘living’ documents provide detailed guidance on stakeholders. It is therefore critical for internal ­standards various important subjects and are updated from time to and rules to be maintained throughout the organisation. time. Skuld’s employees are our sustainability front line. THE GENERAL MEETING Skuld’s comprehensive system of internal governance The annual ordinary General Meeting (GM) of Skuld’s is detailed and available to all employees through Skuld members – our owners – is the organisation’s highest Port, our intranet. Core elements of the system, such as authority. The members in attendance elect Skuld’s Skuld’s Code of Conduct, are shared with customers and Election Committee and its Members’ Committee, and other stakeholders through skuld.com. Regular training approve updated Statutes, financial reports, and the and information meetings update employees on importclosing of policy years. ant developments and changes to standards and expectations. THE BOARD The Board of Directors is responsible for strategic deciTo ensure Skuld’s governance and sustainability principles sions related to Skuld’s operations. Board members are are met, several lines of control have been established. elected among the members of the Association, and are Leaders of departments and business units are the closely involved in operations and initiatives. They appoint primary line, supported through independent controls the President and CEO, decide on general premiums, and operated by Skuld’s Compliance Officer. These controls approve Skuld’s Rules. The Board oversees strategic deare reviewed by Skuld’s Internal Audit function, according velopment, which includes both a clear focus on sustainto a plan agreed with the Board. ability and ensures a robust Code of Conduct. GOVERNANCE AND SDGS THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Working towards Skuld’s selected SDGs and the creation Skuld’s President and CEO, together with other members of sustainability in general is an ongoing process. Our of senior management, form the Executive Management. materiality assessment, objectives, and internal goverThey ensure that the instructions, guidelines, and recomnance documentation are therefore subject to continuous mendations of other governing bodies are carried out, internal review. and that Skuld operates efficiently. This team is vital to the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 29 CODE OF CONDUCT MONEY LAUNDERING, CORRUPTION, Our Code of Conduct, mandated by the Board of AND BRIBERY ­Directors and introduced in 2019, outlines Skuld’s ethical Skuld believes that the finance of terrorism, money launder­commitments, and our expectations of Skuld p ­ eople. ing and corruption are closely connected. We have thereThe Code highlights the principles that guide our fore established common standards – Skuld’s AML regula­business behaviours, and compiles our policies, instructions – to eliminate such practices. These standards meet tions, g ­ uidelines, and legal requirements. It applies to all or exceed relevant regulatory requirements such as the 5th ­directors, leaders, employees, and others who perform EU Money-Laundering Directive. services for Skuld. Skuld has zero tolerance of money laundering and terrorist Relevant internal governance documents link the Code financing. AML policy has been established at board level as to detailed regulations on specific areas including a Global Policy that is reviewed annually. Executive Manageanti-harassment, conflicts of interest, and gifts and ment is responsible for its implementation, which is followed up hospitality. The Code is reviewed at least annually. In through regular AML Risk Assessments that evaluate potential 2020 it was amended to underline Skuld’s commitment risks and operational exposures and defines risk-based controls to equality and diversity, and to add a new instruction on alcohol consumption. To further strengthen the AML regulations and ensure Groupwide compliance, Skuld introduced an AML I­nstruction The Code was developed with input from the Human approved by the Executive Management and i­mplemented ­Resources, Compliance, Legal, and Risk Departments, in February 2020. The Instruction will be adapted and/or and was reviewed by the Employees’ Representatives amended in light of any regulatory c ­ hanges. The AML InCommittee. Roll-out was accompanied by extensive work struction requires: to ensure all employees are familiar with its ­principles. • Underwriters to document their due diligence process. First the Skuld leadership team, then each departFrom 21 February 2020 they are required to complete ment, held ‘dilemma training’ on the Code as part of our Know Your Customer documentation for all clients and ­Personal Development Programme. New ­employees are potential clients, even before issuing price quotations expected to read, understand, and ­adhere to its contents. • All Skuld employees who may encounter AML issues to complete and pass an online training programme, provided by an external party, that teaches them to recognise potential AML attempts, and to deal with them correctly • AML implementation to be verified by key-function CODE OF CONDUCT GOALS ­reporting to Skuld’s compliance officer. A combined Living the Code is of utmost importance ­report is submitted to the Nominated Officer respon­sible to Skuld. To ensure it is followed, we have for external AML reporting by Skuld. set ­ambitious goals and performance ­measurement metrics. The importance of compliance is clearly understood by the • 100% of new employees receive ­training in Board, which in Q1, 2020 approved an extensive internal audit the Code focused on AML and the related area of sanctions. Any defi• The number of Code breaches d ­ etected ciencies uncovered will be remediated before 2021. ­annually and reported through the many ­channels Skuld has established is to be zero AML GOALS Skuld aims to meet the following AML goals and ­performance measures consistently: • 100% of relevant employees are to be trained in AML • The number of AML breaches detected through ­quarterly compliance monitoring is to be zero • The internal AML audit will deliver its findings ­before year-end 2020 • Know Your Customer due diligence is to be ­conducted throughout underwriting operations during the 2020-21 underwriting year 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION WHISTLEBLOWING The introduction in 2018 of common EU rules to protect Skuld’s Instruction on Whistleblowing was updated signifipersonal data, known as the General Data Protection cantly in early 2020. The new Instruction was distributed ­Regulation (GDPR), was an important milestone in the to employees via Skuld’s intranet and explained during effort to secure individuals’ rights over the use of their a global meeting of staff by the President and CEO in personal information. ­February 2020. Skuld’s extensive and ongoing global project to ensure The goal is to enable all employees to raise serious conwe adequately protect personal data and comply with the cerns and report offences confidentially with guaranteed GDPR began with: non-retaliation. The Instruction details multiple reporting • Development of internal governance documents, an channels including an anonymous route supported by encryption mechanism for e-mails, and data protection an external provider. Non-compliance with most of the agreements implemented internally between Skuld requirements of Skuld’s Code of Conduct can now be companies and externally with third parties. reported through these whistleblowing channels. • Establishment of the role of Data Protection Officer (DPO) In addition, Skuld has a complaint-reporting channel for • Incorporation of sessions on personal data privacy external parties. Detailed complaints-handling proceand privacy-dilemma decision-making into Code of dures, including submission requirements and response ­Conduct training deadlines, are explained on skuld.com. Skuld’s compliance with GDPR has been internally a ­ udited twice, most recently in 2019, to confirm overall compliance. The results were presented to the Board of ­Directors. To ensure ongoing correct handling of ­personal data, the WHISTLEBLOWING GOALS Compliance officer, together with the Human Resources • Skuld aims to process 100% of ­internal and Claims departments, implements regular controls. We and ­external complaints fairly and continue to enhance our personal data p ­ rotection regime, ­objectively, in compliance with our most recently to strengthen the protection of data about ­Instruction current and former Skuld ­employees. • Skuld will permit no retaliation against­ ­whistle-blowers PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION GOAL • Skuld aims to record no GDPR breaches SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 31 RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Related information: Skuld's Corporate Governance web pages >> Skuld has introduced a corporate Instruction ­governing Skuld's Code of conduct >> all significant purchases. It is intended to ensure a Skuld's external complaints procedures >> ­standardised and diligent assessment of all acquisitions throughout the organisation. The I­ nstruction includes sustainability requirements when dealing with third-­ party vendors. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASE OF OFFICE SUPPLIES In January 2020 Skuld signed an agreement with ­Office Management (certified under ISO 14001:2015, Energy Star, Blue Angel, and ECO flower) to increase our facilities ­management team’s access to green products. Our 2020 goal is to ensure all new office supplies carry the Nordic Swan Ecolabel (Svane­merket) or the local equivalent. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 10 TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY Skuld’s customers increasingly express their EXTERNAL INITIATIVES ­expectations of our sustainability efforts. Because our The most important social charters, principles, or other organisation can make the greatest impact through the initiatives to which Skuld subscribes or endorses are: operations of our members and clients, we must be in • UN Global Compact a position to request information about areas such as • UN Global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) their emissions, risk management, and crew treatment. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ­Similarly, we must have and explain clear expectations of • The Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) the sustainability of their performance. • SHE Index • Getting to ZERO 2030 Coalition SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING This document is Skuld’s first dedicated sustaina­bility MEMBERSHIP OF ASSOCIATIONS report to UNGC. It reflects ongoing and continuous • The International Group of P&I Clubs (IGP&I) improvement to our reporting process, which will be • The Nordic Association of Marine Insurers (Cefor) increasingly visible through the quality of data reported in • Maritime Cluster Northern Germany (Maritimes the years ahead. ­Cluster Norddeutschland) We aim to identify and disclose economic, environSPONSORSHIPS mental, and social impacts regardless of their size or Skuld is dedicated to protecting ocean industries and proimportance, and to make this report our key platform to moting sustainability world-wide. One way we aim to meet ­communicate Skuld’s sustainability performance and this commitment is through sponsorship and ­support ­impacts – ­whet­her positive or negative. We will continue initiatives which contribute to marine humanitarian causes, to strengthen and explain the links between our gover­safety at sea, and marine education and heritage. nance model, strategy, and sustainability. Related information: Skuld's sponsorships>> SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 33 11 RISK MANAGEMENT Skuld constantly monitors the risk universe to active prevention. This follows risk assessment by risk owners who consider compliance and reputational risks, as understand our risk profile and assess and adjust well as these risks’ potential impacts on Skuld’s objectives. Skuld’s appetite for all relevant quantifiable risks. We distinguish between four primary risk types: EXTERNAL RISKS arise from events outside Skuld’s strategy risks ­influence or control. External fraud, political risk, and preventable risks ­regulatory risk are relevant in this category. Our main mitigation objective is to reduce their potential impact. external risks External risks are controlled mainly through identification, emerging risks followed by evaluation of their potential severity through scenario planning and stress testing. Risk assessment by STRATEGY RISKS are those which Skuld accepts in order Executive Management is the main risk management tool. to create value for our members. These strategic and financial risks are the main risks we assume, and include EMERGING RISKS are new or future risks which have underwriting risk, market risk, counterparty risk, and not yet matured. Their hazard potential is not yet ­reliably liquidity risk. Our main mitigation objective for these risks known, and their implications are difficult to assess. is to reduce their likelihood and impact. They may be completely new risks never before seen, or ­previously known risks that are evolving in unexpected Strategy risks are controlled primarily through strategy ways to present unanticipated consequences. Mitigation documents, accompanying guidelines, and risk appetite objectives, risk management, and control tools are the statements. The main tool deployed to manage undersame as those deployed for external risks. writing, market, and counterparty risks is risk capital calculations, while stress tests are performed to manage liquidity risk. All strategy risks are considered in Executive Management’s regular risk assessments. ­ Since Skuld’s core business is marine insurance, under­ writing risk is Skuld’s main risk. Well-functioning risk selec­ tion and adequate risk pricing are important p ­ rocesses to ensure the financial wellbeing of any mutual insurance organisation. Skuld’s risk-based selection of vessels is subject to condition surveys for vessels new to Skuld, and routine condition surveys of existing members’ vessels. Skuld invests insurance premiums received from ­members and clients, so is exposed to financial risks comprising market risk, counterparty risk, and ­liquidity risk. Skuld evaluates fund managers’ approaches to sustainable investing, and is developing a framework for recording, monitoring, and reporting on external fund managers’ sustainability performance (see Section 16). PREVENTABLE RISKS encompass those risks which Skuld does not wish to take. They are internal risks arising within the organisation which are considered material, but which generate no strategic benefit. The category includes ­operational, compliance, and reputational risks. The main mitigation objective for preventable risks is to avoid or eliminate their occurrence, primarily through nektofadeev/Shutterstock.com 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 SUSTAINABILITY RISK For example, in September 2019 the European InsurSustainability risk is the emerging risk which includes ance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) uncertainties over Skuld’s ability to maintain operations published an opinion on sustainability within its Solvenor growth due to negative externalities such as environcy II regulatory capital requirements regime. The Bank mental degradation, the manifestation of social risks, of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) has and climate change. perhaps moved furthest to solidify its sustainability expectations of the firms it regulates. Compliance costs Skuld treats sustainability risk as an external risk and are certain to increase substantially as a result. While is working towards the full integration of sustainability expectations and regulatory requirements remain in risk into our risk management framework. However, this transition, to fall behind in the wider sustainability effort risk category is complex. Sustainability risk may also be or to be perceived as taking insufficient measures will viewed as a preventable risk to which Skuld could be exlead to increased reputational, regulatory, and financial posed directly as a consequence of our own insufficient risks. sustainability measures. It also has characteristics of strategy risk, since factors such as climate change pose the risk of financial loss arising from its adverse impacts on, for example, underwriting and investment risks. Sustainability also has impacts as a preventable risk and a strategy risk. Businesses in all sectors are now met with clear expectations to address sustainability issues. Legislative and regulatory initiatives have accelerated. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 35 CLIMATE CHANGE RISK Enforcement of these regulations could cause major Climate change is a major risk facing the marine insurance ­shipping-industry disruptions. The largest players and industry today. It may be divided into two categories: the newcomers are best positioned to handle the transiphysical impacts of climate change, and risks arising from tion and take advantage of the opportunities that arise. the transition to a carbon-neutral economy. For Skuld, Skuld will follow global maritime sustainability developthese factors increase underwriting and market risk. ment closely, and lead or influence where appropriate and ­possible to do so, to secure our role in the transition As ambient temperatures rise all over the world, extreme ­marketplace. weather events are increasing in frequency and severity, which has led to rising underwriting loss potentials. The complex challenge of measuring the financial risks of The most severe and immediate of these are storms and climate change requires careful assessment, over several flooding. The number and intensity of tropical cyclones decades, of the different effects of multiple climate pathare expected to increase in line with rising sea surface ways, including their varied physical and transition imtemperatures. These weather events make shipping pacts. This requires new tools and approaches to measure more hazardous, as key variables such as prevailing and understand the risks. winds, waves, currents, and precipitation rates change. Meanwhile, gradually rising sea levels make storms more The UK’s PRA has published guidelines to support insurdangerous, and increase the risk of disruptive flooding in ers’ approaches to managing the financial risks of climate low-lying regions, posing a threat to infrastructure on land. change. They set out the regulator’s expectations for insurers to develop and embed climate risk management If no or insufficient action is taken to reduce greenhouse practices. In December 2019, a PRA discussion paper progas emissions, the physical consequences of climate posed a framework for the scenario-testing of such risks, change will almost certainly increase. It is reasonable to to be implemented in 2021. Rather than expend valuable assume that Skuld should expect an increasing number resources on the development of a climate-risk measureof climate-change-related claims. Indirect impacts on the ment methodology unique to Skuld, we intend at this time macroeconomic environment such as decreased output to follow UK developments, and apply the methodology and productivity will exacerbate these direct impacts. developed for the PRA’s stress-testing exercises to our own portfolio. Transition to a carbon-neutral economy is essential to limit the physical consequences of climate change. It will require significant structural changes to the economy and expose the shipping industry and marine insurers to transition risks. The UN Environment Programme’s Finance Initiative estimates that up to 15% of the value of a representative global market portfolio could be placed at risk by the transition. New legislation intended to regulate the transition will lead to substantial adjustment costs for shipowners. For ­example, IMO 2020, the International Maritime Organisation’s initiative to cut marine-sector sulphur emissions in ­international waters by more than 80% through the use of low-sulphur fuels, will lead to increased costs for ­containerised shipping of up to 25%. The IMO’s long-term pledges require that: • existing vessels are retrofitted with zero-carbon ­technology • alternate fuel sources are found • greener ship designs are developed and implemented 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Datenschutz-Stockfoto/Shutterstock.com 12 ENERGY AND EMISSIONS IMO SULPHUR EMISSIONS CAP 2020 Throughout 2019 and into 2020, Skuld has engaged with customers on the reduction required from 1 January 2020 in the sulphur content of marine fuel. Our activities include seminars, workshops, web advisories, individual advice, assistance on dispute resolution, and two podcasts. The work has covered regulatory, contractual, and technical topics which have made customers better prepared for compliance. The sulphur cap will remain on our agenda, but its importance is likely to diminish as the transition period ends and the current, multiple technical and legal challenges are resolved. Breaches of the sulphur cap regulations may result in substantial fines. To motivate our clients into full compliance, Skuld takes a strict line on the insurability of these fines, which we do not cover. From the 2020/2021 policy year we have also clarified our insurance of Extra Bunker Handling Costs such that cover is available only when off-spec bunkers (fuels) cause a risk of engine damage, and not when bunkers are unfit for use due to non-compliance with the sulphur emissions regulations. Skuld records all borderline cases, and those where commercial pressure is placed on us. Such cases must be r­eported to the Claims Management Team. Emissions-related fines are mapped and counted. ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND INTENSITY WITHIN SKULD Skuld has begun to track the energy consumption arising from normal-course activities. Reported consumed energy is limited to: • Headquarters in Oslo, Norway, which accommodate 150 full-time employees based on 5,077 square metres in use • Bergen, Norway office which accommodates 6 employees • London, UK office, which accommodates 31 employees • Singapore office, which accommodates 11 employees SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 37 The energy consumption overview excludes our offices in Bermuda, Copenhagen, Hamburg, Hong Kong, New York, and Piraeus. We are working to expand reporting for Skuld’s Sustainability Report 2020. PERIOD OSLO Average LONDON Average BERGEN Average SINGAPORE kWh ­outside temp. kWh ­outside temp. kWh ­outside temp. kWh January 24 194 -2.84 Celsius 1 423 3.7 Celsius 1 110 2.6 Celsius 1 422 February 22 660 0.45 Celsius 2 486 6.0 Celsius 1 006 5.3 Celsius 1 140 March 22 989 2.27 Celsius 3 327 6.8 Celsius 1 096 4.6 Celsius 1 334 April 21 750 8.63 Celsius 3 452 8.4 Celsius 1 036 9.8 Celsius 1352 May 23 356 10.38 Celsius 2 515 10.0 Celsius 1 080 9.4 Celsius 1 284 June 23 440 15.37 Celsius 2 682 13.2 Celsius 1 012 14.1 Celsius 1 105 July 24 149 17.94 Celsius 1 910 16.4 Celsius 1 019 16.2 Celsius 1 238 August 25 587 16.81 Celsius 2 333 15.8 Celsius 1 012 16.4 Celsius 1 252 September 22 273 11.38 Celsius 1 162 13.1 Celsius 1 010 11.6 Celsius 1 099 October 24 194 5.44 Celsius 3 734 9.0 Celsius 1 082 8.0 Celsius 1 353 November 22 767 0.95 Celsius 3 165 5.3 Celsius 1 069 3.0 Celsius 1 176 December 21 457 0.58 Celsius 2 478 5.1 Celsius 1 041 5.0 Celsius 1 251 Sum electricity 278 816 30 667 12 573 15 011 Our share of building ­heating 315 372 Our share of common areas: Cooling, 510 488 pumps, elevators, technical facilities, canteen, meeting centre Total per office 1 104 676 30 667 12 573 15 011 TOTAL 1 162 927 kwh Table 4 Table Energy consumption within Skuld’s Oslo, London, Singapore, and Bergen offices, 2019 TYPES OF ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION Energy consumed at Skuld headquarters is primarily renewable, comprising mainly hydro, wind, and solar power. Norway is part of the common Nordic power market, which is integrated into the European market. Because of this, we are unable to guarantee green power always flows from sockets. Available energy varies with factors including rainfall to reservoirs, wind, and sunshine, so the power market depends additionally on electricity from oil, gas, coal, and nuclear power generation facilities. In practice, Nordic and European cooperation delivers green energy across national borders and increases its share when production is high, but at present non-renewable energy must supply remaining needs. Electricity certificates, intended to support schemes which ensure the development of renewable energy, are provided for all power purchased. ENERGY INDIRECT (SCOPE 2) GHG EMISSIONS Total gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emission of 54.96 metric tons of CO2 equivalent was reported for Skuld’s offices in Oslo, Bergen, London, and Singapore in 2019. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 NORWAY UK SINGAPORE Factor (kgCo2e per kwh) 0.036 0.241 0.490 Source IPCC 2014 / IPCC 2014 / IPCC 2014 / Electricitymap Electricitymap Electricitymap Production Mix factor Combined Generation + TransCombined Generation + Transmission & mission & Distribution factor Distribution factor Table 5 Emission factors. Formula: kWh Country x Emission factor country OTHER INDIRECT (SCOPE 3) GHG EMISSIONS – BUSINESS TRAVEL National and international travel is necessary to execute some of Skuld’s essential business activities. We began, in 2019, to implement use of a common travel management company by all our offices. Oslo, Bergen, and B ­ ermuda had been connected to this supplier, which provides travel statistics, by year-end 2019. Roll-out of the system ­continues for completion during 2020, enabling Skuld to measure progress towards business travel objectives, but also to apply greater focus to the safety of travelling employees. We are now able to track individuals while they are away, so that we are able to locate them in an emergency, or have their safety confirmed to us in such situations. Total gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emission was 546 tons metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Emissions are calculated by our travel agency. The Emissions Calculator calculates fuel burn and emissions using several para­ meters. The most important are aircraft type and distance flown. Distance is calculated as the great circle distance (the shortest distance between two airports) and fuel burn. Emissions are based on data from aircraft and engine ­manufacturers. BUSINESS TRAVEL BREAKDOWN KG CO2 IN 2019* NUMBER OF UNIQUE TICKETS IN 2019* AVERAGE KG CO2 PER UNIQUE TICKET* 257,484.15 634 406.13 Table 6 Business travel breakdown * Encompasses only Oslo, Bergen, Bermuda Denys Yelmanov/Shutterstock.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 39 OTHER BUSINESS TRAVEL Despite travel management systems implemented in Oslo, Bergen, and Bermuda, some individual employees book travel outside of our booking platform. Skuld has no comprehensive record of such journeys, so we cannot make an exact calculation of our total CO2 emissions for these offices. However, based on employee travel expenses, we have estimated the total relevant CO2 emissions. We chose to use the total number of travel expense claims as a proxy for unique journeys. As most travel expense claims include air travel, we believe the estimate to be realistic. Estimated number of unique tickets: NUMBER OF REGISTERED UNIQUE ­ TOTAL NUMBER OF TRAVEL EXPENSE ESTIMATED NUMBER OF UNIQUE TICKETS IN 2019 CLAIMS IN 2019 TICKETS IN 2019 634 711 711 Table 7 Estimated number of unique tickets Estimated CO2 emissions: ESTIMATED NUMBER OF UNIQUE ­ ESTIMATED AVERAGE KG CO2 ESTIMATED TOTAL KG CO2 IN 2019* TICKETS IN 2019 PER UNIQUE TICKET 711 406.13 288,755.89 Table 8 Estimated CO2 emissions. *Estimated total Kg CO2 = Estimated number of unique tickets x Average Kg CO2 per registered unique ticket BUSINESS TRAVEL REDUCTION In line with Skuld’s sustainability commitments, we have established measurable objectives to reduce the number of business flights undertaken, which will reduce our CO2 emissions. To ensure all employees have a clear understanding of Skuld’s attitude towards sustainable business travel, we have updated our travel instructions. To reduce our carbon footprint by raising awareness and encouraging sustainable travel among Skuld employees, we set the following objectives (before the impact of Covid-19 virus outbreak): • Reduce the number of business flights undertaken by Skuld by 10% in 2020 • Reduce Skuld’s travel costs by 15% in 2020 Covid-19 has impacted global CO2 emissions, especially those arising from air travel. We therefore acknowledge that our emissions goals will be reached primarily due to the pandemic. Actual results and lessons learned will be ­presented in Skuld’s Sustainability Report 2020. It is our intention to challenge all employees to consider and explore sustainable measures and options which will contribute to the reduction of our environmental impact when they must travel on behalf of Skuld. For example, new technologies make virtual meetings more viable and productive. When business travel is necessary, employees shall be mindful of ways to make their journey as sustainable as ­possible. This includes: • Choosing the most sustainable options among hotels and airlines • Choosing economy class for flights with a duration of four hours or fewer • As hotel guests, following to the hotel’s sustainable initiatives 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 13 WASTE AND RECYCLING Limitation and reuse of food packaging material such as wrapping, bottles, and cans, the reduction of food waste, and the prolonged use and repair of durable objects, are vital to limiting total consumables production and therefore to lowering the use of energy and other resources. When planned and carried out efficiently, avoiding such waste has a positive effect on climate risk and in reducing local pollution. RECYCLING Skuld aims to operate green offices in all our locations. Our goal is always to reduce, reuse, and recycle. We insist upon similar sustainable behaviours by the suppliers in our procurement and production chain. We have defined internal recycling-related objectives and responsibilities under an Instruction. Implementation is a key Facilities Management sustainability activity for 2020, including the placement of recycling stations throughout Skuld’s office network. We are now creating these sorting stations, and when they are complete, we will remove the waste baskets currently located under every desk. Visible recycling bins reinforce accountability, a key motivational factor for employees, united by a larger purpose, to change their behaviours at work and home. In addition, time is saved servicing communal recycling stations rather than individual desk bins, and service providers receive waste after accurate sorting at its source. The change will reduce number of plastic bags used in Skuld offices by 20,700 per year. Jacob 09/Shutterstock.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 41 A dedicated casualty response room has been designed and built at Skuld headquarters in Oslo and equipped to facilitate efficient collaboration in emergency ­situations. Skuld continues to develop and refine tools to prevent escalation, and to mitigate the consequences of large incidents, including continuous updates to Skuld’s ­Casualty Response Plan (CRP). When a wreck must be removed, a balance must ­sometimes be drawn between opposing factors ­including the most economically efficient solution, the most positive environmental impact, and the risk of ­further deterioration, including negative ­environmental impacts. We ensure that all current legal ­requirements are met, including the Hong Kong and Basel ­Conventions when applicable, as well as other ­requirements ­regarding the disposal of wrecks and waste. We review all wreck removals and record the number of instances where our stringent internal and all external considerations and requirements have been successfully ­incorporated. 14 CRISIS RESPONSE BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLANNING Skuld maintains a comprehensive Business Continuity MINIMISE THE IMPACTS OF MARINE Plan (BCP) which provides guidelines on our response to ­CASUALTIES emergencies which could interrupt our operations. The Skuld and our correspondents are very often the ‘first BCP is a prudent operational risk management mearesponders’ to marine accidents involving vessels sure for Skuld and our customers and meets regulatory ranging from yachts to Very Large Crude Carriers. These requirements. It contains practical emergency-managesometimes include major loss events such as groundment measures to ensure Skuld’s operations return to ings, spillages, and even the total loss of v­ essels. Swift normal as quickly and smoothly as possible. The BCP decisions must be made about complex questions describes: and issues. Many people are involved in the manage• Skuld’s decision-making structure and the organi­ ment of such casualties, which demand a high level of sation of an emergency management team attention and expertise, often for an extended period. • Skuld’s responses to different emergency scenarios Record-keeping and the allocation of resources and and long-term operational disruptions responsibilities are all vital elements of successful • How to restore business processes as quickly as outcomes. Training in these areas is critical to achieving ­possible optimal responses. The BCP includes measures to counteract physical and All relevant Skuld business units, and especially our technology event failures which disrupt ­technology ­Casualty Response Team, are trained in the leading systems, power supplies, office accommodations, best-practice procedures to prevent any escalation of tele­communications, and data. The responsibility of damage arising from marine casualties, and to mitigate the Chief Operating Officer, the BCP is approved by their consequences. This is to be augmented in 2020 ­Executive Management and reviewed annually, includwith the design and roll-out of an electronic training ing external assurance. programme for internal use through Skuld Academy. The course modules provide training at beginner, inter­ Skuld’s BCP was tested from 12 March 2020 by the mediate, and expert levels. All ten of Skuld’s Casualty Coglobal pandemic. Skuld made a successful transition ordinators will complete the relevant modules, alongside to working from home for all global employees. Outlive training sessions hosted by Skuld’s Casualty & Major comes and ­lessons learned will be presented in Skuld’s Claims unit. We record the number of sessions completed. ­Sustainability Report 2020. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Kishan122/Shutterstock.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 43 15 (CREW) HEALTH AND WELL-BEING A ship can be a challenging workplace a long way from home. Making on-board life safer and ­healthier, both mentally and physically, has a great impact for all seafarers and their families ashore, who are impacted indirectly when crewmembers suffer wellbeing problems. SHIP SURVEY PROGRAMME cases. Any instance of systematic poor treatment of Skuld aims to complete 300 vessel surveys per year and crew will be reported to underwriting management. has introduced a greater focus on crew welfare and well­ being into our survey questionnaires and verifications. WORK-LIFE BALANCE IN SKULD Unfortunately, several surveys have been postponed Our employees are the core of our service and we due to the global pandemic. ­recognise that motivation and balance will ensure a sustainable work force. Skuld has focus on empowerMEASURE, SHARE AND ADVISE ment, flexibility and tailored working situations when Skuld aims to publish four articles per year about crew needed. This enables a sound work-life balance where health, wellbeing, and stress management, to achieve our ­employees have the possibility to manage their 1,000 relevant podcast downloads, and to educate daily work and reduce stress in hectic times. 150 seafarers annually through the Skuld School for ­Seafarers. Unfortunately, the Skuld School for Seafarers ELIMINATE OR REDUCE STRESS-­ 2020 has been postponed. Skuld also attends officers’ RELATED ILLNESS conferences by providing tailor made training with Skuld facilitates shared physical, stress-reduction, ­topics based on the respective clients’ claims statistics and cultural activities across our offices. These i­nclude with the aim to reduce number of potential claims. training programmes, social gatherings, and self-­ management courses. We strive to improve awareASSIST AND REPORT ness of stress-­related ­issues and instruct staff on Skuld aims to see fewer than five abandonment cases their ­prevention. Part of this effort includes our strong per year resulting from breaches of the Maritime Labour support of all employees to achieve healthy work-life ­Convention, and to deliver a response in 100% of those balances. Wan Fahmy Redzuan/Shutterstock.com 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 16 SUSTAINABLE agencies’ scores diverge for the same companies, and investors have their own approach to what constitutes a ­INVESTMENTS sustainable investment. The quality and quantity of sustainability data remains insufficient to adopt rules-based Skuld’s use of the right kind of fund managers and our negative screening. Instead, asset managers that intersensitive management of ESG risks arising in our investact with the under­lying companies to address critical ment portfolio are important components of our sustainsuccess factors are most likely to succeed. ability strategy. Regulatory requirements are likely to increase the operClimate change poses unknown physical risks which will ational burden on companies across all sectors but will be better understood over time and included in com­eventually enhance information about sustainability inpanies’ valuations. Investors and authorities are already vestment risk factors. That will improve investors’ ability altering their investment choices by taking stands to choose the right kind of exposures. that others follow, such as the European Commission’s European Green Deal. Large asset managers and banks SKULD’S INVESTMENT APPROACH have begun to exclude certain energy companies from A substantial portion of Skuld’s investments are benchmarks and investment portfolios. ­deployed to hedge against currency and interest rate risks arising from projected claims. The balance of the However, it remains difficult to distinguish green from portfolio is well diversified between the world’s largest brown investments. Financial instruments such as financial markets and external fund managers. Passive greenand SDG-linked bonds remain in their early investments in index funds comprise most of the overall development and constitute only a small portion of the portfolio, although we appoint some active managers to market, although the number of issues and the volume help distribute risk into other asset classes. brought to market is increasing rapidly. More and more companies are becoming signatories of collaborative Indices with exposure to global large-cap equity and projects and voluntarily disclosure requirements linked investment-grade bonds across the developed and to ESG data, but information remains scarce, and diffi­emerging markets comprise Skuld’s core investment cult to compare across sectors and regions. ESG rating risk. This approach provides a relatively efficient way SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 45 to take part in ­markets’ long-term capital appreciation, operationally. We are gaining insight by analysing indiand such indices have been part of Skuld’s portfolio for vidual ­investment lines and discussing their composition several years. ­Tracking an index means being bound to its with external managers. components regardless of the sustainability focus of the underlying companies. Over time companies which fail to Diversification between managers and assets is a m ­ ajor regard sustainability commitments may fail, and therefore contributor to risk mitigation within our investment be ­excluded from indices, but investors are forward-lookportfolio. In markets deemed efficient, passive managers ing, and reposition themselves continuously. will continue to provide the bulk of Skuld’s investment exposure, but we will favour those that go beyond excluMyriad indices exclude certain kinds of companies, and sion and have integrated sustainability as part of their own their number is increasing. For example, a few large business strategy. ­polluters may be excluded to reduce the carbon footprint of an index without deviating much from the o ­ riginal. In niche markets, Skuld uses active managers to gain However, the alternatives remain few, and are often based ­desired exposures. Although the same type of m ­ anagerial on data that does not necessarily reflect a ­holistic apfocus on sustainability will apply, Skuld will select those proach to sustainability. For example, ­companies in the with mandates to concentrate most ­efficiently on ESG renewable-energy supply chain may be included in a ­exposures. This strategy will over time shift Skuld’s overall climate-focussed index despite shortfalls in governance exposure towards a better balance of ESG risks. The and social impact. Alternative indices must be ­thoroughly financial implications are challenging to quantify before vetted to avoid investment in the wrong types of business. action is taken, due to uncertainty over the speed, form, and magnitude of physical climate change, consumer and Skuld believes ESG risks have a meaningful impact on company behaviours, and ­regulatory enforcement. investment risk and return over time. We seek to integrate SDGs in our investment decision-making, with an Skuld will continue to incorporate our selected SDGs, emphasis on climate-change mitigation. We have begun particularly Climate Action, into our fund-selection by ­deciding how to tilt our investment exposures most ­criteria, both for index funds and for dedicated investment efficiently towards a balanced ESG portfolio. For 2020 mandates. We will build further ESG insights and techniwe ­continue to assess the ways in which the low-carbon cal ­solutions to support our investmentand market-risk transition and the shift towards sustainability will impact analysis. Skuld’s investments, both in terms of risk and return, and 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 irin-k/Shutterstock.com EXTERNAL MANAGERS’ APPROACH TO ing a methodo­logy to assess the ways these companies SUSTAINABILITY are distributed across sectors, geographical regions, Around 70% of Skuld’s investments are managed by a and other segments, to determine how each category handful of external fund managers. These managers’ may be affected physically and through regulation by ­approaches to sustainability vary as a function of their the transition ­towards implementation of sustaina­bility. size, investment mandate, location, and other factors, Research and discussions with asset managers and but all are important for Skuld to achieve a balanced consultants have begun. Assumptions will be made, ESG exposure. Systematising managers’ endeavours will but because of the number of parameters and nuances ­deliver v­ aluable insights into what and how our investinfluencing net sustaina­bility, a precise ESG score or ment partners position themselves directly, and Skuld exposure is not the objective. indirectly, during the transition period. • Skuld will establish a framework for assessing, reg• Skuld will obtain an indication of our exposure to istering, monitoring, and reporting on external man­certain SDGs such as carbon intensity agers’ s­ ustainability efforts, both at the management • We will reuse the same methodology over time to and fund levels monitor and adjust changes in exposure • Development will be tracked over time to capture and • Further SDGs will be assessed in due course monitor our progress • Within 12 months, Skuld will present an assessment • Beginning with existing managers, Skuld will open document to our investment committee for approval dialogues with managers to gather information, and use the collected data to compare potential new managers • Within 12 months, Skuld will establish a database sufficient to provide functionality and information covering all current fund managers Skuld holds many thousand lines of investments in companies adapting to emerging physical climate ­changes, stakeholder(rather than shareholder-) driven demands, and regulatory requirements. We are developSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 47 17 NEW, SUSTAINABLE REVENUE STREAMS OFFSHORE AQUACULTURE costs steadily decrease, some projects are now profitOffshore Aquaculture encompasses fish farms and other able without state subsidies. aquaculture installations which operate in unsheltered waters. They are designed and moored to sustain the Skuld will continue to encourage and support the impact of severe storms and waves. Many traditional develop­ment of these projects because we believe they fish-farming companies seek cooperation and synergies will be an important and environmentally friendly source with the offshore industry to meet these challenges. If of future. Our experts have extensive experience with a successful, the offshore aquaculture industry will open variety of installations, and of the wide range of vessels vast new areas for the production of fish and other that supports their construction, operation, and main­marine organisms, to meet rising global demand for tenance. We will continue our work to build relations sustainable, healthy sources of dietary protein. with the operators we already insure, and with potential customers and their specialist brokers. Production of salmon and trout has a much greater yield per feed unit than other protein sources, while a switch ELECTRIC FERRIES from meat to cultivated fish contributes to significantly Norway’s government intends to power all 200 ferries reduced CO2 emissions. Traditional production of these operating in the country with electricity by 2025. Major fish occurs near shores and in fjords, but difficulties with shipping companies have invested billions to make their disease and salmon lice make production increases chalferries even more eco-friendly. lenging. Offshore aquaculture may provide the solution. The County of Vestland is the pioneer of electric ferThe industry is at the starting line only. A handful of ries. Vestland has decided that all ferries connecting to ­projects has been realised, but if these pioneer instalmain roads shall be electrically operated by 2025. The lations are successful, growth potential is large. Skuld county government has agreed to pay NOK 600 million insured the world’s first offshore aquaculture operation each year to ensure this, double the subsidies provided in 2019 by writing a line of the hull and machinery cover to conventional diesel ferries. Electric ferries are more for Ocean Farm 1. Skuld has also been chosen as the P&I expensive to build, and quays must be equipped with and hull and machinery insurer for the offshore aquaexpensive charging equipment. culture installation ‘Jostein Albert’ which is expected to arrive ­Norway in mid June 2020. We will continue to Skuld insures both major players in this market, Fjord1 and closely m ­ onitor further developments in the offshore Norled, and provides P&I insurances for several others. aqua­culture industry to ensure Skuld is in position to offer ­coverage when further projects are undertaken. We will Norled was the first to employ a fully electric, battery-­ also ­continue to build our presence in this exciting new powered car ferry. Introduced in 2018, MF Ampere ­sustainable sector by participating in relevant seminars became a showcase for innovative ferry design, meeting and conferences and maintaining a close relationship with success which led Norled to increase its fleet of electric the specialist brokers who have signalled their interest. ferries significantly. By 2020 dozens of fully electric ferries had replaced conventional vessels. The experience OFFSHORE WIND shows that the fuel cost of electric ferries is significantly The world’s requirement for energy is increasing steadily, lower. Norled is now constructing the world’s first hydroalongside greater focus on climate change. Renewable gen-electric ferry, which will be commissioned in 2021. and environmentally friendly energy is required to meet rising energy demands and climate changes goals. As Fjord1 controls 50% of the Norway’s ferries market. In a marine insurer, Skuld is monitoring the advance of 2019 the company had eight hybrid ferries, and two floating offshore wind generation platforms, with a view fully electric carriers. Within two years, it will operate 32 to insuring them and their supporting vessels. Several electric ferries, 27 of them new, and five rebuilt. Fjord1 floating wind farm projects are under way or planned is determined to reach its goal of deploying an entirely around the world. As their development and operational eco-friendly fleet by 2025. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 49 18 EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION FOCUS 2020 Advance Skuld’s inclusive and diverse leadership culture Reduce or eliminate stress-related illness among staff Promote gender equality Ensure unbiased and objective recruitment AN INCLUSIVE AND DIVERSE LEADERSHIP CULTURE Skuld’s focus on leadership development is significant and continuous. We conduct annual leadership gatherings to foster general awareness and strategy alignment, and to strengthen leadership values and provide leaders with tools that expand their leadership. We have completed and will continue to operate an extensive leadership development programme. Lasting approximately 18 months, it consists of in-depth leadership training and coaching sessions, and is offered globally both to leaders with personnel responsibilities and to subject-matter leaders. The inclusive ­programme has strengthened Skuld’s leadership culture. ­ All new leaders receive an introductory course about leadership within Skuld. It covers our leadership values, ­practical matters, and relevant administration. This programme ensures all leaders are on the same page when they begin their career at Skuld. We conduct annual leadership evaluation and engagement surveys in which all leaders complete individual self-assessments and are rated by the relevant employees in specific areas. The feedback is conveyed to leaders in cooperation with Human Resources, who help them to define areas for development and follow up. Strengthening the leadership culture and values is a continuous focus area for Executive Management, HR and the leaders themselves. PROMOTE GENDER EQUALITY Skuld is working towards enhanced gender equality awareness through various commitments and initiatives. ­Already more women than men work for Skuld; our goal is to achieve 40% gender equality in our managerial and key positions. To commit to and measure our progress, we have signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, and have begun reporting to the SHE Index. We also disclose our gender balance to the Norwegian government and in our Annual ­Report. The tables below present an overview of the current gender distributions at Skuld, including salary distributions, the number of temporary and part-time employees, and statistics about parental and global sick leave, total turnover, and the number of new recruits. KEY FIGURES FEMALE MALE TOTAL Total no employees 140 (51%) 136 (49%) 276 (permanent, per 31.12.2019) Number recruited during 2019 20 (54%) 17 (46%) 37 Total turnover 2019 9.29% 6.62% 7.97% Number of employees working 5 5 part-time during 2019 Temporary employees during 2019 4 4 Employees on maternity/paternity 9 4 13 leave during 2019 Global sick leave (2019) 2.92% 1.26% 2.13% (2019) 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 Leaders (per 31.12.2019) % Female Skuld will seek to provide equal employment, payment, career development opportunities, and non-discrimina% female at Norwegian Board level 43% tion on the grounds of age, nationality, gender, and other. % female at global Board level 18% Our whistleblowing Instruction clarifies that % female leaders at level 1-3* 26% ‘Harassment/­any form of discrimination on the basis of gender, age, nationality or other’ constitutes ‘blame­ % female leaders at level 2* 29% worthy conditions’. As such, all Skuld employees are expected to raise their concerns upon observation or % female leaders at level 3* 26% discovery of such acts. * Levels according to the SHE Index Skuld’s Personnel Guidelines emphasise that all recruitment processes shall aim to maintain a wide age distri­ Salary 2019 – Employees globally Women’s salary as % of men’s bution, and to ensure a reasonable balance between female and male candidates selected for interviews. Assistants 154% All qualified candidates shall have equal opportunities, Executives 100% regardless of gender, age, nationality, religion, or other personal characteristics. Senior Executives 91% We strive to ensure Skuld’s Reward & Recognition AVP/VP 97% programme is transparent and fair. Relevant policy SVP 95% encourages attitudes and actions which support Skuld’s business goals and organisational culture, and shall be CXO (excluding CEO) 87% without bias to gender, age, nationality, religion, or other personal characteristics. We have clarified our Reward & Recognition programme Information to reflect this Salary 2019 – Employees in Norway Women’s salary as % of men’s commitment. Assistants n/a Salary levels and adjustments have also been clarified Executives 104% to reflect equality, such that they should be equal in similar positions regardless of gender. Employees with Senior Executives 91% paid long-term absence (including maternity/paternity leave of up to one year) are equally eligible for salary AVP/VP 90% adjustments. SVP 90% Skuld has introduced several initiatives to support our commitments under UN WEPs and the SHE Index. We continuously work to align our corporate governance policies, instructions, and guidelines with our gender equality goals. Policy alignment will be concluded during 2020, following a thorough review and adjustment of the relevant instructions and guidelines completed in 2019. We have added a new section entitled Equality and ­Diversity to Skuld’s Code of Conduct: Skuld is committed to promoting an organisational ­culture which values equality and diversity in the workplace. Through our recruitment and retention practices we aim to foster a high-quality workforce reflective of gender equality and diversity principles, including at least 40% of each gender in all ­management positions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 51 UN WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT ­PRINCIPLES The UN SDGs name the seven WEPs as a vehicle for corporates to delivery on gender equality goals towards 2030. At the time of writing 2,771 companies had signed-up worldwide. The commitment entails a CEO statement submitted to the UN, a public endorsement on the c ­ ompany’s website, and measurable initiatives based on the seven principles. THE SEVEN WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES AND SKULD’S INITIATIVES 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality a. Signing the UN WEPs b. Update relevant policies, instructions, and guidelines 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and non-discrimination a. Update relevant policies, instructions, and guidelines b. Aim for at least one person of each gender to be interviewed for leadership positions c. Aim for at least 40% of each gender in all management positions (Levels 2-4) d. Define existing practice to ensure that employees on paid leave will be considered equally under existing remuneration practices 3. Ensure the health, safety, and well-being of all female and male workers a. We have solid routines in place, in accordance with or exceeding legislation 4. Promote education, training, and professional development for women a. Adjust recruitment goals in line with WEPs b. Increase the number of women in underwriting roles c. Continue specific training in communication and self-esteem for employees with growth potential and ambitions 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain, and marketing practices that empower women a. Our CEO said, in his UN WEPs endorsement ‘At Skuld we promote an organisational culture which values gender equality and diversity. Providing equal employment and career development opportunities and increasing the percentage of women in managerial and key positions is closely linked to our strategy for the future.’ 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy a. Support UN WEPs 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality a. Update Skuld’s Code of Conduct b. Publish Skuld’s UN WEPs endorsement c. Use WEPs as a tool for internal measurement Table 9 The Seven Women’s Empowerment Principles and Skuld’s initiatives 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 SHE INDEX needs. The Skuld representatives will be trained to limit The SHE Index is a catalyst to encourage stakeholders ­unwanted biases and reduce adverse impact to select to focus on diversity and inclusion in leadership and the the candidates with the closest match to our objective wider workforce, equal compensation for all, and work-life requirements.’ balance. It therefore promotes gender equality in general. The SHE Index documents individual companies’ progBENEFITS ress towards the achievement of gender balance and is Skuld’s Norwegian entities have adopted the general intended to reflect the wider status of gender equality in principle that Skuld offers equal benefits to full-time, corporate life and to help understand underlying factors part-time, and temporary employees (with some reserin achieving progress towards equality. The key SHE vations for part-time employees engaged for less than Index indicators are gender balance at Board level, and at 50% of a full-time equivalent). Globally, all employees companies’ top-three executive levels. receive an annual performance and career development review – Skuld’s People Performance Dialogue • LEVEL 01: President and CEO – ­regardless of their category, seniority, age, nationality, • LEVEL 02: Top Management reporting directly to or gender. All permanent employees are equally eligible the CEO for salary adjustments and bonuses through our Reward • LEVEL 03: Management reporting to Level 02 and Recognition programme. Reporting is semi-annual based on current policies, EMPLOYEE SAFETY procedures, and female leaders in the organisation. Cooperation and trust are essential within Skuld. Each company’s overall score is calculated based on a To ­advance them, we have established an advisory 40% weighting for policies and procedures, and 60% ­committee that includes representatives of employees for women in leadership roles. Skuld has reported to the and the Executive Management to discuss matters SHE Index according to these metrics, most recently in of mutual concern. For practical reasons, Skuld has the spring of 2020. merged this committee with mandatory Norwegian AMU (Working Environment Committee). Skuld emENSURE UNBIASED AND OBJECTIVE ploys a Personal Safety Representative whose role is to ­RECRUITMENT PROCESSES safeguard ­employees’ interests in working environment Skuld aims to ensure awareness of gender equality in matters. The Representative sits on the AMU. all steps of the recruitment process, which is achieved Every other year our Employee Engagement Survey through recruitment training for relevant personnel, and asks staff members about harassment, perceived workclose dialogue with Human Resources throughout the loads, and work-life balance. We recorded no incidents recruitment process. We wish to have men and women of discrimination or corrective actions taken in 2019, involved in recruitment processes at all managerial levels. nor did we record incidents of work-related injuries or ill health, in the engagement survey or elsewhere. Our Personnel guidelines state that ‘The selection To ensure all Skuld employees are trained in human process shall be timely, give all qualified candidates an rights policies and procedures, we have established a equal opportunity, regardless of gender, age, nationsolid foundation of internal instructions and guidelines, ality or other. Emphasis will be placed on maintaining among them our Code of Conduct. Skuld expects all wide age distribution and ensure a reasonable balance employees to familiarise themselves with the instrucbetween female and male candidates selected for intertions and procedures. Finally, we have a clear and views. As a general principle, for management positions well-integrated corporate culture based on our core at VP level and higher, at least one female and one male values. These serve as points of direction as to how candidate shall be selected for the first round of interwe conduct our work, acquire new talent, reward our views. In the case of only one gender applicants Skuld ­employees, develop our leaders, and meet each other in should aim to encourage relevant candidates to apply. the workplace. ‘All applicants shall be evaluated by at least two Skuld representatives. The candidates should be evaluated and assessed on the basis of past and ­current ­performance, alignment with our values, core ­professional skills, leadership skills if relevant, competencies, ­potential future capability and developmental SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020 53 PROTECTING OCEAN INDUSTRIES Anastasia Taioglou/Unsplash.com SKULD.COM 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2020
