COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Contents INTRO LABOUR About this report 3 The 10 principles and the sustainable 13 Health, wellbeing and development This report constitutes the statutory report development goals 17 Safety a core value on Corporate Social Responsibility cf. § 99a of 4 Our responsibility the Danish Financial Statements Act. 5 Semco Maritime at a glance ENVIRONMENT This report is published once a year along 6 Our business model 20 Environment and climate with the Annual Report. 7 Strategy and stakeholders 8 Affordable, reliable, sustainable HONESTY, FAIRNESS AND TRANSPARENCY This report also constitutes our Communication 24 Honesty, fairness and transparency on Progress under the UN Global Compact. HUMAN RIGHTS 10 Supplier management and code of conduct OVERVIEW 12 Giving back to society 26 Targets, progress and ambitions 28 Our policies on responsible practices SEMCO MARITIME I 2 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW The 10 principles and the sustainable development goals We are committed to running our business in a way that supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and we contribute directly to the 7 sustainable development goals (SDGs) mentioned below. The SDGs are defined by the United Nations General Assembly and reflecting the greatest challenges globally and promoting sustainable growth. HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support and Businesses should uphold the freeBusinesses are asked to support Businesses should work against respect the protection of internadom of association and the effeca precautionary approach to encorruption in all its forms, including tionally proclaimed human rights. tive recognition of the right to colvironmental challenges. extortion and bribery. lective bargaining. Principle 2 Principle 8 Make sure that they are not comPrinciple 4 Undertake initiatives to promote plicit in human right abuses. The elimination of all forms of greater environmental responforced and compulsory labour. sibility. Principle 5 Principle 9 The effective abolition of Encourage the development child labour. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SEMCO MARITIME I 3 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Our responsibility We want to meet all challenges in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. We continue to develop Semco Maritime with a strategic approach to cost-effective and sustainable models that differentiate us from our competitors, create value for our customers and keep our focus on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Our customers demand high-quality projects delivered at the right time and at the right cost. Our global presence means many stakeholders and a potentially great environmental impact. We strive to meet each new challenge in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. Our purpose is clear. We want to play an important role in meeting the world’s growing energy demand in a safe and sustainable way. In 2019, we took several important steps towards creating the desired balance between the business areas Renewables and Oil & Gas. We use the 10 principles as a common frame of reference, and together with the Sustainable Development Goals they serve as a solid platform and guideline for all our CSR activities. The principles and development goals set the basis of cooperation not only for Semco Maritime, but also for our suppliers around the world. Steen Brødbæk, CEO SEMCO MARITIME I 4 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Semco Maritime at a glance Semco Maritime is an international engineering facturing to installation, commissioning and subSERVICES AND SOLUTIONS and contracting company undertaking and solving sequent service as well as rental of manpower and • EPCI projects assignments across the value chain in the global supply of tailor-made components, systems and • Construction and fabrication energy sector. solutions. • Installation and commissioning Since 1980, our specialist competencies have proviSemco Maritime has about 1,300 employees, who • Yard and workshop facilities ded a platform for the work carried out at all stages provide our customers with cost-effective project • Upgrades and refurbs of onshore and offshore assignments – from prelimimanagement and operations from the Danish head nary analyses over design, procurement and manuoffice and subsidiaries around the world. • Maintenance, modification and service • Products, components and technology • Manpower and consultants ORGANISATION • Headquarters in Esbjerg, Denmark • Subsidiaries in Denmark, Norway, the UK, Germany, Singapore, Taiwan, and the USA. LIABLE MANAGEMENT • Steen Brødbæk, President and CEO • Jørgen Devantier Gade, President and CFO READ MORE ABOUT SEMCO MARITIME: www.semcomaritime.com/about SEMCO MARITIME I 5 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Our business model Value creation based on affordable, reliable and sustainable solutions Promises Safety cle cy Pro Safety is part of our DNA. We e li f j ec ct g td ev always aim at reducing the je in el yp ion op number of work accidents to ro ss zero. Motivation Markets De rg m En co en t e m m i Service and Customers Front End maintenance Engineering We bring our expertise into We want to play Design play to provide inspiration an important role and optimise value across the in meeting the Project supply chain to deliver safe world’s growing management solutions that always live up to energy demand expectations. in a safe and nce sustainable way. Renewables Oil & Gas a Employees ten Pr ain oc u We offer a safe and motivating m Engineering work, procurement re workplace with unique opporm nd and construction en tunities for development. sa ta on Op nd er n at n co Owners i tio uc Group long-term targets 2023 str We intend to deliver profitable growth and make our owners • Revenue split 50/50 between Renewables and Oil & Gas proud. • 20% of revenue shall come from Service activities • EBITDA margin of 6% We provide assistance to our customers at all project stages SEMCO MARITIME I 6 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility division uses risk assessment tools that match their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives enline of business and consider the type and size of courage organisations to take responsibility for their each project. actions. To ensure that our business is in line with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, we have Business management system integrated a CSR Policy and a Global Compact proOur business management system is available to cedure. all employees and provides easy access to all policies, procedures, instructions and templates. This way we The objective of Semco Maritime is to develop straensure: tegic and cost-effective solutions that create value for customers in a socially responsible way. • That the quality of products and services delivered by Semco Maritime and suppliers CSR and risk management in our projects meet specified requirements. As part of our project execution, all projects refer to • That our working environment and safety the overall Semco Maritime CSR policy (see page 28). meet statutory requirements and own policies and objectives. We have a strong focus on potential risks in all projects. All risks are registered, and the probability and • That our activities consider the environment. consequence of each risk is assessed and mitigated. • That Semco Maritime remains an attractive Risk management starts in the tender phase and working place providing development opporcontinues throughout the project life cycle. Each tunities for all employees Strategy towards 2023 Our 2023 strategy »First Choice Stronger core for value creation« aims at consolidating and strengthening our position. In order to reach our goals, we: • Develop our competencies across the organisation • Ensure an inspirational and motivating working environment • Always keep our safety promise SEMCO MARITIME I 7 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Affordable, reliable, sustainable Initially, Semco Maritime provided services share of our future activities and income will come for the oil & gas industry, but our business from especially offshore wind. However, »renewables« covers much more than offshore wind. This is why we is turning more and more towards the are carefully following other areas such as storage and renewable energy industry. Our offshore hydrogen. wind activities continue to increase and now represent more than 50 % of the total At Semco Maritime, we design and engineer electrical infrastructure systems for wind farms and construct order book! onshore and offshore substations. We continuously aim to reduce the cost of green renewable energy. We have a continued focus on developing our renewConsequently, our engineers and specialists focus on able energy strategy to match the increasing deoptimising each design element of the substation inmand for clean and affordable energy by bringing recluding the rest of the electrical balance of plant. liable solutions to the market and further developing our strong position within substations for offshore Our dedicated efforts made towards the technical wind farms. In short, we specialise in bringing energy development and the market have proven right, and to shore! as market pioneers we have managed to get a strong foothold in the growing US offshore wind market. We strongly believe that the renewable energy marAdded to this we see many more global opportuniket will continue to grow, and we see that a larger ties in the near future. Major offshore substation projects: • Mayflower (US) ongoing • Bligh Bank II • Walney I • Vineyard (US) ongoing • Northwind • Rødsand B • Northwester 2 • Nordsee Ost • Lillgrund • Hornsea • Borkum Riffgrund • Princess Amalia • Sandbank • Anholt • Gunfleet Sands • Nordsee One • Walney II • Nysted SEMCO MARITIME I 8 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW RENEWABLES Mayflower Wind The Mayflower contract (signed in 2020) marks another important step for us in the US offshore wind market. The contract is for design and construction of the 1,200 MW substation for Mayflower Wind. Once in operation (expected 2025), the Mayflower wind farm will provide approximately 500,000 houses in the state of Massachusetts with sufficient clean and renewable energy and eliminate 1.7 million metric tons of CO2! The 962 ton Northwester 2 substation as it is lifted onto the offshore monopile at the installation site 46 km off the Belgian coast September 2019. SEMCO MARITIME I 9 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Supplier management and code of conduct In Semco Maritime, we wish to incorporate values Workplace safety and attitudes that support a responsible dialogue Workplace safety continues to be an issue involving the ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 with our stakeholders and suppliers. In 2018 our highest risk. We see workplace safety from a broad perfocus was on the supply chain risks we face, espespective and include not only access to personal pro• Successful evaluation of >90% of ciallywith regards to human rights and our respontective equipment (e.g. eye and ear protection, helmets, direct-spend suppliers via the electronic sibility in ensuring compliance with international gloves etc.), but also training and instruction (should supplier self-assessment database. norms and development goals. In 2019, our focus not be inadequate), working hours (should not be • Many new LCC (low-cost countries) was on the supply chain risks we face when expanexcessive), discrimination, workplace culture and most suppliers of key goods and materials ding our project deliveries into new regions. importantly the right to stop work if it feels unsafe. qualified through strategic sourcing initiatives. During 2019, we sought to shift from development For many people working in the industrialised counto continuous improvement of our supplier managetries, such rights and safeguards are familiar and roument programme, supplier risk assessment and AMBITIONS 2020 tier-based supplier segmentation model introduced in 2017. The programme has enabled the Supplier Combined Risk Map • Maintain >90% supplier evaluation rate. targeted application of resources to better ensure • Increase local sourcing efforts in the compliance with our code of conduct and mitigate A B C areas where we operate (in the US for the significant risks we face in our global supply chain. future offshore wind projects). Strategic AS BS CS Spend dimensions Low-cost countries • Maintain our focus on long-term supplier Semco Maritime encounters intense competition relationships and further developing a across all business lines. Our customers’ requireOperational AO BO CO solid LCC supplier base. ments for lower costs, quicker delivery, and improved value-for-money, are increasingly followed Low-value AL BL CL by the demands for sustainability, lower CO² footprint, and loyalty to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. To meet the first three requirements we HSEQ Dimensions have focused our sourcing on lower-cost countries (LCC). These are often less developed than existing  Tier I: High combined risk – Full qualification required source countries which involve a higher risk with re Tier II: Medium combined risk – Self-assessment and registration gard to meeting the three latter requirements. Issues of required certificates regarding basic human rights, the rights of workers,  Tier III: Low combined risk – Acceptance of Code of Conduct only workplace safety and environmental protection must 8.7, 8.8 be addressed more closely.  Tier IV: Inactive suppliers and P-card Low-value suppliers only SEMCO MARITIME I 10 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Supplier Management tine, coming without debate. Suppliers in less developed countries have not yet fully adopted safety culManagement tures that match our own »Safety is part of our DNA« Tier I Tier II Tier III Tier IV* Theme mindset. It is our obligation to assist these people in making a self-assessment of their workplace safety and environment and creating improvement plans • Full HSEQ qualifi• SSA • Acceptance of • None that bring them up to a compliant level in the first incation including Code of Conduct • Registration of stance and then helping them continually improve so Supplier Self-Ascertificates • No known violathat safety and a healthy work environment becomes sessment (SSA)and tions of internatio• Financial due Qualification audit nal norms their competitive advantage diligence as requi• Full commercial red post risk asdue diligence sessment Local sourcing In the years to come, local sourcing will be an important strategic focus area. Local sourcing will help lower our logistics costs while reducing the • Full KPI scorecard • Full KPI scorecard • Commercial • None total CO2 footprint of our projects. We have there• Monthly reporting • Quarterly KPI scorecard fore already successfully improved our strategic • Half-yearly perforreporting • Biannual perforsourcing capability in Singapore, which means mance reviews mance review • Annual perforthat sourcing is now carried out locally. In 2020, we Performance meetings mance reviews will continue to develop a supply chain in the US, enabling us to source future offshore wind projects locally. Local sourcing is beneficial to the environment, to our business and not least to the local communities. • VP sponsorship • Director sponsor• No sponsor • No coffee ship Risk-based supplier segmentation • Half-yearly mana• Management • Watch for techgement reviews • Annual managereviews as needed, nology or serOur risk-based supplier segmentation model allows ment reviews but at least once vice-level stepouts. • Partnership/ our team to be aware of suppliers posing a higher risk Relationship every 5 years alliance approach • Preferred supplier and to see where our efforts to identify concerns approach (guideline) and implement improvements bring the most value • Take it or leave it approach for affected workers and communities. This, in return, brings additional value to Semco Maritime and our customers through improved relations with suppliers *Tier IV: Dormant suppliers with no current or planned spend (within next 18 months). and local stakeholders. SEMCO MARITIME I 11 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW In 2019, we supported various charities, humanitarian projects and projects in our local community. SPORTS • We support EfB the leading football club in Esbjerg! • We also support the following other sporting events in our local community: Vestkystløbet, Blue Water Staffetten and Royal Run. Giving back We use these events to encourage our employees and their families to an active life together. to society CHARITY • Families with children diagnosed with cancer • Hospital clowns: An initiative spreading happiness and laughter among children in Danish hospitals! • The Danish Red Cross (national subscription) CULTURE • Energiens Folkemøde (energy mass meeting) • Musikhuset Esbjerg (Esbjerg Performing Arts Centre) • The Fisheries and Maritime Museum in Esbjerg HEADSPACE giving young people a chance! We have an ongoing cooperation with Headspace, an organisation that is very close to our hearts! Headspace gives advice and guidance to young people with problems. Semco Maritime is part of the business network and therefore offers temporary employment contracts for young people who are referred to us by Headspace. Fundamentally, we believe in inclusion and we know that with a little support, this vulnerable group of young people will become a valuable resource in the labour market! SEMCO MARITIME I 12 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Health, wellbeing and development We want to create an attractive workplace In order to make sure that we keep focusing on mitigaSickness absence where each individual has the opportunity to ting the mentioned risks, we have decided to monitor the points below. In addition to our biannual satisfaction surdevelop both personally and professionally. vey, we have added the following 3 measuring points that help us assess the wellbeing of our employees: Target 2020  2.5 % We do not discriminate nor let our decisions be affec• Sickness absence ted by employees’ affiliation with trade unions or other associations. Nor do we interfere with the forming of • Personal development dialogue meetings any trade unions or other associations in the workplace. • Voluntary turnover rate As a global company, we recognise the diversity of our employees. Therefore, we do not accept discrimination Sickness absence 2019: 2.7 % based on nationality, ethnic heritage, sexual orientation, In 2019, the overall sickness absence rate was 2.7 % an political affiliation, religious belief or age. We see diverimprovement compared to recent years and lower than sity as a strength and want to maintain a culturally diour target of 2.8 %. We adjust our target to 2.5 % as we verse staff! aim to further improve in 2020. 2018: 3.0 % We do not use force, threats or disciplinary means to force We constantly monitor the sickness absence reports, and people to work nor do we withhold identification papers our Human Resources department and our social counor wages to force employees to work. All employees have sellor jointly ensure that we address irregularities through individual contracts drafted and approved in accordance a constructive dialogue between the social counsellor, the with international and national legal requirements. We do relevant manager and the employee in question. We have 2017: 2.9 % not employ nor support the use of child labour. Our coma sick leave procedure that helps us ensure regular contact mitment to respect the above is set out in our policies between Semco Maritime and the employee on sick leave (see page 28). and which aims to reduce the duration of leave Creating and attractive environment Personal and professional development We aim to create an attractive working environment that We strongly believe in the value of open and honest 2016: 3.4 % considers both the mental and the physical health of our dialogue and in creating room for personal developemployees. We do not want to risk causing illness among ment. In Semco Maritime, we use the Personal Developour employees due to a poor working environment. Our ment Dialogue (PDD) tool to create a confidential space greatest asset is our people – and we know that we are in which the manager and the employee can have a at risk of losing them if we fail to create an attractive confidential and straightforward face-to-face dialogue working environment with room for diversity and perabout all work aspects as a Semco Maritime employee. sonal development! With this dialogue, we want to increase the employee’s SEMCO MARITIME I 13 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW influence on his or her own career path and idena brand new way of approaching the development Employee retention and voluntary turnover tify development potential and individual training dialogue. Therefore, we will also look for new ways of We want to retain our dedicated employees and needs. measuring, as the number of PDDs does not reveal use the satisfaction survey as an indicator of the satismuch about the quality of the dialogue and the defaction level among our employees. The staff turnover In 2019, however, we started the process of developing velopment of the employee. rate gives us a good indication of our attractiveness as a new way of conducting and monitoring the developa workplace. It is only natural that some people leave ment dialogues. We are currently testing and will conWe have chosen NOT to measure the number of us of their own free will, as they often hold specialist tinue to do so throughout Q2. We expect to be able to PDDs in 2019, because we were in the process of competencies also demanded by our competitors. implement the new set-up globally during 2020. The testing improved methods for conducting and not Our goal is that the staff turnover rate remains below rollout of a new form of dialogue will also affect the least measuring PDDs. We have indications that 10%. In 2019, the turnover rate was 8%, which is still an measuring methods and the nature of the dialogue. the PDD level for all onshore employees remained acceptable level though slightly higher than in 2018. unchanged in 2019, i.e. approximately 80 %, but we The voluntary turnover rate includes white collars only. In 2018, our plan was to implement a new tool for modo not have the exact figure. More information about nitoring PDDs. Instead, we have focused on finding the new type of PDD in 2020. We will continue to monitor the turnover rate while aiming to increase our employer branding activities, as it will be even more important in 2020 to attract Women in Semco Maritime the people we need! Women in management positions Semco Maritime has set the goal that women must hold 35 % of ‘other executive positions’ (which in100% clude C-level + SVP, VP, Directors, Managers) by 2021. 86% Furthermore, our goal is that 25 % of the board members elected at the general meeting are to be women 79% (equivalent to 1 woman) in 2021. In 2019, none of the members of the Board of Directors elected at the general meeting were women and in »other executive Target: positions« women currently represent 21 %. 35% Target: 25% However, we do see great potential in a diverse work21% force and we know that it is important to ensure a 14% more diverse management team. We therefore strive to increase the ratio of the underrepresented gender, Other executive positions Board members Overall gender distribution i.e. women, in management positions. In order to SEMCO MARITIME I 14 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW achieve our objectives, we have launched an internal management education (talent camp) with the purpose of developing female talents as well as strengthen their management skills. Our line of business has been significantly over-represented by men for many years and still is. Most of our positions require a technical background, which gives us a majority of male candidates. Due to the nature of our business and the type of job openings, we do not expect the number of women in management positions to improve significantly in the short run. We will continue to focus on setting the very best team and ensuring the right competence matrix for the projects at hand. We strive to become even better at developing people and competencies within the organisation. We will do this through professional performance reviews and targeted succession planning. This is the best way to develop a broad, diverse and strong foundation of future managers. Voluntary turnover Acceptable turnover rate: < 10 % 12 8 4 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 SEMCO MARITIME I 15 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Strong focus on human values! ers, conducting PDDs, making succession plans and At Semco Maritime, we genuinely care about the making people reviews. In the future, this part of our ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 wellbeing of our employees and are very proud to CSR reporting will be affected by the said initiatives, • Sickness absence was 2.7 %. have our own in-house social counsellor (since 2007). and the measuring points might change. This role is at the very core of our efforts to ensure a • Voluntary turnover: 8 %. strong focus on people, human values and mental Why are we changing our processes? The answer • Women in management positions: 21 %. health. (More about this on page 17) is simple: we want our people to thrive and we want to make sure that everyone is integrated and AMBITIONS 2020 Simple global processes happy people! introduced properly and that each individual gets In 2020, our Human Resources department will focus a chance to grow and develop within our organisa• Maintain a low sickness absence rate on describing, simplifying and changing the way we tion no matter level and location. We are aligning in 2020. Target is adjusted to 2.5 %. do things globally. We are in the process of developing globally and our efforts are based on our global • Continued focus on employee retention and implementing new ways of onboarding newcomleadership model! and on keeping the voluntary turnover at an acceptable level (< 10 %). • Conduct our bi-annual job satisfaction survey. Our target is to match the 2018-result of a response rate of 86 % and an overall average rate of 4.1. • Women in management positions: 35 % in 2021. • Female board members: 25 % in 2021. • Focus on simplifying and changing processes for initiatives such as PDD, onboarding and people reviews. Establish new measuring methods in 2020. 3.4, 3.5 5.1, 5.5, 5.5.2 8.6, 8.7, 8.8 SEMCO MARITIME I 16 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Safety a core value ZERO harm to employees, stakeholders, our assets and the environment. Global safety statistics 2019 At Semco Maritime we have devised a new safety motLTAF: Lost Time Accident frequency * Target: 0 to: »Safety is part of our DNA«. This statement indicates 3,5 that safety is a core value and that it is embedded in everything we do. We believe that all incidents can be 3,0 prevented by approaching work proactively and by 2,5 learning from experience. We know that if we fail to put 2,0 safety before everything else, we risk that people will get injured or even die while doing their jobs. 1,5 1,0 We strongly believe in a continued focus on safety leadership. This means that if our leaders show their 0,5 commitment towards safety, they will be able to lift 0 our safety culture to a level that makes our ultimate 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 goal of zero accidents a reality. TRIF: Total Recordable Incident Frequency (includes LTA, RWI and MTI) ** Target: ≤ 2.5 Safety performance 2019 During 2019, we experienced a slight reduction in the 10 number of incidents compared to 2018, however, still too high. The incidents have been investigated, and no pat8 terns as such were identified except that the root causes of all incidents were still related to human behaviour. 6 Safety as a value 4 In 2019, we launched »safety« as a core value! One of the very first steps towards integrating safety as a 2 core value was to establish a safety value committee. 0 The purpose of the committee’s work was to define 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 the Semco Maritime behaviour behind this value. The committee received input from workshops held at all *LTAF: Number of LTAs / million worked hours. (LTA: The injured person is unable to perform his job for more than 24 hours) locations and managed to define our safety value. The **TRIF: (Fatalities + LTA + RWI + MTI) / total number of exposure man hours x 1.000.000 value was subsequently launched worldwide! SEMCO MARITIME I 17 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Safety culture survey ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 SEMCO MARITIME: 3.22 • LTAF: 1.9 • TRIF: 5.0 / million working hrs. 0 3 4 Action plans to improve safety Safety culture is good • Safety culture survey: 3.22. • Safety talks completed: 312 = 100% All operational managers: 6 safety talks All admin. managers: 2 safety talks Everyone in Semco Maritime no matter location The extended focus has paid off and we managed to will participate in »safety value training sessions«. complete AND register 100 % of the safety talks in 2019. We had our first session in December 2019 and have AMBITIONS 2020 sessions planned for 2020. Safety culture survey • LTAF: 0 In 2019, our safety culture survey focused on offshore Safety talk sites under the following headlines: • TRIF: ≤ 2.5 / million working hours. A »safety talk« is a communication tool for mana• Safety culture survey: gers to remind employees that health and safety is • Management safety priority and ability Score exceeding 3.25 in average important. The talk can help employees recognise • Management safety empowerment at operational sites. and control hazards when at work and outside work• Safety talks: ing hours. Safety talks demonstrate the commit• Management safety justice All operational managers: 6 safety talks ment of employers and employees towards health • Workers’ safety commitment All admin. managers: 2 safety talks and safety. When the manager acts as a role model and a safety ambassador, the purpose of the safety • Workers’ safety priority and non-acceptance risk talk has been fulfilled. • Peer safety communication, learning and trust in safety ability We have set personal goals for each manager and do a monthly follow-up. Instead of measuring the • Workers’ trust in effectiveness of safety systems total number of safety talks, it makes more sense to monitor each type of manager and his or her perThe objective for 2019 was to exceed a score of 3.25 sonal goals: on a scale from 0-4. The result was 3.22 with a response rate of 56.79 % a decrease compared to 2018. • Operational managers: 6 safety talks a year In 2020, the survey will include all sites, and we aim to improve the response rate and to achieve a score • Admin. managers: 2 safety talks a year above 3.25. • SEMCO MARITIME I 18 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Strong focus on mental health When safety is a value then ..! With safety as our fifth core value, our focus on mental During our »Safety as a value« workshops around the health increases. We seek to solve potential problems world, we collected stories and keywords that sumearly, and our social counsellor is a primary stakeholder marised how we act when safety is a value. These in this effort along with HSEQ, HR and the immediate words and stories were transformed into posters and manager. rollups that were placed at all locations. Our social counsellor is always available to all employGlobal effort: ees AND their families at any time. An employee can ask for support for work-related issues and private matMaking incidents visible, relevant and personal ters such as stress, mental illness or physical disease When we experience an incident or observation, we that might require cooperation with psychologists, share it with everyone on the intranet. What haphospitals, municipalities, patient associations and other pened and what was the root cause? This creates relevant partners. much attention in the organisation, and it makes the incident much more relevant and personal! Safety campaigns Safety campaigns play an important role when Our safety work continues trying to increase focus on safety culture and safety We will continue to integrate safety as a core value in awareness. In 2019, we completed the following Semco Maritime. All people in all departments will parcampaigns: ticipate in safety value training and consequently define their own safety commitments. By the end of 2020, ALL Global campaigns: employees will therefore know the significance of safety as a value – both personally and in their team. Safety as a value! We officially launched safety as a value at all locations on the same day. The value was presented in [ABS] many ways and all employees had defined their own MY Personal BehaviourTrainingSayNoPlanning commitment MentalHealthFocusCommunication personal »safety promise« on a postcard! All people What does this value mean to me? TogetherOwnershipEquipment RespectCaringOpennessVisibility managers also defined their personal safety comWorkingHoursRoleModelSupport mitment intended to kick-start safety dialogues in all Which behaviours do I expect from myself and my colleagues? ManagementConsequenceAttention ResponsibilityCommitmentSTOP departments. Which concrete actions do I want to carry out in order to make sure our safety value lives? To the colleaguesPride CulturalDifferencesSecurity I care for Hired-inPersonnelTeamWorkTrust StabilityMotivationCommonSense How will I lead the way? Safety is part of our DNA SEMCO MARITIME I 19 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW iPad-solution eliminates paper In 2019, an innovative iPad-solution eliminated more than 30,000 pieces of paper ... During substation projects, Maria Hald (T´technical designer) and her colleagues juggled approximately 2,500 paper job packages. All these job packages were printed and put into physical folders amounting to more than 30,000 pieces of paper. Maria had a great idea! Together with IT, she managed to implement a user-friendly iPad-solution that improves quality while saving loads of time, frustration and paper! This solution is great for our projects, our quality, my job satisfaction and the environment! Maria Hald, Technical Designer SEMCO MARITIME I 20 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Environment and climate We aim to lessen our negative impact • Staget (yard); energy consumption increase on the environment by using resources by approx. 21 % per working hour CO2 neutral website • Esbjerg Brygge (HQ); energy consumption We have joined the CO2 neutral website efficiently and reducing energy reduced by 16 % per working hour initiative in order to neutralise the emissions consumption. • Stavanger; energy consumption + approx. 5 %. originating from our website and website users. We are aware of our potential role in mitigating climate The energy consumption at the yard is highly depenchange and in conserving natural resources. We know dent on the processes carried out. In 2019, the energy that we risk contributing unduly to climate change and consumption was measured in Kwh / per working Nordic Swan Ecolabel depleting the world’s finite resources. We have set amhour. However, consumption per hour depends very Our stationery is made from environmentally bitious goals to limit our impact and believe that »a much on the processes involved. The production friendly materials. At present, all stationery responsible approach« is a »preventive approach«. form at Staget was very energy intensive in 2019. Anand almost all envelopes carry the Nordic nealing of welded structures was a major task and is Swan Ecolabel. Energy consumption an energy demanding process. We aim to lessen our impact on the environment by using resources most efficiently, thereby reducThe objective for 2020 is a reduction of 1% per FSC® The Forest Stewardship Council ing energy consumption: working hour regardless of the processes and locaAn international non-profit label for wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that the printed material is from a FSC-certified Kwh/working hour forest. No more wood is cut than the forest is able to regenerate naturally.  Staget (yard)  Esbjerg (office)  Stavanger (office) Kwh/h ISO certified 10 Certified according to ISO 14001 (see page 29). 8 7.77 6.45 6.42 6 IC ECOLAB RD NO EL 4 1.97 2 1.89 0.90 0.96 0.80 0 2017 2018 2019 SEMCO MARITIME I 21 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW tion. In order to achieve this reduction we will have to install power saving measures at the yard; i.e. measures that are independent of operation processes. There are not many improvement measures to be implemented at our headquarters in Esbjerg. Consequently, we will focus on our yard at Staget in Esbjerg. We have created an action plan containing specific matters that need to be improved at this location in relation to energy management. Waste management The waste management result in 2019 shows a recycling percentage of only 67 % in Denmark. This is disappointing, as we have had a recycling rate of more than 90 % for the past several years. One of the explanations is that the production pace at the yard in Golden DGNB certificate The Semco Maritime HQ domicile in Esbjerg was awarded with a Golden DGNB certificate with the score of 69.7 %. Waste recycling The building was awarded the certificate Goal: 80 % for, among others, the indoor climate, space efficiency and the focus on energy, 100 e.g. the use of solar cells. 80 DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nach88 % haltiges Bauen) is one of the world’s 60 67% leading standards when it comes to 40 the sustainability of buildings. DGNB measures indoor climate, the life cycle of 20 building materials, transport, consumpNA* 0 tion of energy and water during and after Denmark Hanøytangen Stavanger construction, durability, availability, etc. * No comparable numbers from Hanøytangen in 2019 SEMCO MARITIME I 22 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Esbjerg has been very high compared to recent years. The objective for 2020 is to recycle more than 80 % As we measure the total amount of waste regardless of of the total amount of waste regardless of the activiACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 production size and composition, the figures can hold ties. Due to lessons learned from 2019, we know that large variations in the type of waste generated. meeting this objective will require even more focus on • Savings on energy consumption/ waste separation, information, updated signage and a working hours: In 2019, we had major focus on waste separation and close dialogue with our waste disposal contractor. Staget (yard) + 21 % management in the form of labelling of waste conEsbjerg (HQ) 16 % tainers, information at departmental meetings, HSE Mapping our CO2 emissions Stavanger: + 5 % rounds etc. The disappointing result for 2019 therefore In 2018, we started to map our CO2 emissions. The • Recycling rate: underlines the impact of an activity mix that has been emission map clearly showed that »staff transporDenmark: 67 % different from previous years. tation« and »electricity« are the major sources of air Stavanger: 88 % pollution. In 2019, we expected to start in-house Hanøytangen: NA In Stavanger, the recycling percentage is 88 %, which discussions about our CO2 emissions in order to raise is above target. At Hanøytangen, however, we have awareness of our environmental impact and to idenAMBITIONS 2020 not been able to find comparable data. Hanøytify mitigation initiatives. However, we did not man• Savings on energy consumption/ tangen has a very high degree of waste separation age to translate our knowledge of the CO2 footprint working hours: 1 %. (close to 100 %), but the recycling percentage is not into concrete initiatives in 2019, but we will continue • Recycling rate: min. 80 %. available. In 2020, achieving comparable data will be to use this knowledge to put these two subjects on a focus area. our internal agenda in the years to come. • Focus on waste management through updated signage and information. • Raise awareness of ourCO2 emissions internally. Concrete actions in 2020 Energy consumption: • Special focus on our yard in Esbjerg as there is room for improvement. Waste sorting: • Continued awareness-raising towards the importance of waste separation 3.9 7.2, 7.a with special focus on the yard in Esbjerg. • Update signage regarding waste separation and talk to waste contractor to receive valuable input on the optimisation of waste separation. • Focus on ensuring that figures are accurate with regard to waste and recycling levels at Hanøytangen. 11.6 12.4, 12.5 12.6, 12.6.1 SEMCO MARITIME I 23 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Honesty, fairness and transparency We have always focused on honesty and Whistleblower fairness, but in recent years, transparency We take our Code of Conduct seriously and therefore ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 we established a corporate whistleblower mailbox has become increasingly important. and whistleblower policy/guideline in 2016. Three potential cases were reported under the whistleblower arrangement. Transparency is also the driving force behind our successful implementation of a In 2019, we continued our focus on informing Once investigated by our legal departemployees about the whistleblower arrangement, whistleblower arrangement. and we communicated the whistleblower policy ment, the cases were resolved efficiently and professionally. This confirms that our on our website. At Semco Maritime, whistleblowing setup works as intended. We are committed to the highest standards of integrity, is not only a tool for reporting cases of corruption honesty and fairness in all internal and external relaand bribery, but also a tool for reporting cases like tionships, in accordance with all applicable laws and workplace harassment, discrimination (HR-relatAMBITIONS 2020 regulations, including, but not limited to, anti-bribery ed cases) etc. Our whistleblower arrangement is a • Continue the implementation of the and anti-corruption laws. As a global company operatpreventive tool that reduces the risk of malpractice whistleblower arrangement across the ing in various countries and across different cultures, we and irregularities. Through this arrangement we aim organisation. know that we run the risk of being directly or indirectly to empower employees and relevant stakeholders involved in corruption, bribery and other legality issues. to »blow the whistle« so to speak, whenever they • Our General Counsel will inform about However, corruption and bribery will never be an acexperience irregularities. our anti-corruption policy and whistleceptable part of doing business with Semco Maritime. blower arrangement during townhall In 2019, we were informed of three potential HR-remeetings and road trips worldwide. Anti-corruption lated cases under the whistleblower arrangement. Semco Maritime employees shall not directly or indiThe reporting of these cases and the subsequent rectly accept, solicit or offer bribes, kickbacks, facilitahandling confirm that the system works as intendtion payments or any other unjustified advantages in ed. We will, however, continue to repeat the mesorder to improperly influence or gain an unfair business sage internally to make sure that everyone knows advantage from any governmental or private legal enwhere to report such matters. In 2020, we need to tity or other. We base our anti-bribery and corruption focus extra on new employees and on the various policy on the six principles of the Bribery Act 2010 (UK). types of cases that can be reported Whistleblower mailbox: whistleblower@semcomaritime.com 16.5 SEMCO MARITIME I 24 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Whistleblower Procedure Employees can find the detailed whistleblower procedure in our Business Management System, along with a template for reporting. The procedure and template is also available on our corporate website. Any suspicious or noncompliant behaviour The General Counsel shall facilitate to The reporting person are with due or actions/omissions in connection with take appropriate action on any report consideration to legislative rights and any anti-bribery or any other relations of within reasonable and due time to: obligations informed about investigation breach of internal financial and/or other · Investigate (if necessary sided by external legal also with consideration of; relevant policies of the Semco Maritime Group counsel, accounting specialists and/or other • The right as an investigated person to or of any external laws, rules codes or otherwise necessary external resources or specialists) any respond to the investigation and/or the can from December 15, 2016 anonymously be report, and findings/report to take due consideration to reported to the General Counsel or head of HR · Bring the legal conclusion of any investigated the investigated person’s right to protect one’s of the Semco Maritime Group. reporting to a hereto formed »board« consispersonal interest. ting of and in each incident as applicable: The General Counsel must as applicable cc the • The applicable legislation at all times. CFO on any reported incident) the start-up of A. The CEO/CFO or any case and any later process and/or reporting. B. The Head of HR and as relevant and as Reporting to the General Counsel can take decided by the General Counsel in each place by anyone by telephone, e-mail and/or incident: The reporting person is secured anonywrittenor any oral communication. mous reporting with due consideration C. As applicable a Board Member of the to the applicable, relevant legislation. mother company of the Semco Maritime E-mail: whistleblower@semcomaritime.com Group in Denmark (The Chairman of the The reported person is also considered (as far Board) to investigate, conclude and act on as possible under the applicable legislation each incident of reporting. and company policies) duly protected under If the report is not anonymous, the D. An external lawyer, external accountant the employment laws and obligations against reporting person’s identity can be asked and/or any other relevant resources employment consequences due to any reto be kept anonymous by the reporting ported acts/omissions. person. If so, then any reporting shall be kept anonymous with regards to the reporting The latter means that the employment laws If found guilty, there can be (severe) person’s identity at all times with due consideare duly considered throughout any investigaemployment consequences for a ration to the applicable legislation. tion, reporting and/or actions/omissions in each reported person and ultimately a incident. criminal investigation and termination of the employment (as applicable in each incident). SEMCO MARITIME I 25 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Targets, progress and ambitions This overview sums up our targets, progress and ambitions within the four sustainability themes human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Targets Progress in 2019 Ambitions Human rights By the end of 2019, we have successfully evaluated  Successful evaluation of >90 % of direct-spend Maintain >90 % supplier evaluation rate. 80 % of all suppliers via our electronic supplier selfsuppliers via the electronic supplier selfassessment database. assessment database. Focus on long-term supplier relationships and  Many new LCC (low-cost countries) suppliers Continue our focus on long-term supplier relationbuilding a solid supplier base in low-cost countries. of key goods and materials qualified through ships and further develop a solid LCC supplier base. strategic sourcing initiatives. Increase local sourcing efforts at the locations where we operate (in the US for future offshore wind projects). Labour Sickness absence rate: 2.8 %  2,7 % New target 2.5 % Completed personal development dialogues: 85 %  Not measured in 2019 new method of conSimplify and change global processes for personal ducting development dialogues is being tested. development dialogue. Establish new measuring methods in 2020. Voluntary turnover rate: < 10 % 8% Voluntary turnover rate: < 10 % Job satisfaction survey: 84 % completed the survey. No survey in 2019 New survey in 2020 maintain satisfaction level from 2018 (4.1) Number of female board members: 25 % 0% 25 % of board members are to be women (by 2021) Women in management positions: 35 %  21 % 35 % women in management positions (by 2021)  On target  In progress  Actions and extra focus needed SEMCO MARITIME I 26 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Targets Progress in 2019 Ambitions Safety TRIF: ≤ 2.5  TRIF: 5.0 TRIF: ≤ 2.5 LTAF: 0  LATF: 1.9 LTAF: 0 Safety culture survey: above 3.25  3.22 Safety culture survey: Above 3.25 Safety talks: 328  312 = Operational managers: 6 safety talks/year Operational managers: 6 safety talks/year Admin. managers: 2 safety talks/year. Admin. managers: 2 safety talks/year. Environment Savings on energy consumption/employees: -5 %  Energy consumption/working hours: +5 % Working hours.: -1 % and climate Staget (yard) + 21 % Esbjerg (HQ) 16 % Stavanger: + 5 % Recycling of waste: 80 %  Recycling of waste: Recycling of waste: min. 80 % DK: 67 % Stavanger: 88 % Hanøytangen: No comparable figures in 2019 Starting to raise awareness of our CO2 emissions.  We did not manage to turn this knowledge Raise awareness of our CO2 emissions internally of our CO2 footprint into concrete initiatives (»staff transportation« and »electricity«). in 2019. Anti-corruption Continue the implementation of the whistleblower  Whistleblower arrangement established Continue the implementation of the whistleblower arrangement making sure that everyone knows how and in force implementation ongoing. arrangement across the organisation. and where to report.  Continue the implementation of our whistleIn 2020, the General Counsel will inform employees blower arrangement across the organisation. about our anti-corruption policy and whistleblower arrangement during townhall meetings and road trips worldwide.  On target  In progress  Actions and extra focus needed SEMCO MARITIME I 27 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Our policies on responsible practicesally,ally and socially responsible way These are some of our most relevant only the guidelines of the Code of Conduct, but also marks of our corporate culture. We want to provide a policies that help us meet challenges the values on which it is based. We are all committed healthy environment and promote a healthier lifestyle to abide by the wording and the rules of the Code of among our employees without invading their perin an environmentally, ethically and Conduct and to help others do so. sonal space and lifestyle. socially responsible way. Labour Drugs and alcohol P-SEMCO-0087 CSR in general Inclusion Policy POL-SEMCO-0006 Semco Maritime has a zero tolerance towards the CSR Policy POL-SEMCO-0001 Inclusion is part of Semco Maritime’s strategy to create possession and consumption of drugs during workThe objective of Semco Maritime is to develop stratean attractive workplace and a necessary element for ing hours. We expect all employees to come to work gic and cost-effective sustainability models that creour ability to adapt to the never-ending development without being under the influence of alcohol or have ate differentiation to others and value for customers. of employees, customers and the company as a whole. trace of drugs in their system. We will challenge and develop what we do best in a socially responsible way. CSR covers the initiatives Personnel Policy – POL-SEMCO-0011 Harassment and Violence POL-SEMCO-0015 launched by Semco Maritime to protect the environThe personnel policy applies to all Semco Maritime The purpose of this policy is to describe the following ment, ensure good working conditions and care for employees, regardless of title or position. The policy elements in Semco Maritime: society beyond legal requirements. is reviewed on a regular basis and is based on the following core ideas: • Our attitude towards workplace violence and the course of action to be taken afterwards. Global Compact Procedure P-SEMCO-0082 • Semco Maritime shall be an attractive workBy acceding the 10 UN Global Compact principles, • Our attitude towards psychological workplace place characterised by commitment, reliability Semco Maritime commits itself to prepare a COP reviolence and the course of action to be taken and responsiveness. port that documents the development and progress afterwards. within the different areas. The COP report is publis• It shall be possible to make a career in Semco Ma• Our attitude towards physical and psychological hed on the Global Compact website. We consider ritime and the individual employee shall be able to harassment, including sexual, ethical, political the process a mechanism for assessing and demonuse his or her talents and abilities to the full. and religious harassment and the actions to be strating our actions in relation to the incorporation • In Semco Maritime we are continuously changing taken afterwards. of responsible practices into day-to-day operations. and developing our processes. Therefore, we also expect our employees, our most important Privacy Policy POL-SEMCO-0022 Human Rights resource, to participate actively in the process. This policy describes the details on the processing, Code of Conduct – POL-SEMCO-0013 use and disclosure of the personal data relating to We have formulated a Code of Conduct specifically Employee Health Policy POL-SEMCO-0012 your job application and the hiring process and, if aimed at employees, partners and suppliers. The CoThe health policy of Semco Maritime has been deemployed with Semco Maritime, the details on the de of Conduct contains our values and ethical guideveloped with the formulated strategy in mind and is employment relationship and the hiring-out of lines. All employees must know and understand not based on the values and attitudes that are the halllabour to customers, etc. SEMCO MARITIME I 28 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 INTRO HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW Safety, environment and climate Anti-corruption and bribery HSSE Policy – POL-SEMCO-0019 Anti-bribery and Corruption POL-SEMCO-0016 THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATES Our core business is to create safe solutions within Employees shall not directly or indirectly accept, solicit Quality management the oil & gas industry and the renewables market, as we or offer bribes, kickbacks, facilitation payments or any ISO 9001 see an increasing demand for reliable and sustainable other unjustified advantages in order to improperly This standard is based on a number energy. Our main focus areas are: influence or gain an unfair business advantage from of quality management principles any governmental or private entity. • Zero harm to employees and stakeholders, including a strong customer focus, our assets and the environment. the motivation and implication of top Whistleblower Arrangement P-SEMCO-0378 management, the process approach • Deliver a quality that makes us the first Our whistleblower arrangement allows employees to and continuous improvement. choice for customers. raise a concern about a potential criminal act and/or other serious risk that could pose a threat to Semco Environmental Maritime A/S, the Semco Maritime Group of Companies management systems or any of their employees. ISO 14001 This standard specifies the requirements for an environmental management system to be used by an organisation for enhancing its environmental performance. Occupational health and safety management systems ISO 45001 Compliance with the ISO 45001 standard enables us to demonstrate that we have a system in place for occupational health and safety. Learn more: www.semcomaritime.com/downloads/ download-hsseq-certificates SEMCO MARITIME I 29 I COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Semco Maritime A/S Esbjerg Brygge 30 DK-6700 Esbjerg CVR-number: 25 49 07 62 Telephone: 79 16 66 66 semco@semcomaritime.com www.semcomaritime.com #semcomaritime Dropbox\Marketing\Brochurer\Responsibility COP 180320 subh
