D I E S E L & MOTO R ENG INEER ING P LC A N NUAL R EP O RT 2 019 /2 0 | 1 THE PERFECT PARTNER For over 80 years, DIMO has built a solid reputation as an honest and reliable provider of outstanding products and services and as a key player in several of Sri Lanka’s biggest transportation and infrastructure projects. We have brought some of the world’s greatest brands and technologies to the country, while proving our own skills and capabilities in business ventures beyond our shores. This year, as we find ourselves facing the most formidable challenges on every level, we know we can rely on our corporate characteristics of integrity, people centricity, excellence and accountability to steer your company to better times. We are confident that the bonds of loyalty and trust we have with so many stakeholders will remain strong and that their belief that we are indeed a ‘Perfect Partner’ will make us a force to be reckoned with as we go forward into the years that lie ahead. 2 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 CONTENTS 03 Highlights FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 04 Basis for preparation Here we present a 57 Financial calendar 05 A Message from the Chairman detailed analysis of 58 Annual Report of the Board of 08 Strategic Review by the Group CEO the Group’s Financial Directors Statements, its financial 10 Board of Directors 62 Director’s Interests in contracts position and performance 12 Group Management Committee with the Company in the year under review, together with statements 63 Board of Directors’ statement on from Directors and internal controls POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION Independent Auditors. 64 Statement of Director’s This section looks at how 14 Our purpose responsibility for Financial we have strategised and 15 Strategy Statements organised ourselves to 65 Independent Auditor’s Report 16 Value creation model achieve our purpose. 18 Basis for resource allocation 70 Section 1 – Financial Statements 19 Group structure 76 Section 2 – Corporate information 77 Section 3 – Basis of accounting REFLECTING ON VALUE CREATED 83 Section 4 – Specific accounting policies and notes This section provides a 22 An assessment of value delivered 128 Section 5 – Other disclosures review of how we have 24 Reflecting on the business delivered value. We also segments include an overview of APPENDICES 30 Overview of the operating context the operating context, to This final section contains 132 Appendix I – Share information indicate the background information that is 134 Appendix II – Level of compliance against which these complementary to the to mandatory regulations results were achieved. main report. 136 Appendix III – GRI content index GEARING FOR FUTURE VALUE CREATION 144 Appendix IV – Ten year summery – Financial information This section provides 32 Managing monetised resources to 145 Corporate information information that will stimulate growth help the reader to 146 Notice of meeting 34 A conversation with CHRO: assess how well we are building effective and strong teams 147 Form of proxy geared to create value 36 Differentiating for competitiveness in long term. 38 Responsible value chain: managing impacts 41 Governance: a structure that connects performance with purpose 53 Managing risks The PDF version of the Annual Report 2019/20 can be read at: https://www.dimolanka.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/AR-2019-2020.pdf | 3 HIGHLIGHTS The year’s story is a complex one. While on the whole, the company delivered positive results, our industry sectors have been forced to operate in a very challenging environment. 201 1,350 21.97 Rs. Million Rs. Rs. Profit after tax Net asset per share Earnings per share (2018/19 – Rs. 77 Million) (2018/19 – Rs. 1,323) (2018/19 – Rs. 5.78) 4.11 90% Employee engagement score Customer satisfaction index (2018/19 – 3.89) (2018/19 – 87%) Recognized as a Best Workplace Formed six new business in Asia in the category of Large partnerships during the year. Workplaces by the Great Place to Work Institute. 0.19 tCo2e 1,732 m3 Carbon emission per one Rain water harvested million revenue (2018/19 – 883 m3) (2018/19 – 0.21 tCo2e) 4 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 WELCOME TO OUR 10TH INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT This Annual Report aims to provide a concise and transparent INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE assessment of how we have performed in line with our strategy and ´´ Assurance from the Independent Auditors on the Consolidated created value for our stakeholders and the organisation during the Financial Statements (Independent Auditors’ Report) 12-month period ending 31st March 2020 and also our ability to create value in the short, medium and long term. pages 65 to 69 The assurance on non-financial information could not be conducted MATERIALITY due to movement restrictions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. The materiality test embedded in our processes ensures that However, the Statement by the Board of Directors on the 2019/20 we report on all material aspects that affect our ability to create Integrated Report acknowledges that reasonable care has been value. When analysing the content material to the report, the basis taken when preparing this report, to preserve its integrity. is provided by issues identified through stakeholder engagement; important topics that arise at Board and Group Management Committee (GMC) discussions and the results of the Group’s risk NAVIGATING OUR 2019/20 REPORTS management process. The PDF version of the Annual Report 2019/20 can be read at: https://www.dimolanka.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/ pages 53 to 55 Risk management AR-2019-2020.pdf pages 14 to 15 Stakeholder engagement Supplementary information of the Annual Report 2019/20 can be read at: http://www.dimolanka.com/sustainability-performance/ REPORTING BOUNDARY Additional information on Corporate Governance can be read at: This report covers the activities of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC https://www.dimolanka.com/corporate-governance/ (DIMO) and its Subsidiaries, collectively referred to as DIMO Group. Table 01 below identifies the reporting boundary for the integrated Detailed profiles of the Board of Directors: https://www.dimolanka.com/about-us/board-of-directors/ report and the financial reports. Table 01: Reporting boundary Board of Directors’ Statement on the Integrated Annual Report Scope Integrated Financial reporting Reporting The Board of Directors; boundary Boundary ´´ acknowledges that reasonable care has been taken during Diesel & Motor Engineering the preparation and presentation of this Integrated Annual PLC (DIMO)   Report, to preserve its integrity Subsidiaries   ´´ agrees that the integrated Annual Report has been Joint Venture   presented in accordance with the International Integrated Key Stakeholder concerns   Reporting Council’s International Integrated Reporting Framework V1.0 Key external environmental factors   ´´ affirms that we have applied our collective mind to the preparation and presentation of the information contained Refer the Group structure presented on page 19 for the in the report; and information on Group’s subsidiaries and Joint ventures. ´´ believes that, to the best of our knowledge and belief, the integrated annual report addresses all material issues and LAWS, REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS, STANDARDS, fairly presents the integrated performance of the Group GUIDELINES AND PROTOCOLS and its impacts ´´ The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Signed for and on behalf of the Board, ´´ The Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) ´´ Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKASs / SLFRSs) A.R. Pandithage A.G. Pandithage ´´ International Integrated Reporting Framework (International Chairman/Managing Director Director/Group Chief <IR> Framework), of which the Company is a business network Executive Officer member ´´ GRI Standards issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board (GSSB) (This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option) A. D. B. Talwatte B.C.S.A.P Gooneratne ´´ The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard published Chairman Audit Committee Director/Chief Financial Officer by the World Resource Institute (WRI) and the World Business 29th May 2020 Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) are used to Colombo measure and report on the Group’s carbon footprint | 5 A MESSAGE FROM THE SCRIPT BEFORE THE PANDEMIC After enduring some tough times, the Group was well on course THE CHAIRMAN to record a fairly satisfactory result for the fourth quarter of the financial year 2019/20. In fact, the Group recorded encouraging profits before tax for January and February 2020. The budget for 2020/21, prepared prior to the lockdown, reflected a lot of optimism. However, the emergence of the pandemic and the announcement of Challenges are commonplace in any import restrictions in March changed the scenario. Instead of what business. In fact, they bring out the hidden could have been the “best month of the year”, March 2020 became vigour of our tribe members. This year a significant loss due to the lockdown and lack of revenue during the month. however was exceptional, and so was the response of my tribe. FINANCIAL RESULT FOR THE YEAR The profit before tax for the year was Rs.280 million (Rs. 104 I am pleased to present you the Annual Report 2019/20, with my million in 2018/19), which was below the forecasts made at the observations about the year that has been, and the way forward. commencement of the fourth quarter. The earnings per share was Although by regulation, we were allowed an extension on publishing Rs. 21.97 (Rs. 5.78 – 2018/19). The total comprehensive income the Financial Statements and holding the Annual General Meeting, was Rs.271 million (Rs. 91 million in 2018/19). the Board was of the view that the company should apprise the shareholders of the Group’s affairs at the earliest opportunity. This In view of the need to preserve cash to meet the challenges impacted belief led us to schedule our Annual General Meeting within the by the recent lockdown and import restrictions, the Board is of the usual time period of three months from the end of the financial year. view that the company retains the profit after tax without making a distribution. BEING POSITIVE IN ADVERSITY Challenges are commonplace in any business. In fact, they bring THE PANDEMIC AND OUR RESPONSE out the hidden vigour of our tribe members. This year however was The pandemic affected our profitability, cash flow and our operational exceptional, and so was the response of my tribe. The year started capability during the time businesses were under lockdown. These with the Easter Sunday terror attacks and there were many events aspects have slowly improved with the gradual re-commencement of that followed; the imposition of the luxury tax on vehicles, reduction business. Our Board and the executive team focussed critically at the in vehicle imports, vulnerability of the Sri Lankan Rupee, impact of implications and formed two teams; the first committee is responsible post COVID-19 and import restrictions to name a few. On the positive for addressing short term issues such as minimising revenue side were the reducing interest rates, reduction in VAT and income losses, reducing costs, improving cash inflows, ensuring safety and tax rates, and the abolition of the Nation Building Tax and Economic maximising productivity of employees even if they are to work from Service Charge. The reduced interest rates and the manageable home. The other team to deal with medium and longterm effects; exchange rates give businesses a reason to be optimistic despite this comprises responding to new norms in customer behaviour government revenue, balance of payment and GDP growth posing and probable government restrictions to stabilise the economy, difficulties. expediting diversification, expanding revenue streams, improving the current value chain and examining current cost structures. 6 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN IMPORT RESTRICTIONS We continued investing in our overseas operations by making an The import restrictions announced in March 2020 were additional investment in our vehicle related operations in Myanmar subsequently tightened to prohibit the import of many passenger and opening a branch in Uganda, where a power related project is and commercial vehicles. The same applies to some spare parts in currently being executed. our offering. The ban has been brought in for a period of ninety days, however a continuation of the ban is likely to impact the company’s We see potential in our medical/healthcare business and are performance for the ensuing year. currently seeking business opportunities in this domain. A NEW IDENTITY FOR DIMO EMERGENCE OF THE AGRICULTURE SEGMENT We have always given due prominence to stakeholder expectations The agriculture segment, where our presence was previously only when formulating our value propositions and our strategy. By in tractors and harvesters, has now expanded into fertilizer and engaging with stakeholders, we understand how well DIMO nutrients, agrochemicals, seeds, farm irrigation and allied areas. measures up against their expectations. Insights gathered during Going forward, we will consolidate the current portfolio and enhance these stakeholder engagements have made us realise that there are revenue streams in this segment. New investments are likely to take improvements and adjustments required in the value proposition place in the agriculture related businesses. It is regrettable that our that we offer, and their perception about DIMO. With this in mind, we ability to expand the fertilizer business is restricted by the current re-articulated our purpose, the values we live by and the standards import quota system and I believe that a review of this system is of leadership required to achieve our purpose. With a view to required in order to provide a level playing field and to ensure an communicating this fresh mindset and the change it aspires to, we uninterrupted supply of fertiliser. introduced our new logo during the year. It will be my fervent duty to make DIMO the perfect partner for our stakeholders to fuel their INVESTMENTS IN SOLAR POWER dreams and aspirations in order to raise the bar for them and deliver We commenced our journey towards the generation of renewable their expectations. energy during the year with the installation of a one mega-watt solar power generation field in Embilipitiya under a power purchase REDUCTION IN TAXES AND INTEREST RATES agreement with the Ceylon Electricity Board. This, together with the We welcome the reduction in income tax and VAT and the abolition roof top installations at our own premises at DIMO 800, Weliveriya of Nation Building Tax and Economic Service Charge. These and Siyabalape, totals an installed capacity of 2.7 mega-watts. We measures, together with the reduction in interest rates, are bound to have set our sights on more investments in renewable energy. increase investments. We hope the market will reflect these moves through an increased demand for the capital goods that we sell. PROMOTING INTEGRATED THINKING This, perhaps, will happen with the gradual fading off of the shortTranslating purpose into action and eventually delivering term impacts of COVID-19. stakeholder expectations requires a thorough understanding of the elements that facilitate value creation and their connectivity A GREAT AND SAFE PLACE TO WORK with each other. To achieve success, it is imperative that this My commitment to making DIMO a great and safe place is awareness is spread to each member of our tribe. Action without unwavering. I am firmly bound to nurture and protect my tribe an understanding of these intricacies may lead to sub-optimisation members who are behind all the value created by our Group. Our and compromised productivity. Therefore, as an organisation, we employee value proposition (EVP) of “Making work enjoyable and focus on creating a culture that enables people to pursue their rewarding” is the cornerstone of our Human Resource Strategy. individual objectives and those of the organisation fully aware of DIMO being recognised as a Great Place to Work by the Great Place the dynamics and connectivity surrounding their specific domains to Work Institute and as a Healthiest Workplace by AIA Vitality study of responsibility. These efforts are facilitated by the employee is a manifestation of our EVP. performance management system and the accredited management systems for quality, environment and social accountability. DIVERSIFICATION AS A GROWTH STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS We have, over the years, made a conscious effort to reduce the reliance on vehicle related businesses through diversification. Building a society characterised by fair and equal treatment is our Hence, we are directing special focus towards our non-auto responsibility, individually and collectively. At the same time our businesses. It must be emphasized that these efforts are not at businesses should be built on principles that will ensure economic, the expense of the vehicle business. Our commitment to ensure societal and environment sustainability. The United Nations growth in the vehicle business has not diminished in anyway. During Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) play a key role in unifying the year, the results of business segments other than the vehicle such efforts. Therefore, it is our natural choice to commit ourselves sales and after sales service segments, accounted for 48% of the to SDGs which, with universal participation, will ensure development total result. in a sustainable manner, without compromising what our future generations inherit. | 7 GOVERNANCE BEYOND COMPLIANCE Corporate governance is the basis for corporate success and growth; not a set of rules that stifles growth. This is also a tool for the members of the Board to fulfil their stewardship obligations. Our commitment to good governance extends beyond compliance with rules and aspires to fulfil best practices. BEING RELEVANT IN THE FOURTH INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION We are on the brink of the fourth industrial revolution which will be technology led. It will change the way we think, live and work. The clear difference between this revolution and the previous ones is the speed at which it is evolving. Our experience of the revolution will come in the form of extensive digital connectivity through mobile devices, extreme processing speeds, and high storage capacities coupled with evolving technologies in fields such as artificial intelligence, internet of things, robotics and 3D printing. This will bring forth opportunities and challenges; that’s why encouraging digital intrapreneurship of the leadership team and fostering innovation will have a major role to play in our future agenda. Already, areas of our portfolio such as building technologies, bio-medical engineering and power engineering have become beneficiaries of these emerging technologies. OUTLOOK We are encouraged by the government’s moves to reduce the tax burden and its attempts to keep interest rates at reduced levels. These build our expectations of more savings and investments which may spur higher demand for our capital goods. The government’s intention to pursue development projects, even in the face of financial concerns, is expected to provide an impetus to economic activity. The possibility of consumption patterns changing due to the adoption of lifestyle changes post COVID-19 could also adversely impact business. The current prohibition on vehicle imports remains a crucial factor in the overall profitability of the Group. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The sacrifices made by my leadership team and the members of my tribe were a source of strength during the recent lockdown. They have been the driving force behind the value we create for our stakeholders. I deeply appreciate the support extended by our foreign principals who have trusted us to be their preferred partner in Sri Lanka. Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board who have readily supported me with their counsel and advice and for their dedication towards making DIMO what it is today. A.R. Pandithage Chairman/Managing Director 29th May 2020 Colombo 8 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STRATEGIC REVIEW Graph 01: Segment results 2019/20 vs 2018/19 BY THE GROUP CEO 19% 22% 12% 31% 10% 4% A TURBULENT YEAR 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 was a challenging year for Sri Lanka. Beginning with the 9% 9% fallout of the Easter Sunday terror attacks in April 2019, followed by political changes mid-year and the onset of the COVID-19 Pandemic 30% 12% in March 2020, the financial year saw a depressed economy 17% 26% with curtailed consumption and dampened capital investments. Vehicle sales Construction and material handling equipment Consequently, the Sri Lankan economy recorded a growth of 2.3% Vehicles after services Agriculture in real terms for the year 2019, compared with the growth of 3.3% Marketing and distribution Electro-mechanical, bio-medicald and marine engineering in 2018, negatively affecting many segments of the Group. The unexpected interruptions to business from mid-March 2020 Increasing government intervention in vehicle imports, including due to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in our inability to fulfil our higher tariffs on imports, had a negative effect on the performance delivery obligations on several contracts. It also caused customers of the vehicle sales segment, resulting in a 32% reduction in revenue to postpone “buy” decisions at the last moment. This had a negative and 32% reduction in results compared to last year. Overall, there impact on the performance of March 2020 and consequently the was a 45% reduction in the registration of passenger and commercial results of the financial year. vehicles excluding three wheelers, quadricycles and motor homes. Against this drop in vehicle sales, and the possible increase in use DIVERSIFICATION STRATEGY YIELDED RETURNS of used vehicles, the Group has now focused on capitalising on Against the backdrop of a hostile external environment, Group investments made in the vehicle after service business. Efforts made revenue saw a 10% reduction from Rs. 38,300 million in 2018/19 to increase bay utilisation and vehicle service times, and to increase to Rs. 34,558 million in 2019/20. The diversified product portfolio, market reach for spare parts enabled the vehicle-after services driven by the Group’s diversification strategy, facilitated a stable segment to deliver 30% of the total result of six segments, thereby gross profit with a marginal growth of 1% from Rs. 7,233 million outperforming the Vehicles sales segment for the first time. in 2018/19 to Rs. 7,332 million in 2019/20. This stable gross profit together with a 15% reduction in net finance cost resulted The electromechanical, bio-medical and marine engineering in a 162% increase in Group profit after tax from Rs. 77 million in business also produced an improved result with a 49% increase in 2018/19 to Rs. 201 million in 2019/20. segment results. This was backed mainly by revenues from projects in power engineering and building technologies. Diversification strategy: A slow growth of 0.6% in agriculture sector compared to 6.5% Facilitates growth and leverages risks growth in 2018, together with a decline in tourism due to the Easter 32% reduction in results from vehicle sales was compensated attacks caused a 15% reduction in revenue of the Agriculture by 28% and 49% increases in results generated by marketing segment, leading to a 60% reduction in segment results. The and distribution segment and electro-mechanical, bio-medical continued applicability of the fertiliser subsidy scheme and the and marine segment. import quota system for fertilisers further compromised the segment’s ability to yield revenue. | 9 Improvements in sales force efficiency and aggressive marketing INTERNALISING THE NEW BRAND IDENTITY: A SOURCE OF campaigns improved the results of the marketing and distribution COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE segment by 28% compared to last year. This momentum together We have looked at DIMO’s brand identity from a new lens, revisiting with more focussed efforts in debt collection will continue through stakeholder expectations and incorporating them in the company’s to the next year. strategy formulation process. It requires external brand repositioning while internalising a new set of values; integrity, people centricity, NAVIGATING THROUGH THE UNCERTAINTY: DIMO’S CRISIS customer delight, accountability and excellence. Internalising these RESPONSE PLAN values and revamping the corporate culture is part of the Group’s With the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, DIMO’s operations were collaboration strategy and will form a key source of competitive affected by delays and uncertainties from the supply side, globally. advantage in building future resilience. The Group Management The restrictions in movements and temporary closure of economic Committee is working tirelessly to make this mandate a reality and activities meant that demand side impacts followed soon. We are the increase in the employee engagement score to 4.11 compared now in a phase of recovery from the COVID-19 impact. to 3.89 recorded last year, indicates that we are indeed on the right track and that our teams possesses the right mindset. DIMO’s response plan for the uncertainties set forth by COVID-19 pandemic is three fold: build our resilience, adapt to new normalcy SUSTAINABILITY AS A BUSINESS IMPERATIVE in markets and embrace an on-demand virtual workforce. DIMO’s purpose mandates that we help stakeholders to realise their dreams while creating value to the Group, responsibly. Responsible Building resilience involves securing liquidity, increasing supply value creation is thus embedded in our DNA and is reflected in our chain responsiveness and most importantly, strengthening health strategy and business model. and safety measures. Among the key initiatives taken to face the implications of the economic downturn were curtailing discretionary Furthermore, we embrace green business opportunities with due expenses; negotiating debt moratoriums with lenders; securing priority. LED bulbs, hybrid and electric vehicles and construction long term borrowings to fund permanent losses; stress testing machinery, entering renewable energy operations and promoting and scenario planning for supply chain responsiveness; securing products that provide maximum energy efficiency and minimum supplies already imported and the formation of an emergency health environmental impacts are some examples in this regard. and safety committee. Adapting to the new normalcy post COVID-19 includes responding THE WAY FORWARD to permanent shifts in customer behaviour and expectations. DIMO’s In the short term, given the prevailing turbulent operating agenda to adapt to the new normal will encompass transforming the environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic and restrictions sale of goods onto online platforms; home delivery of our offering, on imports, a decline in profits is inevitable in the first quarter of and stringent measures to ensure customer health and safety. With 2020/21. Actions listed in our crisis response plan are expected the uncertainty in global supply chains, the “new normal” would to result in improved liquidity and agility, thus with relaxation of require us to revamp our business models to be better in cost, restrictions on imports and the gradual restoration of business quality and delivery. activities, the company is expected to return to its normal level of operations by the end of the second quarter. Embracing an on-demand virtual workforce, as I see it, is a positive trend that emerged post COVID-19. The Group’s investments in a In the long term, ensuring our operations remain fit-for-purpose cloud-based working platform in 2018/19 accelerated our ability to while anticipating a potential recession require embracing the adapt to virtual work life. Transforming into virtual working platforms, duality of playing it safe while doubling down on new opportunities. including conducting meetings and training programmes, has This includes defensive tactics pertaining to cost management and increased the effectiveness and efficiency of the Group’s HR practices. debt collection, investment in digital transformation and pursuing diversification through strategically appropriate acquisitions. However, people must meet challenges through their commitment and engagement. The resilience demonstrated by the DIMO team Even amidst economic uncertainty, I am confident that DIMO is in carrying out essential services and the support given for cost well positioned to face the future with a clear purpose, a new brand reduction measures, reflect that DIMO is not in shortage of those identity, a team that is capable of driving long term value creation ingredients. This has given me the confidence that DIMO will indeed and a global network nurtured for over 80 years. I look forward to a bounce back to normalcy faster and stronger. challenging and exciting year ahead. TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF IMPORTS Adding to the challenges faced by the lockdown was the temporary suspension of imports introduced by the government, with amendments to follow. This has a key impact on vehicle sales and the vehicle A.G. Pandithage aftersales segments. As it stands, the suspension is valid for ninety Director/Group Chief Executive Officer days. The teams involved in these segments are seeking alternative sources of revenue within each segment, while currently available 29th May 2020 stocks will help mitigate this supply side problem to some extent. Colombo 10 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 BOARD OF DIRECTORS A.R. PANDITHAGE S.C. ALGAMA DR. H. CABRAL Chairman/Managing Director Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointments at DIMO Appointments at DIMO Appointments at DIMO Joined the Company in June 1973 and appointed Appointed to the Board in November 1984. A Appointed to the Board in October 2006. to the Board in June 1977. Appointed as Joint member of the Board in a Non-Executive capacity Managing Director in November 1984 and as from November 1984 to 1994 and appointed as an Board Committee Memberships Managing Director in 1986. Appointed as the Executive Director in 1994. Appointed as Managing NC, RC, AC, RPTRC Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer in Director of DIMO (Pvt) Ltd from April 2009. Qualifications and Titles 1994. Appointed as the Chairman/Managing Director and CEO in July 2004 and continues as Qualifications and Titles President’s Counsel in Sri Lanka, Doctorate in the Chairman/ Managing Director from April 2012 Fellow of the Institute of Incorporated Engineers Corporate Law from University of Canberra, to date. (SL). Australia. A sitting member of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) International Court DIMO Committee Memberships Expertise of Arbitration in Paris and a Representative NC Engineering Member of the Federation of Integrated Conflict Management (FICM), a Representative Member of Qualifications and Titles the International Commercial Disputes Tribunal Dip. Ing. (Germany), Member of the Institute of (ICDT). A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Engineers, Germany (VDI). Recipient of Order of Secretaries & Administrators (UK). A member Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany. of the Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka, a member of the Law Commission of Sri Lanka and Expertise a member of the Intellectual Property Advisory Engineering and leadership Commission in Sri Lanka. Expertise M.V. BANDARA Law Executive Director Appointments at DIMO Joined the Company in February 1995 and appointed to the Board in June 2016. Qualifications and Titles A.G. PANDITHAGE Postgraduate certificate from the University Director/Group Chief Executive Officer of Southern Queensland, Australia. Diploma in Business Management from the University of Appointments at DIMO Colombo. B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE Joined the Company in September 1986 and appointed to the Board in December 1995. Expertise Director/Chief Financial Officer/Company Appointed as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer Marketing and sales Secretary with effect from April 2006 and as Group Chief Appointments at DIMO Executive Officer from April 2012 to date. Joined the Company in January 2001 and Qualifications and Titles appointed to the Board in April 2006. Fellow member of the Chartered Institute of Qualifications and Titles Management Accountants UK (CIMA). Alumni of Harvard Business School Advance Management Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Programme (AMP). Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL). MBA from the Postgraduate Institute of Management, University Expertise of Sri Jayewardenepura. Finance and leadership A.N. ALGAMA Expertise Executive Director Finance Appointments at DIMO Joined the Company in June 1973 and appointed to the Board in November 1984. Expertise Over 46 years of exposure to DIMO’s key areas of business. | 11 A.N. RANASINGHE S.R.W.M.C. RANAWANA R. SEEVARATNAM Executive Director/Chief Marketing Officer Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director/ Appointments at DIMO Appointments at DIMO Senior Independent Director Appointed to Board in July 2017 as an Independent Joined the Company in November 2002 and Appointments at DIMO Non-Executive Director and appointed as an appointed to the Board in June 2016. Appointed to the Board in January 2007. Executive Director in August 2018. Qualifications and Titles Board Committee Memberships Qualifications and Titles MBA from Wanaborough University UK and a NC, RC, AC, RPTRC Chartered Marketer, FCIM (UK), A Chemistry Diploma in Business Management from SLBDC. Special Hons graduate from University of Qualifications and Titles Colombo, MBA from the Postgraduate Institute of Expertise Fellow member of The Institute of Chartered Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura Marketing and sales Accountants of England & Wales, Fellow member and a Professional Post Graduate Diploma in of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Marketing (DipM MCIM) from The Chartered Lanka. General Science Degree from the University Institute of Marketing, UK. of London. Former Senior Partner of KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Company. Expertise Strategy, marketing and sales Expertise Finance, assurance A.M. PANDITHAGE Non-Executive Director Appointments at DIMO Appointed to the Board in September 1982. P.K.W. MAHENDRA Board Committee Memberships Executive Director NC, RC, AC, RPTRC A.D.B. TALWATTE Appointments at DIMO Qualifications and Titles Independent Non-Executive Director Joined the Company in July 2006 and appointed Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Appointments at DIMO to the Board in June 2016. Transport (UK). Honorary Consul of the United Appointed to the Board in June 2016. Mexican States (Mexico) to Sri Lanka. Council Qualifications and Titles Member of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Board Committee Memberships Bachelor’s degree from the University of Member of the Advisory Council of the Ceylon NC, RC, AC, RPTRC Greenwich, UK. Association of Shipping Agents. Best Shipping Personality Award from the Institute of Chartered Qualifications and Titles Expertise Shipbrokers; Leadership Excellence Recognition – Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Engineering Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Seatrade – Sri Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Lanka Ports, Trade and Logistics; Lifetime Award (CIMA), UK. PostGraduate Diploma in Business for the Most Outstanding Logistics and Transport and Financial Administration awarded by ICASL Personality of the Year – Chartered Institute of and the University of Wageningen, Holland and Logistics & Transport. MBA from University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Sri Expertise Lanka. Business leadership, logistics and transport Expertise Finance, assurance AC – Audit Committee, RC – Remuneration Committee, RPTRC – Related Party Transactions Detailed profiles of the Directors including positions held in other companies & Committees can be viewed from Review Committee, NC – Nomination Committee https://www.dimolanka.com/about-us/board-of-directors 12 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM A.R. PANDITHAGE A.G. PANDITHAGE S.C. ALGAMA Chairman/Managing Director Director/Chief Executive Officer Executive Director M.V. BANDARA B.C.S.A.P. GOONERATNE R.K.J. GUNASEKERA Executive Director Executive Director/ General Manager – Chief Financial Officer Business Development & Innovation E.D.C. KODITUWAKKU D.N.K. KURUKULASURIYA P.K.W. MAHENDRA General Manager Chief Human Resources Officer Executive Director Finance & Controlling C.R. PANDITHAGE A.N. RANASINGHE M. WICKRAMASINGHE General Manager – Executive Director/ Chief Information Officer Mercedes Benz Vehicle Chief Marketing Officer Engineering Business leadership Information technology Sales and marketing S.R.W.M.C. RANAWANA V. WICKRAMARATNE Executive Director Chief Operating Officer Finance Marketing and Distribution Human resource management Business development | 13 POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION This section looks at how we have strategised and organised ourselves to achieve our purpose. 14 Our purpose 15 Strategy 16 Value creation model 18 Basis for resource allocation 19 Group structure 14 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION EVOLVING FOR THE FUTURE WITH A NEW CORPORATE IDENTITY Our world is constantly changing; the aspirations of Sri Lankans are Our inherent strengths and the environment thus evolving. Our stakeholders’ aspirations drive us forward. Thus, DIMO chose to look to the future through a new lens, with a bigger we share with our stakeholders have led us to purpose, loftier goals and a renewed brand identity. formulate our overarching corporate strategy along the three areas of Diversification, Our purpose mandates that we collaborate with stakeholders to Differentiation and Collaboration. deliver their dreams and aspirations and thereby create value for the organisation in a responsible manner. Understanding the pulse of our stakeholders thus becomes the basis of how we formulate DIMO’s corporate strategy. Purpose: “Fuelling Dreams and Aspirations” We laid the foundation to achieving our purpose by redefining our brand promise and values, which demand behavioural changes Brand promise: “The Perfect Partner” internally and externally. Internalising this change within DIMO’s culture and repositioning our external identity lie at the heart of our management agenda in the short to medium term. Values in Pursuing our purpose Integrity People Centricity Excellence Customer Delight Accountability Figure 01: Stakeholders, their importance to DIMO and their dependency on DIMO Provider of equity Total shareholder return SHAREHOLDERS Basis for revenue Value for money generation CUSTOMERS Provide inputs for Local value addition supply chain BUSINESS PARTNERS Employee benefits and good Provider of human capital working environment EMPLOYEES Provide social licence Responsible behaviour to operate SOCIETY Quality of the relationship What stakeholders give us What we give back to shareholders Relationship established; more engagement required to improve quality of relationship A value-generating connection has been established but room for improvement Good-quality, mutually beneficial relationship with some room for improvement Strong relationship of mutual benefit Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 15 VALIDATION STRATEGY; STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT At DIMO, the management uses stakeholder engagement as a strategic Figure 02: Significance of stakeholder engagement for DIMO. tool that provides insight into stakeholder expectations, interests and preferences which may affect our future strategic direction. Our Purpose: purpose is to “Fuel dreams and aspirations” and therefore, the pulse of “Fuelling dreams the stakeholder is a key determinant when formulating strategy. te strate and aspirations” ecu gy Ex The Sustainability Committee headed by the Group CEO is entrusted with ascertaining stakeholder expectations, for which a stakeholder teg stra y engagement process has been put in place. Details of how stakeholders ke ag holder are identified, categorised based on materiality, method and frequency te em of engagement and the detailed list of their material issues are a ent a Vali St ng disclosed on our website https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityd e Understanding performance/. Figure 01 summarise the outcome of this exercise. Delivering the stakeholder dreams purpose and aspirations STRATEGY Our inherent strengths and the environment we share with our Collaboration with employees and business partners is the source of stakeholders have led us to formulate our overarching corporate DIMO’s competitive advantage. It facilitates the perfect execution of strategy around the three areas of Diversification, Differentiation our differentiation strategy. and Collaboration. All three components enable DIMO to fulfil its purpose of existence. Diversification ensures long term growth by expanding the business Accredited quality, environmental and social accountability domains in which we operate. It expands the scope of our ability to management systems facilitate how strategy is cascaded to fuel the dreams and aspirations of individuals. operational level. The strategy is kept updated through the stakeholder engagement process so that the company delivers the Differentiation strategy facilitates competing aggressively in our value expected by key stakeholders. Figure 03 further elaborates chosen business domains. Areas of differentiation are determined DIMO’s strategy. by the interests and preferences of our target customers. Figure 03: DIMO’s corporate strategy COLLABORATION DIVERSIFICATION Collaborate with two key stakeholders Diversification strategy dominated by to drive the differentiation strategy. related diversification decides business domains in which we opt to operate. A Collaboration with diversified portfolio fuels growth and Business Partners reduces medium and long-term risk. Business partner network we have built over 80 years provides the access to Vehicle sales most advanced and innovative products Vehicle after services and solutions. Marketing and distribution Collaboration with Employees Construction and material handling Develop an engaged, agile, innovative THREE DIMENSIONS OF equipment and talented DIMO tribe to execute our DIMO’S CORPORATE STRATEGY differentiation strategy. Agriculture DIFFERENTIATION Electro mechanical, bio-medical and Carefully designed value chain to deliver marine engineering differentiation through the following. Technological excellence Customer primacy Dependability Market presence Aftercare Responsible behaviour Accredited Quality, Environmental and Social Accountability Management Systems 16 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION VALUE CREATION MODEL EXPLAINED We implement the mandate set forth in the corporate strategy through These value creation activities are fuelled by inputs from different a carefully thought value creation model. This model depicts how we resources. The differentiation aspects depicted in our strategy add value through each activity we undertake by leveraging our core are achieved though activities in the value chain such as sourcing, strengths, our expertise and our resources, thereby adding value to delivering and aftercare. The outputs of these activities are the products the organisation, to stakeholders and to the community. and services of the six business segments in which we operate, which Figure 04: Value creation model EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT RE deployment RESOURCES THAT PROVIDE INPUTS DRIVING DIFFERENTIATION THROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN Monetised resources Retained earnings and leeway in bank facilities c ustomer experience provide a stable and cost-effective funding class w orld source while other monetised resources shape ide ov the value proposition we offer. Pr Relationships with customers cs og Customer centric culture together with a isti quality management system ensure long Se lasting relationships with our diversified am les customer portfolio. sl Vehicle sales Vehicle Engaged employees after services The competencies of our 1,916 number s of employees with an average employee Source the best in clas engagement score of 3.89, are the drivers of value creation. Networks with global and VALUE local business partners IN Construction & Marketing & material handling distribution Our relationships with more than 80 equipment internationally renowned business partners and our local supplier base provide a value source of competitive advantage. Intellectual resources Con ve n Technology derived from foreign principals, ie n our own investments in technology and ta Agriculture Electromechanical, accredited management systems improve the nd products bio-medical and effectiveness of the value creation process re lia marine engineering while over 80 years of brand reputation and bl accumulated technical know-how form part of eaf te rc our key competitive advantage. ar e Inputs that are scarce or manufactured De live using scarce natural resources rin g va l u e f or m on e y o n ti m e Water, electricity and other sources of energy vital for value addition. KEY IMPERATIVES TO ENABLE LONG TERM VALUE CREATION Managing monetised resources to stimulate growth Building effective and strong teams Differentiating DIMO Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 17 provide the basis for revenue generation. The Group also practices six the company a responsible corporate citizen, thus enabling DIMO imperatives, which further enhance our ability to create value in the to achieve its overall purpose of “Fuelling Dreams and Aspirations”. short, medium and long term, as depicted in the value chain. Value created reflects in the stock of resources, which are then redeployed to the value creation process. Value created further helps The value creation process results in outcomes of value created to the company to contribute to the United Nations’ Sustainability the organisation, to shareholders and other stakeholder and makes Development Goals (UNSDG). Value Created to the Organisation 4.11  18/19 – 3.89 Employee engagement score 201  18/19 – 77 Monetised value retained (Rs. million) So lu ti 01  18/19 – 02 on Year on year gross profit growth (%) m ap pin 11  18/19 – 11 gw Return on capital employed (%) ith te-o sta Value Created to Stakeholders f-the 90  18/19 – 87 s -art de Customer satisfaction index DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS 21.97  18/19 – 5.78 igns SEGMENTS VALUE Earnings Per Share (Rs.) THAT OUT PROVIDE 3,357  18/19 – 2,966 REVENUE Monetised resources distributed to employees lle n c e (Rs. Million) e xc e ic al Being a Responsible Corporate Citizen lo g no 75  18/19 – 89 ch Voluntary investments on community development te (Rs. million) th 6,510  wi g 18/19 – 8,105 in er Tax and Tariff paid to the government ne gi (Rs. million) En 0.19  18/19 – 0.21 Carbon emission per one million revenue (tCo2e) 8,616  18/19 – 9,556 Water recycled and reused (Litres) Responsible value chain Governance: a structure that connects performance with purpose Managing risks 18 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION BASIS FOR RESOURCE ALLOCATION The value chain activities of the six business segments may differ based on the nature of products or services offered. The resources required by one value chain activity could, on the other hand, be different from the resource requirement of another. The following illustration depicts how critical each value chain activity is to each business segment and how critical each resource is for the respective value chain activity, thus establishing connectivity between each business segment and each resource. By establishing this connection, we allocate resources based on the requirement of each value chain activity and consequently, for each business segment. Figure 05: Supply chain activities’ connectivity with business segments and capitals Vehicle sales Business Segment Vehicles after services Marketing & distribution Construction & material handling equipment Agriculture Electro-mechanical, bio-medical & marine engineering Warehousing Customer Sourcing Engineering Delivering Aftercare Solution Support Supply Chain Activity Engagement Mapping Services Monetised resources Relationship capital Resources Employees Intellectual capital Natural capital Legend Value Creation Activity and Description Criticality of Supply Chain Activity SOURCING Evaluation of requirements, identification of suppliers and to Business Segment and Criticality inward carriage of Resources to the Supply Chain Activity WAREHOUSING Unloading and storing CUSTOMER Marketing, identification of customer needs, prospecting and Extremely Critical ENGAGEMENT selling Moderately Critical SOLUTION MAPPING Identification of a solution for the customer need Required may not be Critical Moderately Required or Not Required ENGINEERING Planning, designing and execution of engineering work DELIVERING Physical delivery of goods, rendering services and delivery of solutions to the customers AFTERCARE Addressing customers’ post-delivery requirements SUPPORT SERVICES Provision of support services for supply chain activities Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 19 GROUP STRUCTURE The Group structure is the mechanism through which we implement the business model. It reflects how every component of the Group works collectively to create value within any given business segment. Figure 06: Group structure COMPANY INDUSTRY SEGMENT Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Vehicle Sales Parent Vehicles – sales DIMO Lanka Company Limited 100% Subsidiary Vehicles – after services United DIMO Lanka Company Limited Construction & Material 70% Subsidiary Handling Equipment DIMO Industries (Private) Limited 100% Subsidiary Construction & material handling equipment DIMO Travels (Private) Limited Marketing & Distribution 100% Subsidiary PlantChem (Private) Limited Marketing & distribution 51% Subsidiary Plant Seeds (Private) Limited Agri 51% Subsidiary Agriculture DIMO (Private) Limited 100% Subsidiary DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited Industrial Solutions Electromechanical, bio-medical and 40% Joint Venture marine engineering Shareholding by the parent Names of the Directors of subsidiaries and the joint venture is disclosed on page 20 20 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 POSITIONED FOR VALUE CREATION NAMES OF THE DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES AND THE JOINT VENTURE DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES IN SRI LANKA DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES IN MYANMAR DIMO (Private) Limited DIMO Lanka Company Limited Subsidiary incorporated in 1980 Subsidiary incorporated in 2017 A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) A.G. Pandithage A.G. Pandithage S.C. Algama (Managing Director) B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne R.H. Fernando B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne United DIMO Company Limited P.K.W. Mahendra Subsidiary invested in 2017 S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) DIMO Travels (Private) Limited A.G. Pandithage B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Subsidiary incorporated in 1975 U.T. Zin A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) U.M.Z. Aung S.C. Algama M.V. Bandara E.D.C. Kodituwakku DIRECTORS OF THE JOINT VENTURE IN MALDIVES DIMO Coastline (Private) Ltd DIMO Industries (Private) Limited Joint venture acquired in 2017 Subsidiary incorporated in 1979 A.R. Pandithage A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) A.G. Pandithage A.G. Pandithage A.U. Maniku (Managing Director) S.C. Algama R.H. Fernando B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne H.M. Fulhu PlantChem (Private) Limited I.G.M. Haleem S.A. Maniku Subsidiary acquired in 2018 A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) A.G. Pandithage H.M.P.D.B Dematawa (Managing Director) B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, U. Wanigasinghe W.P.S.A. Weerawardhana A.G.J. Gunathilaka Plant Seeds (Private) Limited Subsidiary acquired in 2018 A.R. Pandithage (Chairman) A.G. Pandithage H.M.P.D.B Dematawa (Managing Director) B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne U. Wanigasinghe W.P.S.A. Weerawardhana A.G.J. Gunathilaka | 21 REFLECTING ON VALUE CREATED This section provides a review of how we have delivered value. We also include an overview of the operating context, to indicate the background against which these results were achieved. 22 An assessment of value delivered 24 Reflecting on the business segments 30 Overview of the operating context 22 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 AN ACCOUNT OF VALUE DELIVERED In order to achieve our purpose “Fuel dreams and aspirations” our three-dimensional strategy should deliver three broad goals; create value to the shareholder and other stakeholders, create value to the organisation and be a responsible corporate citizen. An account of how the Group performed under each goal is presented below. Stock of value Value created to the organisation Value created for shareholders and other stakeholders Monetised resources ´´ Profits retained Rs. 201 million ´´ Net asset per share Rs. 1,350 (2018/19 – Rs. 77 million) (2018/19 – Rs. 1,323) ´´ Year on year gross profit growth 1% ´´ Earnings Per Share Rs. 21.97 (2018/19 – 2%) (2018/19 – Rs. 5.78) ´´ Total asset turnover 1.08 times (2018/19 – 1.31 times) ´´ ROCE 11% (2018/19 – Rs. 11%) Relationships with ´´ Formed new relationships with six business ´´ Average customer satisfaction index recorded at customers and business partners, taking the total number of foreign 90% (2018/19 – 87%) partners partnerships to 88 ´´ Monetised value distributed to suppliers ´´ Recorded over 4 million social media (both local and foreign) as cost of material and engagements services was Rs. 22,979 million (2018/19 – Rs. 25,334 million) ´´ Over 4000 product inquiries through the corporate website Engaged employees ´´ Employee engagement score for the year was 4.11 ´´ Rs. 3,357 million monetised resources distributed (2018/19 – 3.89) as employee benefits (Rs. 2,966 million) ´´ 15,714 training hours were achieved through ´´ 317 new recruitments during the year 213 training programs (2018/19 – 354) ´´ 149 high potential employees were trained through 16 training programs Intellectual resources ´´ DIMO was recognised as a Great Place to Work ´´ Improved systems, processes and brand for the 7th consecutive year by the Great Place reputation generate positive impacts to the to Work Institute customer experience, employee working conditions and shareholder value creation ´´ DIMO was recognised as a ‘Healthiest Workplace’ in the large organisation category by the AIA Vitality Study ´´ Being recognised as the overall runners-up in ACCA Sustainability Reporting Awards 2019 Inputs that are scarce ´´ State of the art water recycling plants contributed Our products help preserve natural resources and or manufactured using 8,616 m3 of water to the annual consumption facilitate sustainable development: scarce natural resources (2018/19 – 9,556 m3) ´´ Energy efficient lighting solutions ´´ Rainwater harvesting systems supplied 1,732 ´´ Partnered with Vestas, a world leader in m3 of water to the annual consumption renewable energy to carry out the Country’s (2018/19 – 888 m3) largest wind power project; 100 MW semi ´´ Installed solar panels in Weliweriya, DIMO 800 dispatchable wind farm and Siyabalape premises with an electricity ´´ Electric vehicles generation capacity of 1,744 KW annually Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 23 Being a responsible corporate citizen Contribution to sustainable development goals (SDGs) ´´ Total monetised value created Rs. 11,738 million Monetised value created help economic growth, responsible (2018/19 – Rs. 13,136 million) consumption and voluntary investments in sustainable development seek social and environmental sustainability ´´ Tax and tariff paid to the government Rs. 6,510 million (2018/19 – Rs. 8,105 million) ´´ Rs. 74 million voluntary investments in sustainable development (2018/19 – Rs. 89 million) Our ISO 9001:2015 accredited Quality Management System Our Products and services help customers to contribute to below ensured that we: SDGs ´´ Complied with all customer safety standards and conducted business according to the Group code of business ´´ Adhered to ethical marketing practices ´´ Our labour practices are SA 8000: 2014 accredited, which Our labour practices are ethical and accredited by SA 8000. This assures that we avoid the use of child labour and forced labour, helps to create a peaceful institution with no corruption and a maintain best practices related to health and safety of workers, decent working environment freedom of association, eliminating discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours and remuneration ´´ No incompliances reported in terms of applicable labour regulations ´´ Our state-of-the-art technology, systems and processes Our processes facilitate making DIMO an institution that is peaceful increase the efficient use of energy, water and other material while ensuring responsible consumption of resources and thereby help the company to preserve scarce natural resources ´´ The governance structure of the Group ensures that we comply with all applicable rules and regulations ´´ DIMO maintains an ISO 14001:2015 accredited environmental Our responsible actions towards scarce resources ensure management system environmental sustainability ´´ Carbon emission per one million revenue is 0.19 tCo2e (2018/19 – 0.21 tCo2e) ´´ Waste segregated and handed over to selected third parties for recycling/reuse is 555,312 kg (2017/18 – 518,016 Kg) ´´ Wastewater treatment plants are used at workshops to treat wastewater before releasing to municipal drainages 24 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 REFLECTING ON THE BUSINESS SEGMENTS VEHICLE SALES Sale of brand-new passenger vehicles, four-wheel drive vehicles, commercial vehicles, special purpose vehicles and pre-owned vehicles. Key Focus area for 2020/21 Increase responsiveness of cost structure to respond to volatile government regulations on vehicle imports. Remodel value creation through this segment exploring options available. Increase reach and visibility of the luxury vehicle segment. The spill-over effects of the Easter Sunday attacks, the general slowdown in economic activity and the safety and emission standards introduced in 2018 which became effective in 2019, led to a 45% reduction in vehicle imports to the country (excluding Quadricycles and Motor homes). The shrinking market size resulted in a 32% reduction in segment revenue. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KPI 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Revenue (Rs. million) 13,783 20,318 26,497 29,570 27,283 Contribution to the Group’s revenue (%) 40 53 61 67 61 Segment results (Rs. million) 659 968 1,365 1,748 1,946 Contribution to the Group’s segment results (%) 22 31 42 54 62 Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 91 91 90 87 88 Number of employees 207 275 299 349 324 Carbon emission (tCO2e) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.11 0.09 0.08 0.09 0.09 Water consumption (m3) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 1.31 1.36 0.91 0.76 0.72 Energy consumption (GJ) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 1.19 0.98 0.76 0.81 0.88 SEGMENT REVENUE SEGMENT RESULT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Rs. 13,783 Mn Rs. 659 Mn 91% In 2018/19: Rs. 20,318 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 968 Mn In 2018/19: 91% Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 25 VEHICLE AFTER SERVICES Sale of franchise spare parts for passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles. Vehicle repairs and services for franchise and non-franchise vehicles. Key Focus area for 2020/21 Increase market share. Aggressive marketing campaigns to capitalise on increasing aftercare needs resulting from the increased use of old vehicles, due to the import restrictions on new vehicles. Increase work bay utilisation and service times of vehicle workshops. Security precautions and a gloomy decline to the tourism sector due to the Easter Sunday attacks negatively affected the country’s transportation sector, resulting in only 1.4% growth compared to 2.1% growth recorded in 2018. However, aggressive marketing efforts and the increase in productivity enabled a stable performance with 10% increase in revenue of the segment. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KPI 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Revenue (Rs. million) 4,648 4,245 3,883 3,502 2,879 Contribution to the Group’s revenue (%) 13 11 9 8 6 Segment results (Rs. million) 867 806 724 723 492 Contribution to the Group’s segment results (%) 30 26 23 22 16 Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 87 85 88 88 85 Number of employees 603 642 624 599 556 Carbon emission (tCO2e) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.39 0.50 0.55 0.62 0.56 Water consumption (m3) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 11.00 13.93 12.67 12.66 12.21 Energy consumption (GJ) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 3.58 4.45 5.18 5.34 5.12 SEGMENT REVENUE SEGMENT RESULT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Rs. 4,648 Mn Rs. 867 Mn 87% In 2018/19: Rs. 4,245 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 806 Mn In 2018/19: 85% 26 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 REFLECTING ON THE BUSINESS SEGMENTS MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Sale of non-franchise vehicle spare parts, accessories, components, tyres, power tools, lamps, kitchen appliances, paints and light fittings. Key Focus area for 2020/21 Stimulate revenue by transforming into e-commerce platforms and emerging channels. Revamp the distribution model to increase market reach and to optimise debtor collection period. Focus on local value addition to reduce dependency on imports. Despite the downturn in economic activities resulting from the Easter Sunday attacks in April 2019, the segment was able to record a 15% increase in revenue compared to last year. A good performance in commercial tyres, lighting and power tools operations contributed to the improved segment result. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KPI 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Revenue (Rs. million) 5,077 4,406 4,716 4,314 3,861 Contribution to the Group’s revenue (%) 15 12 11 10 10 Segment results (Rs. million) 486 379 407 167 259 Contribution to the Group’s segment results (%) 16 12 13 5 8 Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 87 84 74 90 86 Number of employees 247 235 212 222 237 Carbon emission (tCO2e) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.18 0.33 0.23 0.32 0.24 Water consumption (m3) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.92 0.97 0.70 1.99 1.13 Energy consumption (GJ) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 2.05 2.63 2.48 3.13 2.69 SEGMENT REVENUE SEGMENT RESULT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Rs. 5,077 Mn Rs. 486 Mn 87% In 2018/19: Rs. 4,406 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 379 Mn In 2018/19: 84% Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 27 CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT Sale and service of earth moving machinery, road construction machinery, fork-lifts, racking systems, cranes, pumps, concrete batching plants, Key Focus area for 2020/21 compressors and warehouse equipment. Expand business into countries outside Sri Lanka. Develop rental solutions. Management of debt collection to be more efficient. Offer complete solutions for automated and integrated storage handling requirements. A 5.9% decline recorded in the country’s investment expenditure during the year compared to a growth of 3.8% in 2018, and the adverse economic conditions that prevailed due to the Easter Sunday attacks caused the segment a 19% reduction in revenue and a 5% reduction in segment results. The sale and service of construction and mining machinery contributed to more than 80% of the segment’s results. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KPI 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Revenue (Rs. million) 1,607 1,984 2,671 2,581 1,559 Contribution to the Group’s revenue (%) 5 5 6 6 4 Segment results (Rs. million) 250 263 335 206 170 Contribution to the Group’s segment results (%) 9 9 10 10 5 Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 91 91 92 88 90 Number of employees 90 102 95 97 106 Carbon emission (tCO2e) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.29 0.25 0.18 0.19 0.26 Water consumption (m3) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 3.49 3.49 2.47 4.48 6.03 Energy consumption (GJ) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 2.92 5.52 4.38 2.27 2.88 SEGMENT REVENUE SEGMENT RESULT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Rs. 1,607 Mn Rs. 250 Mn 91% In 2018/19: Rs. 1,984 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 263 Mn In 2018/19: 91% 28 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 REFLECTING ON THE BUSINESS SEGMENTS AGRICULTURE Sale of agri machinery, agri machinery after services, sale of fertiliser, seeds, agrochemicals and speciality fertilisers. Key Focus area for 2020/21 Developing the product mix to reduce dependency on popular products. Continue R&D in high tech farming techniques. Strengthen the non-subsidy fertiliser range. Introduce small farm mechanization solutions. A slow growth of 0.6% in the country’s agriculture sector in 2019 compared to the 6.5% growth in 2018, together with a slowdown in the tourism sector, caused a 15% reduction in segment revenue and a 60% reduction in segment results. The Group’s agriculture segment’s fortunes are connected to the tourism industry, since the tourism sector is a major consumer of some agricultural outputs that depend on agricultural inputs supplied by the Group. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KPI 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 Revenue (Rs. million) 3,532 4,153 3,316 1,805 Contribution to the Group’s revenue (%) 10 11 8 4 Segment results (Rs. million) 124 307 121 201 Contribution to the Group’s segment results (%) 4 10 4 6 Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 85 84 83 89 Number of employees 232 241 220 54 Carbon emission (tCO2e) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.18 0.25 0.20 0.15 Water consumption (m3) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.44 1.53 1.42 0.09 Energy consumption (GJ) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 1.58 3.45 2.31 2.00 SEGMENT REVENUE SEGMENT RESULT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Rs. 3,532 Mn Rs. 124 Mn 85% In 2018/19: Rs. 4,153 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 307 Mn In 2018/19: 84% Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 29 ELECTROMECHANICAL, BIO-MEDICAL AND MARINE ENGINEERING Sale and aftercare of medical equipment, power engineering solutions, power systems, marine engineering solutions, rail traction systems, power generation Key Focus area for 2020/21 systems, building management systems and fluid management systems. Focus on energy efficient solutions and generation of renewable energy. Seek joint venture partnerships with foreign ventures to enter foreign markets. Seek expansion options in medical/healthcare operations. The rebound of construction activities and the activation of largescale power projects, including the supply and installation work of part of the 100 MW semi dispatchable wind farm in Mannar undertaken in the financial year 2018/19, facilitated a 85% increase in revenue and a 49% increase in segment results. Power solutions and medical equipment operations contributed to nearly 80% of the segment results. PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS KPI 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 Revenue (Rs. million) 5,911 3,196 2,603 2,721 2,168 Contribution to the Group’s revenue (%) 17 8 6 6 6 Segment results (Rs. million) 546 366 261 200 278 Contribution to the Group’s segment results (%) 19 12 8 6 9 Customer Satisfaction Index (%) 98 98 94 97 92 Number of employees 287 240 180 178 144 Carbon emission (tCO2e) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.10 0.18 0.17 0.15 0.21 Water consumption (m3) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 0.41 1.78 1.91 5.32 4.55 Energy consumption (GJ) to generate one-million-rupee turnover 1.09 2.00 1.94 1.82 2.18 SEGMENT REVENUE SEGMENT RESULT CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX Rs. 5,911 Mn Rs. 546 Mn 98% In 2018/19: Rs. 3,196 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 366 Mn In 2018/19: 98% 30 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 OVERVIEW OF THE OPERATING CONTEXT Indicator Measure Impact to DIMO GDP growth rate The Sri Lankan economy recorded a growth of 2.3% in A lower GDP growth rate leads to decline in real terms for the year 2019, compared to the growth business sentiment, while negatively impacting the of 3.3% in 2018. performance of the Group, especially in sales of equipment of capital nature. Interest rates The weekly Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate Interest rates impact DIMO in two ways. Reduced (AWPR) decreased to 9.24% as at the end of March borrowing cost may increase the demand for motor 2020 compared to 12.23% in the preceding year. vehicles and other capital equipment that we sell. Secondly, it has a direct bearing on the Group’s cost of funding. Inflation rate Annual average inflation as measured by the National Higher inflation could discourage consumer spending Consumer Price Index (NCPI) was 4.9% compared to especially on non-essential goods. A majority of the 1.7% recorded in previous year. Group products fall into the non-essential category. Depreciation of Rupee The Rupee depreciated against the US Dollar to The depreciation of the Rupee against the USD and Rs. 185.06 as at the end of March 2020 compared Euro has a material impact on Group transactions to Rs. 178.43 in the previous year. The Euro was denominated in these currencies. It increases the Rs. 204.68 as at the end of March 2020 compared to price of the products imported and thereby negatively Rs. 201.68 in the preceding year. affects the demand for our products and solutions. New motor vehicle The registration of vehicles, excluding three wheelers, The number of new motor vehicles registered is an registrations Quadricycles and Motor homes decreased by 45% indicator of the market size and the potential for the from 120,317 vehicles to 66,193 vehicles during Vehicle sales segment. the year. Transportation sector The Transportation Sector grew by 1.4% in 2019, Transportation sector growth has a direct impact on growth albeit at a slower rate, compared to 2.1% growth in the Vehicle sales, Vehicle After service and Marketing 2018. and Distribution segments. Construction sector Construction related activities rebounded during The growth in this sector is an indicator of the market growth the year, growing by 4% compared to a contraction potential for Construction & Material Handling related of 2.5% in 2018. The growth in 2019 was mainly Businesses and demand for commercial vehicles. due to the accelerated completion of large-scale construction projects. Health sector capital Total government investment in Health sector capital Capital expenditure of the Government in the health expenditure expenditure decreased to Rs. 32.7 billion in 2019 from sector is a key indicator of increasing demand for Rs. 37.9 billion in 2018. medical equipment. Industrial sector growth The industrial sector performance improved The Industrial sector comprises of activities relating marginally growing by 2.7% in 2019 compared to a to mining, manufacturing, utility and construction growth of 1.2% in 2018. industries. Industrial sector growth thus affects the demand for capital nature products and solutions offered by DIMO. Water and electricity Total electricity generation increased by 3.3% to 15,879 Government investment in water and electricity has GWh in 2019 compared to 15,255 GWh in 2018. an impact on the fortunes of the Power Engineering and Fluid Management businesses. During 2019, the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (NWS&DB) provided 108,850 new water supply connections reaching 2.4 million total connections by end 2019. Agricultural sector The Agriculture sector recoded a modest growth of The growth in this sector impacts the performance of growth 0.6% in 2019 compared to a growth of 6.5% in 2018, agriculture related activities. reflecting the impact of extreme weather conditions observed during most months of 2019. | 31 GEARING FOR FUTURE VALUE CREATION This section provides information that will help the reader to assess how well we are geared to create value in long term. 32 Managing monetised resources to stimulate growth 34 A conversation with CHRO: building effective and strong teams 36 Differentiating for competitiveness 38 Responsible value chain: managing impacts 41 Governance: a structure that connects performance with purpose 53 Managing risks 32 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGING MONETISED RESOURCES TO STIMULATE GROWTH Monetised resources are those that are Uncertainty in demand and supply due to the COVID-19 pandemic could bring negative impacts to the level of liquidity and the stated in monetary terms in the Financial cash conversion cycle of the Group, in the short term. During Statements. They largely influence our ability the responding phase for the COVID-19 crisis, the Group took to acquire other forms of resources and the several measures to increase liquidity including curtailing specific competitiveness of the value proposition discretionary expenses without compromising operations, securing additional funding to finance adverse impact to the cash flow, and we offer. Securing and carefully nurturing management of revenue, credit and collections. These measures are monetised resources is of paramount expected to secure liquidity to ensure successful navigation through importance to sustain and grow the business. the recovery phase in the post-crisis period. Cash and cash equivalents in hand and at bank as at 31st March 2020 was Rs. 838 million, a 276% increase from Rs. 223 million CASH GENERATION AND LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT last year, reflecting the immediate actions taken by the Group to TAKE PRIORITY secure funds to face the negative impacts from COVID-19. Available Managing the flow of funds is imperative to ensure the efficient excess cash is managed by the Group’s treasury function to ensure utilisation of resources, liquidity and solvency. Especially with the the effective use of such funds. onset of COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent uncertainty due to business and movement restrictions, extra efforts are vital to IMPROVING EFFICIENT USE OF ASSETS WHILE manage the sources and uses of funds. OPTIMISING COST Maintaining a healthy current ratio and a quick asset ratio is vital Cost optimisation has always been a management priority. The for adequate liquidity. As depicted in Graph 02, the Group has been group experienced slow revenue growth during the last five years maintaining its current ratio above 1.2 times over the last five years. mainly due to the volatility in government regulations on vehicle The graph further indicates the gradual increase in quick asset imports and slow national GDP growth. This trend demands that ratio over five years from 0.56 times in 2015/16 to 0.72 times extra attention be paid to increasing the flexibility of cost structures, in 2019/20, reflecting the Group’s efforts to increase liquidity of the effective utilisation of assets and improving productivity. current assets by strengthening demand planing so that we can carry lower inventory. With a new identity and brand repositioning, the Group has now strengthened its focus on mobilising investments made in Property Average cash cycle for the Group stood at 162 days for year 2019/20 Plant and Equipment (PPE), thereby increasing the asset turnover (2018/19 – 139 days), with 110 days inventory outstanding, ratio of the Group/ Company. Out of a total Rs. 11,507 million debtors collection period of 82 days and creditor settlement period investment in PPE as at 31st March 2020, investments in the branch of 30 days. The increase of 23 days in cash cycle is mainly due to the network amounted to Rs. 6,283 million. The branch network is increase in trade receivables. The longer debtor collection period is currently utilised mainly for vehicle sales and after services. The mainly due to extended credit terms given to industrial customers Group is now focusing on increasing the mobility of the investments of the electromechanical, bio-medical and marine engineering made in the branch network to strengthen the availability of other segment for large scale industrial projects, and increased debtor products, whilst increasing the Group’s ability to yield returns aging of dealers in the Marketing and Distribution segments. The through its already invested fixed assets. Group is closely monitoring the level of debtor collection. Working capital during the cash conversion cycle is funded through banking Improving the flexibility of the cost structure of the company is facilities from nine banks; these arrangements had Rs. 7,808 million another key focus area in the short to medium term. The volatility unutilised as at 31st March 2020. in economic policies and activity witnessed during the last two Graph 02: Graph 03: Liquidity ratios Cost as a percentage of gross proﬁt Times % 1.47 1.5 100 1.3 1.24 1.24 1.2 1.2 80 0.9 60 0.72 0.65 0.56 0.54 0.6 0.49 40 0.3 20 0.0 0 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Current Ratio Quick asset Ratio Operating cost Finance cost PBT Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 33 years forced the company to maintain higher levels of stock and Graph 04: higher receivables, which resulted in increased finance cost, and Capital structure collective impairments for receivables. As depicted in Graph 03, % the Group’s operating cost which includes staff and administration 100 expenses, accounts for more than 80% of the Group’s gross profit; 98 improving this ratio is imperative for profitability growth. Business 96 94 process re-engineering, integrating technology to improve process 92 effectiveness and aggressive budgetary controls are some of the 90 key tools being used to put this requirement in to practice. 88 86 84 STIMULATING REVENUE GENERATION IN THE POST 82 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 COVID-19 PANDEMIC ECONOMY Equity LT Debt The disruption to economic activities due to the COVID-19 pandemic has reduced our ability to generate revenue in the short term. Uncertainty pertaining to shifts in customer expectations, A RESPONSIBLE TAXPAYER volatile lead times in supplies and mobility restrictions contribute The tax we pay is important to the economic and social development to the adversities and these necessitate the Group to have solid of the country therefore we have a responsibility to comply fully plans to stimulate revenue generation and drive value creation. with the relevant regulations. Our total income tax expense for the Strengthening health and safety measures, transforming sales year is Rs. 78 million (2018/29 – Rs. 27 million); this increase is of goods and services onto online platforms and the introduction due to the 168% increase in profit before tax, compared to last of mobile service packages are some of the ongoing initiatives to year. The effective tax rate (including the effect of the deferred stimulate sales. Moreover, scenario planning is also being conducted tax expense) increased to 28% from a rate of 26% previous year. to enhance the responsiveness of the supply chain. The reconciliation between accounting profit and taxable income is available in Note 4.6.1 to the Financial Statements. A summarised A CAPITAL STRUCTURE TO FACILITATE THE computation of deferred tax is provided in Note 4.24 to the Financial DIVERSIFICATION STRATEGY Statements. Diversification is the corporate strategy that enables the Group’s expansions and revenue growth. As depicted in Graph 05, the CREATE VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS diversification of revenue streams has enabled the company to Our efforts to maximise financial performance reflect our enjoy stable gross profit and growing gross profit margins despite commitment to delivering long-term value to shareholders. the slow revenue growth experienced in the last five years. Improving net asset per share and distributing attractive dividends to shareholders are key parts of this mandate. As depicted in Graph It is mandatory that the Group maintains a capital structure that 06, over the past five years we have increased our net asset per enables cost effective funding for new investments and acquisitions. share from Rs. 1,125 in 2015/16 to Rs. 1,350 as at 31st March As depicted in Graph 04, the Group has been reducing its gearing, 2020. Our dividend policy seeks maximum shareholder return while reaching 4% as at 31st March 2020. This affords the company the retaining adequate earnings for investments, further ensuring that flexibility to borrow to fund its capital investments. Over Rs. 10,794 we generate the maximum shareholder returns. million short term borrowings of the Group, obtained to facilitate working capital, are outstanding as at 31st March 2020 (2018/19 However, due to uncertainties prevailing in the economy, the Board – 9,290 million). did not consider payment of a dividend for the year 2019/20. Graph 05: Graph 06: Revenue, gross proﬁt and gross proﬁt margin Net assets per share Rs.Bn % Rs. 50 25 1,500 44 44 21 1,399 1,400 1,323 1,323 40 38 19 20 1,300 16 38 1,145 1,200 1,125 30 17 17 34 15 1,100 1,000 20 10 900 10 7 7 7 7 7 5 800 700 0 0 600 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Revenue GP GP % 34 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 BUILDING EFFECTIVE AND STRONG TEAMS: A CONVERSATION WITH THE CHRO An engaged and aligned employee is able to nurture our customers and other stakeholders and take ownership of our purpose “Fuelling Dreams and Aspirations”. The level of engagement of our employees plays an important role in fulfilling our purpose. WHAT IS DIMO’S APPROACH TO DEVELOP AND ENGAGE “We encourage our employees to be EMPLOYEES? well-rounded individuals. We believe in Employee experience is vital for employee engagement. That’s work life balance and MAKING WORK why we create a pleasant employee experience throughout the ENJOYABLE & REWARDING” employee life cycle from on-boarding a recruit to his/her exit from Dilrukshi Kurukulasuriya the organisation. We have several unique practices that employees Chief Human Resources Officer continuously appreciate, and we keep improving them. Development takes place in two spheres horizontal development WHAT IS UNIQUE ABOUT DIMO AS AN EMPLOYER? HOW DO and vertical development. Horizontal development builds the YOU ENSURE GOOD TALENT IS ATTRACTED TO DIMO? expertise of employees, whereas vertical development focuses Our Employee Value Proposition (EVP) is “making work enjoyable on building leadership. DIMO has a greater focus on vertical and rewarding”, and we channel all our efforts towards making this development as it increases bench strength and grows the leadership EVP a reality. We have segmented our overall EVP and offer specific pipeline. Where leadership development is concerned, we invest in segmented value propositions for different employee categories employees with high potential. Coaching, mentoring, simulations including challenging work, training & development, international and job assignments among other methods are made part of the exposure, exposure to the top management, a safe work development journey for selected high potential employees. environment and working with like-minded staff. However, there are two important common threads that run across the organisation, This year we have achieved an engagement score of 4.11 compared which are how each employee is connected to the big picture and to 3.89 recorded in last year. The areas improved included teamwork, the freedom extended to staff to deliver expected results. manager support and growth; where we employed extra effort based on employee responses last year. The alignment between our EVP and the experience received by the employees together with a fair and equitable culture, has created a Table 02: Statement of employee composition as at; unique employer brand for DIMO, which helps us attract good talent 31st March 31st March to the organization. 2020 2019 Number of employees (No.) 1,916 1,961 Employees in management levels (%) 21 21 Inside DIMO Employees with over 5 years’ DIMO was named one of the best places to work in experience (%) 49 48 Sri Lanka for seven consecutive years by the Great Female employees (%) 11 10 Place to Work Institute, Sri Lanka. Employees aged below 40 (%) 74 76 Figure 07: Human capital development at DIMO Named as one of the best Rs. 3,357million employee benefits places to work by Great Place were paid during the year 213 training programs during to Work Sri Lanka. (2018/19 – Rs. 2,966 million). the year (2018/19 – 246). Aligned and Making work Develop and engaged Employer branding + enjoyable and rewarding + stimulate the right individuals = employees with optimal capacity Winner of the ‘Healthiest Workplace’ award in the 149 high potentials were given Employee engagement score Large Organisations category of Sri Lanka, at the 16 leadership trainings. 4.11(2018/19 – 3.89). AIA Healthiest Workplace Summit 2019. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 35 DIMO STRONGLY PURSUES DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND With the disruptive situation and resultant movement restrictions, BEING A GENDER SMART ORGANISATION. HOW DO YOU PUT it was important to ensure our employees stayed safe and had THIS MANDATE INTO PRACTICE? access to essential food items and hygiene. By paying salaries We believe in the premise that a diverse workforce is more productive well in advance, we made sure that they would be comfortable and and delivers better results. This is our business case for diversity. have access to essential goods. We further reached out to all of our All our meritocracy driven HR processes try to eliminate individual employees through a call tree mechanism to ensure that they were biases and focus on the objective. The top management is appointed all safe and had access to essential items. as patrons and advisors to our Resource Group, which we launched in November 2018 to gender sensitise the organization. However, due to constraints resulting from restricted operations, the Group took a collaborative decision to enforce a temporary Going beyond, we have also partnered with the IFC’s “She works” pay cut, which was well received by employees. Their support for programme to drive the “Together We Can” campaign, along with the decision truly reflects their level of alignment to our overall 17 other Sri Lankan companies. Individually we focus on two main objectives. objectives attracting female talent for unconventional jobs, and developing females for leadership positions, both of which we have Our constant communication regarding COVID-19 and preventive aggressively pursued. measures kept our employees up to date with preventive mechanisms. Company medical staff were available 24/7 to help At present, females represent 10% of engineers and auto employees with queries related to COVID-19 and the relevant engineering related staff at DIMO. Although only 11% of our government regulations. An emergency task force headed by the employees are female, 25% of middle management positions are CEO was appointed to ensure the health and safety of employees. held by females. This has to improve further. Every employee was educated on health and safety guidelines and required PPE was made available before the resumption of work. DIMO UNDERTOOK A BRAND REPOSITIONING IN YEAR 2019 Organised remote working infrastructures ensured that people WITH A MODIFIED PURPOSE AND VALUES. THESE VALUES were connected and essential operations continued smoothly whilst REFLECT HOW EMPLOYEES SHOULD CONDUCT THEMSELVES employee engagement activities were carried out on social media. TO LIVE UP TO THE BRAND PROMISE. HOW DID YOU During the curfew period, we carried out online assessments for INTERNALISE SUCH A CHANGE OF BEHAVIOUR? employee development needs and achieved 3,400 training hours by Stakeholders perceive a brand through the consistent behaviour organising many online competency-building programmes to upskill of its employees. In order to internalise the new brand identity our workforce. Activities such as an online Avurudhu Uthsavaya and by aligning employees with the brand promise, we introduced social media communications kept our employees engaged with the 5 Standards of Leadership. These standards are linked to our company during this time. We expect to maintain this momentum in corporate values being integrity, people centricity, excellence, years to come. customer delight and accountability. HOW CONFIDENT ARE YOU OF THE DIMO TRIBE’S We ensured the all employees are aware of the new brand promise, COMPETENCY TO DELIVER VALUE IN THE LONG TERM? understand the values and the standards of leadership and behave I don’t believe that any organisation will have all the competencies accordingly. The many initiatives included training programs, needed in-house. We will constantly have to acquire people with rare emails showcasing what positive and negative behaviours are, competencies from the market because the competencies required constant reminders about the Values at each monthly employee to deliver value today will be very different to the competencies that council meeting, a point system for employees who demonstrate will be required in the future. exceptional standards of leadership and an online portal where employees could pose their questions. Most importantly, standards In order to understand the competency requirements, make correct of leadership will be taken into consideration when an employee’s choices and align the workforce, it is vital that we have competent potential is assessed for leadership development. leaders. A strong employer brand is a prerequisite to attract talent as and when required. I am happy to state that DIMO is well HOW DID THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC AFFECT THE QUALITY OF equipped with these two ingredients which will ensure our human DIMO’S HUMAN CAPITAL? HOW DID THE COMPANY MANAGE capital remains competent and relevant to successfully drive future SUCH AN IMPACT? value creation. During an uncertain time, many factors can contribute to the quality of the human capital. Chief among these would be an employee’s health, engagement, competency and availability. 36 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 DIFFERENTIATING FOR COMPETITIVENESS DIFFERENTIATING DIMO The Differentiation strategy is mainly embedded in our offering One of our key differentiators is DIMO’s delivery and post-delivery care while overall, our corporate philosophy and values also play a significant role in differentiation. presence all over the country. This is a key We strive to enrich the content and delivery of what we offer at every competitive advantage when attracting step along the value chain. We do so by ensuring that the supplies, internationally renowned principals. DIMO human resources and processes are nurtured and developed to has to date invested Rs. 6,283 million in make the difference. While our own value addition plays a key role in differentiating the distinct value offered by DIMO, these efforts are property plant and equipment to establish complemented by the best in class brands that we represent. these contact points. DIMO’s differentiation strategy is thus the key to attracting and maintaining relationships with well-established foreign business partners and our customers. We present an account below of how DIMO pursues this mandate, and the areas we focus on to deliver differentiation. We receive world renowned technology from our principals. The medical equipment, power solutions, Technological construction machinery and even vehicle brands we represent offer advanced technology and provide excellence efficient solutions. In addition, the Group is in the process of assessing an investment for an internal digital transformation. Customer primacy is mandated by DIMO’s corporate values and is embedded into our systems and processes through the Quality Management System while our value chain seeks customer primacy from Customer every aspect. We invest about 0.5% to 1% of revenue on customer engagement related activities, primacy customer loyalty programs and to maintain a dedicated CRM unit with a 24/7 operating call centre, to further enhance customer primacy. DIMO aftercare is the key source of dependability: it offers the latest technology, 586 dedicated employees and accessibility across the country through DIMO’s branch and dealer networks. Our Dependability dependability is further enhanced by the tacit knowledge gathered over 80 years of business. Solid and aftercare relationships with foreign principals also facilitate the smooth processing of warranty claims to increase convenience for our customers. One of our key differentiators is DIMO’s presence all over the country. This is a key competitive Market advantage when attracting internationally renowned principals. DIMO has to date invested Rs. 6,283 presence million in property plant and equipment to establish these contact points. Our quality management system, environmental management system and social accountability management system ensure that we are responsible in all we do. These management systems are accredited for ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and SA 8000, and testify to our responsible behaviour. Responsible We are also conscious of how our suppliers and foreign principals operate. We ensure our principals behaviour have core values that complement our own and that they have a similar approach to conducting their businesses. Among many aspects are those that prescribe our expectation of ethical standards and the level of technology integrated into systems. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 37 How is the COVID-19 pandemic affecting DIMO’s ability to deliver differentiation? With the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, global economic activities Inside DIMO are witnessing a remarkable drop, which has negatively affected our ´´ DIMO has more than 80 foreign partnerships, of which eight customers and business partners. Restrictions on movements have relationships are more than 50 years old while seven foreign also compelled DIMO to limit the number of employees dedicated to principals are ranked in the Fortune 500 list of 2019. after care services and customer engagements. ´´ DIMO operates 51 customer contact points, of which 29 are Within this scenario, our priority is the health and safety of our outside the western province. employees and of other stakeholders who may come into contact ´´ DIMO is one of the few companies in Sri Lanka that are with us or with our products. Therefore, we may be limited in our SA 8000 certified. This indicates that we manage our direct ability to implement differentiation at its fullest. and indirect social impacts responsibly. The Company will use this slowdown to take a fresh look at our business model to identify better ways of doing businesses and to provide win-win solutions to our customers and business partners so that together, we can bounce back to normalcy. DIMO’s Digital Presence At a time when physical presence is under challenge, our digital presence facilitated constant engagement with customers. We use our Facebook pages not only to engage with customers but also as a platform for brand advocacy and for grievance communications. Our 100% response rate and the negative sentiment policy which demand transparency about negative comments in social media have given customers the confidence to keep reaching us through this platform. During the year Group’s eight active Facebook pages, saw over 4 million engagements. On the other hand, the dynamic DIMO website drew in over 4,000 product inquiries via comprehensive, continuously updated products pages. 38 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN: MANAGING IMPACTS “DIMO’s way” of being responsible is and was intrinsic to the business philosophy of our founders. We consider it a moral obligation to efficiently manage the impacts on two fold: first, being responsible when natural capital, which is one of our capital inputs. managing the impacts of our operations on society, environment and the economy ‘DIMO’s way’ of being responsible is twofold: first, being and second, getting involved voluntarily in responsible when managing the impacts of our operations on society, environment and the economy and second, getting external initiatives that promote sustainable involved voluntarily in external initiatives that promote sustainable development, subject to affordability. development, subject to affordability. As depicted in Figure 08, both aspects take place, while prioritising material stakeholder concerns Responsible value creation and contributing towards the sustainable identified through the stakeholder engagement process. development goals of our country are key aspects of what fuels DIMO. Responsible behaviour grants us the social licence to operate The Board of Directors has the accountability for DIMO’s responsible and has a positive impact on DIMO’s brand equity. The element of behaviour. The Board of Directors has delegated the oversight of responsibility is deep rooted in our corporate literature and culture this important mandate to the Group’s Sustainability Committee. Figure 08: ‘DIMO’s Way’ of responsibly managing social, economic and environment impact Systems available to manage Voluntary initiatives to make impacts responsibly a positive impact to the Employees Society economy, environment and Corporate governance the society framework Material Social accountability stakeholder management system concerns Shareholders Business Environmental management partners system Quality management system Customers MANAGING ECONOMIC IMPACT MONETISED VALUE CREATION DIMO’s economic impact arises from three main aspects: monetised value creation and distribution, provision of employment Rs. 11,738 Mn In 2018/19: Rs. 13,136 Mn opportunities across the nation, and contribution to economic development through products and services. Graph 07: MANAGING SOCIAL IMPACT Monetised value distribution (2019/20) The SA 8000 accredited social accountability system and the ISO 1% 5% 9001:2015 accredited quality management system facilitate the 10% 29% responsible management of social impact. COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS Complying with all mandatory rules and regulations is a priority in the governance agenda, as depicted in page 41 of the governance report. No non-compliances were recorded during the year. 55% Employees Lenders Shareholders Government Community Retained in the business Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 39 Graph 08: through their own supply chain. As of 31st March 2020, 301 Monetised value distribution (2018/19) suppliers pledged to adhere to DIMO’s subcontractor work permit scheme which requires them to adhere to DIMO’s comprehensive 1% 4% health and safety measures when conducting work within DIMO’s 11% 23% premises. MANAGING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT DIMO ISO 14001:2015 certified environmental management system facilitates the responsible management of environmental impact. 62% CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS Employees Lenders Shareholders Government Community Retained in the business DIMO acknowledges that climate change and global warming are the most challenging environmental issues of the 21st century. That’s why DIMO is committed to a Cleaner and a greener planet ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT by doing our part to manage Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions How we conduct our business can influence the communities around arising from our activities within and beyond the business boundary us. DIMO’s Code of Business Ethics encapsulates our approach to while managing our energy consumption efficiently. In this spirit we business conduct while our employees abide by our public policy shall practice the following; guide in their day to day interactions with stakeholders. For example, the Code specifies that DIMO cannot make any political donation DIMO’s climate change actions or attempt to influence any public body. The Code also focuses on ´´ Reducing our energy consumption: the Diesel Centre and DIMO issues of corruption and unfair competition. Each employee who 800 are LEED Gold certified Green Buildings which require 25% joins the DIMO tribe is made aware of the obligations enshrined in less energy needs than a traditional building. the Code of Business Ethics during his/her orientation. ´´ Ensuring that all our products including vehicles are equipped ETHICAL LABOUR PRACTICES with the latest technology for energy efficiency and lower carbon emission. Our 1,916 employees are treated with dignity and equality. Our labour practices are designed to uphold ethics and responsibility ´´ Maintaining air conditioning at 24o C. and are SA 8000:2014 accredited. ´´ Programming all computers to revert to standby mode after a five-minute idling period. PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP ´´ Using LED technology for lighting. Our approach to product responsibility is embedded in the ISO accredited quality management system; it consists of factors ´´ Inculcating a culture of ‘switching off’ when not in use. such as ethical marketing, product labelling, product safety and ´´ Planning all future buildings to exploit natural light. responsible aftercare. During the year, there were no instances of non-compliance reported relating to these aspects. ´´ Monitoring our carbon footprint using the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Standard (revised Inside DIMO edition). DIMO employs a SA 8000 accredited Social Accountability ´´ Ensuring that emissions generated by our business activities Management System This is an assurance that we avoid the fall within the regulatory frameworks and limits. An independent use of child labour and forced labour and that we maintain best party authorised by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) practices related to health and safety of workers, freedom of measures our emission levels annually. association, eliminating discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours and remuneration. WATER CONSUMPTION AND DISPOSAL DIMO makes every effort to minimise the use of water by using lower volumes and recycling wherever possible. The rainwater harvesting RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR OF SUPPLIERS system located at DIMO Logistics Centre – Weliweriya is a key A responsible value chain demands responsible suppliers. The component of DIMO’s water management agenda as it reduces the ethical standards we expect of suppliers are enshrined in the DIMO water the Group withdraws from publicly shared sources. During the Supplier Code. These include labour practices and health and safety year 1,732 m3 (888 m3 in FY 2018/19) of rainwater was collected commitments. All partners are required to reaffirm their commitment and utilised for operations. to these standards and must take action to also disseminate these 40 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN: MANAGING IMPACTS All of DIMO’s main workshops now operate state-of-the-art water coded bins for organic material, paper, polythene and plastic waste, treatment and recycling plants and the Group thus recycled about which are then reused or recycled through CEA approved recyclers. 19% (2018/19 – 16%) of the total water used during the year. Food waste is handed over to a third party for use as animal feed. Wastewater generated at our workshops is treated and monitored DIMO employees are regularly trained on safety and in proper daily to ascertain compliance with legally imposed pH levels. Random handling of hazardous material. Chemical Spillage Kits are available samples of recycled water are collected by a CEA-approved third for use by employees in the event of a spillage. The protocol for party to monitor pH value and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). managing such an eventuality is set out in Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). We are pleased to report that there were no incidents Inside DIMO reported in relation to hazardous chemical spillages during the year. In the case of electronic waste, we have partnered with a recycler for ´´ DIMO has entered into a contract with VESTAS, a global partner the safe disposal of e-waste. for sustainable energy solutions, to install a 104 MW Wind Power Project in Mannar—the country’s largest such project. Figure 09: DIMO waste management hierarchy ´´ Installed solar panels in Weliweriya, DIMO 800 and Siyabalape premises with an electricity generation capacity A4 paper/cotton waste/ of 1,744 KW annually. Minimisation and reuse waste oil/food waste ´´ DIMO provides customised illumination solutions with LED Cardboard, polythene, plastic/oil Recycle technology so that corporates can improve their energy filters/metal scrap/glass/tyres efficiency. Contaminated paper, polythene, Incineration ´´ DIMO introduced the Komatsu Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator cotton waste/paint tins/sludge to Sri Lanka, setting the standard for energy efficient Composting Garden waste construction machinery. ´´ DIMO Automobile Training School (DATS) recently launched Windscreen/paint booth filters/food Waste under its hybrid technology hub, to provide training in Hybrid and contaminated polythene review High voltage technology, facilitating better aftercare for hybrid vehicles. WASTE MANAGEMENT Our approach to managing hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste is grounded in the belief that the Company should re-use, VOLUNTARY INVESTMENTS IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT re-cycle and replenish wherever possible. Figure 09 depicts the We carry out voluntary investments in sustainable development process through which the Group practices this mandate, which is based on community expectations and affordability. We try to supported by all business units. engage in projects that are sustainable and can make a substantial impact for the intended cause for a longer period. Presented below The Group’s responsible waste disposal practices include is an account of DIMO’s main voluntary projects that are ongoing. segregating non-hazardous solid waste to reuse, recycle or The impacts include improving technical education in Sri Lanka and incinerate. The segregation system at our premises involves colour preserving biodiversity. DIMO Academy for Technical Life to Reef Turtle Conservation Project Life – Skills (DATS) ongoing since ongoing since 2012 ongoing since 2018 ongoing since 1991 November 2017 The school has so far As of 31st March 2020, a DIMO volunteers have The project supports the produced nearly 500 total of 81,503 hatchlings planted more than 1,500 restoration and biodiversity graduates in automobile were released to the ocean. coral nubbins to conserve management of a degraded engineering, who completed Hatching success rate is coral reef Rumassala ten-hectare forest land in their two years of studies 96%. (Galle), with promising Kanneliya. This includes entirely free of charge. results. the development of a biodiversity credit accrual system for the first time in Sri Lanka. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 41 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE Enterprise Governance at DIMO is designed To fuel the dreams and aspirations of the stakeholders we serve, the Board of Directors of DIMO provides ethical, accountable and to align the purpose and value creation transparent leadership which ensures sustainable value creation model to seize market opportunities and to and a culture of continuous improvement of good governance create sustainable value. In this spirit, the practices. The Board ensures that all business decisions are made Board provides leadership to drive integrated in an independent and effective manner with reasonable skill and care while integrating strategy, performance and risk to craft our thinking and formulate requisite strategies to own value story. direct the Group to its desired aspiration. A FRAMEWORK TO TRANSLATE OUR COMMITMENT INTO PRACTICE Complying with relevant laws and regulations and industry standards provides a solid foundation for the Board to be transparent in our practices and ethical in our operations. We augment our governance framework with voluntary adherence to best practices. The executive leadership is tasked with building the requisite values and culture for accountability and transparency. It allows the Group to venture beyond its mandatory compliance, to expand conformance practices to different areas of the business, promoting responsible corporate behaviour, strengthening operations, addressing expectations of various stakeholder groups and eventually supporting sustained performance. Figure 10: Governance Framework In roup’s ternal Pro Mandatory Compliance M OG ce s Voluntary Adherence DI s ´´ Companies Act No. 07 ´´ Code of Best Practice on of 2007 Corporate Governance issued by CA Sri Lanka ´´ Sri Lanka Accounting and ry Environm DIM Auditing Standard Act ´´ UNGC ten principles es e nt No. 15 of 1995 STEWARDSHIP TRANSPARENCY Code of Business Ethics of O cul ´´ ture and valu ´´ Other legislative DIMO enactments affecting the ´´ GRI Standards ulato Company Reg ´´ Quality Management ´´ Listing Rules of Colombo ACCOUNTABILITY INTEGRITY System Stock Exchange ´´ Environmental ´´ Articles of Association Management System ´´ SEC regulations ´´ Internal Control System Stewardship Driving Value Creation The stewardship role bestowed upon the Board of Directors Value creation is optimised when strategy, risks and performance are demands that the Board has in place the necessary mechanisms carefully integrated and appropriately balanced. At DIMO, the Board and processes to deliver short, medium and long term value to the drives the value creation process through effective management of Group. capitals, value creation activities, impacts and risks, and connecting all those elements together to create a sound value creation model. The role of business leadership Enterprise Governance at DIMO drives how well our purpose and Web Content on Governance value creation model are aligned to seize market opportunities How the governance framework facilitates the successful and to create sustainable value. In this spirit, the Board provides execution of value creation through its carefully implemented business leadership to drive integrated thinking and formulate the points of reference and the level of compliance with the Code requisite strategies to direct the Group to its desired aspiration. of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka are available on Company’s website at http://www.dimolanka.com/ stewardship/ 42 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE Managing Risks Moving on after COVID-19 The Board of Directors of DIMO is primarily responsible to ensure With the onset of COVID-19 in Sri Lanka and the consequent that risks are identified and appropriately managed across the restrictions to business and movement, the Group’s operations Group. Risks associated with capitals, value creation activities, were adversely affected from the second half of the month of March business segments and impacts are monitored and managed. 2020. The full extent and duration of the impact on the Group’s operations and financial performance will be felt during the financial The detailed account of our risk management practices is available year 2020/21. The Board, in its role as the main governing body of on pages 53 to 55. the Group, has developed a comprehensive action plan to mitigate future adverse impacts. This plan covers the following key objectives: Building our own We will build our own resilience through our integrated decision making process designed along capital resilience management activities and value creation activities. Adapting to the We will re-look at our value creation model and will re-design it, if required, to adapt to the new normal. new normal Virtual offices We will build our human capital and other infrastructure as necessary to meet the new reality of virtual offices. Accountability Governing Structure The governance structure depicts how the Board of Directors has structured the governing body to support its ability to create value, and to better discharge the responsibilities and accountability bestowed upon them. Figure 11: Governance Structure Figure 12: Board Diversity Board Balance and its Independence Shareholders Board of Directors INED 03 Remuneration Nomination Audit RPT Review NED 01 ED 09 Committee Committee Committee Committee Tenure of Board Members Group Sustainability 08 05 Management Committee More than 5 Less than 5 Committee years years INED – Independent Non-Executive Directors NED – NonExecutive Directors ED – Executive Directors Board of Directors Board Balance and its Independence The Board bears overall responsibility for enterprise governance The Board consisted of 13 members throughout the financial year and consequently, for conformance. 2019/20. The Directors bring a range of diverse skills, expertise and competencies to the Board to facilitate the effective discharge of Board responsibilities. Among the main areas of expertise and knowledge possessed by the Board are engineering capabilities, strategic business acumen, financial expertise, marketing and law. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 43 The Board also enjoys the services of four qualified accountants Board Meetings who provide financial acumen and knowledge relating to matters of Meeting attendance of the Directors is one of the indicators of their finance. active participation in decision making. As defined by charter, the Board always dedicates adequate time and effort to matters of the All Directors must, by duty, act with independence of mind and in Board and the Group, to ensure that the duties and responsibilities the best interests of the Company. This mandate is enhanced by owed to the Group are satisfactorily discharged. Table 03 sets out the presence of four Non-Executive Directors, of whom three are details of Directors’ appointments and attendance at Board Meetings. Independent Directors. Board Performance Rule No. 7.10.3 of the listing rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Board performance is appraised annually by the members of the requires that an explanation be provided in the event a Director Board. The Board evaluation process helps to improve Board is considered an Independent Director after serving the Board effectiveness and to identify areas for improvement. continuously for a period of more than nine years. Mr. R. Seevaratnam and Dr. H. Cabral, whose tenures as Directors have exceeded Performance Evaluation of Executive Directors and their nine years, continue to be considered Independent Directors. The Remuneration required explanation is provided on page 59 in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The performance of the Chairman, who plays an executive role, is annually appraised by the Non-Executive Directors. Individual Chairman in an Executive Capacity Directors are also assessed annually by evaluating their performance against objectives linked to Corporate Strategy. The Chairman, Mr. A.R. Pandithage, who is designated Chairman/ Managing Director, plays an executive role in the Group and thus The Directors’ remuneration is aligned to their performance and holds the highest executive position. The Board is of the belief is attractive enough to motivate and retain Executive Directors. that the existing arrangement has been economically beneficial to The Remuneration Committee is responsible for suggesting and shareholders so as to not warrant any change and that the dual role approving remuneration for Executive Directors. The report of the of Executive Chairman does not compromise the principles of good Remuneration Committee is presented on page 49. corporate governance. This is further assured through the presence of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Directors’ remuneration is disclosed on page 89. Independent Director. Brief profiles of the members of the Board are given on Senior Independent Director pages 10 to 11. Mr. R. Seevaratnam functions as the Senior Independent Director. The presence of the Senior Independent Director provides a workable mechanism to review the effectiveness of the Board in view of the executive role played by the Chairman. Table 03: Individual Directors’ Active Participation in Decision Making Appointment to the Board Attendance Board Member Re-election/ Position at Board First Meetings Re-appointment A. R. Pandithage Jun-77 Jun-19 Chairman/Managing Director 5/5 A. G. Pandithage Dec-95 Jun-18 CEO /Director 4/5 A. N. Algama Nov-84 Jun-18 Executive Director 2/5 S. C. Algama Nov-84 Jun-19 Executive Director 5/5 M. V. Bandara Jun-16 Jun-19 Executive Director 5/5 Dr. H. Cabral Oct-06 Jun-19 Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5 B.C.A.S.P. Gooneratne Apr-06 Jun-19 Director/Chief Financial Officer 5/5 P.K.W. Mahendra Jun-16 Jun-17 Executive Director 5/5 A.M. Pandithage Sep-82 Jun-18 Non-Executive Director 5/5 A.N. Ranasinghe July-17 Jun-18 Executive Director/Chief Marketing Officer 5/5 S.R.W.M.C. Ranawana Jun-16 Jun-17 Executive Director 5/5 R. Seevaratnam Jan-07 Jun-19 Senior Independent Director 5/5 A.D.B. Talwatte Jun-16 Jun-17 Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5 44 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE Table 04: Attendance of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors at the Board Meetings held during the year Attendance Gap Between Board Meeting Date Executive Non Executive Independent NonTotal Number of Meetings (days) Directors Directors Executive Directors Directors attended 08/05/2019 47 08 01 03 12 25/05/2019 17 07 01 03 11 02/08/2019 69 08 01 03 12 13/11/2019 103 09 01 03 13 10/02/2020 89 09 01 03 13 Board Committees statutes, statutory documents and regulations are classified in the The Board Committees serve as an effective oversight mechanism “mandatory compliance” category and the codes, best practices, that enhances the Board’s monitoring of compliance and risk management systems and control systems are classified in the management. DIMO has four Board Committees, namely the Audit “voluntary adherence” category. Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and the Related Party Transaction Review Committee, each with Mandatory compliance its own terms of reference. With the exception of the Nomination DIMO is compliant with the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and Committee, the other three Board Committees are mandated by the the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No. 15 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange and meet all criteria 1995, along with many other applicable legislative enactments. prescribed therein. All four committees comprise Non-Executive The Company is also compliant with the regulations issued by the Directors except for the Nomination Committee, where the Chairman Securities and Exchange Commission and the Listing Rules of the of the Board serves as a member. Colombo Stock Exchange. The reports of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Disclosures required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and Nomination Committee and Related Party Transaction Review the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange can be viewed from page 134 to 135. Committee, including the composition of each committee, are available on pages 47 to 51. Statements of responsibility Management Committees The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Statements The Group Management Committee (GMC) is a management setting out the Directors’ responsibility in preparing and presenting committee entrusted with the execution of strategy and the the financial statements as per section 150 (1), 151, 152 and 153 (1) management of value creation. The members of the GMC are and (2) of Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 is presented on page 64. appointed by the Board and they consist of Executive Directors and members of the senior management team. The composition of the The responsibility Statement of the Chairman, Chief Executive Group Management Committee is given on page 12. Officer and Chief Financial Officer recommended by section four of Guidelines for Appointment of Auditors of Listed Companies, issued The Sustainability Committee, which is a management committee by Securities and Exchange Commission in 2008, is available on consisting of members of the management team including Executive page 52. Directors, holds the primary responsibility to oversee the Group’s activities with regard to the identification and management of Disclosures specified by section 7.4 and 7.5 of the listing rules of economic, social and environmental impacts and the achievement the Colombo Stock Exchange of sustainability objectives. The Interim Financial Statements have been submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange within forty five days for the first three Transparency quarters and within two months for the last quarter from the end Transparency in our practices largely depends on the compliance of the relevant quarter. However, an extension was given for the structure that we follow and the assurances we get. While ensuring submission of interim Financial Statements for the quarter ended transparency, this two pronged approach sets a path for the Board 31st March 2020 and the Audited Financial Statement for the year to provide a strong platform for performance. ended 31st March 2020 due to the movement restrictions that prevailed. Notwithstanding the additional time allowed, the interim Compliance Structure financial statements and the Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2020 have been submitted to the Colombo The compliance and adherence section, depicted on the left of Stock Exchange within two months and three months respectively of the governance framework on page 41, indicates the guidelines the Balance Sheet date. and systems to be followed by the Board, Board Committees, Management Committees and employees. As per the framework, Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 45 Disclosures specified by section 7.6 of the listing rules of the Integrity Colombo Stock Exchange The Board continuously promotes the ethical behaviour of All disclosures specified by Section 7.6 of the Listing Rules of the employees when carrying out business activities. Ethical behaviour Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. has been institutionalised through the Code of Business Ethics, which every employee must abide by. Integrity also forms part of There is no evidence of the book value of land being substantially the core values of the Group. All employees sign a declaration to different from the market value of land of the Company and/or its the effect that they will comply with the Code in its entirety. The subsidiaries Group’s human resource policies, quality management systems, environmental management systems, social accountability policy, Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of the listing rules of the and performance management systems further ensure that all value Colombo Stock Exchange creation activities are conducted responsibly. Disclosures specified by section 9.3.2 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are contained in this Annual Report. Please refer Balancing Stakeholder Interest page 50 for the Related Party Transaction Review Committee Report. The stewardship role played by the Directors demands that they act responsibly towards stakeholders. The Group Sustainability Voluntary adherence Committee is entrusted to put this mandate in to practice. Refer We voluntarily adhere to several best practices to strengthen our page 14 and 15 for more information on stakeholder engagement. good governance practices. This supports the extensions of our governance practices to different areas of the business, promoting Promoting Innovation responsible corporate behaviour, strengthening operations, The Board places high value on innovation and pursues it relentlessly addressing the expectations of various stakeholder groups and in the firm belief that a company may only grow to its full potential eventually supporting sustained performance. The levels of through constant innovation. compliance and adherence are available on the Group’s corporate website at www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ and forms a part of Our state of the art service centres islandwide, including the DIMO this Enterprise Governance section. 800 Mercedes-Benz Centre, are a reflection of this belief. We want to ensure that our customers have access to the best products and Assurance Structure best after-sales services. We want to ensure that our employees Assurances obtained for the Financial Statements and for nonhave access to the latest technologies. DIMO will continue to provide financial information, Internal Audit and Independent Certifications the leadership that we have imparted to the vehicle industry in this are key sources of comfort with regard to the integrity and the due part of the world. functioning of the Governance framework. Information and Technology Governance The Board shoulders overall responsibility for aligning the Group’s Assurance Independent Audit at the year-end information and technology practices with existing and future on Financial supplemented by an interim audit business needs. As such, the Board has appointed an IT steering Statements carried out during the year. committee to oversee IT governance across the Group. Assurance on The independent audit on nonRefer page 14 and 15 for the stakeholder engagement process. Nonfinancial information was not carried monetised out this year due to logistic restrictions Information that arose from COVID-19 pandemic. Internal Audit on review Headed by the Group Chief Internal of systems, Auditor. Field work is performed by a controls, firm of Chartered Accountants. processes and operations QMS audit and certifications, EMS Independent audit and certification, Social Certifications Accountability Management System audit and certification. 46 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR’S STATEMENT The ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 2017’ (The Code) issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka recommends that a Senior Independent Director (SID) should be appointed in the event of the Chairman and CEO being the same person or if the Chairman is not an independent Director. At DIMO, the Chairman plays an executive role as Chairman/Managing Director. The presence of a SID provides a workable mechanism to review the role played by the Chairman. While the role of the Chairman entails providing leadership in observing the best practices of corporate governance, my role as the SID calls for a review of the Board’s effectiveness. The presence of the SID also provides emphasis to transparency on matters relating to governance. DIMO is committed to the principles of good governance and always strives to live by the Best Practices of Corporate Governance. The conformance culture of the Company is strongly embraced by the Board of Directors. The Company follows a policy of strict compliance with mandatory requirements while embracing voluntary adherence, in order to enhance stakeholder acceptance and making a positive impact on value creation. As the SID, I am consulted by the Chairman on governance issues, if there are any. Further, I make myself available to any Director to have any confidential discussion on the affairs of the Company, should the need arise. Mr. R. Seevaratnam Senior Independent Director Colombo 29th May 2020 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 47 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Graph 09: Key areas covered during the year Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte Chairman – Audit Committee Dear shareholder, I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 25-May 02-Aug 13-Nov 10-Feb 2019 2019 2019 2020 the year ended 31st March 2020. Through this report I will share Risk and control Internal audit Compliance with you how the Audit Committee worked towards discharging its Financial Statements External audit responsibilities. ´´ Compliance with relevant Accounting Standards and applicable PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE regulatory requirements. The Committee was established to assist the Board in fulfilling ´´ Issues arising from the Internal Audit and Independent External its oversight responsibility for the Company’s financial reporting Audit. system, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, ´´ The Group’s/Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. internal control mechanism, risk management process, internal audit function and review of Independence and performance of ´´ Statements and Reports to be included in the Annual Report. External Auditors, with a view to safeguarding the interests of the shareholders and all other stakeholders. INTERNAL AUDIT The Internal Audit function is headed by the Group Chief Internal TERMS OF REFERENCE Auditor and the fieldwork and reporting is outsourced to a firm The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, dealing with of Chartered Accountants. The Internal Auditors submitted their its authority and duties, which is carefully designed to discharge the findings to the Audit Committee quarterly and their reports are Committee’s purpose, duties and responsibilities. made available to the Independent External Auditors. Figure 13: Duties and responsibilities of the audit committee The Committee monitors and reviews; ´´ the annual audit plan. ´´ the coverage of the audit plan. wing, Fina blo stle and Repo ncia ´´ the internal audit programmes and results of the internal audit hi ud rti l W fra CLAR ng process. NO ´´ the follow-up action taken on the recommendation of the Reporting Internal Auditors. rnal a Inte Assuran nd DUTIES AND A u d it ´´ performance of the Group Chief Internal Auditor and concur ce RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT with the annual compensation. COMMITTEE pl i is ge k RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Com an R me nt c e na The Committee reviewed and assessed the Company’s risk External Ma management process including the adequacy of the overall control Audit environment and controls in areas of significant risks. Key risks that exceeded the Group’s risk appetite are discussed in the risk management section presented from page 53 to 55. FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committee is satisfied that an effective system of internal The Audit Committee reviewed the quarterly and annual Financial controls is in place to provide reasonable assurance on safeguarding Statements prior to publication. the Company’s assets and the reliability of the Financial Statements. The effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal controls is The review included; evaluated through reports provided by the management, internal ´´ Appropriateness and changes in Accounting Policies. auditors and independent external auditors. ´´ Significant estimates and judgement made by the management. 48 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDIT MEMBERS The Committee has reviewed the independence and objectivity The Committee, as at 31st March 2020, comprised following members; of the Independent External Auditors, Messrs KPMG, Chartered Name Category MA Accountants. The Audit Committee has met with the External Auditors to review their audit plan and observations made by them. A.D.B. Talwatte INED 4/4 R. Seevaratnam INED 4/4 The Committee has received a declaration from External Auditors, Dr. H. Cabral INED 4/4 confirming that they do not have any relationships or interest in the A.M. Pandithage NED 4/4 Company or its subsidiaries. The Committee has reviewed the nonINED Independent Non-Executive Director audit services provided by the external auditors to evaluate their NED Non-Executive Director MA Meeting Attendance independence and objectivity. The Committee’s composition met the requirement of the rule The current auditors, Messrs KPMG, was initially appointed as the 7.10.6 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. external auditors of the Company and continue to hold that position at present. A partner rotation of the auditors take place at periodic MEETINGS intervals and the last rotation took place in the year 2017. The Committee held four meetings during the financial year; The Committee has recommended to the Board that Messrs KPMG be re-appointed as the independent External Auditor and that the th nd th th re-appointment be included in the agenda of the Annual General Meeting. May August November February 2019 2019 2019 2020 COMPLIANCE EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE The Audit Committee reviewed the reports submitted by the The annual evaluation of the Committee was conducted by the management and the Internal Auditors on compliance with Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation is given on applicable laws and regulations. The Committee is satisfied that page 59 in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. laws and regulations are duly complied with and statutory payments have been made on a timely basis. POTENTIAL FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS ARISING FROM The orientation programme of new employees includes a training COVID-19 PANDEMIC ON THE GROUP/COMPANY on compliance with the code of business ethics of the Group and a The Audit Committee reviewed the risk and going concern declaration by them that they will abide by them. assessment carried out by the Board after considering the existing and potential financial implications of COVID-19 in the revised budget, cash flow projections and funding arrangements. The REPORTING Committee is satisfied that the Company and its subsidiaries are The activities and views of the Committee have been communicated able to continue as a going concern. Further, the Committee is also to the Board of Directors through verbal briefings, and by tabling the satisfied that the Company has made adequate disclosures in the minutes of the Committee’s meetings. financial statements in relation to the above. WHISTLE BLOWING, FRAUD AND NON-COMPLIANCE WITH CONCLUSION LAWS AND REGULATIONS The Audit Committee is satisfied that the effectiveness of the Employees can raise any confidential matters pertaining to organisational structure of the Group and implementation of accounting, internal controls and any non-compliance with laws Group’s accounting policies and operational controls provide and regulations (NOCLAR) to Chief Human Resources Officer, Group reasonable assurance that the affairs of the Group are managed Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman/ in accordance with Group policies and that the Group assets are Managing Director. A Senior Independent Director is available properly accounted for and adequately safeguarded. The Committee to any member of the Board to discuss in confidence any matter is also satisfied that the Company and its subsidiaries are able to concerning the Board. continue as a going concern. The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the Company’s whistle blowing policy to ensure the Company’s arrangement for confidentiality of information and their sources. A.D.B. Talwatte Chairman – Audit Committee Colombo 29th May 2020 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 49 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Components of the Executive Directors’ Remuneration Fixed Remuneration (Basic Variable Salary and Fringe Benefits) remuneration Post-Employment benefit Dr. H. Cabral All Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for serving on the Board Chairman – Remuneration Committee and on Board committees. They do not receive any performance related incentive payments. Dear shareholder, I am pleased to present the report of the Remuneration Committee The Company does not have an employee share option scheme for for the year ended 31st March 2020. Through this report I will members of the Board, who are considered as Key Management share with you how the Remuneration Committee worked towards Personnel (KMP). The Articles of Association does not contain a discharging its responsibilities. shareholding guideline for a KMP. PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Committee was established for the purpose of recommending The Committee, as at 31st March 2020, comprised of the following the remuneration of the Chairman/Managing Director, Chief members; Executive Officer (CEO) and the Executive Directors. The Committee Name Category MA also approves the remuneration of the members of the Group Dr. H. Cabral INED 1/1 Management Committee on the recommendations made by the Mr. R. Seevaratnam INED 1/1 Chairman/ Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer. Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte INED 1/1 Mr. A.M. Pandithage NED 1/1 TERMS OF REFERENCE INED Independent Non-Executive Director The Committee has written terms of reference, dealing with its NED Non-Executive Director MA Meeting Attendance authority and duties, which is carefully designed to discharge the Committee’s purpose, duties and responsibilities. The Committee’s composition met the requirements of the rule 7.10.5 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Committee is committed to the principles of accountability and transparency and ensuring that remuneration arrangements align MEETINGS rewards with performance. The proposals relating to remuneration of Executive Directors and th the members of the Group Management Committee were arrived at in consultation with the Chairman/ Managing Director and the May 2019 Chief Executive Officer. No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. The Committee held one meetings during the financial year and covered the following key areas during the meetings; The Committee has acted within the parameters set by its terms of ´´ Remuneration of the Chairman/ Managing Director, CEO, other reference. Executive Directors and members of the Group Management Committee. REMUNERATION POLICY ´´ Incentives to personnel stated above. The remuneration policy is designed to reward, motivate and retain the Company’s executive team, with market competitive DIRECTORS’ EMOLUMENTS remuneration and benefits, to support the continued success of The Directors’ emoluments are disclosed in Note 4.5 on page 89. the business and creation of value as per the business model. The Committee makes every endeavour to maintain remuneration levels EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE that are sufficient to attract and retain Executives Directors and the members of the senior management team. Accordingly, salaries and The annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee was carried other benefits are reviewed periodically, taking into account the out by the Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation is performance of the individual and industry standards. given on page 59 in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The remuneration packages which are linked to individual performances are aligned with the Company’s short-term and longterm strategy. Further, the benefit packages awarded to Executive Dr. H. Cabral Directors and members of the Group Management Committee are Chairman Remuneration Committee intended to be competitive and comprise a mix of fixed and variable return. The variable remuneration is linked to group’s profitability. Colombo 29th May 2020 50 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE REPORT OF THE RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS REVIEW COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Committee, as at 31st March 2020, comprised of the following members; Name Category MA Mr. R. Seevaratnam INED 4/4 Mr. R. Seevaratnam Dr. H. Cabral INED 4/4 Chairman Related Party Transactions Review Committee Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte INED 4/4 Mr. A.M. Pandithage NED 4/4 Dear shareholder, INED Independent Non-Executive Director I am pleased to present the report of the Related Party Transactions NED Non-Executive Director Review Committee for the year ended 31st March 2020. Through MA Meeting Attendance this report I will share with you how the Related Party Transactions The Committee’s composition met the requirements of the rule Review Committee worked towards discharging its responsibilities. 9.2.2 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee was established to advise the Board in relation to The Committee held four meetings during the financial year; transactions with the related parties as defined by LKAS 24. The Committee also exercises oversight function on behalf of the Board in complying with the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange th nd th th and with the Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions (“the Code”) issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission May August November February of Sri Lanka. The Committee has also adopted best practices as 2019 2019 2019 2020 recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DURING THE YEAR During the year, there were no non-recurrent or recurrent related TERMS OF REFERENCE party transactions that exceeded the respective thresholds The Committee is governed by the written terms of reference, mentioned in the Listing Rules requiring disclosure in the Annual approved by the Board of Directors, which is carefully designed to Report. Details of other related party transactions entered into discharge the Committee’s purpose, duties and responsibilities. The by the Company during the year is disclosed in Note 4.30 to the Committee’s duties and responsibilities are set out in accordance Financial Statements. with requirements stipulated by the Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions published by the Securities and The activities and observations of the Committee are communicated Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (the “Code”), regulations issued to the Board. by the Colombo Stock Exchange (“The CSE Rules”) and LKAS 24. EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE During the year, the Committee acted within the parameters set by The annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee was its terms of reference. conducted by the Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation is given on page 59 in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES The Company identifies related parties as defined by LKAS 24. DECLARATION BY THE BOARD The members of the Board of Directors of the Company have been A declaration is given by the Board in the Annual Report of the Board identified as Key Management Personnel (KMP). of Directors on pages 59 to 60 as a negative statement to the effect that no related party transaction falling within the ambit of the rule In accordance with the Related Party Transaction Policy, 9.3.2 of Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange was entered declarations are obtained from each Key Management Personnel of by the Company during the year. the Company for the purpose of identifying parties related to them in any company where they hold office. Based on the information furnished in these declarations, the Company retrieves data on related party transactions from the database of the Company. Mr. R. Seevaratnam Chairman Related Party Transactions Review Committee Colombo 29th May 2020 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 51 REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Committee, as at 31st March 2020, comprised of the following members; Name Category MA Dr. H. Cabral INED 1/1 Dr. H. Cabral Mr. R. Seevaratnam INED 1/1 Chairman – Nomination Committee Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte INED 1/1 Mr. A.M. Pandithage NED 1/1 Dear shareholder, Mr. A.R. Pandithage The Chairman/ MD 1/1 I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31st March 2020. Through this report I will INED Independent Non-Executive Director share with you how the Nomination Committee worked towards NED Non-Executive Director discharging its responsibilities. MD Managing Director MA Meeting Attendance PURPOSE OF THE COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Committee was established to review the structure and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. The Committee is charged with th ensuring that the Board possesses the correct mix of expertise for its effective functioning and assessing the Board composition to May 2019 ascertain whether the combined knowledge, skills and experience of the Board match the strategic demands facing the Company. The Committee held one meeting during the financial year. The activities and views of the Committee have been communicated to TERMS OF REFERENCE the Board of Directors through verbal briefings. The Committee has written terms of reference, dealing with its authority and duties, which is carefully designed to discharge the EVALUATION OF THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE Committee’s purpose, duties and responsibilities. The annual evaluation of performance of the Committee was carried out by the Board during the year and the outcome of the evaluation The Committee has acted within the parameters set by its terms of is given on page 59 in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. reference including following; ´´ Review the structure, size, composition and competencies of the Board. ´´ Evaluate the independence of the NonExecutive Directors and Dr. H. Cabral performance of the Board. Chairman Nomination Committee ´´ Review the process for succession planning to ensure that the Colombo Board has the correct balance of individuals to discharge its 29th May 2020 duties effectively. ´´ That no member of the Nomination Committee is involved in deciding his own appointment. Area of expertise of Directors Engineering Business leadership Finance Sales and marketing Law 52 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 GOVERNANCE: A STRUCTURE THAT CONNECTS PERFORMANCE WITH PURPOSE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN/MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER The Section D.1.3 of the ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate The Financial Statements were audited by Messrs KPMG, Chartered Governance 2017’ (The Code) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants, Independent External Auditors. Their report is given Accountants of Sri Lanka recommends that the Board should, before on pages from 65 to 69 of the Annual Report. it approves the financial statements for a financial period, obtain a declaration, in their opinion, on Financial Statements and system The Audit Committee of the Company meets periodically with of risk management and internal control from its Chief Executive the Internal Auditors and the Independent External Auditors to Officer and Chief Financial Officer. review the manner in which these Auditors are performing their responsibilities, and to discuss auditing, internal control and We confirm that, the Financial Statements of Diesel and Motor financial reporting issues. To ensure complete independence, the Engineering PLC and Consolidated Financial Statements of the Independent External Auditors and the Internal Auditors have full Group as at 31st March 2020 are prepared and presented in and free access to the members of the Audit Committee to discuss accordance with the requirements of the following: any matter of substance. ´´ Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (SLFRs/LKASs), CONCLUSION We confirm that we have discharged our responsibilities in ´´ Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, maintaining proper financial records and preparing financial ´´ Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, and statements in accordance with SLFRSs and LKASs. To the best of our knowledge, we also confirm that the system of risk management ´´ Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance 2017 issued by and internal control was operating effectively during the year. the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. We also confirm that the accounting policies used in preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are appropriate and consistently applied, except unless otherwise stated in the Notes accompanying the Financial Statements. There are no departures A.R. Pandithage from the prescribed Accounting Standards in their adoption. Chairman/Managing Director Comparative information has been reclassified wherever necessary to comply with the current presentation. The Significant Accounting Policies and estimates that involved a high degree of judgement and complexity were discussed with the Audit Committee. The Board of Directors and the Management of the Company accept A.G. Pandithage responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of these Financial Director/Group Chief Executive Officer Statements. The estimates and judgments relating to the Financial Statements were made on a prudent and reasonable basis, in order that the Financial Statements reflect in a true and fair manner, the form and substance of transactions, and reasonably present the Company’s state of affairs. To ensure this, the Company has taken B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne reasonable and sufficient care in installing a system of internal Director/Chief Financial Officer controls and accounting records, for safeguarding assets, and for preventing and detecting frauds as well as other irregularities, Colombo which is reviewed, evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. 29th May 2020 The Group Internal Auditors have conducted periodic audits to provide reasonable assurance that the established policies and procedures of the Company were consistently followed. However, there are inherent limitations that should be recognised in weighing the assurances provided by any system of internal controls and accounting. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 53 MANAGING RISKS: AN UNINTERRUPTED VALUE CHAIN Managing risk is a key aspect of the Board’s stewardship obligations. A robust risk management process ensures that we identify and mitigate material risks that affect our ability to create value, thereby ensuring uninterrupted value creation. Figure 14 depicts our approach to risk management; the framework depicts the risk management process, the structure in place to administer the process and sources of comfort with regard to its effectiveness. Risk management has taken on a new dimension given the uncertainty brought on by COVID-19. The need for structured but agile risk management has thus intensified. Figure 14: Lines of defence in managing risks Process Structure Comfort and Assurance Risk Appetite Board of Directors Certified Management Systems Oversight Review Audit Committee Internal Controls Independent Audit Internal Audit GMC and Identify, evaluate, Sustainability treat and monitor committee Heads of Measurement and Business Feedback Units Employees Feedback Each division maintains a risk register as mandated by the Quality Management systems have been implemented to provide assurance Management System. Each respective unit head must identify that risks are managed throughout the value chain. The quality and record significant uncertainties throughout the value chain management system, environmental management system and managed by that division. social accountability management system form part of the aforesaid systems. Uncertainties which may significantly impact a division’s performance are escalated to the Group Management Committee Internal control, internal audit and independent assurance provide (GMC) at the quarterly performance review meetings and annual comfort and assurance that the risk management process functions budget meetings. The GMC examines such uncertainties to identify well. While internal controls focus on operations, the assurance potential risks that may expose the Group to situations which may provided by the internal audit and independent parties deals with seriously reduce its earnings, threaten its sustenance, impair its any gaps that may exist in the management of risks. liquidity or lead to legal, regulatory or reputational risks. Table 05 presents an account of key risks escalated to the Board The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of all aspects of the of Directors, upon annual review by the GMC. These risks are those risk management process, from determining risk appetite at Board that exceed the Group’s risk appetite, based on their impact on the level to measurements and feedback at operational level. Group irrespective of their probability of occurrence. The Board of Directors evaluates such risks, decides on sufficient mitigation activities and monitors the effectiveness of such activities. 54 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 MANAGING RISKS: AN UNINTERRUPTED VALUE CHAIN Table 05: An account of DIMO’s key risks Risk statement Impact on value creation Risk mitigation Change in risk profile 19/20 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 Uncertainty in Due to the spread of ´´ Constant dialogue with principals to secure demand and COVID-19 pandemic, the supplies supply side due to Group experiences negative ´´ Securing financing facilities from banks interruptions to the impact on the availability global and local of supply, and reduction in ´´ Extra attention and monitoring of debt collections supply chain demand, negatively affecting ´´ Curtailment of specific discretionary expenses Group’s liquidity. Risk of employee With the spread of COVID-19, ´´ An emergency taskforce was formed to ensure health and safety the risk of our employees the employees’ health & safety coming into contact with ´´ A Group wide H&S guideline was issued in the virus is high, especially adherence with government regulations, with all when using public transport employees declaring their fullest commitment and during field visits. Such through a formal declaration contact can interrupt our business operations as well. ´´ Required PPE and disinfectants are made available to employees and other visitors to the premises ´´ Employees who travel by public transport are encouraged to work from home Volatility of import 39% of the Group’s revenue ´´ The Group is aggressively pursuing a regulations and is generated by the vehicles diversification strategy. As depicted by the government tariff sales segment. This makes strategy on page 15, our revenue is now policy on vehicles the Group’s revenue highly diversified into six business segments vulnerable to the volatility ´´ A dedicated division has been given the in Government tariff policy, responsibility of corporate planning and driving which negatively affects price the differentiation strategy and market demand. Risk of disruption to Any disruption with ´´ Develop mutually beneficial relationships with relationships with key business partners affects business partners by differentiating DIMO from business partners the functionality of our competitors business segments and could ´´ Independent survey on expectations of principals also negatively affect the relationship we maintain with ´´ Emphasis on meeting expectations of principals other business partners. ´´ Periodic evaluation of principals’ satisfaction levels Risk of losing A security breach can reveal ´´ Extensive controls and reviews to maintain operational and confidential information about efficiency of IT infrastructure and data including confidential data due customers, suppliers and periodic technical vulnerability assessments on to security breaches key projects we undertake to the corporate network and website / system breakdowns competitors or to the public, ´´ obtaining regular data backups; storing data in the IT systems which could ultimately lead to backups in off-site locations and disruption to ethical violations and financial operations due to losses. The loss of operational ´´ Availability of a dedicated Information Security breakdown in the IT information due to system and System Audit Manager systems breakdowns also has a ´´ Continuous training for employees on information major impact on business security continuance. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 55 Risk statement Impact on value creation Risk mitigation Change in risk profile 19/20 18/19 17/18 16/17 15/16 Negative impact Economic, environment and ´´ Code of business conduct ensures ethical on reputation that social impact are inherent behaviour of employees may arise from to business value creation. ´´ Accredited quality, environmental and social unacceptable Failure to manage them accountability management system ensures corporate behaviour responsibly in a timely timely responses to impacts manner could threaten our social licence to operate and ´´ Refer page 38 to 40 for more information on our ability to achieve the DIMO’s approach for impact management stated purpose. Possible events / Products and solutions we ´´ Customer safety is a priority in the quality incidents that could represent are complex and management system which is ISO 9001:2015 cause customer involve highly automated accredited health and safety technical components which, ´´ We partner only with internationally renowned issues if not operated properly, brands, which comply with internationally may cause health and safety accepted health and safety standards threats to customers. Such incidents could negatively affect our brand and reputation. Extensive monitoring and management required Considerable monitoring and management required Moderate monitoring and management required 56 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Here we present a detailed analysis of the Group’s Financial Statements, its financial position and performance in the year under review, together with statements from Directors and Independent Auditors. 57 Financial calendar 58 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 62 Director’s Interests in contracts with the Company 63 Board of Directors’ statement on internal controls 64 Statement of Director’s responsibility for Financial Statements 65 Independent Auditor’s Report 70 Section 1 – Financial Statements 76 Section 2 – Corporate information 77 Section 3 – Basis of accounting 83 Section 4 – Specific accounting policies and notes 128 Section 5 – Other disclosures | 57 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2019/2020 Date Interim Financial Statements Submission to the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) Three months ended 30th June 2019 2nd August 2019 Six months ended 30th September 2019 14th November 2019 Nine months ended 31st December 2019 11th February 2020 Twelve months ended 31st March 2020 1st June 2020 Annual Report – Financial year ended 31st March 2020 8th June 2020 75th Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th June 2020 58 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS GENERAL REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors take pleasure in presenting the Annual Report A review of performance and future outlook of the Group is available in of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March 2020, that the Message from the Chairman (pages 5 to 7), Strategic review by the includes and covers the Audited Financial Statements, Chairman’s Group Chief Executive Officer and Reflecting on value created section Message, Statements of Responsibility, Auditors’ Report, Independent appearing on pages 8 to 9 and pages 22 to 30. Assurance on NonFinancial Reporting and other relevant information covered in “Positioned for value creation”, “ Reflecting on value created” Investment activities during the year and “ Gearing for future value creation “ sections of the annual report. The company invested Rs. 50.2 million during the year in DIMO Lanka Company Limited, a subsidiary of the company which operates as an The information table on ‘Disclosures required by the Companies Act No. investment arm in Myanmar. DIMO Lanka Company Limited in turn 07 of 2007’ appearing on pages 134 to 135 forms part of this Annual invested Rs. 46.2 million in United DIMO Company Limited during Report of the Board of Directors. 2019/20 financial year. There was no change in the percentage of shareholding in subsidiaries by the company. The Annual Report of the Company including the Annual Report of the Board of Directors was adopted by the Board of Directors on 29th The company set-up a new branch in the Republic of Uganda to conduct May 2020. The required number of copies of the Company’s Annual business activities in the area of power engineering solutions and Report will be submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange and to the Sri services. Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board within the stipulated time. DISCLOSURES The Annual Report of the Company fulfils the disclosure requirements of GROUP STRUCTURE AND PRINCIPLE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRs/LKASs), Companies Act No. The Group structure is available on page 19. 07 of 2007 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. A report on compliance with the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance A brief description of the nature of the principal business activities of the 2017 issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka is Group and the Company is given in Note 2.2 to the Financial Statements available in the company website at www.dimolanka.com/stwardship/. on page 76. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENTS OF ASPIRATION, PURPOSE AND VALUES The Financial Statements of the Group and the Company have been The Company’s statements of aspiration, purpose and values are prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards available on page 14. The Directors and all the employees conduct their (SLFRs/LKASs), issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri activities with the highest level of ethical standards and integrity in Lanka and comply with requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of achieving the aspiration and purpose. All employees are given a copy of 2007 and Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Financial the Code of Business Ethics of the Company and employees are required Statements for the year ended 31st March 2020 signed on behalf of the to adhere to it. Board by the Chairman/Managing Director and Director/Chief Financial Officer are given on pages 70 to 130. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors of the Company consisted of thirteen members FINANCIAL RESULTS AND APPROPRIATIONS as at 31st March 2020. Information relating to the Directors of the Turnover Company is available on pages 10 to 11 and at https://www.dimolanka. The total gross Group turnover generated by the 06 business segments com/about-us/board-of-directors/. was Rs. 34,558 million (2018/19 Rs. 38,300 million), while the turnover of the Company was Rs. 28,613 million (2018/19 Rs. 33, The names of the Directors of Subsidiary Companies are given on page 539 million). A segment wise analysis is given in Note 4.2 appearing on 20. pages 85 to 87. RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS PROFIT AND APPROPRIATIONS Mr. P. K. W. Mahendra, Mr. S. R. W. M. C. Ranawana and Mr. A. D. B. The group profit after tax and group profit attributable to equity holders Talwatte retire by rotation in terms of the Article 66 of the Articles of of the parent for the year were Rs. 201 million (2018/19 Rs. 77 million) Association of the Company, and are eligible for re-election. and Rs. 195 million (2018/19 – Rs. 51 million) respectively, whilst the profit after tax of the Company was Rs. 268 million (2018/19 – loss of The agenda for the Annual General Meeting includes three separate Rs. 213 million). ordinary resolutions to be taken up to re-appoint Mr. A.R. Pandithage as a Director, who has reached the age of 72, Mr. R. Seevaratnam as a The Group total comprehensive income attributable to parent was Director, who has reached the age of 76, Mr S.C. Algama as a director, Rs. 260 million (2018/19 – Rs. 65 million) and the Company’s total who has reached the age of 71 and Mr. A. N. Algama as a director, who comprehensive income for the year was Rs. 323 million (2018/19 – Loss has reached the age of 70. of Rs. 210 million). Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 59 DIVIDEND AND RESERVES The review of performance of Board Committees were carried out during The Company did not declare dividends for 2019/20 financial year. the year by way of a discussion during a Board meeting and it was The proposed first and final dividend of Rs. 2.50 per share for 2018/19 concluded that performance of all four Committees were satisfactory. financial year was approved by the Board of Directors on 25th May 2019 and paid on 17th June 2019. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Director’s remuneration is given in Note 4.5 to the Financial Statements. The Group Reserve as at 31st March 2020 amounts to Rs. 11,554 million (2018/19 – Rs. 11,316 million). The composition of the reserves is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity in the Financial Statements. DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS Shareholdings of Directors and their spouses, as required by Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange, are given on page 133 under INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ‘Share Information’. Sections 7.10.3.b. and 7.10.4.e. of the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange taken together specify that a NonExecutive Director Dr. H. Cabral, Mr. B. C. S. A. P. Gooneratne, Mr. P. K. W. Mahendra, Mr. shall not be considered independent if he/she has served on the Board S. R. W. M. C. Ranawana, Mr. R. Seevaratnam, Mr. A. D. B. Talwatte and for a period of nine years from the date of the first appointment, unless Mr. A.N. Ranasinghe, who are Directors of the Company did not hold any the Board taking into account all the circumstances, is of the opinion shares of the Company as at 31st March 2020. that the Director is nevertheless ‘independent’ and specify the criteria not met and the basis of its determination in the Annual Report. INTEREST REGISTER AND DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. R. Seevaratnam completed nine years in office as CONTRACTS/PROPOSED CONTRACTS NonExecutive Directors on 30th September 2015 and 31st December An Interest Register is maintained by the Company as per requirements 2015 respectively. of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. All Directors have made necessary declarations as provided for in Section 192 (2) of the aforesaid The Board recognises that Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. R. Seevaratnam Companies Act. have acted in an independent manner over the years bringing their independent judgement upon matters relating to the Board Committees During the year, entries made in the Interest Register consisted of and the Board. The Board is of the opinion that there is no reason to Directors’ interests in contracts, remuneration paid to the Directors believe that their status as Independent Directors have been impaired and renewal of Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance. The Interest in any manner due to their tenure in office. Having taken into account Register is available at the registered office of the Company, in keeping all relevant aspects, the Board determined that Dr. H. Cabral and Mr. R. with the requirements of the Section 119 (1) (d) of the Companies Act Seevaratnam continue as ‘Independent Non-Executive Directors’ of the No. 07 of 2007. The particulars of the Directors’ Interests in Contracts Company. are given on page 62 of the Annual Report and form an integral part of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors. The Directors have no direct or indirect interest in a contract or a proposed contract with the BOARD COMMITTEES Company other than those disclosed. The Board of Directors has appointed four Committees to assist the Board. They are Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Related Party Transactions Review Committee and Nomination Committee. While EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS the first three committees are required by the Listing Rules of Colombo The Group does not operate any share option scheme. Stock Exchange, functioning of all four committees are recommended by the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance – 2017 issued RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The terms of reference of each committee is set by the Board. NonRecurrent Related Party Transactions There were no non-recurrent related party transactions of which aggregate value exceeded 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS of the Company during the year ended 31st March 2020, which require The number of Board meetings held and the number of meetings specific disclosures in the Annual Report as required by Listing Rule attended by the Directors is given on pages 43 to 44. The number of 9.3.2 of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Code of Best Practices Board Committee meetings held and the attendance of members are on Related Party Transactions issued by the Securities and Exchange given in the respective Committee Report appearing on pages 47 to 48, Commission. 49, 50 and 51. Recurrent Related Party Transactions REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE OF THE BOARD AND BOARD There were no recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate COMMITTEES exceeded 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per 31st The performance of the Board was reviewed during the year by March 2019 audited Financial Statements, which required additional circulating a questionnaire among Directors. disclosures in the 2019/20 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 60 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 ANNUAL REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company identifies related parties as defined by LKAS 24. The RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR members of the Board of Directors of the Company have been identified The Board is committed to and considers it a key priority to act responsibly as Key Management Personnel. In accordance with the Related Party towards its stakeholders and to manage economic, environmental and Transaction Policy, declarations are obtained from each Key Management social impacts during value creation activities, efficiently and effectively. Personnel of the Company for the purpose of identifying parties related to them in any company where they hold office or through ownership. Based on the information furnished in these declarations, the Company MATERIAL FORESEEABLE RISK FACTORS retrieves data on related party transactions from the database of the Information pertaining to material foreseeable risk factors are discussed Company. on pages 53 to 55 of this annual report. ACCOUNTING POLICIES EMPLOYMENT The significant Accounting Policies adopted by the Group and the Pages 34 to 35 covers in detail the group’s practices and policies relating Company are given on pages 76 to 127. to selection, training, development, promotion and employee relations. The Financial Statements and Notes thereto give a true and fair view of There were no material issues pertaining to employees or industrial the Company’s and the Group’s financial position as at 31st March 2020 relations during the year. and of their performance for the year ended on that date. SHARE INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION Information relating to shareholding, market value of shares, public The Company’s Independent External Auditors, Messrs KPMG, Chartered shareholding and top twenty shareholders are available on pages 132 to Accountants, who were re-appointed by a resolution passed at the last 133 under ‘Share Information’. Annual General Meeting, have expressed their opinion which appears on page 65 to 69 of this Annual Report. EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS The Company has made all endeavours to ensure that all shareholders The details of their remuneration are given in Note 4.5 to the Financial are treated equitably. Statements. As far as the Directors are aware, the Auditors do not have any relationship with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries. The Auditors do not have any interest in contracts with the Company, or any RATIOS AND MARKET PRICE INFORMATION of its subsidiaries. The ratios relating to equity and debt as required by the listing requirements of the Colombo Stock Exchange are given in page 144 of Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, have made themselves this Report. available for re-appointment and having determined their suitability for re-appointment. The Board proposes that they be appointed as the DONATIONS Independent Auditor until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting. The Group and the Company made donations during the year amounting to Rs. 2.9 million and Rs. 2.4 million respectively (2018/19 Group: Rs. 2.9 million, Company Rs. 2.8 million). INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board considers that strong internal controls are integral to sound PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS management of the Company and is committed to maintaining financial, operational and risk management controls over all its activities. Further The Group and the Company incurred Rs. 464 million and Rs. 351 details of these aspects are discussed in Directors’ Statement on Internal million respectively (2018/19 Group: Rs. 510 million, Company: Rs. on Internal Controls (page 63) and on pages 53 to 55. 391 million) on acquisition of property, plant and equipment, details of which are available in Note 4.9 to the Financial Statements. GOING CONCERN The investment in intangible assets by the Group during the year was The Board of Directors, after reviewing the Company’s Business Plans, Rs. 5.1 million whilst the investment in intangible assets by the Company is satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue too was Rs. 5.1 million. (2018/19 – Group: Rs. 7.7 million, Company: its operations in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Financial Rs. 7.7 million). Statements are prepared considering the Company and its subsidiaries as going concerns. Specific information on extent, locations, valuations and number of buildings on the Company’s land holdings are given in Note 4.9.1 to the ENTERPRISE GOVERNANCE Financial Statements. Pages 41 to 45 shows the governance structure of the group and the manner in which the Board plays its stewardship role. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 61 MARKET VALUE OF FREEHOLD LAND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A qualified independent valuer carried out a revaluation of the Company’s Taking into consideration the current regulations/restrictions prevailing freehold land on 16th October 2017 and the carrying value of freehold in the country due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Board of Directors land has been adjusted accordingly. The details of market value of has decided to hold the 75th Annual General Meeting (AGM) as a Hybrid freehold land are given in Note 4.9.1 to the Financial Statements. Meeting on 30th June 2020 at 9.30 a.m., in line with the Guidelines issued by Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) for hosting of virtual/hybrid AGMs and on the assumption that no curfew will be in force on that date STATED CAPITAL and that there would be no restrictions imposed by the authorities on The stated capital of the Company as at 31st March 2020 amounted to conduct on meetings. Rs. 425 million (2018/19Rs. 425 million), details of which are available in Note 4.19 to the Financial Statements. There were no shares issued By order of the Board of Directors, during the financial year. STATUTORY PAYMENTS The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief are satisfied that all statutory payments to the government, other regulatory bodies and A.R. Pandithage relating to the employees have been made on time. Chairman/Managing Director COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS To the best of knowledge and belief of the Board of Directors, the Group/ Company has not engaged in any activity, which contravenes laws and regulations of the country. A.G. Pandithage Director/Group Chief Executive Officer ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Policies and endeavours made on environmental preservation by the Group and the Company are covered on pages 38 to 40. EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne There were no material events that occurred after the reporting date Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer that require adjustment to or disclosure in the Financial Statements, other than those disclosed in Note 5.3 to the Financial Statements on Colombo page 130. 29th May 2020 62 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS WITH THE COMPANY Related party disclosures as per the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard -LKAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ is disclosed in Note 5.1 to the Financial Statements on pages 128 to 129. In addition, the Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of business with entities where the Director of the Company is the Chairman or a Director of such entities as detailed below. Director /Company Relationship to Nature of the transaction Outstanding Outstanding Company as at 31st Mar 2020 as at 31st Mar 2019 (Rs.’000) (Rs.’000) Mr. A.M Pandithage Advantis Projects & Engineering (Pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 176 Sales of Vehicles 4,025 Sales of Spare parts 1,743 931 Alumex PLC* Director Sales of Spare parts 803 361 Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 15 91 Dipped Products PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 3 232 Fentons Ltd Director Vehicle Hiring 21,115 432 Haycarb PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 1,176 335 Hayleys Advantis Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 563 Hayleys Aventura (Private) Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 85 Vehicle Hiring 834 Hayleys Fabric PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 279 72 Hayleys Free Zone Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 106 1,976 Hayleys Life sciences (Pvt) Limited Director Sales of Spare parts 31 Hayleys PLC* Chairman/Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 230 395 Hayleys Tours (Pvt) Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 40 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 109 Lanka Orient Express Lines Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 163 Logiwiz Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 2,150 13,037 Sales of Vehicles 633 Vehicle Hiring 51 Mountain Hawk Express (Pvt) Ltd Director Freight Services (19) Presto Lanka Engineers Director Sales of Spare parts 8 11 Singer ( Sri Lanka) PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 1,118 512 Sales of Spare parts 254 416 Sales of Vehicles 5,304 Sri Lanka Shipping Co Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 677 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 117 The Kingsbury PLC Director Sales of Spare parts 66 Uni Dil Packing Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 24 36 Mr. R. Seevaratnam Alpha Apparels Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 58 556 Benji Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 171 143 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 316 156 Sales of Spare parts 183 Lankem Ceylon PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 259 75 Nestle Lanka PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 1,061 (6,303) Sales of Vehicles 3,275 Omega Line Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 161 35 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC** Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 1,811 2,161 Sales of Spare parts 203 97 Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte Central Finance Co PLC Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 1,250 166 Sales of Spare parts 209 18 Sales of Vehicles 6,140 8,857 Ceylon Hospitals PLC Director Sales of Spare parts 136 Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC Director Purchase of Lubricants 53 (387) Sunshine Healthcare Lanka Limited Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 38 Dr. Harsha Cabral Tokyo Cement Power (Lanka) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 110 59 Sales of Spare parts 187 Tokyo Eastern Cement Company (Private) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 857 472 Sales of Spare parts 20 Tokyo Super Mix (pvt) Ltd Director Repairing and servicing of Vehicles 588 125 Sales of Spare parts 136 * Dr. Harsha Cabral is also a Director of the said Companies listed under the name of Mr. A.M Pandithage ** Mr. A.D.B. Talwatte and Dr. Harsha Cabral are also Directors of the said Company listed under the name of Mr. R. Seevaratnam Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 63 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROLS The Section D.1.5 of the ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance CONFIRMATION 2017’ (The Code) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of The Board of Directors of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC confirm that Sri Lanka recommends that the Board of Directors present a Statement the financial reporting system has been designed to provide reasonable on Internal Controls, in the Annual Report. assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of Financial Statements for external purposes in accordance RESPONSIBILITY with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs), requirements of Maintaining a sound system of internal controls to safeguard the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock shareholders’ investment and the Company’s assets is the responsibility Exchange and any other regulatory requirements. The consolidated of the Board of Directors. financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2020 have been audited by Messrs. KPMG, Chartered Accountants. Currently, the Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company. This process By order of the Board, includes enhancing the system of internal controls of the Company as and when there are changes to business environment and regulatory guidelines. However, this internal control system is designed to manage the A.R. Pandithage Company’s key areas of risk. Accordingly, the system of internal controls Chairman/Managing Director can only provide a reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements of losses. KEY INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES The key processes that have been established by the Board in reviewing B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne the adequacy and integrity of the system of internal controls include the Director/ Chief Financial Officer followings: ´´ The Board Committees and Management Committees are established to assist the Board in ensuring the effectiveness of the Group’s operations and that the Group’s operations are directed towards corporate strategy, objectives, annual budget and policies taking in to consideration the business environment and internal A.D.B. Talwatte operating conditions. Chairman Audit Committee ´´ The Group Internal Audit function provides comfort on the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System of the Group and Colombo Company. The Group Internal Audit function operates according to 29th May 2020 the annual audit plan which is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. Their findings of the audits are submitted to the Audit Committee for review at their periodic meetings. ´´ The Audit Committee approves the annual audit plan, reviews internal control issues identified by the Group Internal Auditors, the Independent External Auditors, regulatory authorities and the management and evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system. Activities undertaken by the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page from 47 to 48. 64 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Section D.1.5 of the ‘Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance Directors confirm that; 2017’ (The Code) issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri ´´ appropriate Accounting Policies have been selected and used in Lanka recommends that the Board of Directors present a Responsibility a consistent manner, and material departures, if any, have been Statement on preparation and presentation of Financial Statements in disclosed and explained and; the Annual Report together with a statement by the Auditors about their reporting responsibilities. ´´ the Financial Statements of the Group and the Company are prepared and presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka The responsibilities of the Directors in relation to the Financial Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/ LKASs); and that reasonable and Statements of the Company and the Group are set out in this statement. prudent judgments and estimates have been made so that the form The responsibility of the Auditors in relation to the Financial Statements and substance of transactions are properly reflected; and is set out in the Report of the Auditors on pages from 65 to 69. ´´ Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange are complied with. As per the provision of sections 150 (1), 151, 152 and 153 (1) & (2) ´´ to the best of their knowledge, are satisfied that all statutory of the Companies Act No 7 of 2007, the Directors are responsible to payments in relation to all relevant regulatory and authorities which prepare and present Financial Statements for each financial year giving were due and payable by the Company and its subsidiaries as at the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group reporting date have been paid or where relevant provided for. and the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for the financial year. The Directors are of the view that they have discharged their responsibilities as set out in this statement. The Financial Statements comprise of: By Order of the Board, ´´ Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income of the Group and the Company ´´ Statement of Financial Position of the Group and the Company ´´ Statement of Changes in Equity of the Group and the Company ´´ Statement of Cash Flows of the Group and the Company B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Director/Secretary/Chief Financial Officer ´´ Notes to the Financial Statements Colombo The Directors are also required to place these Financial Statements 29th May 2020 before general meeting of shareholders. The Directors are also responsible, under section 148 of the Companies Act, for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept to enable, determination of financial position with reasonable accuracy, preparation of financial statements and audit of such statements to be carried out readily and properly. The Board of Directors accepts responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the Financial Statements presented. The Directors also are responsible for taking reasonable measures to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and in this regard to give proper consideration to the establishment of appropriate internal control systems with a view to preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are required to provide the Auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps necessary to enable them to form their audit opinion. The Directors, having reviewed the financial budget and cash flows for the year to 31st March 2021 and the bank facilities, consider that the Group/Company has adequate resources to continue in operation, and have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 65 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF DIESEL AND BASIS FOR OPINION MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Standards (“SLAuSs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the OPINION Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the We have audited the financial statements of Diesel and Motor Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by CA Sri Lanka Engineering PLC (the“Company”) and the consolidated financial (“Code of Ethics”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which in accordance with the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit comprise the statements of financial position as at March 31, 2020, evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, basis for our opinion. statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary KEY AUDIT MATTERS of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information as Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, set out on pages 70 to 130. were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements for the current In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements of the Group and period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the the Company give a true and fair view of the financial position of the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements Group and the Company as at March 31, 2020, and of their financial as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with separate opinion on these matters. Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Revenue recognition See note 3.7 for Use of Judgments and Estimates and note no 4.1 for information and accounting policy. Risk Description Our response The Group carry out its business operations in Our audit procedures included; different sectors which result in high volume of revenue ´´ Testing key controls assisted by our own IT Specialist over the revenue recognition. transactions in different revenue streams which requires judgment in some of the revenue transactions in order ´´ Performing detailed analysis of revenue, testing the timing of its recognition and to determine the timing and the amount of revenue accuracy of the amounts recognized specially in relation to service contracts, recognition. Further, in accordance with Sri Lanka performing focused substantive testing procedures based on our industry Auditing Standards (SLAuS), there is a presumed fraud knowledge which including among other testing on sample basis of the; risk relating to revenue recognition. -Revenue recognition on the service contracts. Some of the Group’s/ Company’s revenue recognition require judgement which will increase the risk of -Adjustments to the revenue which are outside of the normal billing process. material misstatements of revenue, deferred income and -Recognition of deferred income on future performance obligations and on the other related balances. variable considerations. We consider this as a key audit matter because of the -Cut-off procedures of revenue and verification of the supporting information of significant judgment and estimates associated with the revenue transactions. the appropriate recognition of revenue in the correct accounting period. ´´ Reviewing the adequacy, relevance and accuracy of the accounting policies and disclosures in the financial statements. 66 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT Adoption of SLFRS 16 (Leases) See note 3.8 for changes in accounting policies and note 4.10 and note 4.22.3 for the accounting policy and disclosures on the right of use and lease liability in these Financial Statements. Risk Description Our response SLFRS 16 introduces a new lease accounting model, where lessees are Our audit procedures included; required to recognize a right-of-use (ROU) asset and a lease liability arising from a lease on its balance sheet. ´´ Reading a sample of contracts to assess whether leases have been appropriately identified as per the SLFRS 16 requirements. The Group has adopted SLFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach, under which the Company has recognized the lease liability and ´´ Assessing the reasonableness of the methodology of the the ROU asset based on the present value of the remaining lease payments computation and the determination of lease arrangement as at 1st April 2019 whereas ROU is adjusted by the amounts of any excluded from the SLFRS 16 computations. prepaid lease payments. Accordingly, the information presented for prior year has not been restated and continued to be reported, under LKAS 17 ´´ Obtaining the Group’s/ Company’s quantification of ROU and related interpretations. As a result, as at 1st April 2019, the Group assets and lease liabilities and check the completeness of the recognized ROU assets of Rs. 553 Million (Company Rs. 515 Million), lease computation and for a sample of leases, we agreed the inputs liabilities of Rs. 498 Million (Company Rs. 461 Million). used in the quantification to the lease agreements and performed computation checks while challenging the calculations and Significant judgement is required in the assumptions and estimates made discount rate applied. in order to determine the ROU asset and lease liability. The assumptions and estimates include assessment of lease term, the computation of ´´ Evaluating the appropriateness of the selection of accounting the ROU asset where appropriate and the determination of appropriate policies and management approach over adoption and transition discount rates. applied for SLFRS 16, including the key accounting estimates and judgements made by the management based on the requirements The adjustments arising from applying SLFRS 16 are material to the of the new standard. Group/ Company, and disclosure of impact is also a key focus area in our audit. ´´ Assessing the adequacy of the financial statements’ disclosure required by SLFRS 16. Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables See note 3.7 for Use of Judgments and Estimates and note no 4.16 for information and accounting policy. Risk Description Our response The Group/ Company has recognized a total impairment provision of Rs. 965 Our audit procedures among others included: Million and Rs. 798 Million on total trade receivables of Rs. 9,479 Million and Rs. 6,477 Million respectively. ´´ Testing the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the controls management has established Impairment allowances represent management's best estimate of the in arriving at criteria used for provision computations and to expected credit losses on trade receivables at the reporting date. They are ensure the accuracy of the impairment provision. calculated for individually significant trade receivables and on a collective basis for portfolios of trade receivable of a similar nature. ´´ Testing the completeness and accuracy of key inputs in to models and computations. Further, we assessed the Further, COVID-19 outbreak resulted in loss of income for majority of the reasonability of the model methodology and key assumptions. corporates as well as for the individuals which increases the credit risk and the outbreak significantly affected on the macro economic forecasts which ´´ Assessing the recoverability of a sample of customers and affects the recoverability of the receivables. reviewing the underlying documents to verify the details recorded in the database such as the credit limits, historical patterns of receipts and reviewing cash received subsequent to year end for its effect in reducing amounts outstanding at year end etc. and perform re-computation over the computation. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 67 Risk Description Our response The calculation of impairment allowances is inherently judgmental for ´´ Assessing whether the Group policies had been consistently any institution. The Group uses both specific assessment and collective applied and the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures in respect assessment for impairment and specific receivables are individually of the judgment and estimates made in respect of trade assessed for impairment by considering objective evidence and based on the receivable impairment. expected realization of those balances. Collective impairment allowances are calculated using statistical models concurrent with the historical information ´´ Assessing the completeness and the adequacy of the on the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, and the amount of loss accounting policy over the impairment and related disclosures. incurred and making adjustments to current and expected economic and credit conditions. The inputs to these models are subject to management judgment and model overlays are often required. Further, we have specifically focused on impairment due to the materiality of the balances and the subjective nature of the calculation. Estimation uncertainty and impact on the business operations on COVID-19 outbreak See note 3.3, 3.7.1, 4.13.2 and 5.3 to the financial statements for the detailed disclosures. Risk Description Our response The coronavirus outbreak since early 2020 has brought about additional Our audit procedures included; uncertainties in the Group’s operating environment and has impacted the Group’s operations. The Group has been closely monitoring the impact of the ´´ Obtaining the Company’s profitability and cash flow developments on the Group’s businesses and has put in place contingency projections covering a period of not less than twelve months measures. from the reporting period end date and challenging the key assumptions used in preparing the projections and inquiring Note 3.3, 3.7.1, 4.13.2, 5.4.1 and 5.4.2 in the Financial Statements, the management plans and strategies on credit risk, liquidity describes the impact of COVID-19 outbreak to the current year financial risk and the exchange rate risk management evaluating the statements and the possible effects of the future implications to the Company reasonability of the management plans highlighted. and Group. Management have described how they plan to deal with these events and circumstances as the outbreak is prevailing, the effect of the ´´ Evaluating the appropriateness of the assumptions used for outbreak is subject to significant level of uncertainty, with the full range of the estimates and assessing whether the estimates reflected possible effects unknown at the time of finalizing these financial statements. the latest economic conditions pursuant to the COVID-19 Accordingly, the management assessment on going concern of the company outbreak. and group, the estimation uncertainties involved in preparing these financial statements, specifically in estimating impairment provisions relating to trade ´´ Inspecting the availability of the credit facility arrangements receivables are key areas in assessing how the company and the group is for the Group/ Company to manage the liquidity on a short facing the COVID-19 outbreak. term and long-term basis assessing the implication of these on the Company’s liquidity; We identified the disclosures relating to management assessment on going concern and the estimation uncertainty resulting due to COVID-19 as a ´´ Assessing the adequacy of the financial statements disclosures key audit matter because the assessment involves consideration of future in relation to the impact of the uncertainty of COVID-19. events which are inherently uncertain, and involves significant management judgment in assessing future projections. 68 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT OTHER INFORMATION accordance with SLAuSs will always detect a material misstatement Management is responsible for the other information. The other when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are information comprises the information included in the annual report, considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users thereon. taken on the basis of these financial statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other As part of an audit in accordance with SLAuSs, we exercise information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism thereon. throughout the audit. We also: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our ´´ Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis otherwise appears to be materially misstated. for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance. We have nothing to report in this regard. ´´ Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED on the effectiveness of the Company and the Group’s internal WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS control. Management is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Sri Lanka ´´ Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the Accounting Standards, and for such internal control as management reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial made by management. statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. ´´ Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related for assessing the Group’s/ Company’s ability to continue as a going to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern Group’s/ Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we and Group/ Company using the going concern basis of accounting conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, Company’s and the Group’s financial reporting process. future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE ´´ Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 69 ´´ Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS financial information of the entities or business activities within As required by section 163 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements. We we have obtained all the information and explanations that were are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance required for the audit and, as far as appears from our examination, of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit proper accounting records have been kept by the Company. opinion. CA Sri Lanka membership number of the engagement partner We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, responsible for signing this independent auditor’s report is 3272. among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with ethical requirements in accordance with the Code of Ethics regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be Chartered Accountants thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Colombo, Sri Lanka From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, 29th May 2020 we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 70 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS This section identifies the Financial Statements of the Company and the Group, and presents the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash Flows. The Responsibility for the Financial Statements and its authorisation is also identified. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2020 comprise “Company” referring to Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC as the holding company, and the “Group” referring to the companies that have been consolidated therein. COMPOSITION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Financial Statements comprise of the following; ´´ Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income ´´ Statement of Financial Position ´´ Statement of Changes in Equity ´´ Statement of Cash Flows ´´ Notes to the Financial Statements comprising of Basis of Accounting (Section 3), Specific Accounting Policies and Notes (Section 4) and other disclosures (Section 5). RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Board of Directors acknowledges their responsibility for Financial Statements, as set out in the Annual Report of the Board of Directors, Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities for Financial Statements and in the certification on the Statement of Financial Position on pages 58 to 61, 64 and 72 respectively, of this Annual Report. AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2020, were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 29th May 2020. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 71 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 Change 2020 2019 Change Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 % Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 % Revenue 4.1 34,557,871 38,300,350 -10% 28,612,775 33,538,829 -15% Sales taxes (172,968) (283,615) -39% (124,184) (201,168) -38% Net revenue 34,384,903 38,016,735 -10% 28,488,591 33,337,661 -15% Cost of sales (27,053,148) (30,783,964) -12% (22,472,010) (27,471,345) -18% Gross profit 7,331,755 7,232,771 1% 6,016,581 5,866,316 3% Other operating income 4.3 158,588 170,093 -7% 260,032 174,589 49% Selling and distribution expenses (686,736) (736,643) -7% (591,326) (604,727) -2% Provision for Impairment of trade receivables 4.16.1 (323,472) (177,810) 82% (245,022) (185,283) 32% Administrative expenses (5,031,901) (5,004,031) 1% (4,075,781) (4,206,519) -3% Operating profit 1,448,234 1,484,380 -2% 1,364,484 1,044,376 31% Finance income 237,669 176,266 35% 217,705 179,921 21% Finance costs (1,390,042) (1,525,864) -9% (1,245,260) (1,455,855) -14% Net finance costs 4.4 (1,152,373) (1,349,598) -15% (1,027,555) (1,275,934) -19% Share of loss of equity-accounted investee, net of tax 4.12.5 (16,334) (30,663) -47% (16,334) (30,663) -47% Profit/(loss) before tax 4.5 279,527 104,119 168% 320,595 (262,221) 222% Income tax (expense)/reversal 4.6 (78,383) (27,436) 186% (52,874) 48,898 -208% Profit/(loss) for the year 201,144 76,683 162% 267,721 (213,323) 226% Other Comprehensive Income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 4.23.1 60,870 12,179 400% 69,817 160 43536% Deferred tax charge on actuarial gain 4.24.2 (17,044) (3,410) 400% (19,549) (45) 43342% Equity investments at FVOCI – net change in fair value (527) (1,462) -64% (518) (1,514) -66% 43,299 7,307 493% 49,750 (1,399) 3656% Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Foreign operationsforeign currency translation differences 4.21.1 26,501 7,013 278% 5,213 5,040 3% 26,501 7,013 278% 5,213 5,040 3% Total other comprehensive income, net of tax 69,800 14,320 387% 54,963 3,641 1410% Total comprehensive income for the year 270,944 91,003 198% 322,684 (209,682) 254% Profit/(Loss) attributable to: Owners of the Company 195,011 51,307 280% 267,721 (213,323) 226% Non-controlling interest 6,133 25,376 -76% 201,144 76,683 162% 267,721 (213,323) 226% Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 260,357 65,093 300% 322,684 (209,682) 254% Non-controlling interest 10,587 25,910 -59% 270,944 91,003 198% 322,684 (209,682) 254% Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share (Rs.) 4.7 21.97 5.78 30.16 (24.03) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 76 to 130 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 72 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Assets Property, plant and equipment 4.9 11,506,819 11,524,518 11,080,460 11,151,036 Right-of-use assets 4.10 478,010 17,911 462,001 17,911 Intangible assets and goodwill 4.11 128,720 135,215 11,097 17,592 Investments in subsidiaries 4.12.1 564,752 514,576 Equity accounted investee 4.12.5 26,620 40,414 26,620 40,414 Certification Equity Securities 4.14 6,461 6,897 6,389 6,816 Deferred tax assets 4.24 97,341 51,336 These Financial Statements as set Total non-current assets 12,243,971 11,776,291 12,151,319 11,748,345 out on pages 70 to 130 have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act Inventories 4.15 8,007,852 8,360,450 6,878,269 7,275,511 No. 07 of 2007. Trade and other receivables 4.16 8,519,705 6,974,219 5,684,764 4,832,912 Other current assets 4.17 2,091,929 1,643,360 1,844,113 1,410,437 Current tax asset 4.29 306,663 304,642 236,295 293,608 Amounts due from related parties 4.30.1 17,801 18,204 149,831 135,646 Cash and cash equivalents 4.18 837,650 223,026 570,503 119,102 Total current assets 19,781,600 17,523,901 15,363,775 14,067,216 E.D.C. Kodituwakku Total assets 32,025,571 29,300,192 27,515,094 25,815,561 General Manager Finance and Controlling Equity and Liabilities Member Equity Group Management Committee Stated capital 4.19 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 Other components of equity 4.21 4,077,499 4,055,979 4,057,375 4,052,680 Revenue reserves 4.20 7,476,214 7,259,568 6,186,760 5,890,962 The Board of Directors is responsible Equity attributable to owners of the Company 11,979,010 11,740,844 10,669,432 10,368,939 for the preparation and presentation Non-controlling interests 4.12.4 369,921 339,607 of these Financial Statements. Total equity 12,348,931 12,080,451 10,669,432 10,368,939 Signed for and on behalf of the Long-term borrowings 4.22.1 290,206 490,180 290,000 490,180 Board, Lease liabilities 4.22.3 418,857 6,886 395,875 Employee benefits 4.23 774,909 736,445 705,369 686,890 Deferred tax liabilities 4.24 1,677,504 1,809,338 1,677,460 1,809,338 Contract liabilities 4.25.1 97,155 76,992 54,478 29,578 Total non-current liabilities 3,258,631 3,119,841 3,123,182 3,015,986 A.R. Pandithage Trade payables 4.27 2,601,473 1,905,473 2,213,340 1,482,480 Chairman/Managing Director Other current liabilities 4.28 1,842,838 1,748,399 1,131,416 1,205,538 Current portion of long-term borrowings 4.22.1 202,272 354,044 200,892 351,363 Current portion of lease liabilities 4.22.3 80,990 7,040 57,096 Current portion of contract liabilities 4.25.1 706,666 684,978 335,690 418,591 Current portion deferred income 4.25.2 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 Current tax liability 4.29 5,341 43,411 B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Director/Chief Financial Officer Short-term borrowings 4.22.2 10,794,205 9,289,940 9,589,899 8,715,598 Amounts due to related parties 4.30.1 9,923 190,451 29th May 2020 Total current liabilities 16,418,009 14,099,900 13,722,480 12,430,636 Colombo Total liabilities 19,676,640 17,219,741 16,845,662 15,446,622 Total equity and liabilities 32,025,571 29,300,192 27,515,094 25,815,561 The Notes appearing on pages 76 to 130 form an integral part of these Net assets per share 1,349.53 1,322.70 1,201.99 1,168.14 Financial Statements. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 73 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves NonTotal For the year ended 31st March Stated Revaluation Fair value Foreign General Retained Controlling Capital Reserve Reserve Currency Reserve Earnings Interests Translation Reserve Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Group As at 01st April 2018 425,297 4,042,268 6,992 1,702 5,167,290 2,101,610 304,203 12,049,362 Impact of adoption of SLFRS 15 (80,347) (80,347) Adjusted balance as at 01st April 2018 425,297 4,042,268 6,992 1,702 5,167,290 2,021,263 304,203 11,969,015 Capital contribution from non-controlling interest 9,494 9,494 Profit for the year 51,307 25,376 76,683 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (1,462) 6,479 8,769 534 14,320 Total comprehensive income (1,462) 6,479 60,076 25,910 91,003 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Increase in net assets of DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd 10,939 10,939 Transfer during the year 225,000 (225,000) Total contributions and distributions 225,000 (214,061) 10,939 As at 31st March 2019 425,297 4,042,268 5,530 8,181 5,392,290 1,867,278 339,607 12,080,451 As at 01st April 2019 425,297 4,042,268 5,530 8,181 5,392,290 1,867,278 339,607 12,080,451 Capital contribution from non-controlling interest 19,727 19,727 Profit for the year 195,011 6,133 201,144 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (527) 22,047 43,826 4,454 69,800 Total comprehensive income (527) 22,047 238,837 10,587 270,944 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2018/19 Final dividend (22,191) (22,191) Total contributions and distributions (22,191) (22,191) As at 31st March 2020 425,297 4,042,268 5,003 30,228 5,392,290 2,083,924 369,921 12,348,931 Company As at 01st April 2018 425,297 4,042,268 6,971 (85) 4,779,464 1,369,250 10,623,165 Impact of adoption of SLFRS 15 (55,483) (55,483) Adjusted balance as at 01st April 2018 425,297 4,042,268 6,971 (85) 4,779,464 1,313,767 10,567,682 Total Comprehensive Income Loss for the year (213,323) (213,323) Other comprehensive income, net of tax (1,514) 5,040 115 3,641 Total comprehensive income (1,514) 5,040 (213,208) (209,682) Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Increase in net assets of DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd 10,939 10,939 Transfer during the year 150,000 (150,000) Total contributions and distributions 150,000 (139,061) 10,939 As at 31st March 2019 425,297 4,042,268 5,457 4,955 4,929,464 961,498 10,368,939 As at 01st April 2019 425,297 4,042,268 5,457 4,955 4,929,464 961,498 10,368,939 Total Comprehensive Income Profit for the year 267,721 267,721 Other comprehensive income, net of tax (518) 5,213 50,268 54,963 Total comprehensive income (518) 5,213 317,989 322,684 Transactions with owners of the Company contributions and distributions Dividends to equity owners 2018/19 Final dividend (22,191) (22,191) Total contributions and distributions (22,191) (22,191) As at 31st March 2020 425,297 4,042,268 4,939 10,168 4,929,464 1,257,296 10,669,432 The General Reserve and Retained Earnings represent reserves available for distribution. Fair value Reserve consists of net unrealised gains/(losses) arising from fair valuation of Equity Securities designated at FVOCI, excluding the impact arising from impairment of assets. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 76 to 130 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 74 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Profit/(Loss) before taxation 279,527 104,119 320,595 (262,221) Adjustments for Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 4.9 417,575 410,601 354,240 362,402 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 4.5 7,692 9,577 7,692 9,577 Amortisation of right of use assets 4.10 117,985 95,222 Reversal of impairment of investments in subsidiaries 4.12.2 (137) Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 4.3 (14,022) (18,079) (10,581) (12,650) De-recognition of capital work-in-progress 4.9 64,887 178 64,542 178 Interest expenses 4.4 1,390,042 1,525,864 1,245,260 1,455,855 Interest income 4.4 (37,588) (107,719) (39,542) (104,866) Dividend income 4.3 (292) (167) (22,399) (167) Share of loss of equity-accounted investee, net of tax 4.12.5 16,334 30,663 16,334 30,663 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 4.5 323,472 177,810 245,022 185,283 Provision for slow moving inventories 4.5 69,619 14,122 19,336 9,039 Provision for employee benefits obligation excluding actuarial gain 4.5.1 141,479 124,336 128,512 112,185 2,776,710 2,271,305 2,424,233 1,785,141 Changes in working capital Decrease in inventories 282,979 1,186,466 377,906 1,631,255 Increase in trade and other receivables (1,868,958) (1,154,118) (1,096,874) (551,724) Increase in other current assets (490,712) (706,509) (487,605) (794,485) Decrease/(increase) in amounts due from related parties 403 (8,344) (14,185) (22,221) Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 696,000 (1,068,730) 730,860 (1,013,448) Increase/(decrease) in other current liabilities 126,328 187,157 (42,234) 32,131 Increase/(decrease) in deferred Income 117,609 (194,628) 117,609 (51,181) Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities 41,851 674,676 (58,001) 390,809 Decrease in amounts due to related parties (180,528) (329,267) Cash generated from operating activities 1,682,210 1,187,275 1,771,181 1,077,010 Interest paid (1,417,767) (1,494,678) (1,272,985) (1,410,461) Employee benefits paid 4.23 (42,145) (37,127) (40,216) (34,357) Income tax paid 4.29 (310,873) (281,934) (146,988) (178,226) Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (88,575) (626,464) 310,992 (546,034) Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 22,788 45,388 12,877 18,920 Dividends received 201 104 22,308 104 Interest received 37,588 104,207 39,542 89,798 Investment in subsidiary (50,176) (40,218) Acquisition and construction of property, plant and equipment and capital work-in-progress 4.9 (433,472) (502,011) (350,726) (391,023) Acquisition of intangible assets 4.11 (5,100) (7,738) (5,100) (7,738) Net cash used in investing activities (377,995) (360,050) (331,275) (330,157) Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 75 Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Note Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Capital contribution from non-controlling interest of a newly incorporated subsidiary 19,727 9,494 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 4.22.1.1 600,000 600,000 Repayment of long-term borrowings 4.22.1.1 (351,055) (350,758) (349,960) (349,960) Net movement of short-term borrowings 1,663,614 999,926 1,020,230 826,260 Repayment of lease liabilities (65,786) (13,013) (30,773) Dividends paid 4.20 (22,191) (22,191) Net cash from financing activities 1,244,309 1,245,649 617,306 1,076,300 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 777,739 259,135 597,023 200,109 Cash and cash equivalents as at 01st April (74,447) (335,995) (131,940) (332,049) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (3,766) 2,413 307 Cash and cash equivalents as at 31st March (Note-A) 699,526 (74,447) 465,390 (131,940) Note A Analysis of Cash and cash equivalents as at 31st March Cash and bank balances 4.18 837,650 223,026 570,503 119,102 Bank overdrafts 4.22.2 (138,124) (297,473) (105,113) (251,042) Cash and cash equivalents 699,526 (74,447) 465,390 (131,940) Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The Notes appearing on pages 76 to 130 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. 76 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 2 CORPORATE INFORMATION This section gives a description of the reporting entity, its subsidiaries and joint venture 2.1 REPORTING ENTITY The ordinary shares of the Company are listed at the Colombo Stock The Reporting Entity is Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (the ‘Company’) Exchange. which is a public limited liability Company, incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The registered office and principal place of business Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC does not have an identifiable parent of of the company is located at No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14. its own. The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. 2.2 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND NATURE OF OPERATIONS The principal place of business and business activities of the Company, subsidiaries and the joint venture are as follows: Entity Principal place Principal Business Activities of business The Company Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Sri Lanka Import, sale and repair of passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, material handling machinery, construction machinery, agri machinery, earth moving machinery, car parking systems, power tools, import and sale of vehicle spares, components, Consumer products, accessories, lamps, batteries, providing lighting solutions and storage systems, import, Power engineering, repack and distribution of fertiliser. Subsidiaries DIMO (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Sale, after sales and solutions in the business domains of bio-medical engineering, power engineering, building technologies, civil engineering, elevators and escalators, industrial refrigeration systems, marine & rail propulsion and fluid management systems. DIMO Travels (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Provision of transportation facilities. DIMO Industries (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Import and sale of tyres. PlantChem (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Import re-packing and sales of pesticides, ,fungicides, insecticides, herbicides, plant growth regulators, compound fertilisers and liquid fertilisers. Plant Seeds (Private) Limited Sri Lanka Import and sale of hybrid seeds and produce, process and distribution of seed paddy, hybrid seeds and vegetable seeds DIMO Lanka Company Limited Republic of the Acts as the investing arm of Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC in Myanmar. Currently carries Union of Myanmar out operation of automobile after service and repair through its subsidiary, United Dimo Company Limited. United DIMO Company Limited Republic of the Sale of automobiles, automobile repair and servicing. Union of Myanmar Joint venture DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited Republic of Maldives Marine and general engineering including repair and service of marine craft, marine engines, generators, turbines, pumps and boilers. The country of incorporation of the above companies is the same country where the principal place of business is domiciled. During the year, the company opened a branch in Republic of Uganda and its’ principal business activity is providing power engineering solutions. More details of the Group is available in the group structure on page 19. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 77 SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING This section covers the basis of preparation of Financial Statements including policies, assumptions, judgements, estimates, and adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs/LKASs). Accounting policies and basis for judgements and estimates that are specific to notes in section 4, is given in the relevant note. 3.1 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE way to support government’s essential services. With the relaxation of The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group and the separate curfew from 20th April 2020, other than in the Western Province and Financial Statements of the Company, have been prepared and Puttalam District, operations commenced in the permitted districts. presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards This resulted in a pickup in Group Turnover that was affected due to (SLFRSs/LKASs) laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of the curfew and speed up further with the opening of the remaining four Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance with the requirements of the districts. The operations in Myanmar, Maldives and Uganda were also Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, and provide appropriate disclosures as affected by the restrictions imposed and are expected to pick up shortly required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). The when these countries return their journey towards normalcy. SLFRSs and LKASs are available at www.casrilanka.com. In determining the basis of preparing the financial statements for This is the first set of the Group’s annual consolidated financial the year ended 31 March 2020, based on available information, statements to which SLFRS 16 Leases have been applied. Changes to the management has assessed the existing and anticipated postsignificant accounting policies due to adoption of this standard are lockdown economic implications on the group of companies and described in Note 3.8. the appropriateness of the use of the going concern basis. The management performed multiple stress tested scenarios considering cost management practices, cash reserves, ability to secure additional 3.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION funding to finance the adverse effect to the cash flow, ability to secure Basis of Measurement supplies, expected revenue streams, credit and collection management The Financial Statements of the Group/Company have been prepared practices and ability to defer non-essential capital expenditure. on historical cost basis, except for following; Unutilised bank facilities of the Group as at 31st March 2020 are disclosed in Note 4.22.2. Item Basis of measurement Note With the relaxation of movement restrictions and gradual restoration Freehold land Initially measured at cost and 4.9 of business activities, the company is expected to return to its normal subsequently at revalued amounts level of activities by the end of second quarter. Based on the information which are the fair values at the date of currently available, supply side constraints are also expected to improve revaluation. during the second quarter. Equity instruments Fair value 4.14 at FVOCI After due consideration of risks and likelihood of outcomes, the Board of Directors is satisfied that the Company, its subsidiaries and joint venture Defined benefit Actuarially valued and recognised at 4.23 have adequate liquidity and business plans to continue to operate the obligation present value business and mitigate the risks connected to the lockdown for the next 12 months from the date of this report. The Financial Statements, except for information on cash flows have been prepared following the accrual basis of accounting. 3.3 GOING CONCERN In light of ongoing COVID-19 pandemic situation, the Group and the Company has assessed its going concern and a detailed disclosure of its assessment are provided below. With the onset of COVID-19 in Sri Lanka and the consequent business and movement restrictions, the Group’s operations were adversely affected from the second half of the month of March 2020. During this time only the Group’s Agriculture Segment functioned as a revenue generating operation, though with limitations. Medical engineering after care and automobile aftercare operations functioned in a limited 78 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 3.4 FUNCTIONAL AND PRESENTATION CURRENCY income, expenses and accompanying disclosures as well as the The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sri Lankan disclosure of contingent liabilities . Management make estimates Rupees (LKR), which is the currency of the primary economic and judgements based on current knowledge, historical experience environment in which the reporting entity operates. Each entity of the and various other assumptions that are held to be reasonable under Group uses the currency of the primary economic environment in which the circumstances. However, actual results may differ from these it operates as its functional currency. judgements and estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to accounting estimates are recognised prospectively. The subsidiaries and equity-accounted investees whose functional currency is different from the presentation currency is given below. Significant judgements, estimates and assumptions made by Name of the Entity Country of Domicile Functional management in preparing of these consolidated financial statements are Currency described in following notes. DIMO Lanka Republic of the Union of Myanmar Burmese kyat Accounting Policies Note Company Limited Revenue Recognition 4.1 United DIMO Republic of the Union of Myanmar Burmese kyat Company Limited Impairment of non financial assets 3.10.3 DIMO Coastline Republic of Maldives United States Current tax & deferred tax asset 4.29 (Private) Limited Dollar Useful life time of Property, plant and equipment 4.9 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 4.16 3.5 MATERIALITY, AGGREGATION, OFFSETTING AND Employee benefits 4.23 ROUNDING Provisions and contingent liabilities 4.26 Materiality and aggregation Acquisition of subsidiary 4.12 Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are 3.7.1 Estimation uncertainty in preparation of financial presented separately unless they are treated immaterial as permitted statements due to the post-lockdown economic by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of implications of COVID-19 pandemic Financial Statements’. The post-lockdown implications have increased the uncertainty of estimates made in preparation of the Financial Statements. The Understandability of the Financial Statements is not compromised estimation uncertainty is associated with: by obscuring material information with immaterial information or by aggregating material items that have different natures or functions. ´´ the extent and duration of the disruption to businesses arising from the actions of stakeholders such as government, businesses and customers Notes to the Financial Statements are presented in a systematic manner that ensures the understandability and comparability of Financial ´´ the extent and duration of the expected economic downturn due to Statements. impact on GDP capital markets, credit risk of our customers , impact of unemployment and possible decline in consumer discretionary Offsetting spending Assets and liabilities or income and expenses are not set off unless ´´ the effectiveness of government and central bank measures that required or permitted by a Sri Lanka Accounting Standard. have and will be put in place to support businesses through this disruption and economic downturn. Rounding Financial information presented in Sri Lankan Rupees has been rounded The significant accounting estimates impacted by these forecasts and to the nearest thousand, unless indicated otherwise. associated uncertainties are related to expected credit losses and recoverable amount assessments of non-financial assets, recoverable value of property plant and equipment and net realisable value of 3.6 COMPARATIVE INFORMATION inventory. The presentation and classification of the financial statements of the previous years have been amended, where relevant, for better Collectively assessed allowance for expected credit losses presentation and to be comparable with those of the current year. The post-lockdown economic implications on the country’s economy and how businesses and consumers respond to same are uncertain. 3.7 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, There could be a possible increase in credit risk due to the loss of ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS income by some of the businesses and the individuals who are our The preparation of the Financial Statements of the Group/Company customers, which would delay the settlements of customer dues whilst require the Management to make judgements, estimates and the possibility of default also exists. assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 79 This uncertainty is reflected in the Group’s assessment of expected classification of leases in LKAS 17 as either operating leases or finance credit losses from its credit portfolio which are subject to a number leases. of management judgements and estimates. Judgements relevant to expected credit loss computations are further discussed in note 4.16 to The Group has adopted SLFRS 16 using modified retrospective method these financial statements. from 1 April 2019, without restating comparatives for the 2018/19 reporting period, as permitted under the specific transitional provisions 3.8 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND DISCLOSURES in the standard. At the date of adoption, right of use was recognized as amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of prepaid The nature and effect of the changes arising from adoption of the new lease rentals. SLFRS 16, Leases which are effective for the annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2019, are described in 3.8.1 below. Under this method, the standard is applied retrospectively and the Except for changes arising from adoption of this standard, the Group cumulative effect as at initial date of application of the standard i.e has consistently applied the accounting policies as set out in pages 1 April 2019 has been duly adjusted. The Group elected to use the 76 to 130, to all periods presented in these consolidated financial transitional practical expedient to not reassess whether an existing statements. contract forms a lease as at 1st April 2019, under the definitions provided in the standard. Instead, the Group applied the standard only 3.8.1 SLFRS 16 – Leases to contracts that were previously identiﬁed as leases applying LKAS 17 SLFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, at the date of initial application. presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract, i.e. lessee and lessor. SLFRS 16 supersedes Sri Lanka Accounting Standard The contracts which were previously classified as “operating leases” LKAS 17 (Leases) and related interpretations, SLFRS 16 introduces under the principles of LKAS 17 -Leases, have been recognize as “righta single accounting model for the lessee, eliminating the present of-use assets” with the adoption of SLFRS 16 -Leases. The following table summarises the impact of transition to SLFRS 16 as at 01st April 2019; Impact of adopting SLFRS 16 as at 01st April 2019 Group Company Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Right‑of‑use assets – recognised through lease prepayments and lease liability 553,401 514,629 Lease liabilities 497,942 460,863 Retained earnings When measuring lease liabilities for leases that were classified previously as operating leases, the Group discounted future lease payments due as of 1 April 2019 using the incremental borrowing rate as at 1 April 2019. The rate applicable was 12.48%. Impact of adopting SLFRS 16 as at 01st April 2019 Group Company Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Operating lease commitments at 31March 2019 as disclosed under LKAS 17 in the Group’s consolidated financial statements 64,430 49,994 Discounted using the incremental borrowing rate as at 1 April 2019 12.48% 12.48% Recognition exemption for leases (10,125) (10,125) Lease liabilities recognised at 1 April 2019 497,942 460,863 The adoption of SLFRS 16 had no impact on Group’s/Company’s retained earnings. The details of right-of-use assets are given in note 4.10 to the financial statements. 80 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 3.9 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Policy Page No. Summary of significant accounting policies are presented along with the relevant individual notes to the consolidated financial statements. Basis of consolidation 80 Foreign currency 81 Those accounting policies presented with each note, have been applied Impairment of non-financial assets 81 consistently by the Group to the all periods presented except for the Statement of cash flows 82 changes of the Accounting policies due to the adoption of SLFRS 16. 3.10.1 Basis of consolidation Set out below is an index of the significant accounting policies, the details of which are available on the pages indicated. The Group’s Financial Statements comprise Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries prepared as per the Note Accounting Policy Page No. Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-SLFRS 10 on ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’. 4.1 Revenue 83 4.2 Operating Segments 85 Subsidiaries 4.3 Other Operating Income/(Expenses) 88 Subsidiaries are investees that are controlled by the Company. The 4.4 Finance Income and Costs 88 Company ‘Controls’ an investee if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the 4.5 Profit Before Tax 89 ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. At 4.6 Taxation 90 each reporting date the Company reassesses whether it controls an 4.7 Earnings Per Share-Basic and Diluted 91 investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to 4.8 Dividends 92 one or more of the elements of control mentioned above. The Financial 4.9 Property, Plant and Equipment 92 Statements of all the subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date on which control commences until 4.10 Right-of-use assets 97 the date when control ceases. 4.11 Intangible Assets and goodwill 99 4.12 Investments in Subsidiaries and equity-accounted A list of the Group’s subsidiaries is set out in Note 4.12.1 to the investee 101 Financial Statements. 4.13 Fair value of Assets and Liabilities 104 4.14 Equity instruments at FVOCI 110 The Financial Statements of the parent company and subsidiaries are 4.15 Inventories 110 prepared to a common financial year ending 31st March, using uniform accounting policies. 4.16 Trade and Other Receivables 111 4.17 Other Current Assets 113 There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries 4.18 Cash and Cash Equivalents 113 to transfer funds to the Company (the ‘Parent’) in the form of cash 4.19 Stated Capital 114 dividend or repayment of loans and advances. 4.20 Revenue Reserve 114 4.21 Other Components of Equity 115 Non-controlling interests 4.22 Lease Liabilities, Long-term and Short-term Non-controlling interests are measured initially at their proportionate Borrowings 115 share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the 4.23 Employee Benefits 119 date of acquisition. 4.24 Deferred Tax 121 Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in 4.25 Contract Liabilities and Deferred Income 123 a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactionsthat is, as 4.26 Provisions 124 transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference 4.27 Trade Payables 125 between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share 4.28 Other Current Liabilities 125 acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. 4.29 Current Tax Assets and Liabilities 126 4.30 Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries and EquityLoss of Control accounted investee 127 If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling interest and other 3.10 OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES NOT components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in COVERED WITH INDIVIDUAL NOTES the Statement of Profit or Loss. Any investment retained is recognised Following accounting policies, which have been applied consistently by at fair value. the Group, are considered to be significant, and are not covered under individual notes in section 4. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 81 Business combination Foreign operations The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition The results and financial position of entities whose functional currency method when control is transferred to the Group. The consideration is not Sri Lankan Rupee has been translated into Sri Lankan Rupees as transferred in the acquisition is generally measured at fair value, as are follows: the identifiable net assets acquired. Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognised (i) Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position in Statement of Profit or Loss immediately. Transaction costs are presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity statement of financial position; securities. (ii) Income and expenses for each statement presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income are translated at the average The consideration transferred does not include amounts related to the exchange rates for the period. settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. (iii) Foreign currency differences are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income and accumulated in the translation reserve, If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any non-controlling interests. resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss. 3.10.3 Impairment of non-financial assets Any contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the date The carrying amount of all non-financial assets, other than inventories of acquisition. If an obligation to pay contingent consideration that and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to meets the definition of a financial instrument is classified as equity, determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. Otherwise, other contingent consideration is remeasured at fair value Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. at each reporting date and subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. The ‘recoverable amount’ of an asset is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. ‘Value in use’ is based on the Transactions eliminated on consolidation estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. The fair preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. Unrealised losses value less costs to sell calculation is based on available data from are also eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the an active market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or extent that there is no evidence of impairment. observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. For impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually 3.10.2 Foreign currency are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates Transactions and balances cash inflows from continuing use that is largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised rate at the reporting date. in Profit or Loss. Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indication that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the amount. An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. For transaction. other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount that would have been determined (net of Foreign currency differences are recognised in the Statement of Profit depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss recognised in or Loss. However, foreign currency differences arising from equity prior years. securities designated as FVOCI (except foreign currency differences relating to impairment) are recognised in Other Comprehensive income Based on the assessments made to the recoverable amounts of non(OCI). financial assets, including investments in subsidiaries, there were no indications that require an adjustment in the financial statements. The Share capital denominated in a currency other than the functional parent, subsidiaries and joint venture have access to adequate funding currency is initially converted using the exchange rate as at date of to continue their business operations. issue but is not re-translated. 82 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 3 BASIS OF ACCOUNTING 3.10.3.1. Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3.10.3.2. Right to use of assets (other than goodwill) The Group does not foresee any impairment of right to use assets due Due to the temporary ceasing of operations because of the lockdown in to the post-lockdown economic implications of COVID-19 pandemic and the country , property, plant and equipment (PPE) is under-utilised or does not anticipate discontinuation of any asset for which the Group/ not utilised for a period and capital work – in progress is suspended. It Company possesses the right to use. Lease liabilities are not reassessed is also possible that carrying value of property plant and equipment may as there are no known moratoriums received for the lease payments so get affected. But with the following judgements, the management has far. concluded that no impairment is required on PPE at the reporting date: 3.10.3.3. Goodwill Impairment ´´ The Management currently believes that it has adequate liquidity The Board is of the view that a need does not exist for impairment of and business plans to continue to operate the business and goodwill that arose due to acquisition of PlantSeeds (Pvt) Ltd. during mitigate the risks associated with COVID-19 pandemic for the next the financial year 2017/18, as the business continuity plan and the 12 months from the date of this report. Therefore, currently, the continuation of the agriculture related activity has not seriously affected Group/Company does not have an intention to discontinue any its future cash flows, despite the COVID-19 related lockdown. operation to which an asset belongs or plans to dispose of an asset before the previously expected date. Thus, there will be no change 3.10.4 Statement of cash flows in the manner in which the asset is used or is expected to be used The Statement of Cash Flows has been prepared by using the ‘Indirect ´´ Whilst the Group/Company experienced disruptions in supplies due Method’ of preparing cash flows in accordance with Sri Lanka to cross broader closing and country lockdown, the ability to meet Accounting Standard-LKAS 7 on ‘Statement of Cash Flows’. Cash and the demand of customers is not impaired to an extent that warrants cash equivalents as referred to in the Statement of Cash Flows are a reduction of assets in use. comprised of those items as explained in Note 4.18 and 4.22.2. 3.11 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE Following amendments to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued not yet effective as at the reporting date have not been applied in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Group plans to apply these amendments to the standards from their effective dates: A summary of the requirements stipulated by the amendments and their possible impact on financial statements, when implemented, is presented in the table below; New or amended Summary of the requirements Possible impact on Financial Statements Standards Amendments to The amendments to the definition of a business in SLFRS 3 “Business Combinations” have The Group is assessing the potential SLFRS 3: Definition been made to help the entities determine whether an acquired set of activities and assets impact on its Financial Statements of a Business is a business or not. These amendments clarify the minimum requirements for a business, resulting from the application of remove the assessment of whether market participants are capable of replacing any missing Amendments to Sri Lanka Accounting elements, add guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive, Standard SLFRS 3. This amendment is narrow the definition of a business and of outputs, and introduce an optional fair value not expected to have a significant impact concentration test. on the Financial Statements of the Group. The amendments are applied prospectively for the annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2020 with early application permitted. Amendments to The amendments LKAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements” and LKAS 8 “Accounting The Group is assessing the potential LKAS 1 and LKAS 8: policies, Changes in accounting Estimates and Errors” align the definition of “material” impact on its Financial Statements Definition of Material across the standard and clarify certain aspects of the definition. The new definition states resulting from the application of that, “information is material if omitting or obscuring it could reasonably be expected to Amendments to LKAS 1 and LKAS 8. This influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on amendment is not expected to have the basis of those financial statements, which provide financial information about a specific a significant impact on the Financial reporting entity. Statements of the Group. The amendments are applied prospectively for the annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2020 with early application permitted. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 83 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES This section provides specific accounting policies and basis of accounting estimates in relation to the reported values in the Financial Statements with additional Notes and explanations thereon. 4.1 REVENUE Rendering of services Accounting Policy Revenue from rendering of services is recognised when the Group/ The Group/Company recognizes revenue from contracts with customers Company satisfies all performance obligations by transferring a when control of the goods or services is transferred to the customer promised service to a customer. at an amount that reflects the consideration that the Group is to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Determining the timing Construction related contracts of the transfer of control of goods or services, at a point in time or over Revenue from construction related contracts is recognised upon time, requires judgements taking into consideration the nature of goods satisfaction of a performance obligation agreed in the contract. At or services that Group/Company offers. contract inception, the Group/Company determines whether it satisfies the performance obligation over time or at a point in time. The revenue Some contracts include multiple deliverables. Where the contracts recognition occurs at a point in time when control of the asset is include multiple performance obligations, the transaction price will transferred to the customer. For each performance obligation satisfied be allocated to each performance obligation based on the standover time, the Group recognises the revenue over time by measuring the alone selling prices. Where these are not directly observable, they are progress towards complete satisfaction of that performance obligation. estimated based on expected cost plus margin. The progress is assessed based on surveys of work performed . When The Group/Company disaggregate its revenue into following categories the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, based on the nature, amount , timing and uncertainty of revenue and contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs cash flows arising from contracts with customers. incurred that are likely to be recoverable. An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised at the point in time when Service support income control of the goods is transferred to the customer, usually on delivery Service support income which is included in revenue represents of the goods. Sales are measured at the fair value of the consideration income received from foreign principals on indent sales. Such income received or receivable excluding amounts collected on behalf of third is recognised on an accrual basis at the time of satisfying performance parties (e.g. Sales taxes) and variable consideration ( e.g. discounts obligation relating to the service support provided by the Group. and rebates). The Group/Company estimate an amount of variable consideration by using the expected value method which is the sum of 4.1.1 Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers probability weighted amounts in a range of possible considerations. In the following tables, revenue from contract with customers is disaggregated by nature of the product and timing of revenue recognition. 4.1.1.1. Revenue by nature Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Revenue Source Sale of goods 26,504,259 33,491,449 23,879,608 30,961,805 Rendering of services 2,174,997 1,839,245 1,970,751 1,801,457 Constructions related contracts 5,725,600 2,781,409 2,690,962 688,977 Service support income 153,015 188,247 71,454 86,590 Total revenue 34,557,871 38,300,350 28,612,775 33,538,829 Revenue by Nature Group Revenue by Nature Company 0% 7% 0% 0% 2%0% 9% 6% 17% 5% 7% Sale of goods Rendering of services 6% Constructions related 2019/20 2018/19 contracts 2019/20 2018/19 Service support income 77% 88% 84% 92% 84 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.1.1.2. Timing of revenue recognition Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Revenue recognised at a point in time 28,832,271 35,518,941 25,921,813 32,849,852 Revenue recognised over time 5,725,600 2,781,409 2,690,962 688,977 34,557,871 38,300,350 28,612,775 33,538,829 4.1.2 Reconciliation of revenue Reconciliation between disaggregated revenue from contracts with customers and revenue information that is disclosed for each reportable segment is set out below; Group 2020 For the year ended 31 March Sale of Rendering Constructions Service Total goods of services related support contracts income Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Vehicle Sales 13,670,681 109,725 2,189 13,782,595 Vehicle After Services 3,237,522 1,410,899 4,648,421 Marketing and Distribution 4,028,242 29,375 1,019,821 5,077,438 Construction and Material Handling Equipment 835,127 532,824 223,173 15,379 1,606,503 Agriculture 3,527,860 4,014 3,531,874 Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering 1,204,827 88,160 4,482,606 135,447 5,911,040 26,504,259 2,174,997 5,725,600 153,015 34,557,871 Company 2020 For the year ended 31 March Sale of Rendering Constructions Service Total goods of services related support contracts income Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Vehicle Sales 13,670,681 109,725 2,189 13,782,595 Vehicle After Services 3,238,324 1,209,746 4,448,070 Marketing and Distribution 3,931,339 29,375 1,016,003 4,976,717 Construction and Material Handling Equipment 849,692 532,824 223,173 15,379 1,621,068 Agriculture 2,100,586 2,100,586 Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering 88,986 89,081 1,451,786 53,886 1,683,739 23,879,608 1,970,751 2,690,962 71,454 28,612,775 Group 2019 For the year ended 31 March Sale of Rendering Constructions Service Total goods of services related support contracts income Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Vehicle Sales 20,109,851 206,528 1,370 20,317,749 Vehicle After Services 3,102,009 1,142,537 4,244,546 Marketing and Distribution 3,969,672 28,174 408,245 4,406,091 Construction and Material Handling Equipment 1,162,589 458,676 277,200 85,220 1,983,685 Agriculture 4,149,328 3,330 4,152,658 Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine Engineering 998,000 2,095,964 101,657 3,195,621 33,491,449 1,839,245 2,781,409 188,247 38,300,350 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 85 Company 2019 For the year ended 31 March Sale of Rendering Constructions Service Total goods of services related support contracts income Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Vehicle Sales 20,109,941 206,528 1,370 20,317,839 Vehicle After Services 3,102,554 1,104,259 4,206,813 Marketing and Distribution 3,775,156 28,664 411,777 4,215,597 Construction and Material Handling Equipment 1,181,894 458,676 277,200 85,220 2,002,990 Agriculture 2,792,260 3,330 2,795,590 30,961,805 1,801,457 688,977 86,590 33,538,829 4.1.3 Contract balances Details of contract liabilities and amount recognised during the year as 4.1.3.1. Contract Liabilities revenue are disclosed in Note 4.25.1. Contract liabilities are the Group’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the Group has received consideration 4.2 OPERATING SEGMENTS (or the amount is due) from the customer. Contract liabilities include Accounting Policy long-term advances received to deliver goods and services, short-term The operating business segments are organised and managed advances received to render certain services as well as transaction price separately according to the nature, risks and returns. allocated to unprovided free services relating to vehicle sales. The Board of Directors regularly reviews the operating results of all The Group/Company applies the practical expedient and does not operating business segments for the purpose of making decisions adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment significant financing component for contract liabilities if it expects, at performance is evaluated based on operating profit or loss which in contract inception, that the period between the transfer of the promised certain respects, is measured differently from operating profit or loss in good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that the Consolidated Financial Statements. good or service is one year or less. The Group has the following six strategic business segments which are reportable segments, namely: Reportable segments Operations Vehicles -Sales Sale of brand new passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles, special purpose vehicles and pre-owned passenger vehicles. Vehicles -After Services Repair and service of vehicles included in the vehicle-sales segment, sale of franchised vehicle spare parts, accessories and components. Marketing and Distribution Sale and service of power tools and accessories, lamps, lighting controls, switchgear, Consumer products, fittings and accessories, tyres, original equipment spare parts and auto components. Construction and Material Sales and services of earth moving machinery, road construction machinery, material handling machinery, forklifts, storage Handling Equipment systems, dock levellers, car parking systems and gondolas. Agriculture Import, sale and after sales services of agri machinery, import, processing and distribution of agro chemicals, seeds and fertilizer, import producing, processing and sale of agricultural seeds. Electro-Mechanical, Sale, after sales and solutions in the business domains of bio-medical engineering, generating sets, elevators and escalators, Bio-Medical and Marine diesel engines for marine propulsion and rail traction, building management systems, fluid management systems, industrial Engineering refrigeration systems and power engineering equipment and systems. Inter-segment transactions are carried in the ordinary course of business. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated assets and liabilities comprise mainly of assets and liabilities that cannot be attributed to a particular segment. Finance income and expenses and income taxes are managed on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating business segments. Sales to any single customer does not represent more than 10% of the total sales and no segments are determined based on the geographical area. 86 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Group Vehicles Vehicles Marketing Construction and Agriculture Electro-Mechanical, Total Sales After Services and Distribution Material Handling Bio-Medical and Equipment Marine Engineering For the year ended 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 31st March Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 13,818,825 20,357,356 5,374,676 5,034,409 5,208,673 4,531,758 1,683,999 2,058,066 3,600,938 4,259,998 6,079,403 3,265,540 35,766,514 39,507,127 Inter-segment revenue (36,230) (39,607) (726,255) (789,863) (131,235) (125,667) (77,496) (74,381) (69,064) (107,340) (168,363) (69,919) (1,208,643) (1,206,777) Total external revenue 13,782,595 20,317,749 4,648,421 4,244,546 5,077,438 4,406,091 1,606,503 1,983,685 3,531,874 4,152,658 5,911,040 3,195,621 34,557,871 38,300,350 Segment results 658,753 968,084 867,452 805,976 485,924 378,626 249,739 263,190 123,643 306,860 546,435 365,684 2,931,946 3,088,420 Unallocated other income 158,588 170,093 Unallocated expenses (1,658,634) (1,804,796) Finance income 237,669 176,266 Finance costs (1,390,042) (1,525,864) Income tax expense (78,383) (27,436) Profit for the year 201,144 76,683 Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 4,083,218 5,054,981 2,020,553 1,751,390 3,500,838 2,709,672 1,189,454 1,170,615 3,160,824 3,166,584 6,021,157 3,526,022 19,976,044 17,379,264 Unallocated assets 12,049,527 11,920,928 Total assets 32,025,571 29,300,192 Segment liabilities 6,040,450 4,609,465 1,157,614 1,052,004 1,696,440 577,086 317,617 252,427 2,070,262 1,971,985 1,426,314 617,437 12,708,697 9,080,404 Unallocated liabilities 6,967,943 8,139,337 Equity 12,348,931 12,080,451 Total equity and liabilities 32,025,571 29,300,192 Other Information Capital expenditure 16,589 12,997 46,246 45,210 39,257 75,872 25,719 32,749 88,274 104,788 198,160 64,534 414,245 336,150 Unallocated capital expenditure 24,327 173,599 Depreciation and amortisation 39,859 40,189 97,259 109,246 16,695 13,502 11,328 10,911 50,795 46,055 19,411 13,854 235,347 233,757 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 189,920 186,421 Segment Revenue Group Segment Results Group 8% 12% 17% VehiclesSales 19% 22% 11% Vehicles -After Services 31% 40% 10% Marketing and Distribution 10% 5% 53% 4% Construction and Material 2019/20 2018/19 Handling Equipment 2019/20 2018/19 8% 9% 5% Agriculture 12% Electro-Mechanical, Bio-Medical and Marine 30% 12% 15% Engineering 17% 13% 11% 26% Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 87 Segmental Results, Assets and Liabilities Company Vehicles Vehicles Marketing Construction and Agriculture Electro-Mechanical, Total Sales After Services and Distribution Material Handling Bio-Medical and Equipment Marine Engineering For the year ended 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 31st March Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Business Segment Turnover and Results Total segment revenue 13,818,825 20,357,316 5,167,769 4,994,376 5,092,218 4,323,723 1,683,999 2,077,371 2,168,469 2,866,789 1,685,036 29,616,316 34,619,575 Inter-segment revenue (36,230) (39,477) (719,699) (787,563) (115,501) (108,126) (62,931) (74,381) (67,883) (71,199) (1,297) (1,003,541) (1,080,746) Total external revenue 13,782,595 20,317,839 4,448,070 4,206,813 4,976,717 4,215,597 1,621,068 2,002,990 2,100,586 2,795,590 1,683,739 28,612,775 33,538,829 Segment results 658,753 968,084 905,711 823,068 478,474 381,749 249,739 237,182 4,205 143,602 444,653 2,741,535 2,553,685 Unallocated other income 260,032 174,589 Unallocated expenses (1,653,417) (1,714,561) Finance income 217,705 179,921 Finance costs (1,245,260) (1,455,855) Income tax (expense)/ reversal (52,874) 48,898 Profit/(loss) for the year 267,721 (213,323) Business Segment Assets and Liabilities Segment assets 4,083,218 5,054,981 1,868,907 1,714,496 3,500,838 2,709,672 1,189,454 1,160,703 1,818,823 1,944,837 846,024 13,307,264 12,584,689 Unallocated assets 14,207,830 13,230,872 Total assets 27,515,094 25,815,561 Segment liabilities 6,040,450 4,609,465 1,095,595 1,052,004 1,696,440 576,433 317,617 250,899 1,291,600 1,237,943 246,674 10,688,376 7,726,744 Unallocated liabilities 6,157,286 7,719,878 Equity 10,669,432 10,368,939 Total equity and liabilities 27,515,094 25,815,561 Other Information Capital expenditure 16,589 12,997 46,246 42,139 39,257 75,872 25,719 32,749 3,493 74,326 186,008 317,312 238,083 Unallocated capital expenditure 38,514 160,678 Depreciation and amortisation 39,859 40,189 97,259 106,859 16,695 8,630 11,328 10,911 16,172 13,625 6,042 187,355 180,214 Unallocated depreciation and amortisation 174,577 191,765 Segment Revenue Company Segment Results Company 6% 8% 0% 6% 0% 7% VehiclesSales 16% 6% 24% 9% 6% Vehicles -After Services 0% Marketing and Distribution 38% 13% 9% 15% Construction and Material 2019/20 48% 2018/19 Handling Equipment 2019/20 2018/19 17% Agriculture 12% Electro machanical and 18% 61% marine engineering 33% 16% 32% 88 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.3 OTHER OPERATING INCOME/(EXPENSES) accounted in the income statement, after deducting the carrying Accounting Policy amount from proceeds on disposal of such assets and the related selling expenses. Other operating income and expenses are recognised on an accrual basis. Other operating Income and expenses comprises disposal gains/ Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue losses on sale of property, plant and equipment, gain on bargain generating activities and those arising from a group of similar purchase through business combination, dividend income and sundry transactions, which are not material are aggregated, reported and income. presented on a net basis. Gains and losses Dividend income Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the disposal Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s/Company’s right to of property, plant and equipment and other non-current assets are receive payment is established. Other Operating Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Dividend income 292 167 22,399 167 Gains on sale of property, plant and equipment 14,022 18,079 10,581 12,650 Sundry income 144,274 151,847 227,052 161,772 158,588 170,093 260,032 174,589 4.4 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS receivables) that are recognised in the income statement. Interest Accounting Policies expense is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate (EIR). Finance income comprises of interest income and is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis as either finance income or finance costs, depending on whether foreign currency Finance costs comprise of interest expense on borrowings and movements are in a net gain or net loss position. impairment losses recognised on financial assets (other than trade Net Finance Costs Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Interest income 37,588 107,719 39,542 104,866 Net foreign exchange gain 200,081 68,547 178,163 75,055 Finance income 237,669 176,266 217,705 179,921 Interest on long-term borrowings (69,396) (76,995) (69,396) (76,995) Interest on short-term borrowings (1,213,499) (1,440,423) (1,110,171) (1,376,983) Finance charges under operating and finance leases (61,689) (1,499) (54,202) Unwinding of significant financing component (45,458) (6,947) (11,491) (1,877) Finance costs (1,390,042) (1,525,864) (1,245,260) (1,455,855) Net finance costs recognised in profit or loss (1,152,373) (1,349,598) (1,027,555) (1,275,934) Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 89 4.5 PROFIT BEFORE TAX Profit before tax is stated after charging the following: Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Directors’ emoluments Short-term employment benefits 369,373 407,402 327,815 364,645 Post-employment benefits 52,039 65,279 48,327 58,319 Auditors’ remuneration Audit and audit-related services 6,161 5,347 3,989 3,845 Non-audit services 2,699 1,196 1,673 767 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment 417,575 410,601 354,240 362,402 Amortisation of intangible assets and lease rentals paid in advance 7,692 9,577 7,692 9,577 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 323,472 177,810 245,022 185,283 Provision for slow moving inventories 69,619 14,122 19,336 9,039 Donations 2,906 2,867 2,392 2,790 Legal fees 19,308 18,565 18,691 16,345 Staff expenses (Note 4.5.1) 2,646,597 2,493,046 2,059,048 2,010,568 4.5.1 Staff Expenses Accounting Policy Salaries and wages, contribution to EPF and ETF, training expenses and cost of defined benefit plans are recognised as an expense in the year in which the related services are provided. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Defined contribution plan cost 322,172 313,840 261,090 261,816 Employee benefit obligation costs (Note 4.23.1) 141,479 124,336 128,512 112,185 Training expenses 36,954 57,367 28,815 45,829 Salaries and wages 2,145,992 1,997,503 1,640,631 1,590,738 2,646,597 2,493,046 2,059,048 2,010,568 Average number of employees for the year 1,939 1,906 1,544 1,557 The average number of employees is calculated by averaging the number of employees as at the year end in the current and previous year. Staff Expenses Group Staff Expenses Company 12% 13% 5% Salaries and wages Deﬁned contribution plan cost 6% 81% 7% 80% 7% Employee beneﬁt obligation costs 2% Training expenses 1% 90 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.6 TAXATION ´´ Where the sales tax incurred on the purchase of an asset or service Accounting Policy is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset Income tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. or as part of the expense item as applicable; and It is recognised in Profit or Loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in Equity or in Other Comprehensive Income ´´ Where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales (OCI). tax included. Current tax The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Current tax assets and liabilities consist of amounts expected to be statement of financial position. recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities in respect of the current as well as prior years. The amount of current tax receivable or payable is the best estimate of the tax amount expected to be paid As per a Notice published by the Department of Inland Revenue on or received that reflects uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. It November 29, 2019, NBT was abolished with effect from December 01, is measured using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted on the 2019. reporting date. The income tax rates of Group and Companies are as follows: Accounting Estimate Name of the Entity Country of Rate The Group/Company recognises liabilities for anticipated tax, based Domicile on an estimate of taxable income. Given the wide range of business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC, DIMO (Private) Sri Lanka 28% contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results Limited, DIMO Industries (Private) Limited, DIMO and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, Travels (Private) Limited, PlantChem (Private) could necessitate future adjustments to tax expense already recorded. Limited and Plant Seeds (Private) Limited Where the final tax outcome of such matters is different from the DIMO Lanka Company Limited, United DIMO Republic of 25% amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact Company Limited the Union of the income and deferred tax amounts in the period in which the Myanmar determination is made. As per a Notice to tax payers and withholding agents on Deferred tax “Implementation of Proposed Changes to the Inland Revenue Act No. 24 A detail disclosure of accounting policies and estimate of deferred tax of 2017” published on February 12, 2020 by the Department of Inland are available in Note 4.24. Revenue, Income Tax rates of Corporates have been revised to 24% from 28% effective from January 1, 2020, pending formal amendments Sales tax to be made to the Inland Revenue Act . As legislation has not been Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales passed yet to give effect to this announcement, income tax rates tax except: applicable prior to the announcement has been used for the financial year. Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Current Tax Expense Current tax on profit for the year (Note 4.6.1) 230,129 108,347 178,308 Under provision in respect of previous years 37,054 4,104 25,993 3,128 10% withholding tax on inter-company dividend 3,599 270,782 112,451 204,301 3,128 Deferred Tax Expense Reversal of temporary differences (Note 4.6.2) (192,399) (85,015) (151,427) (52,026) Total income tax expense/(Reversal) 78,383 27,436 52,874 (48,898) Effective tax rate (%)-including deferred tax 28% 26% 16% 19% Effective tax rate (%)-excluding deferred tax 97% 108% 64% 1% Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 91 4.6.1 Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Profit/(Loss) before taxation 279,527 104,119 320,595 (262,221) Disallowable expenses 1,858,867 1,466,726 1,463,859 1,235,130 Allowable expenses (1,240,780) (1,264,593) (1,052,704) (1,067,843) Income not liable for tax Set off against losses (120,149) (38,793) (94,934) Taxable income/(Loss) 777,465 267,459 636,816 (94,934) Income tax Tax at 28% 230,129 108,347 178,308 Current tax on profit for the year 230,129 108,347 178,308 Current tax has been computed in accordance with the provisions of Inland Revenue Act No 24 of 2017. 4.6.2 Recognition of Deferred Tax Expenses in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Statement of Profit or Loss (Note 4.24.2) (192,399) (85,015) (151,427) (52,026) Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.24.2)* 14,560 3,491 19,549 45 (177,839) (81,524) (131,878) (51,981) *As per the Inland Revenue Act No.24 of 2017 that became effective from 01st April 2018, business assets will attract tax at applicable corporate tax rate on the gains at the time of disposal. Accordingly, a Rs. 1.6 billion deferred tax liability has been recognised at 28% on the gains recorded on revaluation of freehold land carried in these Financial Statements. 4.7 EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE-BASIC AND DILUTED The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during Accounting Policy-Measurement basis the year and the previous year are adjusted for events that have changed the number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company by the weighted There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. time during the year /previous year. Group Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Profit/(Loss) attributable to ordinary shareholders (Rs.’000) 195,011 51,307 267,721 (213,323) Weighted average number of ordinary shares 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 8,876,437 Earnings/(Loss) per ordinary share-basic and diluted (Rs.) 21.97 5.78 30.16 (24.03) 92 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.8 DIVIDENDS Company For the year ended 31st March 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 First and final dividend paid 22,191 22,191 Dividend per share (Rs.) 2.50 No dividend was declared and paid to the shareholders of the Company Purchased software which is integral to the functionality of the related for the Financial Year 2019/20 (A first and final dividend of Rs. 2.50 equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment. per share was declared by the board of directors on 25th May 2019 for the Financial Year 2018/19 and was paid in 2019/20, subject to a Cost model withholding tax of 10%). All property, plant and equipment except freehold land, are recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment 4.8.1 Compliance with Section 56 and 57 of Companies Act No. losses, if any. 07 of 2007 As required by Section 56 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, When an asset’s carrying value is higher than it’s recoverable amount, the Board of Directors of the Company satisfied the solvency test in the carrying value is written down to its recoverable amount (Please accordance with Section 57, prior to recommending the first and final refer Note 3.10.3 Impairment of non-financial assets). dividend for the Financial Year 2018/19. A statement of solvency completed and duly signed by the Directors on 25th May 2019 has been Revaluation model audited by Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants. The Group/Company applies the revaluation model for the entire class of freehold land for measurement after initial recognition. The Group 4.9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT policy is to revalue all freehold land by an independent professional Accounting Policy valuer every three years or when there is a substantial difference between the fair value and the carrying amount. Basis of recognition Property, plant and equipment are recognised if it is probable that On revaluation of an asset, any increase in the carrying amount future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the is recognised in revaluation reserve in equity through Other Group/Company and its cost of the asset can be measured reliably, Comprehensive Income or used to reverse a previous loss on in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 16 on revaluation of the same asset, which was charged to Profit or Loss. ‘‘Property Plant and Equipment’. In this circumstance, the increase is recognised as income only to the extent of the previous write down in value. Any decrease in the Basis of measurement carrying amount is recognised as an expense in Profit or Loss or An item of property, plant and equipment that qualifies for recognition charged to revaluation reserve in equity through Other Comprehensive as an asset is initially measured at its cost. Cost includes expenditure Income, only to the extent of any credit balance existing in the that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and revaluation reserve in respect of that asset. Any balance remaining in subsequent costs (as explained under subsequent cost) . The cost of the revaluation reserve in respect of an asset, is transferred directly to self-constructed assets include the cost of materials, direct labour, retained earnings upon disposal of the asset. any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its intended use, the costs of dismantling and removing the Subsequent costs items and restoring the site on which they are located and borrowing Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is probable that the costs that are directly attributable to the asset under construction. future economic benefits of the expenditure will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of day to day servicing of If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred. different useful lives, then they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 93 Derecognition Depreciation An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal Depreciation is calculated to write-off the cost of items of property, or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain plant and equipment less their estimated residual values using the or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recognised in Profit or straight-line method over their estimated useful lives and is recognised Loss in the year the asset is derecognised. in Profit or Loss. Freehold land is not depreciated. Borrowing costs Depreciation of an asset begins from the date it is available for use or Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, in respect of self constructed assets from the date that the asset is construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part completed and ready for use. Depreciation ceases at the earlier of the of the cost of the qualifying asset. A qualifying asset is an asset which date that the asset is classified as held for sale or the date that the takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or asset is derecognised. sale. Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use The estimated useful lives of PPE are as follows: are completed. Other borrowing costs are recognised in Profit or Loss in Class of Asset Year the period in which they are incurred. Buildings 36 40 Capital work-in-progress Buildings on leasehold land Over the remaining Capital work-in-progress is stated in the Statement of Financial Position lease period at cost, including borrowing costs, less any accumulated impairment Plant and machinery 04-13 losses. Capital work-in-progress would be transferred to the relevant asset when it is in the location and condition necessary for it to be Tools and implements 03-04 capable of operating in the manner intended by management (i.e. Motor vehicles 03-04 available for use). Furniture and fittings 04-13 Office equipment and electrical fittings 04-10 Computer hardware and software 02-04 Residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted if appropriate. 94 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Group For the year ended 31st March Freehold Buildings Buildings on Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and Leasehold Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, 2020 2019 Premises Land and Fittings Software and Office Equipment Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 7,292,725 2,834,072 399,501 952,537 318,688 853,548 291,560 692,644 13,635,275 13,281,437 Additions 60 958 67,928 156,124 17,605 53,737 16,699 12,833 325,944 326,629 Transferred from capital work-inprogress 7,962 47,947 87,629 20 11,818 641 15,475 171,492 115,200 Disposals (7,721) (8,535) (25,708) (1,267) (10,907) (54,138) (87,736) Transfers from Intangible Assets 420 420 Effect of movements in exchange rates 4,675 2,111 444 387 295 688 8,600 (255) At the end of the year 7,292,785 2,842,992 520,051 1,190,680 328,222 893,782 308,348 710,733 14,087,593 13,635,275 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 443,278 167,033 400,847 270,192 558,489 225,978 334,927 2,400,744 2,050,596 Charge for the year 72,593 30,823 76,305 25,942 117,653 29,877 64,382 417,575 410,601 On disposals (2,558) (8,344) (25,708) (981) (7,521) (45,112) (60,429) Transfers from Intangible Assets 420 420 Effect of movements in exchange rates 559 192 132 88 96 81 1,148 (24) At the end of the year 515,871 198,415 474,786 287,922 650,522 255,390 391,869 2,774,775 2,400,744 Carrying amount before capital workin-progress 7,292,785 2,327,121 321,636 715,894 40,300 243,260 52,958 318,864 11,312,818 11,234,531 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 2,571 122,559 71,757 87,471 216 5,413 289,987 221,689 Additions 2,416 21,477 24,786 56,329 20 11,818 7,587 13,979 138,412 183,806 Transferred to PPE (7,962) (47,947) (87,629) (20) (11,818) (641) (15,475) (171,492) (115,200) Derecognition (301) (762) (63,798) (26) (64,887) (178) Transfers (44,079) 44,016 63 Effect of movements in exchange rates 1,959 15 7 1,981 (130) At the end of the year 4,987 135,773 5,714 36,404 7,162 3,961 194,001 289,987 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2020 7,297,772 2,462,894 327,350 752,298 40,300 243,260 60,120 322,825 11,506,819 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2019 7,295,296 2,513,353 304,225 639,161 48,496 295,059 65,798 363,130 11,524,518 There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2019/20 (2018/19 – Nil). Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 95 Carrying Value of Property, Plant and Equipment Company For the year ended 31st March Freehold Buildings Buildings on Plant and Tools and Motor Computer Electrical Total Land and Leasehold Machinery Implements Vehicles Hardware Fixtures, 2020 2019 Premises Land and Fittings Software and Office Equipment Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost or Revalued Amount At the beginning of the year 7,256,428 2,824,049 328,279 888,339 302,545 720,150 257,091 652,252 13,229,133 12,921,395 Additions 958 230,635 9,326 30,201 11,076 9,162 291,358 247,378 Transferred from capital work-in-progress 7,962 7,465 8,333 20 379 9,854 34,013 97,555 Disposals (776) (8,472) (21,208) (1,157) (8,503) (40,116) (37,195) Transfers (27) 27 26 (26) Effect of movements in exchange rates 1 35 36 At the end of the year 7,256,428 2,832,969 335,744 1,126,504 303,446 729,143 267,416 662,774 13,514,424 13,229,133 Depreciation At the beginning of the year 446,034 162,464 376,617 257,382 530,448 204,009 327,607 2,304,561 1,973,089 Charge for the year 72,289 23,499 68,130 23,424 90,654 23,221 53,023 354,240 362,402 On disposals (438) (8,280) (21,208) (889) (6,745) (37,560) (30,930) Transfers (1) 1 55 (55) Effect of movements in exchange rates (1) (1) At the end of the year 518,323 185,963 444,308 272,527 599,894 226,396 373,829 2,621,240 2,304,561 Carrying amount before capital work-inprogress 7,256,428 2,314,646 149,781 682,196 30,919 129,249 41,020 288,945 10,893,184 10,924,572 Capital work-in-progress at cost At the beginning of the year 2,571 122,511 6,030 88,994 215 6,143 226,464 180,558 Additions 2,416 21,477 7,512 18,434 20 164 9,344 59,367 143,639 Transferred to PPE (7,962) (7,465) (8,333) (20) (379) (9,854) (34,013) (97,555) Derecognition (301) (443) (63,798) (64,542) (178) At the end of the year 4,987 135,725 5,634 35,297 5,633 187,276 226,464 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2020 7,261,415 2,450,371 155,415 717,493 30,919 129,249 41,020 294,578 11,080,460 Carrying amount as at 31st March 2019 7,258,999 2,500,526 171,845 600,716 45,163 189,702 53,297 330,788 11,151,036 There were no capitalised borrowing costs related to the acquisition of property, plant and equipment during the year 2019/20 (2018/19 – Nil). 96 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.9.1 Revaluation of Freehold Land Freehold land was revalued as at 16th October 2017 By Mr. K. Arthur Perera (Sri Lanka) who is a professionally qualified independent valuer. The valuation method adopted was the Market Comparable Method. The value of freehold land has been written up to correspond with the market value and the details are as follows: Location Estimates for Extent Original Revalued Revalued Freehold No of Pledged Mortgaged Unobservable Cost Amount Amount as Building Buildings to Inputs No. of Times Square Financial of Cost Feet Institution Rs. Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 01. No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 8,000,000 p.p 2A-0R-33.29P 414 2,575,810 6,222 88,302 3 No No No. 56, K. Cyril C. Perera Mawatha, Colombo 14 7,000,000 p.p Sanctioned Street Line 3,500,000 p.p 02. No. 61, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 8,500,000 p.p 0A-1R-04.00P 18,014 374,000 21 11,418 1 No No 03. No. 74, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 8,000,000 p.p 0A-1R-14.56P 113,808 436,480 4 4,043 1 No No 04. No. 800, Sirimawo Bandaranaike Mawatha, Colombo 14 2,500,000 p.p 3A-3R-20.60P 641,519 1,551,500 2 229,025 1 No No 05. No. 135, Mahena Road, Siyambalape and 300,000 p.p 8A-3R-19.90P 37,606 422,550 39 117,657 6 No No No. 274/A, Kakunagaha Watta, Siyambalape* 06. Kirindiwela Road, Weliweriya 146,250 p.p 15A-3R-30.00P 89,958 372,938 4 219,880 5 No No 07. No. 360, Madampitiya Road, Mahawatta, Colombo 14 *** 2,500,000 p.p 1A-2R-26.80P 301,599 667,000 2 No No 08. No. 09, Kandy Road, Aathikadu Valavu,Ariyalai,Jaffna 150,000 p.p 1A-2R-26.72P 32,487 39,375 1 38,675 1 No No 09. No.88, Dambulla Road,Yaggapitiya, Kurunegala 300,000 p.p 5A-0R-00.00P 54,599 240,000 4 24,630 1 No No 10. No. 23, Kaldemulla Road, Ratmalana 765,000 p.p 0A-3R-27.04P 92,102 112,486 1 17,323 2 No No 11. No. 63 & 63 A Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 7,500,000 p.p 0A-1R-08.75P 176,539 365,625 2 8,192 2 No No 12. No.30,Kurihena, Lenadora,Dambulla 18,000 p.p 29A-0R-27.85P 68,107 84,000 1 1,800 5 No No 13. Kahatakulama Waththa, Galkulama, Andigama 12,500 p.p 13A-3R-28.80P 7,575 27,860 4 14,376 3 No No 14. Kumbukgaha Mula, Nabadewa, Nikaweratiya ** Commercial portion (10p) at 90,000 p.p and balance (30p) at 25,000 *** 0A-1R-00.00P 1,100 1,650 1 No No 15. Katuwelandahena,Panliyadda, Ibbagamuwa, Kurunegala *** 0A-1R-38.7P 11,470 11,469 No No 16. Kentune Galeyaya, Kachchigala, Embilipitiya, Ratnapura *** 5A-0R-2P 4,445 4,445 No No 17. Kentune Galeyaya, Kachchigala, Embilipitiya,Ratnapura *** 01A-3R-36.30P 2,342 2,342 No No Total 1,653,684 7,289,530 775,321 31 Improvements to land after the revaluation 3,255 Movement of capital work-in-progress after the revaluation 4,987 Total carrying value 7,297,772 775,321 p.p-per perch *Land original extent is 8A-3R-19.90, but valuation has been given only for 8A-3R-08.50P ** In 2018/19 PlantChem (Private) Limited disposed 0A-0R-25.00P land located at Nikaweratiya *** Represents freehold land without building as at reporting date. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 97 Description of the valuation technique used together with a narrative description on sensitivity of the fair value measurement to changes in significant unobservable inputs are as follows: Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Sensitivity of fair value measurement to inputs Market Comparable Method Price per perch for land Estimated fair value would increase/ This method considers the selling price of a similar property (decrease) if the price per perch would within a reasonably recent period of time in determining the fair increase/ (decrease). value of the property being revalued. This involves evaluation of recent active market prices of similar assets, making appropriate adjustments for any differences in the nature, size, location or condition of the specific property. 4.9.2 Fully Depreciated but still in Use 4.10 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS The cost of fully-depreciated property, plant and equipment of the Accounting Policy Group and the Company which are still in use amounted to Rs. 1,181.38 Basis of recognition million (2018/19 Rs. 1,067.46 million) and Rs. 1,131.18 million (2018/19 Rs. 1,021.84 million) respectively. The Group applies Sri Lanka Accounting Standard SLFRS 16 “Leases” in accounting for all lease hold rights except for leases due to expire during the financial year and leases on which implications to the 4.9.3 Property, Plant and Equipment Pledged as Security against financial statements are not considered to be material. Long-Term Bank Loan. Buildings of PlantChem (Private) Limited situated in their leasehold The Group uses its judgment to determine whether an operating lease property in Dambadeniya, with a carrying value of Rs.19.01 million contract qualiﬁes for recognition of right-of-use assets. The Group (2018/19 Rs. 24.45 million) have been pledged as security against applies judgements in evaluating the level of certainty whether the term loans obtained. option of renewing the lease exits or otherwise. That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic beneﬁts for it to exercise either 4.9.4 Permanent Fall in Value of Property, Plant and Equipment the renewal or termination. There is no permanent fall in the value of property, plant and equipment which require a provision for impairment. Basis of measurement The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the date of commencement 4.9.5 Title Restriction on Property, Plant and Equipment of the lease, which is the present value of lease payments to be made There were no restrictions that existed on the title to the property, plant over the lease term. Right-of-Use assets are measured at cost less any and equipment of the Group/Company as at the reporting date. accumulated amortization and impairment losses and adjusted for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of the right-of-use assets 4.9.6 Assets held under finance leases includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct cost incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement Group property, plant and equipment under finance leases amount to date less any lease incentives received. Rs. 37.3 million as at the reporting date (2018/19 Rs. 21.7 million). Right of use assets are amortised on the straight line basis over the lease term. Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets The Group has elected not to recognise right‑of‑use assets and lease liabilities for leases of low‑value assets and short‑term leases. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight‑line basis over the lease term. 98 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Right-of-use assets Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year Reclassification from lease rentals paid in advance 39,938 39,938 Origination from initial application of SLFRS 16 553,401 514,629 Additions during the year 32,213 32,213 Disposal during the year (9,735) (9,735) At the end of the year 615,817 577,045 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year Reclassification from lease rentals paid in advance 19,822 19,822 Amortisation for the year 117,985 95,222 At the end of the year 137,807 115,044 Carrying amount at the end of the year 478,010 462,001 These lease rentals are presented in Financial position as follows; Classified as non-current assets 478,010 462,001 478,010 462,001 4.10.1 Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Accounting Policy Lease rentals paid in advance represents operating leases stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Such carrying amounts are amortised over the remaining lease period or useful life of the leasehold property whichever is shorter. Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 39,938 39,938 39,938 39,938 Reclassification to right-of-use assets* (39,938) (39,938) At the end of the year 39,938 39,938 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 19,822 17,617 19,822 17,617 Reclassification to right-of-use assets* (19,822) (19,822) Amortisation for the year 2,205 2,205 At the end of the year 19,822 19,822 Carrying amount at the end of the year 20,116 20,116 These lease rentals are presented in Financial position as follows; Classified as current assets 2,205 2,205 Classified as non-current assets 17,911 17,911 20,116 20,116 * With the adoption of SLFRS 16 from 1 April 2019, lease rentals paid in advance has been reclassified to right-of-use assets. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 99 Details of Operating Lease Rentals Paid in Advance Location Amount of Lease Duration of the Operating Lease Rs.‘000 i. No. 562/126, D.S. Senanayake Mawatha, Anuradhapura 2,400 From April 1997 to August 2021 ii. No. 562/100, Jayanthi Mawatha, Anuradhapura 37,538 From October 2010 to May 2028 39,938 4.11 INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL Goodwill arisen through business combination Accounting Policy The Group recognised an intangible asset by way of goodwill in respect Basis of recognition of the registered and established product portfolio, customer lists, technical expertise and distribution network acquired from acquisition An intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future economic of the 51% stake in Plant Seeds (Private) Limited. The management benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the entity and the is of the opinion that the brand name of Plant Seeds (Private) Limited cost of the asset can be measured reliably in accordance with the together with its duly registered product portfolio will bring synergies to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – LKAS 38 on “Intangible Assets”. the current product offering of the Company in the Agriculture Sector and bring future economic benefits. Basis of measurement Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial Impairment of goodwill recognition at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired in a business Goodwill arising on acquisition of Plant Seeds (Private) Limited combination are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition. amounting to Rs. 117.6 Million was based on the fair values of the Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less identifiable assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition (on 23rd accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. February 2018). Based on the impairment assessment carried out by the management at the reporting date, management assumed that no Subsequent expenditure impairment is required as there is no significant change in the fair value Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future of such acquired assets and liabilities, subsequent to the acquisition. economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in Profit or Loss as incurred. Derecognition Intangible assets are derecognised upon disposal or when no future Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment economic benefits are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising on Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised using the straight-line derecognition of the asset, is recognised in Profit or Loss in the year the method to write down the cost over its estimated useful economic lives asset is derecognised. and is generally recognised in Profit or Loss. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised. These assets are assessed for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The period over which intangible assets are amortised is as follows; Class of Asset Amortisation period (years) Computer software 4 The above rate is consistent with the rate used in the previous years. The amortisation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. 100 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Intangible Assets Group Software Goodwill Total As at 31st March 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 97,996 117,623 215,619 207,881 Additions during the year 5,100 5,100 7,738 Disposals during the year (4,163) (4,163) Transfers to Property plant & Equipment (420) (420) At the end of the year 98,513 117,623 216,136 215,619 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 80,404 80,404 73,032 Amortisation for the year 7,692 7,692 7,372 Disposals during the year (260) (260) Transfers to Property plant & Equipment (420) (420) At the end of the year 87,416 87,416 80,404 Carrying amount at the end of the year 11,097 117,623 128,720 135,215 Company Software Total As at 31st March 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost At the beginning of the year 94,999 94,999 87,261 Additions during the year 5,100 5,100 7,738 Disposals during the year (4,163) (4,163) At the end of the year 95,936 95,936 94,999 Accumulated Amortisation At the beginning of the year 77,407 77,407 70,035 Amortisation for the year 7,692 7,692 7,372 Disposals during the year (260) (260) At the end of the year 84,839 84,839 77,407 Carrying amount as at end of the year 11,097 11,097 17,592 Fully amortised but still in Use The cost of fully amortised Intangible Assets of the Group and the Company which are still in use amounted to Rs. 64.7 million (2018/19 Rs. 65.1 million) and Rs. 62.1 (2018/19 Rs. 62.1 million) respectively. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 101 4.11.1 Net Carrying value of goodwill Changes in the Group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not result in Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactionsthat is, as to a cash generating units (CGU’s) for impairment testing as follows; transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share 2020 acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded Rs.‘000 in equity. Plant Seeds(pvt) Ltd 117,623 Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment 117,623 An impairment assessment was carried out as at 31st March 2020 and it was concluded that net realisable value of all the investments included The recoverable amount of goodwill is determined based on value in under unquoted investments exceed its carrying value except for DIMO use calculations. The value in use was determined by discounting the Travels (Private) Ltd. Based on an assessment made for impairment, future cashflows generated from the continuing use of the unit and key the provision given in Note 4.12.2 was considered to be adequate as at assumptions used are given below. reporting date. Business Growth Based on historical growth rate and business plan Investment in DIMO Lanka Company Limited Inflation Based on the current inflation rate On 31st August 2017, Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC invested Rs. Discount rate Average market borrowing rate adjusted for risk 38.1mn in DIMO Lanka Company Limited., a subsidiary of the company, premium which acts as the investing arm of Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC in Myanmar. The Group has invested in the company as part of expansion 4.12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND EQUITYprogramme in automobile repair and servicing business, overseas. ACCOUNTED INVESTEE During the year 2019/20, Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC has further invested Rs. 50.1 Mn (28,000 shares) in DIMO Lanka Company Limited. 4.12.1 Investments in Subsidiaries Accounting Policy Investment in United DIMO Company Limited Investments in subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the On 27th November 2017, DIMO Lanka Company Limited, which is a Financial Statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to fully-owned subsidiary of the company invested Rs. 21.2 mn in United acquisition of investment in subsidiaries are immediately recognised in DIMO Company Limited, for acquisition of 70% shares of the latter Profit or Loss. Following initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries involved in automobile sales, repair and servicing. The investment by are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The DIMO Lanka Company Limited in United DIMO Company Limited was to net assets of each subsidiary are reviewed at each reporting date to support the latter’s expansion programme in automobile sales, repair determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such and servicing business. During the year 2019/20, DIMO Lanka Company indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the investment is Limited further invested Rs. 46.2 Mn (25,760 shares) in United DIMO estimated and the impairment loss is recognised to the extent of its net Company Limited for the same purpose. There was no change in the assets loss. percentage of share holding in subsidiaries by the minority share holders. Carrying Value of Investments in Subsidiaries made by the Company Category Percentage Total As at 31st March of Holding 2020 2019 (%) Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Unquoted Investment Ordinary Shares DIMO (Private) Limited 25,000 ordinary shares Investment 100 250 250 DIMO Industries (Private) Limited 2,305,000 ordinary shares Investment 100 23,050 23,050 DIMO Travels (Private) Limited 500 ordinary shares Investment 100 50 50 DIMO Lanka Company Limited 78,000 ordinary shares Investment 100 128,593 78,417 PlantChem (Private) Limited 14,195,767 ordinary shares Acquisition 51 166,827 166,827 Plant Seeds (Private) Limited 6,577,185 ordinary shares Acquisition 51 246,032 246,032 564,802 514,626 Impairment provision (Note 4.12.2) (50) (50) 564,752 514,576 102 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Investments made by the subsidiaries Investments by Dimo Lanka Company Limited Category Percentage Total As at 31st March of Holding 2020 2019 (%) Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Unquoted Investment Ordinary Shares United DIMO Company Limited 81,760 ordinary shares Investment 70 106,856 43,436 106,856 43,436 The Group subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests are given in Note 4.12.4. 4.12.2 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Investments in Subsidiaries As at 31st March 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 50 187 Reversal of impairment (137) At the end of the year 50 50 Impairment in investment in subsidiary is pertaining to DIMO Travels (Private) Limited. 4.12.3 Goodwill or bargaining purchase arising from acquisition of subsidiaries in 2017/18 On 23rd February 2018, the Group acquired 51% equity interest in PlantChem(Private) Limited and PlantSeeds (Private) Limited, companies incorporated in Sri Lanka, for an aggregate purchase consideration of Rs. 345.5 mn. The Group has acquired these companies as part of its agriculture business expansion plan. The following represents the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the said subsidiaries, as at the date of acquisition. PlantChem (Private) Limited PlantSeeds (Private) Limited (Restated) (Restated) Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Total Assets 761,267 410,846 Total Liabilities (419,206) (159,063) Total identifiable net assets at fair value 342,061 251,783 Non-controlling interest measured at fair value 167,610 123,374 Goodwill arising on acquisition 117,622 Bargain purchase arising on acquisition 7,624 Purchased consideration transferred 119,059 226,444 Contingent consideration (Note 4.12.3.1) 47,768 19,587 Net cash outflow on Acquisition 391,534 310,864 Contingent consideration a) Inventory over 365 days amounting Rs. 135 million as at 31st As part of the purchase agreement with the selling shareholders October 2017 of PlantChem(Private) Limited and Plant Seeds (Private) Limited, a b) Trade receivables over 180 days amounting Rs. 38 million as at contingent consideration has been agreed. There will be additional cash 31st October 2017 payments to the selling shareholders, PlantChem (Private) Limited and Plant Seeds (Private) Limited, as purchaser agreed and undertook that 4.12.3.1 Re-assessment of Contingent consideration in 2018/19 in the event the below amounts or any part thereof is realised prior to 31st March 2019, 51% of the aggregate recovered amount shall be The assessment of fair value of contingent consideration carried out paid to acquirees. during the prior year placed its’ value at Rs. 47.76 million and Rs. 19.58 million for PlantChem (Private) Limited and Plant Seeds (Private) Limited respectively. A summary of the re-stated figures of prior year are presented in the table below; Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 103 As at 31st March PlantChem (Private) Limited PlantSeeds (Private) Limited Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Contingent consideration before re-assessment 16,768 4,958 Adjustments 30,999 14,629 Contingent consideration after re-assessment 47,767 19,587 Fair value of the contingent consideration was arrived based on the of profit for the year in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other recoveries made subsequently from the debtors that was outstanding Comprehensive as a component of equity in the Statement of Financial for more than 180 days as at 31st October 2017 and subsequent Position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the Company. realization of stocks which were resident for more than 365 days as at 31st October 2017. A share issue has been made during the year ended 31 March 2020 in United DIMO Company Limited whereas both parent and minority 4.12.4 Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests shareholders subscribed for the shares. Accordingly, there was no Accounting Policy change in the percentage of shareholding in subsidiary by the minority shareholders. Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group, are shown as a component The following table summarises the information relating to United DIMO Company Limited, PlantChem (Private) Limited and PlantSeeds (Private) Limited that has material non-controlling interest, before any intra-group eliminations. United DIMO PlantChem PlantSeeds Company Limited (Private) Ltd (Private) Ltd As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Non-controlling interest percentage 30% 30% 49% 49% 49% 49% Summarised statement of financial position Current assets 55,400 50,238 686,870 636,408 444,878 601,335 Non-current assets 96,246 48,049 133,970 97,917 101,827 80,718 Total assets 151,646 98,287 820,840 734,325 546,705 682,053 Current liabilities 62,019 61,506 528,288 466,272 226,196 383,421 Non-current liabilities 22,959 11,691 14,662 10,809 Total liabilities 62,019 61,506 551,247 477,963 240,858 394,230 Net assets 89,627 36,781 269,593 256,362 305,847 287,823 Net assets attributable to non-controlling interest 26,888 11,034 132,101 125,617 149,865 141,033 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 206,907 40,033 862,985 772,002 563,592 621,207 Profit after tax (28,624) (18,987) 13,229 33,899 23,703 53,069 Other comprehensive income 14,054 1,783 Total comprehensive income (14,570) (17,204) 13,229 33,899 23,703 53,069 Profit attributable to non-controlling interest (8,587) (5,696) 6,482 16,611 11,614 26,004 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 4,216 534 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest (4,371) (5,161) 6,482 16,611 11,614 26,004 Summarised statement of cash flow Cash flows from (used in) operating activities (680) 2,092 (87,118) (10,597) 160,501 (131,729) Cash flows from (used in) investing activities (49,206) (25,245) (51,236) 107,001 (66) (2,457) Cash flows from (used in) financing activities 53,414 33,593 136,287 (50,418) (159,651) 147,635 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 3,528 10,440 (2,067) 45,986 784 13,449 104 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.12.5 Equity-accounted investee Income Statement Accounting Policy DIMO Coastline (Private) Ltd The Equity-accounted investee shown in the financial statements is a As at 31st March 2020 2019 Joint venture. Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 A Joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, Revenue 168,215 112,182 whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, Depreciation (22,719) (16,618) rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. Interest expense 18,925 (1,331) Loss after tax (40,835) (76,656) Interests in the Joint venture are accounted for using the equity Total comprehensive income (100%) (40,835) (76,656) method. They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction Group’s Share of results of equity accounted costs, in terms of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards – LKAS 28 on investee, net of tax (40%) (16,334) (30,663) “Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures”. Subsequent to initial recognition, the consolidated financial statements include the Group’s Reconciliations of summarised financial information share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equityReconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence or carrying amount of the interest in equity accounted investee recognised joint control ceases. in the financial statements is as follows; Investment in DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited As at 31st March 2020 2019 On 22 February 2018, the Group acquired 40% equity interest of DIMO Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Coastline (Private) Limited for an aggregate consideration of Rs. 58.16 million with an option to purchase further 10% of the shares within 3 At the beginning of the year 40,414 55,098 years. DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited is a company incorporated in Less Republic of Maldives. The Group has acquired the company as part of Group’s Share of loss recognised in statement of expansion into marine and general engineering business overseas. profit or loss and other comprehensive income (16,334) (30,663) Effect of movements in exchange rates 2,540 5,040 The following table summarises the financial information relating Increase in net assets of DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd 10,939 to DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited as included in its own financial Carrying amount of interest in equitystatements. The table also reconciles the summarised financial accounted investee 26,620 40,414 information to the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in DIMO Coastline (Private) Limited. 4.13 FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Accounting Policies Statement of Financial Position Financial assets DIMO Coastline (Private) Ltd Recognition and initial measurement As at 31st March 2020 2019 The Group classifies financial assets at initial recognition as investment Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 designated at FVOCI and amortised cost based on the purpose, characteristics and Management’s intention in acquiring them. At the Percentage ownership interest 40% 40% end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the Non-current assets 267,399 146,209 extent that such classification is required and permitted. Current assets 82,591 79,944 Total assets 349,990 226,153 Receivables and debt securities issued are initially recognised when Current liabilities 283,440 125,117 they are originated. All other financial assets and financial liabilities Total liabilities 283,440 125,117 are initially recognised when the Company becomes a party to the Net assets (100%) 66,550 101,036 contractual provisions of the instrument. Group's share of net assets (40%) 26,620 40,414 Carrying amount of interest in equityA financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without a significant accounted investee 26,620 40,414 financing component) or financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 105 Classification and measurement Subsequent measurement and gains and losses Business model assessment Subsequent measurement of Group’s/Company’s financial assets are as The Company makes an assessment of the objective of the business follows; model in which a financial asset is held at a portfolio level, because it Financial assets at These assets are subsequently measured at reflects the way the business is managed and information is provided to amortised cost amortised cost using the effective interest method. management. The information considered includes: The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses. ´´ how the performance of the portfolio is evaluated and reported to Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses the Company’s management; and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in profit ´´ the frequency, volume and timing of sales of financial assets in prior or loss. periods, the reasons for such sales and expectations about future Equity investments These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. sales activity at FVOCI Dividends are recognised as income in profit or loss unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of Assessment whether contractual cash flows are solely payments of part of the cost of the investment. Other net gains and principal and interest losses are recognised in OCI and are never reclassified For the purposes of this assessment, ‘principal’ is defined as the fair to profit or loss. value of the financial asset on initial recognition. ‘Interest’ is defined as consideration for the time value of money and for the credit risk Derecognition of financial assets associated with the principal amount outstanding during a particular The Group derecognises a financial asset (or where applicable a part of period of time and for other basic lending risks and costs as well as thereof) when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset a profit margin. In assessing whether the contractual cash flows are expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows solely payments of principal and interest, the Company considers the in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of contractual terms of the instrument. This includes assessing whether ownership of the financial asset are transferred, or it neither transfers the financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it timing or amount of contractual cash flows such that it would not meet does not retain control over the transferred asset. Any interest in such this condition. derecognised financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability. Equity Securities measured at FVOCI Company’s investment in equity securities are classified as fair value On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the through other comprehensive income (FVOCI). carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated to the portion of the asset derecognised) and the sum of the consideration On initial recognition of an equity investment that is not held for trading, received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability the Company may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in in the investment’s fair value in OCI. This election is made on an Other Comprehensive Income is recognised in Profit or Loss. investment-by-investment basis. Financial liabilities Financial asset amortised cost Initial recognition and measurement A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL: FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as FVTPL if it is classified as held ´´ it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for trading at the initial recognition. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are to collect contractual cash flows; and measured at fair value and any resulting gains and losses, including any interest expense, are recognised in profit or loss. ´´ its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal The Group classifies financial liabilities at initial recognition as other amount outstanding. financial liabilities. At the end of each reporting period all classifications are re-evaluated to the extent that such classification is permitted and Group’s/Company’s financial assets classified and measured at required. amortised cost are limited to its trade and other receivables, deposits, amounts due from subsidiaries, amount due from Equity accounted All the financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less any investee and cash & cash equivalents. directly attributable transaction costs. Other financial liabilities mainly consist of trade and other payables and bank borrowings. 106 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Subsequent measurement Derecognition Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost. The Group derecognises a financial liability when its contractual Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired. in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss. Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount The amortised cost of a financial liability is the amount at which the presented in the Statement of Financial Position when, and only when, financial liability is measured at initial recognition, minus principal the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to offset the amounts repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset effective interest method minus any reduction for impairment. and settle the liability simultaneously. Details of financial liabilities recognised in the Statement of Financial Position are given in Notes 4.22 and 4.27 on pages 115 and 125. 4.13.1 Financial Assets and Liabilities by Category Financial Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Financial assets not measured at fair value (At amortized cost) Trade and other receivables 8,519,705 6,974,219 5,684,764 4,832,912 Deposits 266,484 566,106 242,339 523,791 Cash and cash equivalents 837,650 223,026 570,503 119,102 Amounts due from subsidiaries 132,030 117,442 Amount due from Equity accounted investee 17,801 18,204 17,801 18,204 ii. Equity instruments FVOCI (At fair value) Financial assets at FVOCI 6,461 6,897 6,389 6,816 Total financial assets 9,648,101 7,788,452 6,653,826 5,618,267 Financial Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 i. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss ii. Other financial liabilities Current portion of long-term borrowings 202,272 354,044 200,892 351,363 Long-term borrowings 290,206 490,180 290,000 490,180 Short-term borrowings 10,794,205 9,289,940 9,589,899 8,715,598 Trade payables 2,601,473 1,905,473 2,213,340 1,482,480 Contingent consideration 67,355 67,355 Amounts due to related parties 9,923 190,451 Total financial liabilities 13,888,156 12,106,992 12,304,054 11,297,427 Fair value of assets and liabilities Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level that are The Group measures the fair value using the following fair value observable either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from hierarchy, which reflects the significance of the inputs used in making prices); the measurement. Level 3: Valuation techniques that use inputs that have a significant Level 1: Inputs that are quoted market prices (unadjusted) in an active effect on the recorded fair values that are not based on observable market for identical instruments; market data. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 107 Non-financial assets measured at fair value The valuation technique and inputs used in measuring the fair value of freehold land are given in Note 4.9.1. The Group held the following financial and non-financial assets carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position. Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Financial assets FVOCI Equity instruments Level 1 6,461 6,897 6,389 6,816 Level 2 Level 3 Non-financial assets Freehold land Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 7,292,785 7,292,725 7,256,428 7,256,428 4.13.2 Financial Risk Management (i) Currency risk The Group has exposure mainly to the following risks from financial Currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of instruments: a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign a. Market risk exchange rates. The Group has exposure to foreign currency risk where it has cash flows in overseas operations and foreign currency b. Credit risk transactions which are affected by foreign exchange movements. c. Liquidity risk The Company imports considerable amount of its total product Risk management framework offerings which are subject to the risk of foreign exchange rate increase The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the that would adversely affect cost of purchases. Some contracts for establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management deliverables by the Group cover exposure from fluctuating exchange framework. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses rates whilst pricing mechanisms are also used to recover exchange on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise losses from import and sell businesses. The Company would continue potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. to manage the exchange rate risk through various currency risk management strategies. The overall objectives and policies for the Group’s financial risk management are as per the internal treasury practices. It will cover The pandemic impacted on foreign exchange rates of the country due to foreign exchange policy, investment policy, financing policy and policies loss of foreign currency inflows resulted by the disruption to key sectors on credit risk and risk limits. Further details of management of risk is that contribute to foreign currency inflows this resulted in an increase available from pages 53 to 55. of USD exchange rate against the Sri Lankan Rupee from around Rs. 181.5/as at 13th March 2020 to Rs. 186.5/by 31st March 2020. (a) Market risk The Sri Lankan Rupee(LKR) witnessed a sharp depreciation against the Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a US Dollar in March 2020. The Group had taken measures to manage financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, risk of LKR depreciation by having foreign currency trade receivables, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices, by invoicing in foreign currencies and through foreign currency bank which will affect the Group’s profit or loss or the value of its holdings account balances to cover the exposure on foreign currency payables of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management to the extent possible. Hence the overall objective of currency risk is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable management is to reduce the short term negative impact of exchange parameters, while optimising the return. rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flow, thereby increasing the predictability of the financial results. 108 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES The following table demonstrates Group exposure to currency risk as at the reporting date. Sensitivity Analysis Based on exchange rate fluctuation Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 US Dollar (USD) Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year Rs. 13.05 20.05 13.05 20.05 -% 8% 13% 8% 13% 1 % change impact to profitability by Rs.’000 13,143 3,563 10,347 3,084 Euro (EUR) Appreciation/(depreciation) during the financial year Rs. 10.64 5.71 10.64 5.71 -% 6% 3% 5.5% 3% 1 % change impact to profitability by Rs.’000 2,683 1,459 1,918 1,107 The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. Movement in Exchange MovementRate -USD in Exchange Rate Movement -USD in Exchange Movement Rate EUR in Exchange Rate EUR Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 190 190 210 210 186.50 186.50 185 185 205 205 179.60 179.60 200.39 204.53 200.39 204.53 180 180 179.45 179.45200 200 197.26 197.26 175 173.45 175 173.45 174.45 174.45 195 195 170 170 195.49 195.49 193.89 193.89 165 165 190 190 Mar-19 Jun-19 Sep-19 Dec-19Mar-19 Mar-20Jun-19 Sep-19 Dec-19 Mar-20 Mar-19 Jun-19 Sep-19 Dec-19Mar-19 Mar-20Jun-19 Sep-19 Dec-19 Mar-20 (ii) Interest rate risk The value of these investments is subjected to the performance of Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a investee company and the factors that affects the status of the stock financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest market. The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. The rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. floating rates. The Group manages its interest rate risk by monitoring Sensitivity analysis on the value of the investments is not provided as it and managing cash flows, negotiating favourable rates on borrowings is deemed to be not material. and deposits including and maintaining an appropriate combination of fixed and variable rate debt. (b) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or During the financial year consecutive reductions in policy rates and counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual monetary easing policies by Central Bank of Sri Lanka to encourage obligations, and arises principally from Group’s trade receivables. banks and finance companies to reduce lending rates. The Group has taken several measures to manage and mitigate the Sensitivity Analysis credit risk including carrying out a credit evaluation as per the Group If interest rates had been higher/lower by 5 basis points and all other credit policy, prior to extending credit. A review of age analysis of trade variables were held constant, the profit before tax for the year ended receivables and follow-up meetings are carried out by the business 31st March 2020 would decrease/increase by Rs.4.9 million (2018/19 unit managers at least once a month and by the Group Management Rs. 5.5 million). A fluctuation in interest rates is possible due to Group’s Committee (GMC) at least once a quarter. In the event of a debt exposure to variable rates of interest. becoming doubtful, legal action is initiated by the Manager-Legal. (iii) Equity price risk The Group has taken necessary steps to monitor creditors more closely and frequently to ensure that the payables are settled on time. The Group is exposed to equity price risk because of investments in quoted shares held by the Group classified as Equity instruments at FVOCI. Credit risk associated with the Group’s/Company’s trade receivables due to the post-lockdown economic implication of COVID-19 pandemic is disclosed in Note. 3.7.1. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 109 Credit risk exposure The maximum risk exposure of financial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts. Following table shows the maximum risk positions. Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade and other receivables 8,519,705 6,974,219 5,684,764 4,832,912 Deposits 260,935 498,816 236,903 462,452 Amounts due from subsidiaries 149,831 135,646 Cash at bank 704,281 186,274 491,980 91,266 Total credit risk exposure 9,484,921 7,659,309 6,563,478 5,522,276 When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and ECLs, the Company considers reasonable and supportable information including forward-looking information. that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes Balances with banks Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Fitch Rating AAA 3,478 3,478 AA+ 75,936 70,714 73,853 67,793 AA 86,784 45,790 4,398 20,608 AA474,099 27,054 395,842 2,166 A+ 33,379 27,130 309 474 A 30,557 14,100 A48 15,271 Not Rated 315 225 Total bank balances (Note 4.18) 704,281 186,274 491,980 91,266 Balances with Banks Group Balances with Banks Company 0% 0% 0% 0% 3% 0% 0% 2%1% 5% 4% 1% 11% 0% 8% AAA 0% 1% 15% AA+ 1% 12% 15% 38% 23% AA AA2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 A+ A 15% A80% 67% Not rated 25% 74% (c) Liquidity risk of bank overdrafts, finance leases and bank loans. Access to sources of This is the risk that the Group will encounter in meeting the obligations funding is sufficiently available. associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group considered that Cash flow scrutiny is paramount in the days and months ahead and has adopted a disciplined approach across In the management of liquidity risk, the Group monitors and maintains the Group including setting up of Group-wide spend control, reducing a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate by the operating costs and defer capital expenditure to secure the financial management to finance the Group’s operations and to mitigate the position of the Group. If required Group/Company has unutilised bank effects of fluctuations in cash flows. The Group’s objective is to maintain facilities as at 31st March 2020 amounted to Rs. 7,808 million. a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use 110 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Maturity profiles and specific risk management strategies with regard a. Appropriately allocate capital to meet strategic objectives. to trade payables and bank borrowings are given in Note 4.27.2 and b. Enable the Group to face any economic downturn/ crisis situation. 4.22.1. The Group’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to ensure As disclosed in Note. 3.3, the Board of Directors is satisfied that the investor, creditor and market confidence in order to sustain future Company and its subsidiaries have adequate liquidity and business development of the business. The impact of the shareholders’ return plans to continue to operate the business and to mitigate the increased is also recognised and the Group recognises the need to maintain a liquidity risks arising from the business and movement restrictions balance between higher returns that might be possible with greater made due to COVID-19 pandemic, for the next 12 months from the date gearing and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital of this report. position. 4.13.3 Capital Risk Management The Company manages its capital structure and adjusts it accordingly The objectives of the capital management can be summarised as in line with changes in global and local economic and market conditions follows: and its overall risk appetite. Given below is a summary of the capital structure of the Group and the Company as follows: Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Long-term borrowings (Note 4.22.1.1) 492,478 844,224 490,892 841,543 Equity 11,979,010 11,740,844 10,669,432 10,368,939 Total equity and long-term borrowings 12,471,488 12,585,068 11,160,324 11,210,482 Gearing ratio (%) 4% 7% 4% 8% 4.14 EQUITY SECURITIES The fair values of quoted shares are based on current bid prices at the Accounting Policy end of the reporting period. After initial measurement, Equity Securities are subsequently measured Dividends earned whilst holding equity Securities are recognised in at fair value. Dividends are recognized as income in profit or loss unless Profit or Loss as ‘Other Operating Income’ when the right to receive the the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the payment has been established. investment. Other net gains or losses are recognized in OCI and are never reclassified to profit or loss. Carrying Value of Equity instruments Group Company As at 31st March No. of Market Total Fair Value No. of Market Total Fair Value Shares Value per Cost Shares Value per Cost Share Share 2020 2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 Rs. Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs. Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Quoted Investments Ordinary Shares Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 900 161.00 14 144 162 450 161.00 7 72 81 Hatton National Bank PLC (non-voting) 36,084 135.50 700 4,889 5,204 36,084 135.50 700 4,889 5,204 Ceylinco Insurance PLC (non-voting) 1,700 840.00 298 1,428 1,531 1,700 840.00 298 1,428 1,531 1,012 6,461 6,897 1,005 6,389 6,816 4.15 INVENTORIES Accounting Policy The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present location and Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net condition, are accounted for as follows: realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated cost of ´´ Raw materials At actual cost on a weighted average basis completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 111 ´´ Finished goods At the cost of direct materials, direct labour and ´´ Stock-in-trade Inventories that are not interchangeable are valued an appropriate proportion of fixed production overheads based on by identifying their specific individual costs, and inventories that are normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing costs. interchangeable are valued using weighted average cost. ´´ work-in-progress Remaining incomplete work-in-progress are ´´ Other inventories At actual cost stated at cost. ´´ Goods-in-transit are recognised at actual cost as at reporting date. Carrying Value of Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Raw material 409,921 308,162 219,683 70,211 Stock-in-trade and finished goods 5,509,079 6,818,738 5,171,240 6,570,499 Work-in-progress (at cost) 918,314 734,564 373,778 145,713 Provision for slow moving inventories (Note 4.15.1) (433,484) (363,865) (347,195) (327,859) 6,403,830 7,497,599 5,417,506 6,458,564 Goods-in-transit 1,604,022 862,851 1,460,763 816,947 Total inventories at the lower of cost and net realisable value 8,007,852 8,360,450 6,878,269 7,275,511 4.15.1 Movement in Provision for Slow Moving Inventories Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 363,865 349,743 327,859 318,820 Provision for slow moving inventories 69,619 14,122 19,336 9,039 At the end of the year 433,484 363,865 347,195 327,859 Inventories jointly with trade receivables have been pledged as security for short-term borrowings are given in Note 4.16.3 The value of inventories written off as an expense amounted to Rs. 5.8 million for the Financial Year 2019/20 (2018/19 Rs. Nil). 4.16 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Measurement of ECLs Accounting Policy ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. Credit Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or losses are measured as the present value of all cash shortfalls (i.e. the services performed in the ordinary course of business. Other financial difference between the cash flows due to the entity in accordance with nature receivables are recognised as other receivables. If collection is the contract and the cash flows that the Company expects to receive). expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, ECLs are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial asset. they are presented as non-current assets. It has not resulted in a material change in loss allowance compared with Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and previous policy. The allowance is provided by considering evidence of subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest impairment for receivables at both an individual asset and at a collective method, less provision for impairment. level. All individually significant receivables are individually assessed for impairment by considering objective evidence i.e. experiencing a significant financial difficulty or default in payments by a customer. All Accounting Estimate Provision for Impairment individually insignificant debtors and based on management judgment, Group/Company makes impairment for receivables based on the similar risk characteristic debtors that are not specifically impaired are simplified approach to provide for Expected Credit Losses (ECLs) as per then collectively assessed for any impairment that has been incurred SLFRS 9, which permits the use of the lifetime expected loss provision but not yet identified by grouping them together based on similar risk for all trade receivables. characteristics. 112 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES In assessing collective impairment, the Group/Company uses historical information on the probability of default, the timing of recoveries, and the amount of loss incurred, and makes an adjustment if current and forward looking economic and credit conditions are such that the actual losses are likely to be greater or lesser than suggested historical trends. Carrying Value of Trade and Other Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade receivables 9,479,213 7,609,266 6,476,938 5,379,413 Provision for impairment (Note 4.16.1) (965,231) (641,759) (797,729) (552,707) 8,513,982 6,967,507 5,679,209 4,826,706 Other receivables 5,723 6,712 5,555 6,206 Carrying value 8,519,705 6,974,219 5,684,764 4,832,912 4.16.1 Movement in Provision for Impairment of Trade Receivables Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 641,759 463,949 552,707 367,424 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 323,472 177,810 245,022 185,283 At the end of the year 965,231 641,759 797,729 552,707 4.16.2 Age Analysis of Trade Receivables after Provision for Impairment Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Neither past due nor impaired 3,582,138 4,537,268 1,945,684 3,294,062 Past due but not impaired Between 61 days to 180 days 3,288,016 1,908,026 2,556,069 1,205,100 Between 181 days to 365 days 1,291,488 412,326 953,714 238,549 Over 365 days 352,340 109,887 223,742 88,995 Net trade receivables maximum exposure to credit risk 8,513,982 6,967,507 5,679,209 4,826,706 Provision for impairment 965,231 641,759 797,729 552,707 Gross trade receivables 9,479,213 7,609,266 6,476,938 5,379,413 Debtor Age Analysis Group Debtor Age Analysis Company % % 100 2% 4% 100 2% 5% 4% 6% 15% 17% 80 80 25% 27% 60 39% 60 45% 40 Neither past due nor impaired 40 68% 65% Between 61 days to 180 days 20 42% Between 181 days to 365 days 20 34% Over 365 days 0 0 2019/20 2018/19 2019/20 2018/19 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 113 4.16.3 Carrying amount of trade receivables, net of impairment, are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 7,372,397 6,420,457 4,836,244 4,407,716 USD 994,024 355,687 759,133 307,901 Euro 145,809 190,942 81,839 110,671 Japanese Yen 1,254 1,254 Other 498 421 739 418 8,513,982 6,967,507 5,679,209 4,826,706 Banking facilities for subsidiaries, Plantchem (Pvt) Ltd and Plantseeds (Pvt) Ltd have been obtained by providing a concurrent mortgage on book debts and inventory to three banks for Rs. 436 million, Rs. 360 million and Rs. 200 million. 4.16.4 Terms of Trade and Other Receivables deposits, prepayments and current portion of the lease rentals paid in Trade and other receivables are non-interest-bearing and are expected advance. to be received within 60 days. Advances and deposits are carried at historical value less provision for impairment. Prepayments are amortised over the period during which 4.17 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS it is utilised and carried at historical value less amortisation charge and Accounting Policy any impairment. The Group/Company classifies all non financial current assets under other current assets. Other current assets mainly comprise of advances, Carrying Value of Other Current Assets Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deposits 266,484 566,106 242,339 523,791 Prepayments 1,766,170 1,001,424 1,557,988 818,122 Lease rentals paid in advance (Note 4.10) 2,205 2,205 Other receivables 59,275 73,625 43,786 66,319 2,091,929 1,643,360 1,844,113 1,410,437 4.18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Bank overdrafts and short-term borrowings that are repayable on Accounting Policy demand and forming an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the Cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand purpose of the Statement of Cash Flows. balances. Cash and bank balances are stated at recoverable values. There were no cash and cash equivalents held by the Group companies that were not available for use. Carrying Value of Cash and Cash Equivalents Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Bank balances 704,281 186,274 491,980 91,266 Cash in hand 133,369 36,752 78,523 27,836 837,650 223,026 570,503 119,102 114 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Review of credit risk The Group’s cash and cash equivalents comprise of cash at bank and in hand balances. The credit risk relating to bank balances are analysed according to ratings of each bank which is available on page 109. 4.18.1 Carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 377,276 208,669 183,737 116,961 USD 333,576 3,047 275,424 2,124 Euro 123,122 20 110,522 17 Other 3,676 11,290 820 837,650 223,026 570,503 119,102 4.19 STATED CAPITAL Company As at 31st March No. of 2020 No. of 2019 Shares Shares Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Ordinary Shares Issued and Fully-paid Ordinary Shares At the end of the year 8,876,437 425,297 8,876,437 425,297 4.20 REVENUE RESERVE Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 7,259,568 7,268,900 5,890,962 6,148,714 Impact of adoption of SLFRS 15 (80,347) (55,483) Statement of Profit or Loss and other comprehensive income Profit/(Loss) for the year 195,011 51,307 267,721 (213,323) 2018/19 Final dividend (22,191) (22,191) Increase in net assets of DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd 10,939 10,939 Other Comprehensive Income Actuarial gain arising from employees benefits (Net of tax) 43,826 8,769 50,268 115 At the end of the year 7,476,214 7,259,568 6,186,760 5,890,962 Revenue reserves includes general reserves and retained earnings. General reserve represents the amounts set aside by the Directors to meet any contingencies and potential future unknown liabilities. The Group/ Company transfers the surplus profit, after retaining sufficient profits to pay final dividends declared from retained earnings account to the General Reserve account. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 115 4.21 OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 4,055,979 4,050,962 4,052,680 4,049,154 Other Comprehensive Income Net fair value losses on remeasuring Equity Securities (527) (1,462) (518) (1,514) Foreign currency translation reserve (Note 4.21.1) 22,047 6,479 5,213 5,040 At the end of the year 4,077,499 4,055,979 4,057,375 4,052,680 4.21.1 Foreign currency translation reserve The Foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 8,181 1,702 4,955 (85) Net gains arising from translating the Financial Statements of foreign operations 26,501 7,013 5,213 5,040 Foreign Currency Translation Reserve attributable to non-controlling Interest (4,454) (534) 22,047 6,479 5,213 5,040 At the end of the year 30,228 8,181 10,168 4,955 4.22 LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS amortised cost, any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less any directly cost) and the repayable amount (including interest) is recognised in attributable transaction costs. Subsequently, they are stated at Profit or Loss over the period of the loan using the effective interest method. 4.22.1 Long-term Borrowings 4.22.1.1 Movement of Long-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 842,821 593,579 840,140 590,100 Loans obtained during the year 600,000 600,000 Repayments during the year (351,055) (350,758) (349,960) (349,960) At the end of the year (before adjusting interest payable) 491,766 842,821 490,180 840,140 Interest payable 712 1,403 712 1,403 At the end of the year 492,478 844,224 490,892 841,543 Classified as current liabilities (repayable within one year) 202,272 354,044 200,892 351,363 Classified as non current liabilities (repayable after one year) 290,206 490,180 290,000 490,180 116 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.22.1.2 Principal Amounts of Long-term Borrowings Group Outstanding as at Company Outstanding as at As at 31st March Currency 2020 2019 31.03.2020 31.03.2019 2020 2019 31.03.2020 31.03.2019 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 600,000 600,000 70,000 600,000 600,000 *70,000 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC LKR 800,000 800,000 80,180 240,140 800,000 800,000 80,180 **240,140 HSBC Bank LKR 600,000 600,000 410,000 530,000 600,000 ***600,000 410,000 530,000 DFCC Bank LKR 4,000 ****4,000 1,586 2,681 Total 2,004,000 2,004,000 491,766 842,821 2,000,000 2,000,000 490,180 840,140 * Repayable in 60 instalments from December 2014 ** Repayable in 60 instalments from October 2015 *** Repayable in 60 instalments from September 2018 **** Repayable in 48 instalments from September 2017 There is no security pledged against the above bank loans. 4.22.1.3 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by the year of Repayment Group Commercial HSBC Bank DFCC Bank Total As at 31st March Bank of 2020 2019 Ceylon PLC Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Movement of Loans At the beginning of the year 310,140 530,000 2,681 842,821 593,579 Loans obtained during the year 600,000 Repayments during the year (229,960) (120,000) (1,095) (351,055) (350,758) At the end of the year 80,180 410,000 1,586 491,766 842,821 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayable within 1 year 80,180 120,000 1,380 201,560 352,641 1 to 5 year 290,000 206 290,206 490,180 80,180 410,000 1,586 491,766 842,821 Company Commercial HSBC Bank Total As at 31st March Bank of 2020 2019 Ceylon PLC Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Movement of Loans At the beginning of the year 310,140 530,000 840,140 590,100 Loans obtained during the year 600,000 Repayments during the year (229,960) (120,000) (349,960) (349,960) At the end of the year 80,180 410,000 490,180 840,140 Analysis of Long-term Borrowings by Period of Repayment Repayable within 1 year 80,180 120,000 200,180 349,960 1 to 5 year 290,000 290,000 490,180 80,180 410,000 490,180 840,140 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 117 4.22.2 Short-term Borrowings Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Short-term bank loans 10,656,081 8,992,467 9,484,786 8,464,556 Bank overdrafts 138,124 297,473 105,113 251,042 10,794,205 9,289,940 9,589,899 8,715,598 Short-term bank loans are repayable within a period of six months to one year. Details of inventories and trade receivables which have been pledged against the above short-term loan facilities are disclosed in Note 4.16.3. Unutilised bank facilities as at 31st March 2020 amounted to Rs. 7,808 million (2018/19 Rs. 5,478 million). In light of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, short term bank loans granted on or before 31 march 2020 were extended for a period ranging from one month to six months. 4.22.3 Lease liabilities Policy Applicable before 01st April 2019 Policy Applicable from 01st April 2019 Accounting Policy Accounting Policy The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease At the inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the is, or contains a lease. A contract is, or contains a lease, if the contract lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset (or assets) of time in exchange for a consideration. To assess whether a contract and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset (or assets), conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group even if that asset is (or those assets are) not explicitly specified in an uses the definition of a lease in SLFRS 16. arrangement. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease Group as a lessee payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and readily determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, rewards incidental to ownership to the Group is classified as a finance the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. lease. The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the payments arising from a change in an index or rate. present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability This policy is applied to contracts entered into, on or after 1 April 2019. so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance The policy applicable for existing lease liabilities as at 1st April 2019 is of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the explained in 3.8.1 statement of profit or loss. Group as a lessee A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain ownership At commencement or on modification of a contract that contains a by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of lease component, the Group allocates the consideration in the contract the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. to each lease component on the basis of its relative stand‑alone prices. However, for the leases of property the Group has elected not to separate non‑lease components and account for the lease and There is no finance lease liability applicable to the company. non‑lease components as a single lease component. 118 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Lease liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Finance lease (Note 4.22.3.1) 30,154 13,926 Operating lease (Note 4.22.3.2) 469,693 452,971 499,847 13,926 452,971 Lease Liabilities are presented in the statement of Financial position as follows; Classified as non current liabilities 418,857 6,886 395,875 Classified as current liabilities 80,990 7,040 57,096 499,847 13,926 452,971 4.22.3.1 Movement of Finance Lease Liabilities Group As at 31st March 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 13,926 17,016 New leases obtained 30,884 8,424 Repayments (18,941) (13,013) Finance Lease Expense recognised in statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 4,285 1,499 Present value of minimum lease payments 30,154 13,926 Finance charge unamortised 5,144 2,211 Future minimum lease payments 35,298 16,137 Finance Lease Liabilities are presented in Financial position as follows; Classified as non current liabilities 14,689 6,886 Classified as current liabilities 15,465 7,040 30,154 13,926 Analysis of Finance Lease Liabilities by period of Re-payment 2020 2019 As at 31st March Future Interest Present value Future Interest Present value minimum of minimum minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments payments payments payments Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Repayable within 1 year 19,186 (3,722) 15,464 8,330 (1,290) 7,040 1 to 5 year 16,112 (1,422) 14,690 7,807 (921) 6,886 35,298 (5,144) 30,154 16,137 (2,211) 13,926 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 119 4.22.3.2 Movement in operating lease liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Cost Impact from initial application of SLFRS 16 497,942 460,863 Additions during the year 32,212 32,212 Accretion of interest 57,420 54,202 Payments to lease creditors (108,550) (84,975) Expiration of operating lease agreements during the year (9,331) (9,331) At the end of the year 469,693 452,971 Amounts recognised in profit or loss Interest on lease liabilities Leases under SLFRS 16 57,420 54,202 Lease expense Operating leases under LKAS 17 153,115 132,200 Operating Lease Liabilities are presented in Financial position as follows; Classified as non current liabilities 404,168 395,875 Classified as current liabilities 65,525 57,096 469,693 452,971 Maturity Analysis of lease payments Less than 1 year 65,525 57,096 1 to 5 year 292,366 284,073 More than 5 years 111,802 111,802 469,693 452,971 Expenses relating to short term leases and leases of low value assets amounting to Rs. 10.1 million has recognized in Income Statements. 4.23 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Such defined benefit obligation is a post-employment benefit obligation Accounting Policy falling within the scope of Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. Short-term employee benefits Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is The liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Position is the provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid present value of the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date. if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the amount as a result of the past service provided by the employee and the projected unit credit method (PUC). Remeasurement of the defined obligation can be estimated reliably. benefit liability, which comprises actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in Other Comprehensive Income. The Group Defined contribution plan recognises the increase in defined benefit liability attributable to the A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under services provided by employees during the year (current service cost) which an entity pays fixed determinable contributions into a separate in Profit or Loss together with the interest expenses. In the absence of entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further a deep market in long term corporate bonds in Sri Lanka, the discount amounts. rate has been derived, and approximation of a long term interest rate of 10.5% (2018/19 11.5%) has been used to discount future liabilities. Employees are eligible to Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions as per The liability is not externally funded. the respective statutes. These obligations come within the scope of a defined contribution plan as per LKAS -19 on ‘Employee Benefits’. Accounting Estimate Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount recognised in Profit or Loss as the related service is provided. rates, future salary increases and mortality rates. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long term nature, Defined benefit obligation the defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these In accordance with the Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, a liability arises for assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. a defined benefit obligation to employees. 120 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.23.1 Movement in Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 At the beginning of the year 736,445 661,415 686,890 609,222 Included in Profit or Loss Current service cost 58,529 56,181 49,520 48,217 Interest cost 82,950 68,155 78,992 63,968 141,479 124,336 128,512 112,185 Included in Other Comprehensive Income Net actuarial gain (60,870) (12,179) (69,817) (160) (60,870) (12,179) (69,817) (160) Total charge for the year 80,609 112,157 58,695 112,025 Included in Statement of Cash Flows Paid during the year (42,145) (37,127) (40,216) (34,357) At the end of the year 774,909 736,445 705,369 686,890 The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line item; Administrative expenses 141,479 124,336 128,512 112,185 141,479 124,336 128,512 112,185 4.23.2 Principal Actuarial Assumptions An actuarial valuation was carried out as at 31st March 2020 by Mr. M. Poopalanathan, AIA, of Messrs Actuarial and Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd., a firm of professional actuaries. Assumption 2020 2019 Financial Rate of discount 10.50% p.a. 11.50% p.a. Salary escalation rate 9.50% p.a. 10.50% p.a. Demographic Mortality-in service A 1967/70 mortality table, issued by the Institute of Actuaries, London Retirement Age An Executive employee 60 years 60 years A Non-Executive employee 55 Years 55 Years Staff Turnover Up to age 49 13% 14% After age 49 0% 0% According to the Payment of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability for gratuity to an employee arises only on completion of five years of continuous service. The liability as required by the Payment of Gratuity Act for the Group and the Company as at 31st March 2020 amounted to Rs. 781.2 million (2018/19Rs.737.5 million) and Rs. 722.9 million (2018/19Rs.680.6 million) respectively. 4.23.3 Sensitivity Analysis A one percentage change at the reporting date to one of the actuarial assumptions would have the following effects to defined benefit obligation. Assumption Change in Defined Benefit Obligation Present Value of Defined Benefit Obligation Group Company Group Company 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% Decrease Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rate of discount (29,545) 32,763 (27,284) 30,284 728,025 790,333 678,085 735,653 Salary escalation rate 35,819 (32,877) 33,098 (30,353) 793,389 724,693 738,467 675,016 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 121 4.23.4 Maturity Analysis of the payments future taxable profits improves. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s/ reassessed at each reporting date and recognised to the extent that it Company’s defined benefit obligation. has become probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used. As at 31st March 2020 Group Company Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax Within the next 12 months 275,566 249,867 liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity Between 1-2years 187,125 173,445 and the same taxation authority. Between2-5 years 115,995 101,409 Between5-10 years 103,724 94,061 Accounting Estimate Beyond 10 years 92,499 86,587 Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses to the extent 774,909 705,369 that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available and can be utilised against such tax losses. Judgement is required to determine 4.24 DEFERRED TAX the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon Accounting Policy the likely timing and level of future taxable profits, together with future tax-planning strategies. Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting Recoverability of temporary difference arising from tax losses purpose and the amounts used for taxation purposes. As at 31st March 2020, the Group has recognised Rs. 97.3 million as Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied a deferred tax assets on the deductible temporary differences arising to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or from tax losses, defined benefit obligations, obsolete stocks, debtor substantively enacted at the reporting date. impairment, free service provision, SLFRS adjustments, movement of exchange loss and warranty provision. According to the Group/Company policy, deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be can be used. In the back ground of the Business Continuity Plans in used. place, the Board of Directors has assessed the post-lockdown economic implications of COVID-19 pandemic on the Group/Company and is of Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced the view that future taxable profit will be available against which the to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilised. will be realised; such reductions are reversed when the probability of Carrying Value of Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities) Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Summary of net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) At the beginning of the year (1,758,002) (1,839,526) (1,809,338) (1,861,319) Reversal of temporary differences to Profit or Loss 192,399 85,015 151,427 52,026 Origination of temporary differences to Other Comprehensive Income (Note 4.24.2) (14,560) (3,491) (19,549) (45) At the end of the year (Note 4.24.1) (1,580,163) (1,758,002) (1,677,460) (1,809,338) Made up as follows: Deferred tax assets 97,341 51,336 Deferred tax liabilities (1,677,504) (1,809,338) (1,677,460) (1,809,338) (1,580,163) (1,758,002) (1,677,460) (1,809,338) 122 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.24.1 Reconciliation of Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Deferred Tax Liability Temporary difference arising from property, plant and equipment (7,686,865) (7,508,749) (7,621,450) (7,457,718) Temporary difference arising from unrealized exchange gain/loss (39,205) (33,493) Temporary difference arising from Long Term Contracts (55,202) (46,049) Total temporary difference of deferred tax liability (7,781,272) (7,508,749) (7,700,992) (7,457,718) Closing deferred tax liability @ 28% (2,179,264) (2,102,489) (2,156,279) (2,088,161) Closing deferred tax liability @ 25% 454 17 (2,178,810) (2,102,472) (2,156,279) (2,088,161) Deferred Tax Assets Temporary difference arising from defined benefit obligation 774,908 736,444 705,368 686,889 Temporary difference arising from Obsolete stock 433,483 38,700 347,195 2,695 Temporary difference arising from Debtors Impairment 649,861 276,069 481,720 185,283 Temporary difference arising from Free Service Provision 68,936 68,936 Temporary difference arising from SLFRS Adjustments 95,619 69,159 Temporary difference arising from warranty provision 41,328 28,324 37,689 25,997 Temporary difference arising from Tax Losses 69,103 154,564 94,934 Temporary difference arising from Movement of Exchange loss 9,848 Total temporary difference of deferred tax assets 2,143,086 1,234,101 1,710,067 995,798 Closing deferred tax assets @ 28% 587,007 335,298 478,819 278,823 Closing deferred tax assets @ 25% 11,640 9,172 598,647 344,470 478,819 278,823 Net temporary differences (5,638,186) (6,274,648) (5,990,925) (6,461,920) Net deferred tax liability (1,580,163) (1,758,002) (1,677,460) (1,809,338) 4.24.2 Movement in Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities during the Year Group Company As at Recognised Recognised As at As at Recognised Recognised As at 01.04.2019 in Profit in Other 31.03.2020 01.04.2019 in Profit in Other 31.03.2020 or Loss Comprehensive or Loss Comprehensive Income Income Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Property, plant and equipment Deferred tax liability (2,102,472) (49,927) (2,152,399) (2,088,161) (45,844) (2,134,005) Retirement benefit obligation Deferred tax asset 206,204 27,816 (17,044) 216,976 192,328 24,723 (19,549) 197,502 Obsolete Stock Deferred tax asset 10,836 110,539 121,375 754 96,460 97,214 Debtor Impairment Deferred tax asset 76,785 105,176 181,961 51,879 83,002 134,881 Warranty provision Deferred tax asset 7,931 3,641 11,572 7,280 3,273 10,553 Free Service Provision Deferred tax asset 19,302 19,302 19,302 19,302 SLFRS Adjustments Deferred tax asset 26,772 26,772 19,364 19,364 Deferred tax asset Long Term Contracts (15,457) (15,457) (12,894) (12,894) Unrealized Gain/Loss Deferred tax liability (10,977) (10,977) (9,377) (9,377) Tax Losses Deferred tax asset 42,736 (24,486) 18,250 26,582 (26,582) Effect of movement in exchange rates (22) 2,484 2,462 (1,758,002) 192,399 (14,560) (1,580,163) (1,809,338) 151,427 (19,549) (1,677,460) Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 123 4.25 CONTRACT LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED INCOME Unprovided free services relating to vehicle sales 4.25.1 Contract Liabilities Accounting Policy Accounting Policy The Company sells vehicles bundled with free services to the customers Contract liabilities are the Group’s/Company’s obligation to transfer with limitations on mileage or usage period. The unprovided free goods or services to a customer for which the Group has received services are recognised as contract liability at the time of selling the consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. Contract vehicles at its relative fair value and recognised as revenue when liabilities include long-term advances received to deliver goods and the performance obligation relating to liability is satisfied. i.e. upon services, short-term advances received to render certain services as provision of the service or expiration of entitled period or/and criteria, well as transaction price allocated to unprovided free services relating whichever occurs first. to vehicle sales. Accounting Estimate Relative fair value of free services Upon transferring the promised goods or services related to the liability, The amount charged by the Company in respect of each service is amount will be recognised as revenue in Statement of Profit or Loss and recognised at the relative fair value of free services. These amounts are Other Comprehensive income. estimated using the combination of historical experience in service and price changes. Carrying Value of Contract Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Balance Beginning of the year 761,970 467,338 448,169 260,524 During the year Addition 11,118,009 11,654,574 9,498,703 10,057,826 Amortisation (11,076,158) (11,359,942) (9,556,704) (9,870,181) 803,821 761,970 390,168 448,169 Classified as current liabilities 706,666 684,978 335,690 418,591 Classified as non current liabilities 97,155 76,992 54,478 29,578 803,821 761,970 390,168 448,169 4.25.2 Deferred Income The table below summarises the details of deferred income of the Group/Company; Carrying Value of Deferred Income Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Government grant (Note 4.25.2.1) 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 Classified as current liabilities 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 Classified as non current liabilities 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 124 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES 4.25.2.1 Government Grant The grant that compensates income/expenses incurred is recognised Accounting Policy in profit or loss on a systematic basis in the periods in which the expenses/income are recognised. Grant is initially recognised as a deferred income when there is a reasonable assurance that the Group/Company will comply with Grant includes government subsidy relating to fertiliser imports covered conditions,if any, associated with the grant and it will be received. under government subsidy scheme. Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Balance Beginning of the year 66,615 66,615 Grants received during the year 882,762 911,216 882,762 911,216 Amortised during the year (765,153) (844,601) (765,153) (844,601) At the end of the year 184,224 66,615 184,224 66,615 Details of grants are as follows; Beneficiary Purpose Grantor Carrying value 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Subsidy for fertiliser Ministry of Agriculture 184,224 66,615 4.26 PROVISIONS All known provisions have been accounted for in preparing these Accounting Policy Financial Statements. 4.26.1 Provisions 4.26.2 Warranty Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group/Company has a present The provision for warranty relates mainly to vehicles sold for which obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is the company gives warranty commencing from the date of sale. The probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will warranty received by manufacturer is effective from date of shipment. be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made This causes a time window during which the company is exposed to of the amount of the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of warranty liability. A provision for warranty is recognised to cover such a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, exposure to a liability. The provision is based on the historical warranty the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the data and a weighting of possible outcomes against their associated reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision probabilities. The said warranty provision will be reversed upon is presented in Profit or Loss net of any reimbursement. If the effect of expiration of the warranty period. the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific 4.26.3 Provision for litigation and claims to the liability. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. The Management considers likelihood of any claim succeeding, in making provisions. The time of concluding legal claims is uncertain, Provisions are calculated based on the historical experience and the as is the amount of possible outflow of economic benefits. The timing specific terms in the individual cases. The Group arrives at an estimate and cost ultimately depend on the due process in the respective legal on the basis of an evaluation of the most likely outcome. jurisdictions. Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Provision for litigation and claims 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Provisions for warranty 41,328 28,324 37,689 25,999 52,328 39,324 48,689 36,999 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 125 Carrying value of warranty provision Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Balance Beginning of the year 28,324 19,158 25,999 16,656 Provision made during the year 21,773 20,791 19,198 19,293 Amount used/reversed during the period (8,769) (11,625) (7,508) (9,950) Carrying value at the end of the year 41,328 28,324 37,689 25,999 4.27 TRADE PAYABLES (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they Accounting Policy are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade payables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less Generally trade payables are due within 90 days. Carrying Value of Trade Payables Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Trade payables 2,601,473 1,905,473 2,213,340 1,482,480 4.27.1 Carrying amount of trade payables are denominated in the following currencies Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Currency Sri Lankan Rupees 1,902,481 1,607,649 1,759,499 271,766 USD 543,023 145,361 316,487 954,389 Euro 155,969 152,463 137,354 256,325 2,601,473 1,905,473 2,213,340 1,482,480 4.27.2 Review of Liquidity Risk 4.28 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and have settlement periods Accounting Policy less than 90 days. The quick assets ratio of the Group and the Company The Group classifies all non financial current liabilities under other as at the year-end was 0.72:1 and 0.62:1 respectively (2018/19 current liabilities. Other current liabilities include accruals, advances Group 0.65:1, Company 0.55:1). As a liquidity risk management and contingent consideration arisen through business combination. measure, the Group/Company continually compare trade payables with These liabilities are recorded at the amounts that are expected to be receivables, cash and cash equivalents and unutilised banking facilities. paid. The trade payables of the Group include an amount of Rs. 1,604 million as bills payable corresponding to goods shipped but not received. At the time of settlement of bills, the Group will obtain short-term loans to cover the working capital cycle period of the imports. Unutilised banking facilities are given in Note 4.22.2 126 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 4 SPECIFIC ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND NOTES Carrying Value of Other Current Liabilities Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Advanced received 237,257 435,436 124,991 352,577 Unclaimed dividend 10,113 9,959 10,113 9,959 Value Added Tax (VAT) 17,932 29,304 Consideration payable 67,355 67,355 Provisions for litigation and claims (Note 4.26.3) 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Warranty provision (Note 4.26.3) 41,328 28,324 37,689 25,999 Other payables and accrued expenses 1,525,208 1,167,021 947,623 738,648 1,842,838 1,748,399 1,131,416 1,205,538 Details of provisions are disclosed in Note 4.26 4.28.1 Terms of Settlement of Other Current Liabilities 4.29 CURRENT TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Other current liabilities are non-interest bearing and payable within Current tax assets are recognised at historical value less impairment. three months excluding advances and unclaimed dividends. Advances Current tax liabilities are recorded at the amounts expected to be paid. received are expected to be set-off within three months. Carrying Value of Current Tax Asset/(Liability) Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Opening balance 261,231 90,209 293,608 118,510 Reclassification 1,539 Current tax for the year (Note 4.6) (270,782) (112,451) (204,301) (3,128) (9,551) (20,703) 89,307 115,382 Tax paid during the year: Current tax, ESC and withholding tax 310,873 281,934 146,988 178,226 310,873 281,934 146,988 178,226 Current tax asset 301,322 261,231 236,295 293,608 Made up as follows: Current tax asset 306,663 304,642 236,295 293,608 Current tax liability (5,341) (43,411) 301,322 261,231 236,295 293,608 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 127 4.30 AMOUNTS DUE (TO)/FROM SUBSIDIARIES AND EQUITY-ACCOUNTED INVESTEE For the year ended 31st March DIMO DIMO DIMO PlantChem PlantSeeds DIMO Lanka United DIMO DIMO As at As at (Private) Industries Travels (Pvt) (Pvt) Ltd (Pvt) Ltd Company Company Coastline 31.03.2020 31.03.2019 Ltd (Pvt) Ltd Ltd Limited Limited (Pvt) Ltd* Shareholding 100% 100% 100% 51% 51% 100% 70% 40% Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 At the beginning of the year (190,451) 115,343 467 816 816 18,204 (54,805) (398,099) Sale of goods and services 35,219 496 714 5,003 1,362 42,794 14,373 Purchase of goods and services (17,552) (15,640) (13,543) (46,735) (24,145) Rendering of Management services 45,693 5,193 2,145 2,351 55,382 12,413 Expenses incurred on behalf of subsidiaries/ equity accounted investee 4,190 (1,887) 310 2,613 187,358 Fund transfers net 170,388 (20,613) 100 (816) (4,550) (3,953) 140,556 139,211 Interest on fund transfers net (7,685) 11,936 4,251 23,894 Sale of fixed assets (6,026) (6,026) (14,839) Purchase of fixed asset 844 844 2,546 Exchange rate translation difference 1,034 1,034 2,483 Closing balance due (to)/from subsidiaries 33,776 94,828 567 2,859 (9,923) 17,801 139,908 (54,805) * DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd is an equity-accounted investee. Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC has provided guarantees on behalf of DIMO Coastline (Pvt) Ltd and DIMO Lanka Company Limited amounting to Rs. 107.1 million (2018/19 Rs. 52 million) for the purpose of obtaining banking facilities. 4.30.1 Summary of Amounts Due (to)/from Subsidiaries and Equity-accounted investee comprise: Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Amounts due from subsidiaries and equity accounted investee 17,801 18,204 149,831 135,646 Amounts due to subsidiaries (9,923) (190,451) Amounts due (to)/from subsidiaries and equity accounted investee 17,801 18,204 139,908 (54,805) 128 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 5 OTHER DISCLOSURES This section provides information on related party disclosures and other disclosures required by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards not covered elsewhere. 5.1 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES Officers who are employees of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC and The Company carried out transactions in the ordinary course of its Directors of the subsidiaries and not of the Company have been business with parties who are defined as related parties as per Sri Lanka classified as KMP of the respective subsidiary only. Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related Party Disclosures’. The Group revenue includes sales made to Key Management Personnel Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC does not have an identifiable parent of amounting to Rs. 8.1 million. (2018/19Rs. 0.5 million). its own. The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group. 5.1.1 (b) The Compensation Paid to Key Management Personnel 5.1.1 (a) Transactions with Key Management Personnel (KMP) (KMP) According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 24 on ‘Related The Executive Directors are entitled to a structured incentive scheme Party Disclosures’, Key Management Personnel are those having which is linked to performance. authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity directly or indirectly. Accordingly, the members The Company contributes towards a post-employment contribution plan of the Board of Directors of the Company (Executive and Non-Executive for the Executive Directors. In addition to their salaries, the Company Directors) have been classified as KMP. As the Company is the ultimate provides non-cash benefits to KMPs. parent of the subsidiaries (listed in Note 2.2), the Board of Directors of the Company has the authority and responsibility for planning or There are no share-based payments made to the Directors during the controlling the activities of the Group directly or indirectly. Accordingly, year. the Board of Directors of the Company (Executive and Non Executive) are KMP of the Group. No loans were granted to KMPs of the Company. Key Management Personnel (KMP) are entitled to discount schemes which are uniformly applicable to all employees of the Group. Compensation to Key Management Personnel of the Company are as follows: Group Company As at 31st March 2020 2019 2020 2019 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Rs.‘000 Short-term employment benefits 369,373 407,402 327,815 364,645 Post-employment benefits 52,039 65,279 48,327 58,319 Terminal benefits Total compensation applicable to Key Management Personnel 421,412 472,681 376,142 422,964 The Company also has an obligation towards a post-employment There were no transactions with the close family members during the benefit plan for the Executive Directors. The liability arising from year. the post-employment obligation has been provided for, based on an actuarial valuation and is disclosed under Employee Benefits in Note 5.1.2 Transactions with Companies in which Key Management 4.23 to the Financial Statements. Personnel (KMP) have Control or Significant Influence There were no transactions with companies on which KMP have control. 5.1.1 (c) Transactions with Close Family Members of Key Management Personnel (KMP) The transactions with companies in which KMP is the Chairman or Close family members are defined as spouse or dependant. A dependant a Director of such entities are disclosed in ‘Directors’ Interests in is defined as anyone who depends on the respective Director for more Contracts’ on page 62. than 50% of his/her financial needs. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 129 5.1.3 Terms and Conditions of Transactions with the Companies Currently the Group/Company is involved in legal actions arising out on which Key Management Personnel (KMP) have Control of the normal course of the business. The Group/Company does not or Significant Influence expect the pending litigations and claims, individually and in aggregate, to have a material impact on the reported financial results of the Group. Outstanding balances at the year-end relating to the companies on which KMP have control or significant influence over these companies are unsecured, interest free, and all related-party dues are on demand. Litigation Against the Company There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related The claims for lawsuits filed against the Company as at 31st March party receivables or payables for the year ended 31st March 2020. 2020 amounted to Rs.72.1 million (2018/19 Rs. 49.3 million). Although, there can be no assurance, the Directors believe, based 5.1.4 Transactions with Group Entities on the information currently available that the ultimate resolution of such lawsuits are not likely to have a material effect on the results of The Company has carried out transactions with Group entities in the operations, financial position or liquidity. ordinary course of business. The details are set out in Note 4.30. The Group has not recorded any impairment for receivables relating to Guarantees amount owed by Group entities. The contingent liabilities as at 31st March 2020 on guarantees given by Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC, in respect of bank guarantees, 5.1.4 (a) Non-recurrent related party transactions bid bonds and performance bonds amounted to Rs. 3,148.2 million (2018/19 Rs. 2,211.6 million). There were no non-recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate value exceeds 10% of the equity or 5% of the total assets, whichever is lower, of the Company as per 31 March 2019 audited Income tax assessments financial statements, which required additional disclosures in the During the year of 2013/14, the Commissioner General of Inland 2019/20 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange listing Rule Revenue issued an assessment notice for the year of assessment 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions issued 2010/11 on Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC pertaining to an additional by the Securities and Exchange Commission. tax liability on account of disallowing 2/3rd of NBT claimed on imports. An Appeal was lodged against the tax assessed by the Department of 5.1.4 (b) Recurrent related party transactions Inland Revenue. The matter currently pending with the Tax Appeals Commission. There were no recurrent related party transactions which in aggregate value exceeds 10% of the consolidated revenue of the Group as per With the advice of our tax consultants and based on the information 31 March 2019 audited financial Statements, which required additional available and probability of the outcome, where the assessment of the disclosures in the 2019/20 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange management is that the probability is higher that the company would listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party Transactions not be require to settle the liabilities, no provision has been made in the issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission. financial statements. The assessment value relating to this as at 31st March 2020 is estimated to be Rs. 124.7 million (2018/19 – Rs. 124.7 5.2 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES million). Capital Expenditure Commitments Capital expenditure committed by the Board of Directors for which a provision has not been made in the Financial Statements amounted to approximately 66.9 million (2018/19 Rs. 1,209.8 million). Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the transfer of economic benefit is not probable or cannot be readily measured as defined in the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – LKAS 37 on “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets”. Further, contingent liabilities are not recognised in Statement of Financial Position but are disclosed unless its occurrence is remote. 130 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 SECTION 5 OTHER DISCLOSURES 5.3 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD The impacts from post-lockdown financial and economic implications on Group’s/Company’s going concern, estimation uncertainty, credit risk, liquidity risk and exchange rate risk are disclosed in relevant notes to these Financial Statements. 5.3.1. Temporary Suspension of Imports As per the Gazette notice issued on 16th April 2020, the government imposed a 90-day restriction on selected imports that included vehicles. This may have an impact on the revenue of the Group/Company. 5.3.2. Post-lockdown Operation After a strict lockdown period of over a month, curfew has been gradually eased off. Whilst the operations have resumed, it is encouraging that there is no indication of community spread in the country as of now. This has allowed the Group to commence operations subject to Health and Safety Guidelines. The Group has developed requisite Health and Safety Guidelines to ensure a safe environment for employees, customers and other stakeholders. The full extent and duration of the post-lockdown economic implications on the Group’s/Company’s operations and financial performance will be felt during the financial year 2020/21 The Board of Directors has developed comprehensive action plans to mitigate the future risk associated with post-lockdown economic implications. The management is monitoring the situation clinically to mitigate the potential impact of this crisis on the Group’s/Company’s operations and financial performance. 5.3.3. Decline in fair value of investments At each reporting period, the Group’s/Company’s equity securities are measured at fair value referring to quoted market prices in the active market. Due to COVID-19 outbreak, the CSE has experienced significant volatility. The operation of CSE was suspended from 20th March 2020 to 11th May 2020. Therefore, there were no quoted market prices as at 31st March 2020 to value Group’s/Company’s equity securities. According to the direction issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Sri Lanka, the Group/Company valued its equity securities at the market value as at 31st December 2019. However, at the date these financial statements were authorised for issue, the fair value of the Group’s/Company’s investments had declined from 6.5 million to 4.4 million and 6.4 million to 4.3 million respectively. These subsequent changes in the fair value of the equity securities are not reflected in the financial statements as at 31st March 2020. Except for the disclosures made in above and other relevant notes in relation to the post-lockdown financial and economic implications arising from COVID-19 pandemic, there are no material events that occurred after the reporting date which requires an adjustment or disclosure to these financial statements. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 131 APPENDICES This final section contains information that is complementary to the main report. 132 Appendix I – Share information 134 Appendix II – Level of compliance to mandatory regulations 136 Appendix III – GRI content index 144 Appendix IV – Ten year summery 145 Corporate information 146 Notice of meeting 147 Form of proxy 132 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX I SHARE INFORMATION 1 STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING The issued ordinary shares of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC,are listed with the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. 2 SHAREHOLDERS The number of Ordinary Shareholders as at 31st March 2020 was 2,053 (1,952 as at 31st March 2019). No of Shares Held Resident Non Resident Total No of No of % No of No of % No of Total No % Share holders Shares Share holders Shares Share holders of Shares 1 1,000 1,788 186,279 2.10 25 6,865 0.08 1,813 193,144 2.18 1,001 10,000 178 495,907 5.59 7 24,497 0.28 185 520,404 5.86 10,001 100,000 36 933,041 10.51 1 19,000 0.21 37 952,041 10.73 100,001 1,000,000 16 5,408,058 60.93 1 37,530 0.42 17 5,445,588 61.35 1,000,001 and over 1 1,765,260 19.89 0.00 1 1,765,260 19.89 Total 2,019 8,788,545 99.01 34 87,892 0.99 2,053 8,876,437 100.00 Categories of Shareholders 31st March 2020 31st March 2019 No of No of % No of No of % Share holders Shares Share holders Shares Individuals 1,918 5,638,375 63.52 1,869 5,531,443 62.22 Institutions 135 3,238,062 36.48 83 3,344,994 37.78 Total 2,053 8,876,437 100.00 1,952 8,876,437 100.00 3 MARKET VALUE OF SHARES The Market value of an ordinary share of Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC (based on the Volume Weighted Average Price),as at 31st March 2020 was Rs.250.00 (Rs. 304.70 as at 31st March 2019). 4 DIVIDEND PAYMENT As at 31st March 2019/20 2018/19 Rs.mn Rs.mn First & Final Dividend-Rs. 2.50 per share 22* * A first and final dividend of Rs. 2.50 per share was approved by the Board of Directors on 25th May 2019 for the Financial Year 2018/19 and was paid on 17th June 2019. 5 SHARE TRADING INFORMATION FROM 1ST APRIL 2019 TO 31ST MARCH 2020 2019/20 Date 2018/19 Date Highest (Rs.) 350.00 12-Apr-19 475.00 17-Apr-18 Lowest (Rs.) 245.00 13-Mar-20 290.00 27-Mar-19 Closing (Rs.) 250.00 13-Mar-20 304.70 29-Mar-19 No. of transactions 1,403 1,413 No. of shares traded 417,618 59,388 Value of shares traded (Rs.) 129,139,683 22,922,696 6 PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING As at 31st March 2019/20 2018/19 Public Holding % 53.18 53.18 No of Public Shareholders 2,040 1,940 Float adjusted market capitalisation LKR. 1,180,175,750 LKR. 1,438,333,058 The Company complies with option 5 of the Listing Rules 7.13.1 (a) – Less than Rs.2.5 Billion Float Adjusted Market Capitalization which requires 20% minimum Public Holding. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 133 7 SHARE ISSUES AND BUY-BACKS FOR THE PAST TWENTY YEARS Year Issue No. of Shares Price 2011/12 Scrip (one share per every fifty shares held) 174,048 Rs. 1,395.00 2008/09 Share Buy-Back (1,397,611) Rs. 160.00 2006/07 Rights (one share per every ten shares held) 1,100,000 Rs. 55.00 2006/07 Scrip (one share per every ten shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2004/05 Scrip (one share per every nine shares held) 1,000,000 Nil 2003/04 Rights (one share per every two shares held) 3,000,000 Rs.20.00 2000/01 Scrip (one share per every four shares held) 1,200,000 Nil 8 CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS DURING 2019/20 * Name Shareholding % As At 31st March 2020 Movement of Shares As At 31st March 2019 Mr A R Pandithage 21.74 1,929,735 1,929,735 Mr S C Algama 6.48 574,779 574,779 Mr A G Pandithage 6.43 570,862 570,862 Mr A N Algama 2.41 213,739 213,739 Mr A M Pandithage 2.53 224,172 224,172 Mr M V Bandara 0.02 1,682 (200) 1,882 39.61 3,514,969 (200) 3,515,169 * Includes shares held by spouse 9 TOP TWENTY SHAREHOLDERS As At 31st March 2020 As At 31st March 2019 Name Shares % Shares % Employees Provident Fund 1,765,260 19.89 1,765,260 19.89 Mr. A R Pandithage 991,233 11.17 991,233 11.17 Mrs. J C Pandithage 938,502 10.57 938,502 10.57 A & G Investments Pvt Limited 640,765 7.22 640,765 7.22 Mr. S C Algama 567,786 6.40 567,786 6.40 Mr. A G Pandithage 525,814 5.92 525,814 5.92 Mr. A N Algama 213,739 2.41 213,739 2.41 Mr. C R Pandithage 212,081 2.39 51,340 0.58 Mr. T G H Peries 193,069 2.18 193,069 2.18 Almar Trading Co (Pvt) Ltd 191,250 2.15 279,945 3.15 Mr. A M Pandithage 182,319 2.05 182,319 2.05 Dr D.Jayanntha 160,000 1.80 160,000 1.80 Miss T.R.N.C Peries 148,009 1.67 148,009 1.67 Seylan Bank PLC/Janashakthi PLC 144,748 1.63 Mr. L P Algama 134,569 1.52 134,569 1.52 Estate Of The Late Mr.N.U.Algama 118,845 1.34 118,845 1.34 United Motors Lanka Plc 109,883 1.24 109,883 1.24 Bank Of Ceylon 77,937 0.88 77,937 0.88 Mrs. I S Salgado 46,000 0.52 46,000 0.52 Mrs. H S Pandithage 45,048 0.51 45,048 0.51 7,406,857 83.44 7,406,857 81.00 10 THE STATED CAPITAL REPRESENTS 8,876,437 ORDINARY SHARES. 134 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX II LEVEL OF COMPLIANCE TO MANDATORY REGULATIONS This section provides a navigation on the level of compliance to Companies Act and the regulations provided by the Colombo Stock Exchange. Disclosures Required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 Section Requirement Annual Report Reference Reference (Page) 168 (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company together with any change thereof during the 76 accounting period 168 (1) (b) Signed Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the accounting period completed 70-130 168 (1) (c) Auditors’ Report on Financial Statements of the Group and the Company 65-69 168 (1) (d) Accounting Policies and any changes therein 76-130 168 (1) (e) Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register during the accounting period 62 168 (1) (f) Remuneration and other benefits paid to Directors of the Company during the accounting period 89 168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company during the accounting period 89 168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its Subsidiaries during and at the end of the accounting 20 period 168 (1) (i) Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit fees and fees for other services rendered during the 89 accounting period 168 (1) (j) Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company and its Subsidiaries 59 168 (1) (k) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Signatures on behalf of the Board (Annual Report of the 58-61 Board of Directors) Disclosures Required by the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.1.(a) Non-Executive Directors At least two or one third of the Directors, Compliant Four out of thirteen Directors were Nonwhichever is higher, should be NonExecutive Directors throughout the year. Executive Directors 7.10.2.(a) Independent Directors Two or one-third of Non-Executive Compliant Three out of four Non-Executive Directors Directors, whichever is higher, should be were independent throughout the year. independent 7.10.2.(b) Independence of Each Non-Executive Director should Compliant The Non-Executive Directors have Directors submit a declaration of Independence/ submitted the declarations in the Non-Independence prescribed format 7.10.3.(a) Disclosures relating to The names of Independent Directors Compliant The names of Independent Directors are Directors should be disclosed in the Annual Report disclosed in the Board profile presented on page 10 and 11. 7.10.3.(b) Independence of The Board shall make a determination Compliant The Board has made such determination Directors annually as to the Independence or Nonand the basis for determination of Independence of each Non-Executive “Independence” is explained in the Director Annual Report of the Board of Directors. Please refer page 60. 7.10.3.(c) Disclosures relating to A brief resume of each Director should be Compliant A brief profile of each director is available Directors included in the Annual Report including in the Board profile presented on pages his/her area of expertise 10 and 11. 7.10.3.(d) Appointment of new A brief resume of any new Director Not applicable This requirement is not applicable as Directors appointed to the Board there was no appointments to the Board during the year 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee A listed company shall have a Compliant Names of the members of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee are available on page 49 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 135 Rule No. Subject Applicable Requirement Compliance Details Status 7.10.5.(a) Composition of the Shall comprise of Non-Executive Directors, Compliant Composition of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee a majority of whom shall be Independent Committee is available in the Remuneration Committee report presented on page 49 7.10.5.(b) Functions of the The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant The manner in which the Remuneration Remuneration Committee recommend the remuneration of the Committee discharged its responsibilities Chief Executive Officer and the Executive is set out in the Remuneration Committee Directors Report presented on page 49 7.10.5.(c) Disclosure in the Annual The Annual Report should set out; Compliant Refer the Remuneration Committee Report relating to the Report on page 49 Remuneration Committee a) N ames of the Directors comprising the Remuneration Committee b) S tatement of Remuneration policy Compliant Remuneration policy is disclosed in Remuneration Committee Report on page 49 c) Aggregate remuneration paid to Compliant Refer Note number 4.5 of Notes to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors financial statements on page 89. 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Names of the members of the Audit Committee Committee are available on pages 47 – 48. 7.10.6.(a) Composition of Audit Shall comprise of Non-Executive Directors, Compliant Composition of the Audit Committee is Committee a majority of whom are Independent available in the Audit Committee report presented on pages 47 – 48. Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Compliant The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer should attend Audit Financial Officer attend Audit Committee Committee Meetings meetings by invitation The Chairman of the Audit Committee or Compliant The Chairman of the Audit Committee is one member should be a member of a a member of The Institute of Chartered professional accounting body Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants UK 7.10.6.(b) Functions of Audit Should be as outlined in Section 7.10 of Compliant The terms of reference of the Audit Committee the Listing Rules Committee were adopted by the Board on 20th June 2007 and last reviewed on 24th May 2016, and cover the areas outlined in section 7.10 7.10.6.(c) Disclosure in the Annual a) N ames of the Directors comprising the Compliant Refer the Audit Committee Report on Report relating to the Audit Committee pages 47-48 Audit Committee b) T he Audit Committee shall make a Compliant The determination of Auditor’s determination of the independence of independence and the basis for such the Auditors and disclose the basis for determination is disclosed in the report such determination of the Audit committee from pages 4748. c) The Annual Report shall contain a Compliant Refer the Audit Committee Report on Report of the Audit Committee in the pages 47-48. prescribed manner 136 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX III GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization 4 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 24-29 102-3 Location of headquarters 145 102-4 Location of operations 145 102-5 Ownership and legal form 145 102-6 Markets served 19, 24-29 102-7 Scale of the organization 19, 36 102-8 Information on employees and other 34, https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityworkers performance/ 102-9 Supply chain 16-17 102-10 Significant changes to the organization 16-17, 5-9 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 5-9, 41-52 102-12 External initiatives 5-9, 41-52 102-13 Membership of associations https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5-9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 53-55 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 14 norms of behaviour 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 39 about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance structure 41 102-19 Delegating authority 41 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 38 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 14-15 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance 10-11 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 10-11 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 51-https://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 50-https://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 41 setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 51 governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance https://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 38-40, https://www.dimolanka.com/ environmental, and social impacts stewardship/ 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 53-55 processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 38-40, https://www.dimolanka.com/ social topics stewardship/ 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 4, https://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 14, https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 137 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted 102-34 Nature and total number of critical 14, https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityconcerns performance/ 102-35 Remuneration policies Confidentiality Not disclose due Constraints to confidentiality of the data 102-36 Process for determining remuneration https://www.dimolanka.com/stewardship/ 102-37 Stakeholders involvement in Confidentiality Not disclose due remuneration Constraints to confidentiality of the data 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Confidentiality Not disclose due Constraints to confidentiality of the data 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total Confidentiality Not disclose due compensation ratio Constraints to confidentiality of the data Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14-15, https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14-15, https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 4, 19 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic 4 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 14, https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 102-48 Restatements of information 4 102-49 Changes in reporting https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 102-50 Reporting period 4 102-51 Date of most recent report 4 102-52 Reporting cycle 4 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 145 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 4 the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 136 -143 102-56 External assurance Logistic Not conducted restrictions due to logistic restrictions came from COVID-19 pandemic 138 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX III GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Economic Performance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 22-23, 32-33, 38-39 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 22-23, 32-33, 38-39 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22-23, 32-33, 38-39 GRI 201: 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 38-39 Economic distributed Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 38-40 opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and 120 other retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from None government Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 38-40 Management Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 38-40 components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38-40 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 38-40 Indirect supported Economic Impacts 2016 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ Procurement Practices GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 38-40 & https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 38-40 & https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38-40 & https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 38-40, https://www.dimolanka.com/ Procurement sustainability-performance/ Practices 2016 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Materials GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 38-40, https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 301: 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityMaterials 2016 performance/ 301-2 Recycled input materials used https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitymaterials performance/ Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 139 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Energy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ 2016 organization sustainability-performance/ 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ organization sustainability-performance/ 302-3 Energy intensity 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ products and services sustainability-performance/ Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 303: Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ and Effluents resource sustainability-performance/ 2018 303-2 Management of water discharge-related 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ impacts sustainability-performance/ 303-3 Water withdrawal 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 303-4 Water discharge 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ Emissions GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Emissions 2016 sustainability-performance/ 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ (ODS) sustainability-performance/ 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ (SOX), and other significant air emissions sustainability-performance/ 140 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX III GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Effluents and destination sustainability-performance/ Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 306-3 Significant spills N/A 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste N/A 306-5 Water bodies affected by water 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ discharges and/or runoff sustainability-performance/ Environmental Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Environmental and regulations sustainability-performance/ Compliance 2016 GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Employment turnover sustainability-performance/ 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ that are not provided to temporary or part-time sustainability-performance/ employees 401-3 Parental leave 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ Labor/ 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management sustainability-performance/ Relations GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 141 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted GRI 402: Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement operational changes performance/ Relations 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Occupational management system sustainability-performance/ Health and Safety 2018 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ and incident investigation sustainability-performance/ 403-3 Occupational health services 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ communication on occupational health and sustainability-performance/ safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ and safety sustainability-performance/ 403-6 Promotion of worker health 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ occupational health and safety impacts directly sustainability-performance/ linked by business relationships 403-9 Work-related injuries 23, 34-35, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ Training and Education GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 34-35,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 34-35,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 34-35,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 23, 34-35,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Training and employee sustainability-performance/ Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 23, 34-35,https://www.dimolanka.com/ and transition assistance programs sustainability-performance/ 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving 23, 34-35,https://www.dimolanka.com/ regular performance and career development sustainability-performance/ reviews Non-discrimination GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitycomponents performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitydiscrimination actions taken performance/ 2016 142 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX III GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitycomponents performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 412: 412-1 Operations that have been subject to https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityHuman Rights human rights reviews or impact assessments performance/ Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitypolicies or procedures performance/ 412-3 Significant investment agreements and https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitycontracts that include human rights clauses or performance/ that underwent human rights screening Local Communities GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 413: Local 413-1 Operations with local community 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ Communities engagement, impact assessments, and sustainability-performance/ 2016 development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and 23, 38-40,https://www.dimolanka.com/ potential negative impacts on local communities sustainability-performance/ Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 9, 55, https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 9, 55, https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 55, https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 9, 55, https://www.dimolanka.com/ Customer impacts of product and service categories sustainability-performance/ Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 9, 55, https://www.dimolanka.com/ the health and safety impacts of products and sustainability-performance/ services Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 23, 39, https://www.dimolanka.com/ Management Boundary sustainability-performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its 23, 39, https://www.dimolanka.com/ components sustainability-performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 39, https://www.dimolanka.com/ sustainability-performance/ GRI 417: 417-1 Requirements for product and service 23, 39, https://www.dimolanka.com/ Marketing and information and labeling sustainability-performance/ Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 23, 39, https://www.dimolanka.com/ product and service information and labeling sustainability-performance/ 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 23, 39, https://www.dimolanka.com/ marketing communications sustainability-performance/ Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 143 GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Omission Part Reason Explanation Omitted Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitycomponents performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityCustomer breaches of customer privacy and losses of performance/ Privacy 2016 customer data Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityManagement Boundary performance/ Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitycomponents performance/ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilityperformance/ GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and https://www.dimolanka.com/sustainabilitySocioeconomic regulations in the social and economic area performance/ Compliance 2016 144 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 APPENDIX IV TEN YEAR SUMMARY Year Ended 31st March 2019/20 2018/19 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Rs.’000 Operating Results Revenue 34,557,871 38,300,350 43,686,158 44,492,990 37,749,750 28,037,376 20,884,674 27,711,604 39,862,943 29,357,271 Profit before taxation 279,527 104,119 716,607 1,043,392 1,380,059 847,033 512,858 490,021 3,724,521 3,395,980 Income tax (78,383) (27,436) (193,391) (386,601) (433,453) (250,950) (119,317) (27,871) (1,022,870) (1,274,228) Profit for the year after taxation 201,144 76,683 523,216 656,791 946,606 596,083 393,541 462,150 2,701,651 2,121,752 Profit attributable to Owners of the Company 195,011 51,307 519,309 656,791 946,606 596,083 393,541 462,150 2,701,651 2,121,752 Capital Employed Stated capital 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 425,297 182,500 Other components of equity 4,077,499 4,055,979 4,050,962 2,839,898 2,839,356 2,838,894 2,018,475 2,014,752 2,014,752 1,135,612 Revenue reserves 7,476,214 7,259,568 7,268,900 6,899,747 6,725,026 5,973,747 5,473,721 5,191,118 5,000,566 2,882,735 Non-controlling interests 369,921 339,607 304,203 Total equity 12,348,931 12,080,451 12,049,362 10,164,942 9,989,679 9,237,938 7,917,493 7,631,167 7,440,615 4,200,847 Total borrowings 11,286,683 10,134,164 9,188,923 8,382,217 6,484,996 5,253,838 5,950,126 3,417,800 5,045,829 3,068,466 Total capital employed 23,635,614 22,214,615 21,238,285 18,547,159 16,474,675 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 Assets Employed Noncurrent assets 12,243,971 11,776,291 11,695,795 8,357,266 7,982,821 8,039,357 6,937,410 5,719,010 4,763,435 3,099,509 Current assets 19,781,600 17,523,901 16,891,197 14,402,152 12,349,823 9,910,853 9,157,244 7,183,369 10,536,783 7,839,972 Total liabilities (excluding borrowings) (8,389,957) (7,085,577) (7,348,707) (4,212,259) (3,857,969) (3,458,434) (2,227,035) (1,851,412) (2,813,774) (3,670,168) Total assets employed 23,635,614 22,214,615 21,238,285 18,547,159 16,474,675 14,491,776 13,867,619 11,048,967 12,486,444 7,269,313 Cash Flow Net cash from/(used in) operating activities (88,575) (626,464) 463,058 (654,758) (836,816) 648,049 (726,849) 3,207,700 (2,430,074) 1,793,848 Net cash from/(used in) investing activities (377,995) (360,050) (1,113,776) (684,812) (223,129) (677,408) (1,361,283) (970,581) (788,829) (937,710) Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 1,244,309 1,245,649 155,879 (847,598) (495,191) (340,735) 975,156 (474,062) 277,902 (377,658) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash 777,739 259,135 (494,839) (2,187,168) (1,555,136) (370,094) (1,112,976) 1,763,057 (2,941,001) 478,480 equivalents Key Indicators Earnings per share (Rs.) 21.97 5.78 58.50 73.99 106.64 67.15 44.34 51.16 304.36 239.03 Net assets per share (Rs.) 1,349.53 1,322.70 1,323.18 1,145.16 1,125.42 1040.73 891.97 859.71 838.24 473.26 Market value per share (Rs.) 250.00 304.70 464.90 559.90 549.70 630.00 505.00 505.00 982.20 1,484.70 Dividend per share (Rs.) 2.5* 20.00 24.00 27.00 20.00 10.00 10.00 40.00 61.00 Dividends Paid (Rs.’000) 22,191 177,529 213,034 239,664 177,529 88,764 88,764 244,102 443,822 Annual sales growth (%) (9.77) (12.33) (1.81) 17.86 34.64 34.25 24.64 (30.48) 35.91 178.78 Equity to total assets ratio (%) 37.40 40.07 41.09 44.66 49.13 51.46 49.19 59.15 48.63 38.40 Debt to equity ratio (%) 91.40 83.89 76.26 82.46 64.92 56.87 75.15 44.79 67.81 73.04 Dividend pay out (%) 11.03 33.93 32.44 25.32 29.78 22.56 19.21 9.04 20.92 Dividends cover (no. of times) 9.06 2.95 3.08 3.95 3.36 4.43 5.11 7.61 4.00 Price earnings ratio (no. of times) 11.38 52.71 7.95 7.57 5.15 9.38 11.39 9.70 3.23 6.21 Current ratio (no. of times) 1.20 1.24 1.24 1.30 1.47 1.45 1.50 1.71 1.60 1.27 Quick asset ratio 0.72 0.65 0.54 0.49 0.56 0.75 0.70 0.72 0.31 0.84 Turnover to capital employed (no. of times) 1.46 1.72 2.06 2.40 2.29 1.93 1.51 2.51 3.19 4.04 Interest Cover (no. of times) 1.20 1.07 1.68 2.22 3.93 3.00 2.42 2.42 15.67 17.35 Average no. of employees 1939 1906 1788 1,649 1,554 1,524 1,518 1,433 1,179 942 * A first and final dividend of Rs. 2.50 per share was approved by the Board of Directors on 25th May 2019 for the Financial Year 2018/19 and was paid on 17th June 2019. Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 145 CORPORATE INFORMATION NAME OF THE COMPANY AUDITORS Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC KPMG, Chartered Accountants, REGISTERED OFFICE P.O. Box 186, P.O. Box 339, No 32A, Sir Mohamed Macan Markar Mawatha, Colombo 3, Sri No. 65, Jetawana Road, Lanka. Colombo 14, Sri Lanka. Telephone : +94-11-2449797, LAWYERS +94-112338883 Julius & Creasy Website : www.dimolanka.com Attorneys-at-law & Notaries Public E-mail : dimo@dimolanka.com P.O. Box 154, Facsimile : +94-11-2449080 No 41, Janadhipathi Mawatha Colombo 01 Sri Lanka LEGAL FORM A public limited Company incorporated in 1945 under the Laws of BANKERS the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The Company was Bank of Ceylon re-registered as per the requirements of the Companies Act No. Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC 07 of 2007 on 9th May 2008. DFCC Bank PLC Hatton National Bank PLC COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER Hong Kong & Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd PQ 146 Nations Trust Bank PLC NDB Bank PLC FOUNDED People’s Bank 1939 Sampath Bank PLC Seylan Bank ACCOUNTING YEAR END 31st March COMPANY SECRETARY B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne, F.C.A., M.B.A. (Sri J.) TAX PAYER IDENTIFICATION NUMBER (TIN) 104002498 COMPANY REGISTRARS Jacey and Company No.9/5, STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING Thambiah Avenue Off Independence Avenue The ordinary shares of the Company are listed with the Colombo Colombo 07 Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka 146 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE is hereby given that the Seventy Fifth Annual General Meeting the age of 70 years of age be and is hereby re-appointed of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC will be held as a as a Hybrid a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared that Meeting at the DIMO 800, Sirimavo Bandaranaike Mawatha, Colombo the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the 14 on Tuesday 30th June 2020 at 9.30 am and the business to be Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. brought before the meeting will be: Sarath Chandrasiri Algama” (vii) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama, who is Agenda over the age of 70 years and who vacates his office in terms 1. To receive and consider the Audited Financial Statements for the of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 (the Act). Year Ended 31st March 2020, the Report of the Auditors and the Annual Report of the Board of Directors for the said year. Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in 2. Directors relation to his re-appointment. (i) To re-elect Mr. Pushpawela Kankanamge Wijith Mahendra, “RESOLVED THAT Mr. Ajit Algama, who is over the age of Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the 70 years be and is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Articles of Association of the Company. Company and it is hereby declared that the age limit of 70 (ii) To re-elect Mr. Sri Rama Waidayasekera Mudiyanselage years referred to in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 Chaminda Ranawana, Director, who retires by rotation of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama” in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the 3. To re-appoint the retiring Auditors Messrs KPMG, Chartered Company. Accountants, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual (iii) To re-elect Asite Drupath Bandara Talwatte, Director, who General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to determine retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Association of their remuneration. the Company. 4. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities. (iv) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage, The profiles of the Directors proposed for re-election are given who being over the age of 70 years old and vacates his office on pages 10 to 11 of the Annual Report. in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No.7 (the Act). Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in Notes: relation to his re-appointment. A shareholder is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote instead “RESOLVED THAT Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage, who being of himself and a Proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. over the age of 70 years be and is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared that A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument the age limit of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the appointing a proxy must be deposited at Registered Office of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. Company at No.65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 or forwarded by Asoka Ranjith Pandithage” email to ishara.danansooriya@dimolanka.com in order to enable the (v) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam, who Company to receive the same not less than forty eight (48) hours being over the age of 70 years old and who and who vacates prior to the time appointed for the holding the AGM. his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 (the Act). As mentioned in the Circular to the shareholders dated 29th May 2020, the 75th AGM will be held as a Hybrid meeting at Diesel & Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Motor Engineering PLC, “DIMO 800”, No 800, Sirimavo Bandaranaike Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in Mawatha, Colombo 14. Instructions given in the Circular to relation to his re-appointment. Shareholder must be followed to join the meeting physically or “RESOLVED THAT Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam, who is over virtually. the age of 70 years be and is hereby re-appointed a Director of the Company and it is hereby declared that the age limit By Order of the Board, of 70 years referred to in Section 210 of the Companies Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Act No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to the said Mr. Ranjeevan Company Registration No. PQ-146 Seevaratnam” (vi) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Sarath Chandrasiri Algama, who being over the age of 70 Years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 (the Act). B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne Notice is hereby given to propose the undernoted Ordinary Secretary Resolution in compliance with Section 211 of the Act, in relation to his re-appointment. Colombo “RESOLVED THAT Mr. Sarath Chandrasiri Algama, who is over 29th May 2020 Positioned for value creation | Reflecting on value created | Gearing for future value creation | Financial Statements | Appendices | 147 FORM OF PROXY I/We the undersigned, .................................................................................................................................................................................................of ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... being a shareholder / shareholders of DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC, hereby appoint of ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ..........................................................................Holder of NIC No. ..............................................................whom failing, Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage whom failing Mr. Aruna Gahanath Pandithage whom failing Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama whom failing Mr. Sarath Chandrasiri Algama whom failing Mr. Mudiyanselage Vijitha Bandara whom failing Dr. Harsha Cabral whom failing Mr. Bodiyabaduge Charindra Suresh Alexius Perera Gooneratne whom failing Mr. Pushpawela Kankanamge Wijith Mahendra whom failing Mr. Abeykumar Mohan Pandithage whom failing Mr. Sri Rama Waidayasekera Mudiyanselage Chaminda Ranawana whom failing Mr. Asanga Nishamen Ranasinghe whom failing Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam whom failing Mr. Asite Drupath Bandara Talwatte whom failing as my/our* proxy to represent me/us*and to vote and **….…………… as indicated hereunder for me/us and on my/our behalf at the SEVENTY FIFTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company to be held on Tuesday 30th June 2020 and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We* the undersigned hereby authorise my/our* proxy to vote on my/our* behalf in accordance with the preference indicated below:For Against (1) To receive and consider the Audited Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31st March, 2020, the Report of the Auditors and the Annual Report of the Board for the said year.   (2) Directors (i) To re-elect Mr. Pushpawela Kankanamge Wijith Mahendra, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association   (ii) To re-elect Mr. Sri Rama Waidayasekera Mudiyanselage Chamind Ranawana Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company.   (iii) To re-elect Mr. Asite Drupath Bandara Talwatte, Director, who retires by rotation in terms of Article 66 of the Articles of Association of the Company.   (iv) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Asoka Ranjith Pandithage, who being over the age 70 years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Resolution pertaining to which reappointment is set out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual Genral Meeting .   (v) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Ranjeevan Seevaratnam, who being over the age of 70 years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Resolution pertaining to which re-appointment is set out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual General Meeting.   (vi) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Sarath Chandrasiri Algama, who being over the age of 70 Years old and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Resolution pertaining to   which re-appointment is set out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual General Meeting. (vii) To re-appoint as a Director Mr. Ajit Nimal Algama, who being Over the age 70 Years and who vacates his office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Resolution pertaining to which re-appointment is set   out in the Notice of Meeting of the Annual General Meeting. (3) To re-appoint the retiring Auditors Messrs KPMG, Chartered Accountants, to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.   (4) To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities.   As witness my/our hand this ………………………. day of ………………… Two Thousand and Twenty ...................................................... Signature of Shareholder *Please delete as appropriate. 148 | DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2019/20 Notes: If you wish your Proxy to speak at the Meeting you should insert the words “to speak and” in the place indicated with two asterisks (**) and initial such insertion. Please indicate with an “x” in the space provided how your Proxy is to vote. If there is in the view of the Proxy holder doubt (by reason of the way in which the instructions contained in the Proxy have been completed) as to the way in which the Proxy holder should vote, the Proxy holder shall vote as he thinks fit. A Proxy holder need not be a member of the Company Shareholders who are unable to participate at the meeting are encouraged to duly complete the form of proxy clearly setting out their preference of vote under each matter set out therein and to appoint a director of the Company to act on their behalf. Instructions as to completion appear below. As mentioned in the Circular to the shareholders dated 29th May 2020, the 75th AGM will be held as a Hybrid meeting at Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC, “DIMO 800”, No 800, Sirimavo Bandaranaike Mawatha, Colombo 14. Instructions given in the Circular to Shareholder must be followed to join the meeting physically or virtually. Instruction as to Completion 1. To be valid this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No.65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14 or forwarded by email to ishara.danansooriya@dimolanka.com in order to enable the Company to receive the same not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the time appointed for the holding the AGM. 2. The full name and address of the Proxy holder and of the Shareholder appointing the Proxy holder should be entered legibly in the Form of Proxy. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman (or failing him, one of the Directors) as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the proxy must be under its Common Seal, which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 5. If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney or a notarially certified copy thereof, should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy if it had not already registered with the Company Designed & produced by DIESEL & MOTOR ENGINEERING PLC P.O. Box 339, No. 65, Jetawana Road, Colombo 14, Sri Lanka. Telephone: +94-11-2449797, +94-11-2338883 E-mail: dimo@dimolanka.com Facsimile: +94-11-2449080 www.dimolanka.com www.facebook.com/dimosrilanka
