2019 Sustainability Report Contents 3 12 23 40 63 About Our Advancing Advancing Appendix Orbia Impact Sustainable Responsible Solutions Business Business Profile 4 Financial and Sustainable Feeding the World Operating Ethically 41 About this Report 64 Solutions Highlights 13 Sustainably 25 Our Shared Purpose & Empowering Our People 43 UN Global Compact 65 Common Values 5 Responsible Business Making Health and Well-Being Improving Health and Safety 46 UN CEO Water Mandate 66 Highlights 14 More Accessible 29 The ImpactMark 6 Protecting the Environment 48 GRI Content Index and Transformation Journey 15 Better Managing Water Message from the Chairman 7 Data Tables 66 Systems 31 Helping Communities Thrive 57 Innovation Investment 16 Message from the CEO 9 SASB Index 77 Making Cities More Livable, Financial Strategy 17 Lovable and Resilient 34 Assurance Statement 79 Sustainability Business Empowering Communities Strategy 20 with Data 37 Sustainability Goals 21 Sustainability Performance Data Summary 22 About Orbia About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Business Profile Market-Leading Business Groups & Brands Orbia (BMV: ORBIA) is a community of companies bound together by a shared purpose: to advance life around the world. Orbia's business group’s solutions enable farmers and other material applications groups have a collective focus on ensuring food security, reducing and growers to get higher and to support modern living in a water scarcity, reinventing the future of cities and homes, connecting better-quality yields while using vast number of ways. With two communities to data and information services, and expanding access Building and Infrastructure less water, fertilizer and other operational fluorine mines and to health and well-being through providing advanced materials, The Building and Infrastructure inputs. robust material science knowledge specialty products and innovative, human-centered solutions. group is redefining today’s pipe and production expertise, industry by creating durable this group creates chemicals, Orbia's business groups span the Precision Agriculture, Building and solutions that last longer and propellants and advanced Infrastructure, Fluor, Polymer Solutions and Data Communication require less labor to install. Serving materials used across industries, verticals. The company has commercial activities in more than customers in five continents, this Data Communication including health and medicine, 100 countries and operations in 41, with global headquarters in group is also developing new, The Data Communication group construction, transportation and Mexico City, Boston, Amsterdam and Tel Aviv and a team of 22,000 sustainable technologies around operates under the belief that more. dedicated employees working worldwide. water collection and management every company, every community and heating and cooling systems, and every person around the Orbia trades on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and is included as well as a revolutionary road world deserves a chance to make in the BMV Sustainability Index. Since 2015, the company has been surface that makes cities more the most of modern technology. a component on the FTSE4Good Emerging Index. In 2019, Orbia livable, lovable and resilient for The group produces more than was selected as an index component of the Dow Jones Sustainability tomorrow. 400 million meters of cable Indices (DJSI MILA Pacific Alliance Index) and was recognized by the conduit per year and the advanced Polymer Solutions Latin Trade Index Americas. As of 2019, Orbia’s consolidated annual communication technologies that The Polymer Solutions group is revenue totaled $7 billion (USD). lay the pathways for fiber and as adaptable and dynamic as the other components—to ultimately materials it produces. It focuses Fast Facts carry vital information and data largely on PVC and other vinyl Precision Agriculture services to the world. polymers with a wide variety of • Commercial activities in more than 100 countries The Precision Agriculture group applications in products that • Operations in 41 countries helps a world of farmers, growers enhance lives and livelihoods, and producers grow more including pipes, cables, flooring, • 22,000+ employees with less, and feed the planet’s auto parts, household appliances, • 128 production sites consumers more efficiently. With clothing, packaging and medical a focus on providing end-to-end Fluor devices. • 19 R&D labs irrigation systems, services and The Fluor group provides fluorinedigital farming technologies, the based products, technologies, Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 4 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Our Shared Purpose & Common Values At Orbia, we recognize that we can’t take on the world’s biggest challenges alone. We take a collaborative, human-centered approach to creating a better future. Our shared purpose is: Our common values are: Advance Life Be Embrace Take Around the World Brave Diversity Responsibility We don’t let our fears hold us We know that every voice matters. We realize that our actions have back. In order to venture into the Every community deserves impact. We hold ourselves to the unknown, we move forward with respect. Every challenge has an highest level of accountability, never curiosity and the ambition to opportunity. We are stronger losing sight of the ripple effect we create a better world. because we bring different have on each other, our customers perspectives together, united by and the world. empathy. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 5 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix The ImpactMark: Making a Mark in the World, for the World The main visual cornerstone of our brand 2017 is a first-of-its-kind “living” logomark: the 2018 2019 ImpactMark. Reflective of three years of progress, the ImpactMark transparently Reduce greenhouse represents Orbia’s movement on six key Optimize our investments gas emissions (tons COe)* performance indicators related to planet, ROIC tons of COe emitted (Scope 1 and 2) people and profit and the purpose to advance 11.5% 1,226,058 life around the world: reduction in generated waste (by tons), reduction in greenhouse gas 10.1% 1,478,993 emissions (by tons), increasing women in 8.7% 1,731,928 management (by percentage), upskilling our workforce (by hours), investment in R&D (by 7.3% 1,984,864 millions of dollars) and ROIC (by percentage). 5.9% 2,237,799 The 2019 update of the ImpactMark demonstrates our ongoing journey toward achieving a perfect circle. Evolve to an innovative 90,888 80,697 70,506 60,315 50,125 Reduce waste generated (tons) $69.6 $56.9 $44.2 $31.5 $18.8 solutions provider ($ in millions) Amount of total waste generated by tons Amount spent on R&D 0.44 13.05% 0.85 15.74% 1.27 18.43% 1.68 21.11% 2.10 23.80% Upskill our workforce (hours) Increase women in management (%) Hours spent per employee on leadership, Percent of women in management innovation and digital skills education * CO2 equivalent (CO2e) refers to greenhouse gases carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) expressed as having the equivalent global warming impact as carbon dioxide. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 6 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Message from the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, Our commitment to advance life around the world is more than a More than a century and a half ago, Charles slogan: it is the key driver for our future success and long-term Dickens wrote lines that could describe our own profitability. Orbia intends to address some of the world’s greatest challenges, from resource scarcity to rapid urbanization to health time perhaps better than his: “It was the best of and well-being—and to do so profitably. Purpose and profit must times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of co-exist for Orbia to prosper. We are pursuing both by providing solutions for resiliency to our customers and society. wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the For example, Dura-Line is deploying the conduits and fiber epoch of belief, it was the epoch of incredulity, optic network infrastructure that could make seamless it was the season of Light, it was the season of access to information the rule for citizens worldwide. Wavin is building city-scale stormwater management systems to Darkness, it was the spring of hope, it was the keep feet dry through floods and groundwater levels winter of despair, we had everything before us, stable through droughts. Netafim is deploying end-to-end precision irrigation solutions to we had nothing before us.” help global growers increase crop yields and decrease resource use. Koura is developing fluorine-based battery additives for longIf that sounds more than a bit like the world in which we now live and duration energy storage and Alphagary is operate, then I have to tell you—Orbia’s stakeholders—how pleased I am to creating polymers that are enhancing the report your company and your management are not only performing well, construction of safe, consumer-friendly EV but have positioned our company to prosper in the difficult, transformative charging station hoses. years ahead. All of those and countless other initiatives Despite 2019 being characterized by a challenging macroeconomic and innovations are essential to achieving climate, unpredictable markets and headwinds in many of our main our purpose and creating value for all our verticals, we achieved our full-year guidance, maintained a strong balance stakeholders. But in a global environment sheet, upheld our investment grade rating and most important, defined that shows every symptom of becoming with clarity our long-term purpose. more complicated every day, we know that we can succeed only if we accelerate and The collaborative effort that Daniel launched early in 2018 to contextualize intensify our sustainability efforts. who we are and where we want to go materialized in an important way in September 2019 with the launch of our new identity. We became Orbia—a Last year we made considerable progress community of businesses that is embracing diversity, being brave and in implementing our sustainability agenda, taking responsibility to advance life around the world. from instituting forward-looking corporate Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 7 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix There is no doubt in my governance guidelines to clarifying our ESG practices and reporting; from leaders. Such recognition is an developing circular product solutions across our businesses to achieving important milestone of what has mind that sustainability public sustainability milestones. already been achieved, but we all and strong financial know that there are enormous The best ESG practices start with good corporate governance. In 2019, challenges ahead. performance go handwe incorporated guidelines for the board that include a retirement age of 75 for directors starting in 2021 and director self-evaluations, among I am confident in Orbia’s future. in-hand; indeed, other key changes. Monitoring how we are doing every year and adding We have the leaders, the team, sustainable operations new members when others retire will help us evolve our leadership. In the clarity of purpose and the full that context, we recently welcomed transformational leaders Alma Rosa range of stakeholders to succeed and sustainable Moreno and María Teresa Arnal to the board. Going forward, we will be regardless of the challenges that profitability are flip sides overseeing and approving our sustainability strategy at the board level, with we must confront. I am thankful plans already underway to tie executive compensation to sustainability to the entire Orbia team for of the same coin. In that measures. your dedication and to living our spirit, I can report to you purpose, as well as to our investors In addition, we conducted a broad-based materiality assessment to identify, and other stakeholders for your evaluate and refine ESG issues of the greatest value to our employees, that Orbia has already trust and support. Together we company and stakeholders. Using a bottom-up approach, we collected and complied with the main can achieve a better, sustainable aggregated data and inputs into business group-specific drivers as well as and more prosperous future. a full company materiality matrix, which you will see detailed in this report. recommendations of This process defined our near and medium-term sustainability goals. For the global Task Force on example, we intend to launch science-based emissions targets by 2021, Climate-Related Financial to achieve zero waste to landfill by 2025, to realize 100% environmental Juan Pablo del Valle Perochena management site certification by 2025 and to implement vulnerable Chairman of the Board Disclosures (TCFD) community action programs by 2025. framework, as you will There is no doubt in my mind that sustainability and strong financial performance go hand-in-hand; indeed, sustainable operations and read later in this report.‫״‬ sustainable profitability are flip sides of the same coin. In that spirit, I can report to you that Orbia has already complied with the main recommendations of the global Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework, as you will read later in this report. Of course, sustainability is a journey, not a destination. Progress will demand commitment, patience, investment and constant action. That we are on the right path is evidenced by Orbia’s inclusion in 2019 in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), alongside other global sustainability Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 8 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Message from the CEO Dear Readers, At the close of 2019, my second year as CEO, I We introduced a first-of-its-kind living logomark—the ImpactMark—to hold us accountable in the world and track our year-over-year progress across want to thank you for your investment in Orbia. key performance metrics, from percentage of women in management Your commitment has ensured that the past year to greenhouse gas emissions to ROIC. We reorganized into five business groups focused on providing customer-centered solutions across the has been marked by accomplishments and that Data Communication (Dura-Line), Precision Agriculture (Netafim), Building the stage is set for strong, sustainable value and Infrastructure (Wavin), Fluor (Koura) and Polymer Solutions (Vestolit) verticals. creation in the years ahead. I am truly And critically, we started enacting a play-to-win strategy to capitalize on honored to represent this company and organic growth opportunities and deliver superior operational and financial guide its transformation journey. And performance. Across Orbia, our business groups have been doing just that—playing to win. I continue to be confident about our Koura has introduced a new low carbon footprint medical propellant for ability to improve people’s lives for the use in metered-dose inhalers, providing a next-generation therapeutic foreseeable future. option for the over 300 million people worldwide suffering from respiratory diseases. Dura-Line has launched partnerships with major service providers to lay the lines for 5G networks that can connect 4 billion global citizens 2019 was indeed an important year for the company. who are still information-underserved. Netafim has entered an agreement After having successfully grown through acquisitions and to provide end-to-end, agronomic-to-intelligent irrigation services to a expanded into new markets, we recognized the pressing Tanzanian conglomerate, with the goal to help them grow substantially need to define our existence as a global enterprise with more sugarcane with substantially less water across 2,000 hectares. These elevated ambitions. This led us to unveil a new name, are a few examples. There are many more. purpose, values, identity and strategy reflective of our shared drive to tackle the world’s most pressing challenges, In over 110 markets and more than 40 countries, our community of from food insecurity to rapid urbanization, water scarcity businesses is providing solutions that demonstrate that a future where to data access, human health to the health of the people, planet and profits thrive is within our sightline. planet. In 2019, we faced some headwinds in several of our main verticals, In 2019, we became Orbia. We bound ourselves as caused by the impact of illegal imports of refrigerant gases in Europe a team of 22,000 people to the common purpose and challenging market conditions in our PVC chain. However, we saw to advance life around the world and identified the significant improvements in the profitability of our Dura-Line and Netafim values that would help us move on this purpose. businesses. For the full year, revenue decreased 3% year-over-year from Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 9 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix $7.2 billion to $7.0 billion (USD) and our normalized EBITDA decreased 6% year-over-year from $1.4 billion to $1.3 billion. We continue to have a sound balance sheet as we maintained our discipline in capital allocation across the organization, resulting in a higher cash generation translated to a strong free cash flow conversion rate of 30.3%. Our dividend yield in dollar terms for 2019 was 4.8%. We also maintained our commitment to increase In the year ahead, we our return on invested capital (ROIC) going forward, which will be visibly reflected in our ImpactMark. intend to double down We know there is more to do to move the needle on our top-line growth on operational excellence and maximize our shareholder value. and focus on markets, Sustainability continues to be at the core of how we think about and products, services and do business. 2019 was a year in which we took action to measure and lighten our footprint, drive efficiencies and gain voice in the global solutions that will deliver climate conversation. We achieved new environmental milestones and higher profitability as made progress in terms of the transparency of our reporting. We started disclosing ESG indicators by business, refined a materiality assessment and we continue to control carried out another assessment of climate-related risks and opportunities costs, manage our in concert with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. working capital and enact We were proud to be selected as an index component of the Dow Jones a disciplined capital Sustainability Indices in recognition of our commitment to a systematic allocation policy. But with sustainability agenda. We reinforced that commitment by joining the United Nations’ Business Ambition for 1.5°C as well as joining a select group these exacting goals, we of companies in signing the CEO Water Mandate to track our progress will only see success by across six areas of water stewardship. And we saw our businesses scaling numerous resilient solutions—whether in the form of smart rainwater continuing to invest in our capture and recirculation tanks for use in times of resource scarcity, safe most valuable asset: our and lighter footprint PVC packaging or single-season irrigation driplines people. that meet farmers’ needs for resource efficiencies and are fully recycled and reused anew. In 2020, our focus will be on fully understanding our extended value chain carbon footprint so as to set science-based targets that will enable us to reduce and mitigate our impact. In challenging ourselves to be future-fit and able to take advantage of horizon-line opportunities, generating innovation from within, across and outside Orbia was a priority for 2019. We created an internal innovation Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 10 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix program to provide our most promising intrapreneurs As we continue to hold the safety of our people as with coaching, training, monitoring and support on the paramount, we worked in 2019 to ensure that each road from ideation to commercialization. We pursued one of our 22,000 employees returned home safely at partnerships with startups worldwide to pilot-test new the end of the day. While we were proud to see a 31% technologies and from them, brought successes to improvement in our safety statistics and a new record market. We launched Orbia Ventures, a $130 million Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of 0.71 down from I am extremely gratified that we are both corporate venture capital fund that gives us purview to 2018’s 1.03 (for employees and contractors), our work optimizing for today and cultivating for invest in early-stage startups, expand our offerings to hasn’t ended with the year or the numbers. We will be tomorrow. We remain well positioned for customers and decrease our costs. And we have officially launching new programming in 2020 to secure the safety sustainable growth and will continue to opened our Lighthouse Lab in San Francisco to serve as of employees, contractors and visitors to all our sites. expand and invest to serve our customers.‫״‬ the home base for our teams developing new ventures. We too maintain a foundational commitment to fostering In the years ahead, we intend to double down on an ethical culture led by integrity, transparency and operational excellence and focus on markets, products, compliance. In 2019, we continued to make significant services and solutions that will deliver higher profitability investments in our ethics and compliance program as we continue to control costs, manage our working and compliance governance infrastructure. In the year capital and enact a disciplined capital allocation policy. ahead, we will offer regular Code of Ethics training and But with these exacting goals, we will only see success communications for our leaders and employees. We by continuing to invest in our most valuable asset: our believe it’s vital to continuously underscore the policies people. and procedures that will help us to conduct our business activities worldwide in full compliance with the law. In 2019, we built out the corporate leadership team which lives our transformation journey, elevates the ambitions As you can see, 2019 has been a high-momentum and of our company and board members, engages our high-impact year for Orbia. I am extremely gratified that customers and employees and brings new expertise in we are both optimizing for today and cultivating for areas including Health, Safety and the Environment and tomorrow. We remain well positioned for sustainable Ethics and Compliance to all of our stakeholders. Also, our growth and will continue to expand and invest to serve new critical risk committee sets clear roles, responsibilities our customers. and accountability for how we manage risk and provides Thank you again for joining us as we work together and an enterprise risk management framework for how become an ever more purpose-driven, customer-centric, we establish risk appetite and associated limits for our future-fit force for the world. activities. Strong leadership and governance will help us As we release this report, the world is accelerate our progress as we seek to be the best in the world and the best for the world. facing an unprecedented health crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We will Through corporate training programs, we supported be communicating on our response our employees to invest a total of 522,242 hours, up from 318,225 hours in 2016 on education, and steered through other channels and in our 2020 company-wide transformation initiatives focused Sustainability Report. This Report focuses on talent, human-centered innovation, digitization, Daniel Martinez-Valle on our 2019 achievements. operational excellence and regeneration. Chief Executive Officer Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 11 Our Impact About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Financial and Sustainable Solutions Highlights EBITDA of $1.365B $414M free cash flow, $130M venture capital reflecting 19.5% margin reflecting a conversion fund launched and rate of 30.3% $55.7M invested in R&D Became Orbia, Helped 57,000 farmers Provided conduit for with a new identity, new purpose, in 100 Indian villages 300+ telecom project new structure, new strategy grow more with less through community irrigation projects sites in the U.S. Secured FDA approval Prevented flooding in Made electric for our low carbon cities and optimized mobility easier with footprint propellant, stormwater reuse thermoplastic elastomer Garaflex through our new StormHarvester system hoses at charging stations Zephex® 152a, for metered-dose inhalers for leading automakers and Tegra street gully Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 13 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Responsible Business Highlights Created a Critical Risk Increased women in Completed our first Committee to assist the Board of management to 19% TCFD-aligned climate Directors assessing enterprise risks and delivered 522,000+ training hours risk assessment Committed to Improved safety rate Reduced greenhouse gas sustainability by 31% emissions by 9% and increased goals for 2025 (employee and contractor TRIR) renewable electricity by 47% in five countries and net zero emissions by 2050 Updated our Maintained 2.3% water Quadrupled recycling in materiality assessment use reduction since 2017 California to 12,000 tons per year by engaging key stakeholders globally for irrigation driplines Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 14 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Transformation Journey In 2019, Mexichem S.A.B. de C.V., a maker of PVC pipe, resins, compounds Orb” is the Latin word and specialty chemicals with a legacy of more than 50 years of business for spherical globe. “Bia” success and growth, proudly became Orbia Advance Corporation S.A.B. de C.V. This transition was more significant than the adoption of a new name: was a Greek goddess it represented a new strategy, operational reorganization and capabilities personifying force and aligned to address some of the world’s most pressing challenges and usher power. Combining both to in a new era of social and environmental contributions. At Orbia, we took form Orbia, we consider action and made moves on a transformation journey in several important our company as “a force ways over the course of 2019: for the world.” • Underpinning the company’s reason for being with a name, identity, brand architecture, purpose and values that stand up to our ambitions as a truly global enterprise. • Prioritizing customer-centric approaches through examination and adoption of capital and operational strategies designed to meet customer demand, capitalize on organic growth opportunities and deliver superior operational and financial performance. • Embedding innovation into our culture with wide-scale innovation initiatives, including our first Orbia Employee Challenge to encourage employees to think deeply and differently about creating new solutions to pressing challenges, and company-wide transformation programming focused on cultivating talent, human-centered innovation, digitization, operational excellence and regeneration. Moving forward on Orbia’s transformation journey, we continue to seek out opportunities to align and evolve what we do together as a sustainabilityled business working to advance life around the world. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 15 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Innovation Investment Embedding innovation into our organization is and will be critical to our In 2019, we invested $55.7 success as a resilient and future-fit company. In 2019, we leveraged the million USD on innovationbreadth of innovation capabilities within Orbia as well as innovation-led external partnerships to bring new practices and solutions to market led R&D efforts through the following activities: • Launched our multi-year $130 million venture capital (VC) fund (Orbia Ventures) to capitalize early stage startups with strategic connections to Orbia’s core businesses and corporate purpose. For more details, see: www.orbia.com/ventures. • Became a corporate member at Greentown Labs, the largest cleantech incubator in the U.S., to accelerate partnerships with startups and supplement our engagement with other VC leaders with mutual interests. • Opened the doors at Lighthouse, our venture studio in San Francisco in partnership with IDEO, a global design and innovation company, to house our ventures team and initiatives. • Activated intrapreneurs through Orbia LaunchPad, an internal innovation program designed to help our promising ideators turning their concepts into realities. • Formalized a Global Innovation Forum to bring R&D leaders from Human-centered design can be a powerful all our business groups to learn innovation methodologies, discuss tool in the innovation process, essential to opportunities, share best practices, and take action. unlocking new capabilities and opportunities • Built innovation skill development through new training and that will propel the business forward. Through educational programs, including the popular rapid prototyping program Lighthouse, we’re using this tool to build new with design thinking world expert Tom Chi. ventures that align with Orbia’s purpose.” Bryan Walker Partner and Managing Director, IDEO Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 16 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Financial Strategy Business Performance In line with the evolution of our company, in 2019, we maintained In 2019, we saw significant improvements in the profitability of our Dura-Line and Netafim businesses, although we our focus on identifying initiatives, investments and synergies to fuel faced some headwinds in our main verticals, caused by the impact of illegal imports of refrigerant gases in Europe growth across each of our business groups in line with meeting our and challenging market conditions in our PVC chain. customers’ needs to drive higher value creation, capitalization of For the full year, revenue decreased 3% year-over-year from $7.2 billion to $7.0 billion, mainly driven by lower sales organic growth opportunities and deliver superior operational and in the Vestolit, Wavin, and Dura-Line businesses, impacted by lower prices of PVC and caustic soda, sluggish market financial performance. conditions, and illegal imports of refrigerant gases in Europe. Our normalized EBITDA decreased 6% year-over-year We introduced the following sustainable practices with associated KPIs from $1.4 billion to $1.3 billion. This was mainly due to the challenge in market conditions faced by Vestolit and in 2019: Koura. • Gaining market intelligence to expand into new geographies We continue to have a sound balance sheet as we maintained our discipline in capital allocation across the and markets and offer more differentiated solutions to customers organization, resulting in a higher cash generation translated to a strong free cash flow conversion rate of 30.3%. to enhance consolidated EBITDA margins; Our dividend yield in dollar terms for 2019 was 4.8%. • Focusing on scaling operational best practices for production safety and quality and process efficiencies for capacity utilization and global sourcing to realize economies of scale; Financial Highlights 2019 • Harnessing synergies and shared service models for logistics, ($Millions) 2019 2018 Variation transportation and operations to reduce operating expenses; Net sales 6,987 7,198 -3% • Leveraging internal R&D capabilities as well as external, innovation-led partnerships to develop, test and deploy product Cost of sales 5,029 5,199 -3% and service innovations that will generate new revenue streams Gross profit 1,958 1,999 -2% and • Responsibly allocating capital to drive top-line growth. We Operating expenses 1,135 1,064 7% maintained a strong balance sheet through exercising discipline Operating income 823 935 -12% in capital allocation across the company, in reflection of our commitment to increase our return on invested capital (ROIC). Net financial expenses and variation in the exchange rate 296 284 4% Continued discipline in executing these practices over the coming Income tax 206 195 6% years will translate into higher organic growth while maintaining healthy EBITDA margins and improving our return on invested capital. Income from continuing operations 327 460 -29% Consolidated net income 327 483 -32% Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 17 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Net sales: In 2019, consolidated sales decreased by 3% compared to the Income tax: Our income taxes amounted to $206 million in 2019 same period in 2018, to $6,987 million, mainly due to lower sales in: (1) compared to $195 million in 2018. This increase was mainly due to the our Polymer Solutions (Vestolit) business mainly because of challenging appreciation of the Mexican Peso over the U.S. Dollar as well as by the market conditions that resulted in lower caustic soda and PVC prices; (2) repatriation of dividends. our Fluent business mainly due to lower sales posted by Wavin Europe and Consolidated net income: Consolidated net income decreased by 32% Wavin Latin America as well as by Dura-Line, and (3) our Fluor business from $483 million in 2018, to $327 million in 2019, due to the factors which was affected by the impact of illegal imports of refrigerant gases in described above. The majority net income decreased by 42%, from $355 Europe. million in 2018 to $207 million in 2019. Cost of sales: Our cost of sales decreased by 3%, from $5,199 million in 2018, to $5,029 million in 2019, mainly due to lower average raw material costs across most our operations and to a better product mix. Gross profit: Our gross profit decreased by 2% from $1,999 million in 2018 to $1,958 million in 2019. Our gross margin, which is calculated by dividing gross profit by net sales, increased 20bps in 2019, compared to Revenues EBITDA 2018. This expansion was mainly generated in our Fluent business by ($ Millions) ($ Millions) Netafim and Dura-Line. 1,397 Operating expenses: Our operating expenses increased by 13% from 7,198 1,365 6,987 $1,064 million in 2018, to $1,135 million in 2019. This increase is the result of (1) Vestolit’s reserve related to a fine by the European competition authorities; (2) an additional full month (January) in Netafim and (3) 5,828 1,106 5,584 expenses related to our business groups. Our operating expenses 5,344 represented 16% of our net sales during 2019, compared to 15% in 2018. 895 895 Net financial expenses and variation in the exchange rate: Our net financial expenses and variation in the exchange rate increased by 4%, from $284 million in 2018, to $296 million in 2019. The increase is due to (1) the adoption of IFRS 16 that impacted our net interest expenses; (2) higher bank commissions related to the renewal of our $1.5 billion Revolving Credit Facility, and (3) Netafim’s refinancing of its bank loan facilities. These increased costs were partially offset by a decrease in foreign exchange losses. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 18 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Results by Business Group Fluent Business Group* (includes Wavin, Netafim and Dura-Line): In $502 million reported in 2018, with an EBITDA margin contraction of 366 2019, sales reached $3,999 million, a decrease of 2% compared to the bps to 16.2% from 2018’s 19.9%. Full year EBITDA was also impacted by same period last year, mainly due to lower sales posted by Wavin Europe a temporary force majeure of a key supplier in Germany, as well as longer and Wavin Latin America as well as by Dura-Line. Dura-Line’s lower sales than expected maintenance work in a main VCM supplier plant in the U.S. numbers were largely due to a continued shift to a more profitable product Fluor Business Group (Koura): The net sales of our Fluor Business Group mix as well as a reduction of sales in India. These declines were partially decreased 4% to $805 million in 2019 compared to $837 million in 2018. offset by a 12% increase in Netafim sales. EBITDA increased by 17% This decrease was mainly due to impact of illegal imports of refrigerant during 2019 to $590 million, with an implied EBITDA margin of 14.8%. gases in Europe constrained Koura’s “downstream” (i.e. higher valuePolymer Solutions Business Group (Vestolit): In 2019, Vestolit’s sales added fluorinated products) business. A strong performance in Koura’s decreased by 5% from $2,460 million in 2018 to $2,334 million in 2019, “upstream” (i.e. fluorspar and HF) business partially offset this impact. mainly due to challenging market conditions that resulted in lower caustic EBITDA decreased 8% during 2019 to $316 million, with an EBITDA margin soda and PVC prices. EBITDA decreased 17% to $415 million from the of 39.3%. 11% Koura 24% Koura 33% Vestolit 31% Vestolit Revenues EBITDA 56% Fluent 45% Fluent Revenues are in $Millions after intercompany eliminations EBITDA is in $Millions before intercompany eliminations ($144M in the Polymer Solutions Business Group) * Fluent Business Group is used for financial reporting purposes, in line with all our financial disclosures. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 19 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Sustainability Business Strategy Orbia contributes to global sustainable Orbia’s 2019 Materiality Assessment In 2019, we initiated a wider-ranging global assessment of our material development by Orbia's Top Ten Material Impacts impacts, to inform our sustainability strategy, goal setting and our delivering a large longitudinal reporting in the year and years ahead. This built on previous work to define materiality (what issues are material to Orbia when it portfolio of products, comes to advancing our sustainable operations), while expanding the • Health and safety services and solutions • Sustainable sourcing scope of our standard assessment process to respect our new business • Innovation Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions • Quality and safety of group structure. Informed by our analysis of global trends, Orbia’s that can help meet products • Solutions for resilience capabilities and business strategies, leading sustainability disclosure • Employee development, the world’s most frameworks and investor demands, we gleaned insights and solicited engagement and feedback on material matters from hundreds of stakeholders across 50 pressing challenges. retention countries, including: • Investment in local We are committed to communities • Customers responsible business • Joint venture partners growth in full • Public agencies • NGOs compliance with the • Business group leaders • Circular economy • Emissions laws and regulations • Investor groups • Water use and • Global suppliers discharge of all the countries in • Employees which we operate. Our 2019 approach was both bottom-up and top-down, inclusive We are continuously seeking to of global megatrends and sustainability topics relevant to Orbia as minimize any discernible risks in a company as well as sustainability issues more closely relevant to our production processes and individual business groups, based on product mixes, markets and to lighten the footprints of the activities. Our analysis of these inputs used a weighted mechanism products and services we offer based on business group revenues. Significance of economic, environment and social impacts to deliver the greatest value to our stakeholders with the least environmental impact. See our In addition to the top ten material impacts, our assessment identified a further nine issues that have relevance to Orbia’s work on a global scale, as well as Sustainability Policy for the full several additional issues at the business group levels. While our reporting is focused on our ten most material global impact areas, we address others through scope of our commitments. our ongoing activities at the corporate and business group levels. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 20 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Sustainability Goals Our new sustainability goals align with our top ten material impacts as well as several of the performance indicators that constitute the ImpactMark. Impact area Goal Target year Climate Change Achieve net zero carbon emissions 2050 Air emissions Reduce sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions by 60%* 2025 Environmental Management 100% of sites certified with an environmental management 2025 system Waste 100% of plants will send zero waste to landfill 2025 Safety Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) below 0.2 total for 2025 employees and contractors Safety Process Safety Event Rate (PSER) below 0.5 2025 We will start reporting progress against these goals and baseline indicators in our 2020 Sustainability Report. Additionally, we are continuing to refine our goals in other areas—such as those around water use and community impacts—and expect to publish new targets in 2020. * Baseline for SOx emissions is 1,355 tons (2018) Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 21 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Orbia Sustainability Performance Data Summary Environment Units 2017 2018 2019 YoY Environment Units 2017 2018 2019 YoY Energy (fuel and Percentage of total MWh 2,852,698 2,524,633 2,931,020 16% gas) waste recycled/ % 51% 50% -1% reused/recovered Energy (purchased MWh 2,457,173 2,723,899 2,662,448 -2% electricity) Percentage of total % 42% 37% -10% waste to landfill Total energy MWh 5,309,871 5,248,532 5,593,468 7% consumption Waste intensity Tons/ton 0.014 0.008 Energy intensity MWh/ton 1.19 1.12 0.68 Social Units 2017 2018 2019 YoY Renewable electricity MWh 55,737 81,890 47% Employees GHG emissions Total employees No. 17,671 21,900 22,123 1% Tons CO2e 587,487 575,204 588,002 2% Scope 1 Contractors No. 2,124 2,649 25% GHG emissions Tons CO2e 1,173,202 1,215,035 1,046,742 -14% Women in Scope 2 % 16% 17% 19% 9% management roles Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Tons CO2e 1,760,689 1,790,239 1,634,744 -9% Employee training hours 364,573 473,759 522,242 10% GHG emissions Average training hours/year/ 20.63 21.63 23.61 9% GHG emissions hours employee Tons CO2e/ton 0.13 0.12 0.07 intensity Scope 1 Safety (employees and contractors total) GHG emissions Injury rate TRIR 1.74 1.03 0.71 -31% Tons CO2e/ton 0.26 0.26 0.13 intensity Scope 2 Lost Day Rate GHG emissions LDR 21.71 14.82 6.62 -55% Tons CO2e/ton 0.39 0.38 0.20 (severity) intensity Scope 1+2 Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR 0.5 0.36 0.33 -9% NOx Tons 779 689 753 9% Gender Diversity on the Board SOx Tons 1,257 1,355 1,181 -13% Female directors number (%) 1 (9%) 2 (17%) 3 (23%) 33% VOC Tons 83 108 92 -14% Community investment Total other air Tons 2,119 2,152 2,027 -6% emissions Total giving $ 1,690,618 3,711,183 2,888,737 -22% (cash and in-kind) Total water 16,328 15,753 15,946 1% 1,000 m 3 withdrawal Total water discharge 1,000 m3 10,540 11,902 13% Water withdrawal Notes: m3/ton 3.66 3.35 1.93 intensity • Environmental intensity calculations in 2019 reflect methodology change from tons sold (prior years) Total non-hazardous to tons manufactured (2019 and going forward.) Tons manufactured are generally higher than tons Tons 63,985 54,407 56,104 3% sold, as calculations include internal company transfers of intermediate products. waste • Community investment for 2018 investment includes a one-time donation of $1.2 million to the Kaluz Total hazardous Tons 8,725 12,426 13,251 7% Foundation following the Mexican earthquake in 2018. waste • Safety data for 2017 is employees only, and 2018 excludes Netafim. Total waste Tons 72,710 66,833 69,355 4% • YoY: Year on year variation (2019 vs. 2018) Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 22 Advancing Sustainable Solutions About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Advancing Sustainable Solutions Ratified by the United Nations General Assembly in Feeding the world Advancing responsible September 2015, the UN Sustainable Development sustainably business Goals (SDGs) represent a comprehensive set of social and environmental benchmarks that demand the action of governments, businesses and communities to achieve inclusive global prosperity by 2030. In pursuing our purpose, we have identified six out of the 17 goals on which we can have the greatest impact, as noted below. Making health and well-being Making cities more livable, more accessible lovable and resilient Better managing water Empowering communities systems with data Find out more: www.un.org/ sustainabledevelopment/ sustainable-development-goals Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 24 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Feeding the World Sustainably With estimates of reaching a population of 9.7 billion people by 2050, according to projections of the United Nations, ensuring accessible, affordable and nourishing food for all is one of the world’s most pressing challenges. At Orbia, we are playing a pivotal role in the global journey toward food security and agricultural prosperity. Through providing precision agriculture products and services, we are privileged to reach millions of the world’s farmers each day, helping them grow more to sustain themselves and their communities with less burden on the environment and resources. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 25 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Transforming Agricultural Livelihoods in India Agriculture around the world is dominated by smallholder farmers, and nowhere is this truer than in India. Despite smallholder farmers’ vast contributions to the Indian food supply chain, many struggle to gain access to markets and resources that will ensure their survival. Netafim has been working to enhance agricultural efficiency, quality and sustenance through drip irrigation, and has established deep roots in India’s smallholder farming communities through pioneering Community Irrigation (CI) initiatives. CI projects use a single water source (river, reservoir or canal) to support the needs of multiple farmers on the backs of irrigation systems and associated support. Netafim’s first fully automated Community Irrigation project • Sponsored by: KBJNL (Krishna Bhagya Jal Nigam Limited) • Where: Ramthal region, Karnataka, southwestern India At Netafim, we have a long legacy of • When: 2014-2017 helping feed the world by helping farmers grow • Who: 7,000 farmers more with less. • What: 11,700 hectares in total in 22 villages with 77,000 As we continue to apply new technologies for kilometers of irrigation driplines, supplying water needs to all drip systems and as our cumulative experience farms in the project. of the positive impacts of precision irrigation • What happened: grows, we are finding that we can scale our • 25-30% yield increase reported by farmers in the project area contributions to global food security and using drip irrigation resource conservation through partnerships • >50% increase in water efficiency within Orbia and public-private external • 13 commercial agreements in place between farmers and food collaborative programs that transform lives on processing companies for supply of agricultural produce our way to a sustainable future.” • Increase in women’s participation in farming due to less laborintensive methods Gaby Miodownik • What’s next: Ongoing support and maintenance, improved President, Precision Agriculture quality of life and scaled-up food security. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 26 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix In 2019, Netafim advanced four additional large community irrigation projects in India. These four projects connect a total of 57,000 farmers in over 100 villages to end-to-end irrigation solutions across 55,000 hectares of farmland. While each of the four projects has its own unique features, the overarching scope remains similar: providing automated drip irrigation systems through design, construction, operation and ongoing maintenance of these community irrigation installations over five-year periods. Netafim Community Irrigation Projects in India 2018-2023 The community irrigation model enables us, together with local governments, to impact the livelihoods of thousands of farmers with our advanced precision irrigation and digital farming solutions. We have always known that collaboration can yield incredible results; our community irrigation model is now a proven success and we look forward to transforming many more farming communities across India in the TARIKERE future, starting with four projects in Karnataka and Karnataka Andhra Pradesh to be completed in 2020.” >13,500 hectares SINGALATURU 27,000 farmers Randhir Chauhan Karnataka ANANTHAPUR >21,000 hectares Andhra Pradesh President, Orbia India 17,000 farmers >20,000 hectares across 2 projects 13,000 farmers Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 27 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Streamlining Efficiency Supporting Farmers and Food Security with PepsiCo in Mexico Deploying new technology, seeding crop trials and supporting positive impacts in farming communities around the world, Netafim introduced: • Advanced technology that saves energy in digital farming: To help seamlessly power the automated irrigation, nutrigation and crop protection services provided through NetBeatTM, Netafim’s smart irrigation platform, Netafim trialed Sol Chip’s maintenance-free Everlasting Solar Battery in 2019 to run NetBeat digital farming systems for 10 years without downtime or replacement. In 2020 and beyond, Sol Chip’s component will be integrated into all NetBeat based digital farming systems. • First drip-irrigated rice crops cultivated across 1,000 hectares: After Netafim was the only a decade of field trials, the first commercial-scale drip irrigation systems for company that could provide rice fields were installed in 2019 to support sustainable and safe cultivation us the innovative irrigation across Turkey and India. Trial data over several years demonstrated that Netafim’s drip irrigation systems resulted in 60% water savings, 30% solution for rice that we fertilizer reduction, methane emissions decreases to nearly zero and needed. Drip irrigation 90% reduction of arsenic uptake into rice crops. With positive outcomes makes weed control easier, expected, the applications for rice farmers worldwide are promising. boosts yield and leads to • An officially recognized water conservation system: In 2019, the U.S. higher quality crops as well Department of Agriculture recognized Netafim’s effluent subsurface drip as optimizing our water In Mexico, PepsiCo’s local team had an ambitious irrigation (SDI-E) system for its conservation efficacy. Using advanced savings right from the start. filtration and proprietary, patent-pending technology, SDI-E blends dairy goal: to increase production of potatoes to meet the wastewater with fresh water at an optimal ratio, reducing the freshwater yearly product demand of more than 300,000 tons in a Bülent Can volume required for growing feed crops. SDI-E was proven over three years sustainable manner. With Netafim as a partner to support Rice Farmer in Beliksir, Gönen of field trials with California dairy farmers, whose 1.7 million alfalfa-fed cows all installations at the PepsiCo Sabritas® Agricultural region, Turkey provide 20% of the U.S. milk supply. Development Center (CEDAS) in Toluca, Mexico, PepsiCo was able to harness Netafim’s irrigation and cultivation • A circularized drip irrigation model: In Mexico, we are innovating a new technologies to improve yields by approximately 40% business model that takes us closer to circular economy, providing precision and use almost 90% less water through an advanced irrigation as a full service. Working to help farmers reach optimum results aeroponic and hydroponic growing method. and minimal upfront investment, access to drip irrigation is now easier than ever. In 2019, Netafim piloted this service on 147 hectares across two farms, cultivating corn and alfalfa. In both cases, yields increased by 20-40%, water consumption reduced by an average of 20%, and farmer income increased by more than 40%. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 28 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Making Health and Well-Being More Accessible Ensuring widespread health and well-being is fundamental to global prosperity. At Orbia, we use our unique capabilities across our different business groups to advance solutions that make communities healthier and more resilient. Orbia is the leading global supplier of polymers used in essential medical equipment such as IV bags, tubes, oxygen masks and a range of medical grade PVC enhancements for hospitals and clinics, as well as a manufacturer of the chlorine used in many life-sustaining applications. In addition, Orbia’s Fluor business group leads global production of the fluorine-based medical propellants used to deliver life-saving medications in metered-dose inhalers and similar respiratory devices. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 29 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Supporting Human and Environmental Health Today, Koura supplies over 70% of the fluorine-based medical propellants used in the metered dose inhalers (MDIs) that ensure millions of asthma patients worldwide can breathe easily. In a move-the-needle moment on the journey to sustainable and conscientious therapies, after We believe protecting several years of dedicated research and development, patient health and the Koura introduced Zephex® 152a (1,1-difluoroethane), a new propellant gas that will deliver more than 90 environment should not be a percent reduction in Global Warming Potential for matter of compromise. We are pressurized MDIs, as compared to current offerings. In proud to supply both pMDI early 2020, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and DPI inhalers and to have approved progress to clinical trials. taken decisive and ambitious Working with Chiesi Farmaceutici, an international action to ensure patients can pharmaceutical company based in Italy, Koura is now continue to access the inhaler advancing the development of next-gen, lower carbon options that best suit their Zephex® 152a-powered MDIs with a slated market needs, while innovating to launch date of 2025. Chiesi plans to invest €350 million The versatility and wide application of to bring these new formulations to market, while Koura find the most environmentally fluorine-based products enables us to be at has committed a multimillion-dollar investment in a conscious solutions available.” the center of many innovations that can help pharmaceutical-grade laboratory facility in the U.K. to us advance life around the world. With our develop Zephex® 152a to the requirements of the FDA Ugo Di Francesco, CEO, Chiesi Group and worldwide regulatory agencies as well as support efforts in next-generation medical propellants, further propellant development activities. refrigerants with lower global warming potential and fluorinated additives for energy storage, we are at the forefront of developing solutions for a sustainable future. At the same time, as a responsible operator, we are making our mining and manufacturing processes safer and more efficient.” Sameer Bharadwaj President, Fluor & Compounds Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 30 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Better Managing Water Systems While access to safe and sanitary water should be a basic human right, it is actually a pipe dream for billions of people around the globe. According to the United Nations, 3 in 10 people today lack access to safely managed drinking water and 6 in 10 people lack access to safely managed sanitation facilities. At Orbia, we are seeking to open access to this critical resource by fluidly innovating to deliver safe, efficient water management systems and technologies. Our resilient solutions include capture, recycling and reuse of water, with rain and stormwater harvesting, street gullies and heating and cooling systems. Our smart products include solutions that ease the burden of installation for managing the movement of water for homes and buildings; sewer systems that support city-wide sanitation, and fluorspar applications for water treatment. These solutions help bring clean water to millions of people and bring more circularity to water systems within buildings and entire communities. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 31 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix The Source for Sustainable Urban Living To keep global cities and citizens supplied with water through extreme weather cycles, Wavin’s stormwater management solutions reduce flooding risks and help control groundwater loss in urban environments. For example, we help compensate groundwater depletion and reduce floods through our Q-Bic Plus or AquaCell, modular units that are installed underground. In 2019, Wavin introduced several additional initiatives to improve stormwater management, leak detection and rainwater harvesting around the world: • A smarter drainage system: Through a new partnership with StormHarvester, a leader in automated monitoring and control of drainage infrastructure, Wavin is now offering cities the Wavin StormHarvester system: an all-in-one-tank rainwater reuse and flood drainage system run on smart weather forecasting technology. The system is already achieving widespread recognition and awards in Europe, and is currently shortlisted as one of the five nominees for the 2020 Belgian VLARIO Innovation Award. • A new gully to prevent flooding in cities: In 2019, Wavin introduced the new Tegra street gully (made from 100% recycled plastic), which uses patented technology to filter up to 98% more leaves, dirt and litter At Orbia, in so many parts of the world, we without compromising discharging capacity, keeping rainwater tanks see the tragic loss of water in cities and in homes, and rivers and oceans clean while reducing the risk of puddles on roads through inadequate water infrastructures. That’s and in parking places. just one of the pressing challenges we are helping address through our innovative technologies and advanced solutions for water and sanitation through our Wavin brand. Enabling a watersecure future is the key to advancing life around the world.” Maarten Roef President, Building & Infrastructure StormHarvester system Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 32 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix • No-dig water infrastructure for cities: The trenchless (ZinZanja) rehabilitation solutions from In 2019, Wavin started rehabilitation of almost seven kilometers of pipe, Wavin using compact pipe and eight other no-dig replacing an 80-year-old old sewer storm pipe to help the city of Bogotá clean technologies are now coming into widespread up water flows from the polluted Bogotá river. Our trenchless solution has a use for urban water installations and aging water infrastructure upgrades alike, offering dramatic service life of 50 years and the work is slated for completion within 2.5 years gains in direct regional costs (with reductions (half the time required for traditional renovation) using fewer resources and in construction costs of up to 75%), times-togenerating less waste and almost 80% less greenhouse gas emissions2 than completion, resource efficiency, maintenance needs traditional open cut methods. and resiliency. To date, Wavin has now installed over 1.5 million meters of compact pipe systems In addition, these methods have shown to reduce direct costs to the worldwide to fix old buildings, repair leaking pipes, and reliably carry water to citizens worldwide for up local area by 75% and reduced safety costs: accidents related to to 80 years, unimpeded. open trenches cost 112% more than the average accident rates for regular construction of trenches when • Scalable rainwater reuse systems: To provide water to rural communities across Central America, compared to traditional methods.3 Wavin has installed more than 3,000 systems over the past four years, improving water supply for more than 20,000 people. In 2019, Wavin provided more #NewLifeforPipes than 200 rainwater harvesting systems to keep Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador running—as a mere one example, the installation of 15,000-liter tanks and conduits served 500 people in the local communities surrounding Baja Verapaz in Guatemala. • A productive pilot: To get to the source of leaky water pipelines, Wavin partnered in 2019 with an engineering start-up and a utility to pilot a new system in the Netherlands: the pilot harnessed smart sensors and algorithms to detect and predict leak events over 500 meters inside a live water pipeline to ultimately highlight maintenance needs and reinforcement opportunities. The pilot was successful and in 2020, Wavin will team up with additional technology suppliers and utilities to scale this approach, aiming to provide safe, sufficient, and secure water supplies to the world. 2 https://meridian.allenpress.com/jgb/article-abstract/4/2/126/116322/Comparison-of-Emitted-Emissions-Between-Trenchless?redirectedFrom=fulltext 3 Bidding strategies for conventional and trenchless technologies considering social costs R A McKim https://doi.org/10.1139/l97-036 Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 33 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Making Cities More Livable, Lovable and Resilient As urbanization is on the rise, so too are the challenges of ensuring that cities become the enabling environments for connected, safe and fulfilling lives—and without further strain on our natural resources and climate. To make cities more livable, lovable and resilient, we need infrastructure that is truly efficient. Urban plans designed around green technologies and sustainable transportation models. Prudently managed and easily manageable water, energy and waste systems. To these ends, Orbia has been a leader in urban solutions for decades, addressing a diverse range of infrastructure challenges and opportunities, from developing building information modeling (BIM) technologies for efficient construction to designing innovative material solutions for temperature regulation, sanitation, water management and more essentials for better and smarter urban living. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 34 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Sustainable Construction Around the World Selected 2019 construction projects supported by the Building and Infrastructure group: • Gartnerkvartalet | Løren, Norway: Designed and supplied all the piping systems for energy efficiency and noise reduction across this 450-apartment complex. • Apartment complex | Budapest, Hungary: Supplied in-ceiling heating and cooling in the installation of 252 Wavin Sentio room-by-room climate control systems (one per apartment) and 500 wireless thermostats for efficient energy management. Gartnerkvartalet | Løren, Norway • Millennium Plaza | El Salvador: A new high rise of 20 stories, constructed by using more than 20 kilometers of our pipe solutions for heating, cooling, water and sanitation efficiency. In 2019, Orbia advanced a range of innovative solutions to improve the livability, lovability and resilience of cities, for citizens around the globe: Our solutions cut across different applications, from chlor-alkali used in water • Covering ground to a lovable destination: In 2019, we completed an early phase in an purification, health care, aluminum, pulp and ambitious project in Guatapé, Colombia, an paper to vinyl used in medical devices, consumer important tourist destination. The multi-year products, building, construction and housing for megaproject revolves around reclaiming and social and institutional areas. These and many redesigning 90,000 underutilized square meters other applications are the key enablers that surrounding the Guatapé reservoir into a park, make our cities more resilient and offer ways to docks, restaurants, shops and ample green spaces for visitors and residents alike. To support positively transform the everyday lives of people the development, Wavin provided 460 meters of Guatapé, Colombia and communities.” durable, geosynthetic reinforcement infrastructure in a speedy installation with low environmental Carlos Manrique Rocha impact and a 40% cost reduction, achieved President, Polymer Solutions through using woven geotextile tubing filled with local materials. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 35 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix • Charging into an electrified future: Seeking to accelerate the electric • On the right path with PlasticRoad: While Wavin’s PlasticRoad is revolution, Koura advanced the development of fluorinated additives the world’s first bicycle path made of 70% post-consumer recycled for use in the current and next generation lithium-ion batteries that will plastic, the road is now open to new applications for this award-winning be up to the charge of powering the world’s electric vehicles, grid-scale solution. In 2019, Wavin introduced sensor monitoring and reporting energy storage systems and mobile electronics for the long, energyfrom the pilot tracks of the PlasticRoad to test its performance under light run. varying conditions and seasons. Determined to be three times as durable as asphalt while being 70% faster to install, parking lots, road • Advancing electric mobility: Meeting revved-up demand for carbonsystems, and a full market launch by 2021 are now right around the light urban transportation infrastructure, Alphagary has developed a bend. safe, flexible, and recyclable thermoplastic elastomer (TPE) material called Garaflex, that has been chosen by leading automotive • Rooting for urban trees: To give trees a larger chance to survive in manufacturers for electric vehicle charging station hoses. In 2019, urban areas while greening up and cooling cityscapes, Wavin turned its Alphagary enhanced production of this durable, user-friendly material existing Q-Bic Plus unit upside down to provide protection and aeration and shifted into producing custom formulations to meet customers’ to tree roots in compressed urban spaces. In 2019, Wavin delivered unique needs. Q-Bic Plus crates for the Quartier Blue project in the city of Hasselt, Belgium to support the build-out of an efficient arboreal ecosystem. Garaflex application in hoses for electric vehicle charging Q-Bic Plus Tree Bunker application Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 36 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Empowering Communities with Data A connected world is an empowered world. Access to connectivity and in turn, a world’s worth of vital information and data services is the key to sustainable development. Given present and anticipated growth in mobile technologies coupled with current movement toward 5G networks and IoT environments, Orbia’s Data Communication group is working on the front lines of creating what connects us infrastructurally and technologically. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 37 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Revitalizing Connectivity Systems To accommodate a present and future dependent on seamless, always-on Orbia’s Data access to data, Dura-Line is supporting infrastructure and network upgrade Communication projects tor today’s roster of major U.S. telecommunications providers, in the midst of moving from copper to fiber optic cables; 4G to 5G networks. group is the only Over the course of 2019, Dura-Line shipped more than a half-billion feet global manufacturer of durable conduit to 300+ locations for installation projects by the power of communications players, solidifying new infrastructure and fortifying pathways (inclusive of conduit, as well as the fiber rings around large cities) that will carry the world into a connected largest conduit company tomorrow. in North America, In 2019, Orbia advanced several initiatives to connect and empower having served the topcommunities with data connectivity: tier telecommunications • Providing safe and efficient technology for light rail expansions: companies for over four Dura-Line pioneered in the introduction of Low Smoke Zero Halogen decades. (LSZH) technology into the U.S. market. Through the 2019 Northgate Link Extension project with Seattle Sound Transit, Dura-Line used the quick install, remotely upgradable LSZH and plastic HDPE conduit to The data revolution has now become a bring three new light rail stations online to serve up to an anticipated 49,000 daily riders by 2022. mega-revolution. With progress towards 5G and Internet of Things (IoT) and all the other associated digital technologies, we are seeing an explosion in the use of data, and with it, a step-change in According to research the need for efficient, future-fit data transport published by the and connectivity infrastructures. That’s where we, Global e-Sustainability at Dura-Line, are making a difference. Our data Initiative (GeSI) and communications conduits and systems are bringing Accenture Strategy entire communities into a new digital world and at in 2015, Information the same time, are enabling the increasingly rapid and Communications transition to a low-carbon future.” Technology can enable a 20% reduction of global Peter Hajdu CO2e emissions by 2030, President, Data Communication holding emissions at 2015 levels. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 38 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix • Powering a local economy: To bring the power of broadband service to the remote community of Estes Park, Colorado, Dura-Line provided secure, high-speed expandable fiber access (and expanded opportunities) to 6,400 residents through using FuturePath Figure-8 Aerial 7-ways on existing power poles. With FuturePath’s functional connection capacity of seven pathways per installation, Estes Park long-awaited connectivity plan was realized safely and affordably too. • Upgrading Denver airport’s connections: Connected flying into and out of the Denver International Airport is now possible without disruptions to operations or traveler experiences. Thanks to Dura-Line’s FuturePath, flexible control of pathway routing can happen in real time—and more than that, the FuturePath infrastructure undergirds an adaptable, sustainable system for 5G connectivity and easy, low-cost fiber upgrades. The main reason we chose FuturePath is because there are seven pathways inside of one conduit. If you have FuturePath, you only spend time once to put it in the air which involves permits and traffic control and then you just go to a vault and push the fiber through.” Joe Lockhart Line Superintendent, Estes Park Light and Power Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 39 Advancing Responsible Business About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix The basis of advancing life around the world Operating Ethically rests on a foundation of advancing Orbia aims to operate to the highest possible standards of compliant and ethical conduct. We believe this is not only the right thing to do, it protects our business from risk and is the basis of sustainable growth. From our Board of Directors through our Chief Executive Officer and all our employees, we aim to responsible business instill a culture of personal accountability, supported by standards, policies and mechanisms that help everyone know what is expected of them and provide practices within the best frameworks for action. our own walls and within our sphere of influence. We aim Ensuring Robust Governance to act with integrity, support and empower Our Board of Directors consists of 13 directors, 7 of whom are independent Additionally, in 2019, we created a Critical Risk Committee (CRC), and represent more than 50% of our Board, well above the minimum 25% chaired by our CEO, comprising our Business Group Presidents, CFO and our people, be good of independent members required by the Mexican Securities Market Law other key functional heads, to assist the Board of Directors in identifying stewards of the and bylaws. Three of the board members are women. Mr. Juan Pablo del and assessing enterprise risks, evaluating the appropriate risk profile for Valle has presided as Non-Executive Chairman since 2011. Mr. Antonio del the enterprise and developing risk mitigation plans and overseeing their environment and drive Valle Ruiz is the Honorary Lifetime Chairman (but not a Board member). implementation. The CRC meets quarterly. programs that have a Three Committees assist the Board of Directors in carrying out its duties, Visit the Corporate Governance section of our website for further positive impact in our and are mostly composed of independent Board members, as required by information. the Mexican Securities Market Law. local communities. • Audit Committee: supervises external auditors, analyzes their reports In addition to our own values and and reports back to the Board of Directors, among other duties. ethical standards, we are also signatories to the United Nations • Corporate Practices and Sustainability Committee: provides Global Compact and the UN CEO opinions and assistance to the Board of Directors in reviewing Water Mandate, committing to important reports and transactions; calling shareholder meetings; and upholding the principles defined in requesting and obtaining opinions from independent third-party by these frameworks. experts. From 2020, this Committee will also oversee our sustainability strategy and practices. This section of the report describes our behaviors and • Finance Committee: supports the Board of Directors in fulfilling its practice over the past year across responsibilities to shareholders regarding the policies, practices and all these topics. strategies related to managing financial affairs. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 41 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix A Commitment to Ethics and Compliance Orbia is committed to conducting business with the highest degree of our Code of Ethics, anti-corruption, antitrust and competition matters, ethics, complying with applicable local laws, and following compliance prevention of money laundering, human rights and prevention of program international best practices. We maintain a strong corporate modern slavery, as well as compliance in all functional areas of the legal and compliance team consisting of 31 in-house lawyers and business including labor practices, health and safety and environmental compliance professionals, and more than 33 internal auditors. law. We train new employees on our Code of Ethics and provide periodic Over the last several years, Orbia has invested heavily in its Ethics & refresher training for current employees. Orbia’s training strategy is to Compliance program, establishing a tailored compliance framework that provide general compliance training for employees in roles that are includes Orbia’s Code of Ethics. The Code guides our behavior and is a lower risk from a compliance perspective, and targeted, live training for binding requirement for all Directors, executives, employees, contractors those in specialized, higher-exposure roles. Our Code of Ethics training and temporary workers. In addition to our Code of Ethics, we have for 2020 will take place during “Ethics Month” during which we will policies and procedures to address all major compliance risks, and a emphasize the importance of ethics and compliance and our Ethics thoughtful training and communication program for all employees. Helpline. In 2019, Orbia reinforced its commitment to ethics and compliance Ethical standards though our supply chain: We expect our business leadership by establishing a new Chief Compliance Officer role and partners and suppliers to operate to the highest of ethical standards. hiring a U.S. trained compliance expert with more than 20 years of Our Code of Ethics specifically applies to our supply base, and we legal experience. Reporting to the Audit Committee of Orbia’s Board communicate this expectation to new suppliers. In 2020, through the of Directors and administratively to Orbia’s Senior Vice President EcoVadis platform, we will start evaluating our suppliers across a wide In a large and diverse and General Counsel, the Chief Compliance Officer is dedicated to range of topics including environment, labor, human rights, ethics and business with a global reinforcing our culture of ethical conduct and compliance throughout sustainable sourcing practices. Orbia is a member of EcoVadis and presence such as Orbia’s, the business and oversee all ethics and compliance programing to achieved a silver ranking in our last assessment, placing us in the 79th ethics and compliance needs underscore our policies, processes and ethics training. Our Chief percentile in our industry. to be a way of life. This Compliance Officer reports on her progress to Orbia’s business means having our culture Reporting ethics and compliance concerns: We operate a leadership and to Orbia’s Audit Committee quarterly, and chairs Orbia’s confidential whistleblowing mechanism for reporting suspected or of ethics built into everyday Ethics Committee, which is comprised of senior corporate executives, and meets monthly. possible violations of our Code of Ethics or any other violation of law decision-making and that and regulation. Orbia’s Ethics Helpline allows anonymous reporting employees at all levels in our In 2019, we also strengthened our compliance governance and and is available 24/7 with operators who speak all the languages of infrastructure by establishing ethics committees across our business company understand the the countries in which we do business. Anyone may report suspected divisions to reinforce accountability for upholding ethical conduct and importance of upholding our or actual breaches of ethical conduct without fear of retaliation, as we implementing compliance program initiatives in each business group. have a clear non-retaliation policy. The availability of multiple channels highest ethical standards.” In addition, we established a compliance liaison network to enhance to report concerns, including the Ethics Helpline, are reinforced the effectiveness of implementing corporate ethics and compliance Andrea DeShazo, throughout the year. In 2019, we received over 170 reported concerns, initiatives across Orbia. Chief Compliance Officer of which approximately 70% were HR-related. All reports were Ethics and compliance training: Training is a key pillar of our ethics investigated thoroughly and follow-up action, disciplinary if necessary, and compliance program, encompassing a range of topics including was taken accordingly. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 42 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Empowering Our People Orbia aims to We support the personal and professional growth of our employees though learning and development opportunities and invest in safe and healthy provide an inspiring, workplaces and practices. energizing, inclusive workplace where 22,000+ everyone can come to Employees by Business Group, 2019 work each day in the Orbia employees working in more knowledge that they than 40 countries, representing are contributing to more than 60 nationalities advancing life around the world. As we move 51% forward as Orbia, with Building & Infrastructure a refreshed purpose and values, we are 19% 16% Polymer Solutions aiming to create a of our managers were women in truly global culture 2019 where everyone finds their voice. 7% 18% 522,000+ Fluor Precision Agriculture training hours learning new leadership, professional and technical skills that’s 24 hours 8% Data Communication per employee in 2019 Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 43 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Engagement, Development and Growth We are convinced that employees who have the opportunity to develop Participants from the 2019 eXP cohort: their professional skills make a stronger contribution to our business and remain with the company over time. Our global employee engagement survey in 2018 indicated a level of 86% sustainable engagement (employees feel engaged, energized and enabled to do their job). During the past year, we have been reinforcing this positive position as we led the transition to the new purpose and values of Orbia across all our business groups and teams. Engaging employees in sustainability: We have held webcasts, lectures and meetings over the past year, with (voluntary) attendance by thousands of employees to raise awareness and education about specific topics relevant to Orbia’s sustainability aspirations. This armed our teams with knowledge of the global challenges we seek to address through our business, helping them understand how their work is connected to the solutions we develop. Global leadership development: In 2019, more than 500 managers and senior leaders participated in four programs run by the Harvard Business School. We also launched a new Future-fit Senior Leaders program with Stanford University, customized for Orbia, with three cohorts of 35 participants from across our business groups and corporate roles. This program – part on campus (in the U.S. and Mexico) and part online – resulted in several projects that were presented to senior leaders for review and potential uptake as business initiatives in the future. Career development: In 2019, another 12 young managers representing nine nationalities were selected for our unique proprietary career development program called eXP (experience, exposure and education), offering participants two consecutive six-month job assignments, each in a different business, in a different country. eXP participants gain both job knowledge and skills with mentoring from senior leaders, and also have Nathan Adlington, a reliability Lorena Castañeda Copello, a Michel Rossini De Souza, a the opportunity to interact with several areas of our global organization, engineer in Illinois was assigned marketing manager from Lima, quality specialist in Brazil, took broadening their network and exploring new working and living to develop a business intelligence Peru, took an R&D assignment in a first assignment on pricing environments. As they return to their roles, they bring new perspectives and system in Mexico City, and for his the Czech Republic and then went mechanisms in Israel and then experience that can be reapplied to help address challenges and create second assignment, to develop an on to Mexico to analyze water went on to review operational new solutions. innovation strategy in Colombia. systems at the fluorine mine. efficiency in the U.S. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 44 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Creative strengths: Our first Creative Difference survey, Advancing Women carried out with IDEO in 2018, helped us understand Orbia's strengths and blind spots when We aim to maintain a diverse organization where all have the opportunity adapting to a rapidly changing to progress. See our Diversity and Inclusion Policy for details of our market. The survey measured approach. A particular focus is advancing women, and in 2019, the rate of Orbia against the six qualities of a women managers grew from 17% to 19%. Overall, 72% of women around creative company and identified the world are employed in management or professional roles at Orbia. key opportunities in the areas of We recognize the significant benefits of accelerating the rate of women’s empowerment, risk tolerance and advancement in our business and are committed to doing so, as is noted in experimentation. During 2019, a our ImpactMark. smaller survey was taken, in order Promoting women in STEM: In 2019, we held an innovative 3-day to identify follow-up actions and workshop in our Data Communication business in the U.S., with the aim create alignment with the different of supporting gender equity in science, technology, engineering, and business leaders. mathematics (STEM). The program was attended by more than 30 senior Digital learning for all: Following men and women in professional roles and explored challenges, barriers and the successful launch of our opportunities for women in STEM in our business. Digital Learning Platform in 2018, we added more training modules and engaged more employees in self-directed learning to advance their management and project skills. More than 6,000 managers and employees used the Digital Learning Platform in 2019. Performance management: We maintain a digital platform to support target setting and performance management. In 2019, 100% of eligible managers and professional employees used the program as part of their annual performance review to identify further development needs. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 45 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Improving Health and Safety With so many talented people at the heart of Orbia, it is our absolute We are happy that employee injuries at our sites have consistently duty to keep them safe at work. It’s a partnership. We provide the policies, improved over the past 5 years, due to comprehensive implementation The one key thing that standards, frameworks, equipment, tools and training to prescribe of safety risk assessments, reviews and corrective actions. Our has sustained through these compliant and practical safety management and practices. In addition, contractor TRIR has also shown a 30% improvement from 2018 we rely on every individual involved in our activities – both our direct and, at 0.48, is among the best in class showing that our contractor 360 months of safe working employees and contractors and visitors at our sites – to be passionate management process is working. But, of course, every injury is one is our team’s commitment about safety and do everything with safety in mind. This way, we build a too many, so we continue to reinforce our safety culture at every to their own safety and the safe working culture everywhere at Orbia with a vision of zero injuries. opportunity. safety of others. At the same Across many of our chemicals operations, we implement the time, they have also guarded International Safety Rating System (ISRS) that is verified by Det Norske against complacency, Veritas. For other operations we are implementing internationally learning from and dealing 72% reduction in employee TRIR over 5 years recognized management systems to ensure a focus on continuous with hazards and risks before improvement. In 2019, 39 Orbia plants were also certified to (Total Recordable Injury Rate) they caused harm.” international safety standards. Non-certified sites apply the same standard of care and will be preparing for certification in the coming Tipu Salahuddin, Downstream years. Operations Director, Koura Regular safety processes and training at our sites around the world Business Group 2.71 include: • Comprehensive safety training including Life Saving Rules to prevent Serious Injury or Fatality (SIF) 2.3 • Contractor safety management training and management processes • Visible Safety Leadership program: unplanned visits by safety 1.74 advocates to the shop floor, to recognize good practices and raise awareness of effective safety habits • Good Saves reporting: observations of near misses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts 1.08 • Safe driving awareness 30 years injury free at Runcorn. In 2019, there was cause for 0.76 celebration at our Koura site in Runcorn, UK 30 years of continuous operation without a recordable injury. This is particularly noteworthy since this plant handles several hazardous chemicals such as chlorine 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 and hydrochloric acid and operates 24/7 in a complex environment with high potential risk. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 46 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Advances in Process Safety Koura UK is proud to We continue to engage our employees in process safety improvements a spill occur. Following a comprehensive risk assessment in 2018, to minimize risk in our manufacturing operations. As part of our ongoing including consultations with our customers, we created a multi-year have received the UK plan to transition our fleet of 216 rail cars to the newest models by implementation of our Process Safety Management (PSM) standard, 2019 Chemical Industry which is aligned with recognized and generally accepted good engineering 2027. The first 22 rail cars will arrive in 2020. Association’s Special practices (RAGAGEP), in 2018, our 18 chemical operations were assessed • Working with safe materials: Responsible Care Award for process safety risk. Throughout 2019, we took a systematic approach for Process Safety to resolving the risks and hazards identified. Our PSM audit team supports REACH: We comply with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and monitors implementation progress at all sites and reported 60% and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) requirements for all substances Leadership, reinforcing completion of all safeguards in our PSM phase 1 schedule, with 100% produced or imported in Europe for all relevant operations. the strong culture and expected in 2020. SAICM: We support and adhere to The Strategic Approach for performance over the In 2019, we also established a new record on skill development at our International Chemicals Management (SAICM) of the United Nations lifetime of the site. chemical sites. More than 500 employees from different sites, countries and Environmental Program (UNEP) which promotes the transparent business units attended PSM training in 2019 – a 50% higher attendance exchange of data and information using a life-cycle approach. rate than in 2018. As a strong safety culture is key for the effectiveness Regulated substances: We use no regulated substances of Very High of our PSM program, face-to-face workshops were organized to enable Concern (SVHC) as defined by REACH legislation, or by the European sharing of experience and insight in a team approach. Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or substances of international We also introduced a new protocol to assess new projects using a PSM riskconcern (RoHS) in our Dura-Line, Koura, and Vestolit businesses. based perspective that aligns our practices with the principles of our PSM standard. The protocol was applied and well accepted in several facilities. • Process Hazard Analysis: In 2019, we commenced phase-in of new software across all sites to harmonize the criteria for Process Hazard Analysis (PHAs). PHA includes several related processes that analyze process hazards in detail. Around 15 superusers tested the system ahead of its rollout to more than 100 users across the business. As part of this initiative, we developed our first e-learning course dedicated to Management of Change (MOC) for deployment in 2020. • Improving hazardous materials transportation: In 2019, Koura took the decision to invest in next-generation safer rail tank cars for the transportation of Hydrofluoric Acid (HF). The rail car design increases the safety of our operations and the protection of our employees and our neighbors. Although there has never been a safety incident with transportation of our HF from our Matamoros, Mexico plant to other factories in the U.S. and South America, we are very conscious of the highly corrosive nature of this chemical, and potential risks should Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 47 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Protecting the Environment At Orbia, our purpose Our commitment to protecting the environment includes helping mitigate climate change through prudent energy use and GHG emission reductions, Bold Steps for Climate to advance life around careful management of water and waste, with a strong focus on recycling as part of a broader circular economy effort, and biodiversity protection. Change Mitigation the world means taking care of our shared In 2019, we took a bold step in formally announcing our commitment to setting science-based targets (SBTs) for GHG emissions Environmental Management: Our 128 manufacturing locations (some environment. We are with multiple plants) around the world operate in line with all applicable reduction that will support the global effort to stabilize climate in line all too aware that, with the 2015 Paris Agreement. We are preparing our targets with environmental laws and regulation, Orbia’s environment policy and our support from the World Resources Institute (WRI), using the criteria Environmental Management Systems. We maintain compliance with as a global nation, formal standards and certifications in 29 countries. In 2019, 70 plants established by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), which we are stretching independently assesses corporate emissions reduction targets against were certified to ISO14001 or equivalent external standards, and we have current climate science. In this commitment, we align with some 800 committed to achieving 100% certified sites by 2025. We are constantly planetary limits beyond seeking continuous improvement. All our certified locations undergo industry leaders around the world who have publicly aligned with the those the planet can Paris Agreement. periodic audits by external parties to maintain certification. In addition, some of our locations are also audited as part of supplier audit processes During 2019, we continued to analyze our operations and overall sustain. We are driven by our customers. footprint, as well as our climate risks, to prepare ourselves for the by our passion and rigorous scrutiny and approval of the SBTi. determination to help secure a sustainable future for all, both through the innovative and environmentally According to the IPCC’s Special Report on 1.5°C (SR15), limiting global warming to beneficial products 1.5°C requires reaching net-zero CO2 emissions by no later than 2050, accompanied we manufacture to by rapid declines in non-CO2 emissions, through rapid and profound transformations support our clients, in the global energy, industry, urban, and land systems. and also through the efficiency efforts we undertake throughout our business. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 48 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Completing our first climate risk assessment As part of our progress towards a low-carbon future, we completed in 2019 Climate Performance in 2019 the essential step of assessing the material impacts of our climate risks, In 2019, our absolute greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 9% as a utilizing the framework established by the Task Force on Climate-related result of several factors relating to different production mix and volumes Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our TCFD-aligned analysis covered 12 high across our different business lines, new and ongoing energy efficiencies in priority sites from 3 of our business groups across 6 countries. They were our operations and the addition of renewable energy at some sites. selected during a screening process, which took into account prior work that had been completed within Orbia to assess preliminary climate risks at all our sites. In addition to data analysis, the Orbia team and our climate-risk consultants engaged with business leaders and staff at the selected sites to review threats from climate change and initiate discussion on mitigation GHG Emissions, 1,000 tons CO2e, 2017-2019 opportunities. The key outcomes of this analysis confirmed that climate change is not a high-risk material threat for Orbia, although there are clearly areas in which we must take considered action to minimize medium and GHG Emissions Scope 1 low-level risk. These possibilities include: GHG Emissions Scope 2 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Physical risks: In general, the experts at ERM concluded that our highpriority sites are exposed to low to medium risks for hazards analyzed, including cyclones, floods, wildfires, extreme temperatures and water stress. Market, technology and compliance (transition) risks: This analysis demonstrated that our high priority sites are exposed to medium to high risks related to the transition to a low carbon economy. These will likely 1,761 1,790 include: pressure from our markets to use low-carbon materials, more 1,215 1,635 1,173 extensive carbon pricing regulations across the world or increases in the 1,047 cost of resources, notably electricity and water by 2030. Higher water stress scenarios, for example, could affect water costs for our operations. All these risks could have an effect on our supply chain and production processes, from a continuity and cost standpoint. We are using the conclusion of this first TCFD-aligned assessment to developed specific risk mitigation plans across our business. Such plans will include reducing our carbon exposure, which goes hand in hand with our 588 575 588 commitment to set SBTs. Additionally, we are also considering opportunities that our solutions for resilience can bring to address climate change, such as new low-emission propellants, storm water management solutions, and efficient construction systems, as described in the previous chapter: Advancing Sustainable Solutions. 2017 2018 2019 Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 49 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Share of Total Energy Consumption, 2019 Share of GHG Emissions, 2019 70% 68% Polymer Solutions Polymer Solutions 5% 13% Rest of Orbia Fluor 20% 12% 12% Rest of Orbia Fluor Building & Infrastructure In 2019, we continued our focused efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, including shipments from road to rail transport. To date, more than 95% of shipments of vinyl products examples as follows: are transported by road from 8 dispatch points. Through 2020, all current road shipments – around 450 trips per year – will be consolidated and transferred to rail, enabling a saving of Increased energy efficiency in PVC resin production: At our Altamira plant in Mexico, we 1,200 tons of CO2e per year while maintaining customer service. installed a new condenser to lower energy requirements for cooling in the production process. Rather than using energy intensive refrigeration units for cooling, we were able to use cooling Ongoing efficiencies: Ongoing initiatives at different sites, including for example, replacement tower water. This resulted in a 24% decrease in energy in the PVC production process. of light fittings with LED lamps, equipment replacement with energy-efficient alternatives and sustainable car fleet policies. From road to rail: Our Alphagary operation in Mexico started the process of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transportation by more than 90%, by transferring domestic Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 50 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Focus on Renewables We are consistently seeking to Renewable Electricity Powering Orbia, 2019 reduce our carbon footprint through opportunities to power our operations with renewable energy. In 2019, we sourced almost 83,663 MWh of renewable electricity across our global 46,598 MWh 35,291 MWh operations (3%* of total electricity Powered by AEP renewable Powered by Orsted's wind farms, consumption), saving close to 29,000 energy certificates, accounting certified by REGOs (Renewable Energy tons of CO2e annually, enough to power more than almost 3,400 homes for a for 100% of electricity consumption of our Vestolit plant Guarantees of Origin), supplying 68% of electricity consumption to 5 Wavin 765 MWh year. We sourced our renewable energy Solar array at Wavin's in Illinois. production plants in the UK and Ireland. as shown in the chart to the right: Hardenberg site, Netherlands *We are committed to increase the share of renewables going forward, as we establish contractual instruments that allow us to claim the amount of renewable electricity used. In 2020, we are advancing new solar energy projects, notably a rooftop installation at our Dura-Line Hyderabad plant, and a remote solar installation at our Dura-Line Neemrana plant. Together, these initiatives will provide 950 MWh Solar installations at our almost 2,500 KWp, or Netafim plant in California, around 20-25% of electricity which contribute consumption at these sites annually. These installations are expected to be complete approximately 6% of the site's electricity. 59 MWh early in 2020. Solar array powering all offices at our Cartagena facility Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 51 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Reducing Water Stress We aim to achieve the lowest possible water consumption at our sites. Share of Total Water Withdrawal, 2019 All our manufacturing plants have been applying water efficiency plans wherever possible, and most of our extrusion plants (Wavin, Dura-Line and Netafim) maintain closed loop systems that minimize water withdrawal. Water Withdrawal, 1,000 m3, 2017-2019 Surface Water 23% Groundwater Fluor Municipal Water Total Water Withdrawal 16,328 15,753 15,946 14% 2,480 1,242 Rest of Orbia 2,150 4,861 5,178 5,341 63% 9,843 Polymer Solutions 8,670 8,262 2017 2018 2019 Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 52 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix We are particularly conscious of water use in our operations in areas of high water-stress. Based on the World Resources Institute (WRI) Aqueduct Reducing, Recycling and Reusing Waste Version 3.0 tool, 47 of our plants are in areas of high or extremely high water-stress, in 16 countries. We aim to prevent all waste at source and maximize waste diversion from landfill through reuse, recycling, composting and other means, and we have committed to zero waste to landfill by 2025. Business Group Number of sites in % of total sites in Each of our plants have waste management programs in place and improvement targets. In 2019, water-stressed areas water-stressed areas our total waste amounted to 69,355 tons. Polymer Solutions 9 11% Building & Infrastructure 14 11% Waste by Disposal Type, 2019 Data Communication 5 4% Non-hazardous waste Fluor 5 5% Hazardous waste Precision Agriculture 13 10% Total Orbia 47 37%* *This total includes 6 sites which have zero or little production. 50% Reuse, Recycling and Recovery In order to address our impacts in these areas, and in line with our commitment with the UN CEO Water Mandate, we will start working on establishing context-based water targets. We will also start establishing water management plans for sites in areas of high water-stress, using a risk80% Non-hazardous waste based approach. Reducing water in our mining process: Through integration of all of our beneficiation plants in Mine Las Cuevas, during 2019, we were able to reduce the usage of clean water by approximately 300 m3 per day, by 37% Landfill disconnecting our boiler systems, while saving energy and generating fewer emissions. Saving water in India: In India, in 2019, we installed Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), at each of our Dura-Line factories to treat wastewater. The 20% 1% Other output of the STPs is recycled for irrigation, saving around 15% of water each year at our three Dura-Line plants in the country. Hazardous waste 5% Incineration 7% Treatment Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 53 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Reducing waste to landfill: In 2019, our operations made progress Share of Total Waste, 2019 towards our aspiration of sending zero waste to landfill in 5 years’ time. For example: • Mihara, which manufactures Koura refrigerants in Japan, diverted more than 80% of its waste that is normally sent to landfill. The plant was able to identify a waste management • company that can recycle calcium fluoride waste resulting from the hydrogen fluoride wastewater treatment process. At our Dura-Line factory in Utah in the U.S., we have pursued 43% Polymer Solutions a systematic approach to waste reduction, following detailed analysis of all waste streams, and systematically pursuing solutions for each. Overall, in 2019, Dura-Line in Utah achieved a 75% recycling rate, 33% higher than the overall average recycling rate for our Dura-Line operations globally. 28% • Our Koura Hydrofluoric Acid manufacturing plant in Matamoros, Building & Infrustracture Mexico was able to reduce 60% of its hazardous waste sent to confinement by investing in recovering the efficiency of the purification column that removes arsenic during the manufacturing process, which leads to minimize the AlF3 sludge contaminated with arsenic. 29% Rest of Orbia Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 54 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Lifecycle assessments (LCAs): We created a Lifecycle Taskforce that Recycling driplines in California: In 2019, we vastly expanded our advances LCAs using the ISO14040/44 Life cycle assessment Principles recycling facilities in California to accommodate the return of higher and Framework“ to help us define criteria for LCA-based analysis of the volumes of used driplines from customers around the region. This was environmental impacts of our products at the customer or end-user phase. a response to the need of local farmers, who were pleased to gain the It is also a response to customers who are increasingly seeking LCAs as benefit of a single-season thin-wall dripline (our new Streamline X ReGen) part of their own environmental value chain management. Working with for optimum performance and reduced labor and maintenance costs, external partners to complete LCAs, in 2019, we launched new analyses but also required a system for recycling used driplines. Netafim USA first in four areas: use of driplines in a corn plantation (Netafim), aluminum pioneered the process of utilizing recycled content in the manufacturing fluoride used in the aluminum industry (Koura), polyethylene conduit for of driplines for mining and landscaping market sectors and established a data communications (Dura-Line), and recycled PVC pipe for wastewater recycling facility in 2007. Significant investments in research and testing transportation (Wavin). This activity builds on existing LCA experience in have allowed us to perfect a proprietary process for integration of recycled previous years, including our LCA for specialty polyvinyl chloride (PVC) content in driplines without sacrificing performance and quality standards. resin, and actions taken to improve the overall environmental impact In March 2019, we introduced the first agriculture dripline containing of this product. Koura also completed a cradle-to-grave LCA on Zephex recycled content with the launch of Streamline X ReGen. At the same 152a, demonstrating an equivalent carbon footprint compared to the best time, the California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery propellant-free technologies. (CalRecycle), in its aim to increase circularity in the State, awarded Netafim Recyclability by design: We promote recyclability as a core element in USA a grant of $2.01 million for investing in recycling capacity. Using this our design criteria for all new Wavin products with a goal to increase grant, we procured new state-of-the-art equipment for washing, grinding, recycled content of all products to 25% (from 6-11% in different processing and pelletizing returned driplines. The new installation is almost regions) and recyclability to 90% by 2025. We are also working to help complete and on track to quadruple our recycling capacity from around change legislation towards increased usage of recycled plastics in markets 3,000 tons per year to 12,000. We believe this is the first completely that are currently overly restrictive. For example, we are actively supporting closed-loop business model in our industry. usage of recycled plastics in Europe for several non-pressure applications (sewage, rainwater and telecom applications) and hope to see more flexible laws across all applications by 2021. Already in 2019, European legislation for recycling in infiltration units for stormwater management was introduced, enabling the use of 100% recycled material. As a result, we are now launching our New Aquacell Infiltration Unit using 100% recycled polypropylene. At the same time, we are developing new test methods to qualify recycled material for our applications, and actively participate in consortia enabling the development of these new methods. Similarly, at Dura-Line in Canada, we are increasing our rate of reground plastics into our production, and correspondingly reducing the volume of postindustrial pelletized plastic that is externally sourced. This is now possible through the addition of a new extrusion line that we added in 2019. Not only does this enable us to maintain our recycled content (29% in 2019), it saves the energy required to pelletize plastics for reuse and contributes to a reduction in carbon emissions. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 55 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Other recycling initiatives around the world: We maintain several • Japan: In 2019, we maintained our innovative recycling facility to help additional initiatives around the world to drive recycling. Some examples in reduce the global warming impact of older generation refrigerants. We 2019 include: increased our volumes of refrigerant recovered from 479 tons in 2018, to 634 in 2019. We estimate this avoids the emission of more than 1.2 • Colombia: Vestolit and Wavin's PVC post-consumer waste recycling million tons of CO2 equivalent per year. program includes suspension, emulsion and copolymers resins, all of which can be used for new PVC applications. In 2019, approximately • Europe: As endorsers of the VinylPlus® voluntary commitment to 100 tons were collected in a single city in Colombia, demonstrating the sustainable development of the European PVC industry, we are potential of expanding such a program to more cities and countries. committed to helping drive the more efficient use and control of PVC That’s exactly what we intend to do in the coming years to at least 5 throughout its lifecycle. Since the year 2000, our Vestolit operations more countries in the region. in Germany have been a founding member of VinylPlus, supporting cross-industry recycling efforts in a range of ways, including through collaboration with other companies, to drive the use of recycled PVC, in line with the ambitious goals set by VinylPlus. In 2018, more than 700,000 tons of PVC were recycled, including cables, pipes, and window profiles, among other products. The initiative has recycled 5 million tons of PVC since 2000. • U.S.: Dura-Line’s Reel Return Program enables the return and recycling of conduit-carrying metal reels from customers in the U.S. In 2019, Dura-Line collected 97,334 metal reels from customers, enabling 19 million lbs. of metal reels to be recycled or repurposed. Protecting Biodiversity At our fluorspar mining operation in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, we maintain a strategy to protect biodiversity, including restoration of the natural habitats, relocation of species, reforestation and compensation for adverse effects based on the findings of environmental impact studies. We work closely with the National Forestry Commission of Mexico (CONAFOR) and provide shared funding for a program on payments for environmental services, for the conservation of Sierra de Alvarez, where common land rural owners (Ejido) from Santa Catarina will benefit from this private-public association. This includes support for a broad range of initiatives, including firewall protection, provision of cameras for monitoring of animal species and equipment for radio communication and forest firefighting and road maintenance. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 56 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Helping Communities Thrive At Orbia, we fulfill our Community Investment 2019 purpose through our solutions for resilience Our total community investment in 2019 amounted to $2.89 million, compared to $3.71 million in 2018 (which included a one-time donation to that address the the Reconstruyendo Mexico Fund of $1.2 million, following devastation of world’s pressing social the 2017 earthquakes). and environmental In 2019, our employees volunteered more than 17,000 hours, with an estimated impact on more than 840,000 people in our communities in 27 challenges. countries. At the same time, we believe in sharing our prosperity with the people and communities that are connected to our business, so that they can thrive. All our business Community Investment by Type, 2019 Community Investment by Region, 2019 operations maintain programs 8% for local impact, whether through engagement and support for social enterprises, or through philanthropy and employee volunteering in local communities. 4% U.S. & Canada Europe We work both at a corporate level to help fund multi-year strategic 54% 7% community projects that align Cash AMEA with areas of our core business expertise and disaster relief, and at local level, engaging directly with communities to help address a broad range of local challenges. This section presents a small 46% 81%LATAM selection of the multiple activities that we engage in and contribute In Kind to each day in our communities. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 57 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Providing Critical Support when Disaster Strikes We aim to be there when it counts, to use our resources and scale to provide relevant and immediate local assistance in times of emergency. Reconstructing Mexico: Our contribution to the Reconstruyendo Mexico fund with the Fundacion Kaluz continues to play a significant role in the multi-year work required to remediate the damage caused by the earthquakes of 2017 and rebuild communities. The focus of the work in 2019 has been improving educational outcomes at the rebuilt schools as well as delivery of 7 additional schools and 1 community center. This follows work in the first two years that aimed to provide immediate emergency relief and to rebuild resilience, schools and communities. The initiative also led to the development of a platform housing the most reliable reconstruction map in Mexico (http:// reconstruccion.mejoratuescuela.org). This map was selected to participate in the Paris Peace Forum in 2019. For more information, see: https:// fondodereconstruccion.mx/en/ Supporting Venezuelan refugees: Between July 2017 and January 2018, the number of Venezuelan refugees in Colombia increased to more than 800,000 people. Wavin, Koura and Vestolit and their employees have been supporting the provision of humanitarian assistance to meet basic needs such as food, shelter, health care and safety for these refugees through the NGO CADENA. In 2019, a team of volunteers from CADENA International, CADENA Colombia and colleagues from Orbia traveled to the Venezuelan – Colombian Border to work with the local shelter leaders to identify the best way to support displaced locals. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 58 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Advancing Access to Water and Hygiene Using our expertise and products, we support our communities through consolidated as a collaborative platform bringing together key stakeholders to ensure water security for the city. promoting water conservation, potable water systems and sanitation in a During 2019, it welcomed Procter & Gamble and Grupo Bimbo as new members, now comprising 10 global wide variety of ways. Examples from 2019 include: companies and organizations (including Orbia). Agua Capital co-organized the 2019 Water Funds Summit in Mexico, together with the Latin American Water Funds Partnership (Inter-American Development Bank, • Providing access to water through rainwater collection and irrigation FEMSA Foundation, the Global Environment Facility, The Nature Conservancy, and the International Climate systems. For example, in Colombia in 2018 and 2019, Wavin installed Initiative). The summit gathered over 300 experts from around the world and water authorities from Mexico 23 systems for schools and community gardens. Overall, since and Latin America. Orbia's Chairman, Juan Pablo del Valle was part of the opening panel and our water experts 2013, we have provided around 70 rainwater storage infrastructure participated in diverse discussion panels. The Fund is a key driver of the City's water agenda through different systems in Central America. Additionally, we also improve access to convening initiatives. water in remote communities through the donation of water purifiers for schools in India, water storage tanks to WaterAid in Colombia to New field projects include developing a water district to mitigate flooding risks and enable the efficient support indigenous communities and the provision of diverse water use of water in the south of the city. For more info: http://aguacapital.org services and infrastructure for communities near our Koura mine in Mexico. • Improving sanitation and hygiene In India, our Dura-Line operations What is a Water Fund? have supported a school in Hyderabad, constructing toilets for the pupils and funding cleaning services, installing large capacity water Project tanks and training pupils on hygiene and cleanliness. Balances Incentives upstream and downstream • Advancing awareness and capacity building for sanitation and e.g. cash, assistance, interests solutions for water infrastructure challenges through our Wavin-led materials plumber training program in South America and Turkey. In 2019, more than 12,700 plumbers participated in the training program, supported by Orbia volunteers and our investment of more than $363,000. • Investing in water security through our support for the Water Funds in Latin America. Since 2012, Orbia has partnered with the Latin Upstream Downstream community water users American Water Funds Partnership, contributing funding, resources Stewards and providers of Beneficiaries of and expertise, amounting to an investment of more than $450,000 to watershed services watershed services date. Orbia has supported six of the 24 Water Funds in Ecuador, Peru, Colombia and Mexico. In 2019, among the many examples of progress, Lake Ocean Guayaquil's FONDAGUA in Ecuador installed an irrigation system in a model farm to teach agricultural best practices to local farmers, while in Lima, Peru, AquaFondo supported installation of a micro-reservoir to serve 200 families and improvement of water infrastructure systems Watershed services for almost 1,000 people. In addition, Agua Capital, Mexico City's Water e.g. water purification, flood risk mitigation, aquifer recharge, Fund, chaired by Juan Pablo Del Valle (Chairman of Orbia), further erosion minimization Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 59 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Healthy Gardens for Healthy Communities Around the world, we advance food security through supporting community gardens where we provide equipment, seeds, drip irrigation systems and training in schools and local communities. In 2019, Netafim and Wavin have supported more than 70 initiatives in Israel, Brazil, Colombia and the U.S. At Netafim in Israel, for example, community gardening programs were delivered by our employee volunteers, reaching more than 1,300 children with garden kits, teaching them how to plant and grow herbs and vegetables. In 25 Arab villages in Israel, Netafim also provided “green walls” and all the equipment necessary to teach sustainability awareness and growing fruit, vegetables and herbs in vertical spaces. Water Challenge in Colombia 2019 We launched our fifth Wavin water challenge in Colombia, inviting young innovators to propose ideas to advance sustainable solutions in water, sanitation and hygiene. Four winning teams received funding from Wavin and practical assistance over three months to develop their ideas, out of a total of 79 proposals, of which 10 were shortlisted. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 60 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Housing for Better Living Eco-house advantages: • Fast construction: a house can be erected in two days • No construction waste: no concrete, bricks or other materials required • Low ongoing energy costs due to PVC natural insulation properties • Low maintenance costs over a long lifetime Helping people thrive means enabling access to a decent standard of Affordable eco-housing in Colombia: We are pioneering an alliance • Water efficiency housing. Among our several initiatives that support housing solutions for to deliver affordable, durable and recycled homes to help meet the with installed water underserved populations, examples from 2019 include: housing deficit in Colombia, a critical goal of the national government. collection In partnership with Habitat for Humanity and construction and building Partnering to help people live better in Brazil: More than 11 million favela-dwellers live in housing that is in poor condition and lacking basic materials companies, our solution, called Tambo, is a family unit home, • Easy cleaning – PVC made of prefabricated PVC panels which incorporate 30% recycled walls are durable and sanitation. Moradigna, a family-owned social enterprise, has a mission materials and deliver a housing unit which itself is 90% recyclable – to transform lives in the favelas by offering an all-inclusive renovation washable and is even equipped with its own rainwater collection system. Our Tambo package that meets decent living standards and building and housing solution is the first in Colombia to have gained CASA Colombia sanitation regulations. Clients are offered a zero-interest loan for (LEED-equivalent) certification by Colombia's Sustainable Construction repayment over a long period, making better living conditions accessible Council. The houses will support those who live in large city peripheries and to these low-income communities. Wavin partners with Moradigna by adjacent rural communities. As a start, the partnership, led by Vestolit with providing a monthly donation of products for use in housing renovations, support from Wavin, has donated two Tambo houses for two of Colombia's including PVC pipes and connections for cold water and sewage, water main National Parks, and plans are underway to construct a school using tanks and other plumbing and construction accessories. Also, Wavin’s the same design guidelines. engineers provide training for Moradigna’s plumbers and fitters. In 4 years, with our support, Moradigna has transformed the lives of 2,000 people with renovation of 600 houses. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 61 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Reforestation to Mitigate Climate Change Our Polymer Solutions, Building & Infrastructure and Precision Agriculture groups support multiple reforestation campaigns across several regions in Mexico, Guatemala, Israel and more. In 2019, our efforts supported the planting of more than 1,500 trees. Our teams around the world are also regularly involved in beach cleanups and protection of local animal life in a range of areas. Empowering Women and Children Through Education We aim to provide our communities with opportunities that improve education for young people, and advance women in technical professions. Across the world, we make a difference in several ways, including: • Schoolchildren in India: For the past three years, we have adopted government schools close to our Dura-Line factories in Hyderabad, Neemrana and Goa, attended by more than 750 pupils. Over the • Youth through agriculture in Israel: Netafim provides long-term support for Nitzan Farm, an years, we have contributed to facilitating education by providing ecological rehabilitation area that is cultivated and tended by hundreds of young volunteers. infrastructure, stationery, study materials and other equipment In 2019, Netafim provided equipment for the planting of 120 fruit trees and supported the to support a positive learning environment, as well as conducting establishment of a greenhouse. health camps, annual picnic and cultural events. In 2019, we donated a fully equipped computer lab with 15 computers to support the • Women in Israel: This past year, we started a new program called Women to Women , in schoolchildren in their studies. Our program is called Sugam which which women from Netafim volunteer as mentors for women from low-income communities means “empowering education” in Hindi. to help them understand and prepare themselves for career opportunities. Each mentoring relationship lasts six months and in the first year, 12 mentorship pairs successfully connected. • Schools and students in Mexico: Through our mine in San Additionally, Netafim supports the Desert Stars youth project that empowers Bedouin female Luis Potosi, Mexico, Koura launched a science program for rural leaders and improves lives in their community in the Negev desert. communities. The mine organized different events including a mobile planetarium, along with experts who taught science to school pupils. • Young STEM innovators in Germany: Our Vestolit team hosted The Youth Research In Koura’s Matamoros plant we organized an ecological camp, with (Jugend Forscht) Competition and worked with over 100 young innovators ​(ages 15-21) who environmental awareness and reforestation activities, in collaboration presented 50 projects spanning fields including STEM work environments, biology, chemistry, with local authorities and universities. the geoand space sciences, mathematics, physics and technology. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 62 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Appendix Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 63 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix About this Report This is Orbia’s 11th annual Sustainability Report covering the role we We welcome your feedback, queries and suggestions. Please contact us: play in society as a global business and our impacts on people, and the sustainability@orbia.com environment. Data in this report relates to the 2019 calendar year. Our last report was published in 2019 covering 2018 performance. The scope of information in this report is all global business under Orbia’s operational Thanks go to all our colleagues who have supported our sustainability control. All monetary figures in this report are expressed in USD unless activities and programs in the past year, as well as to Orbia's otherwise specified. Sustainability Team: Environmental data disclosed in this report includes manufacturing sites (not offices, warehouses, distribution centers or other sites). The number of Cristina Gil manufacturing sites covered in 2019 is 128, a lower number than in 2018 Vice President, Sustainability due to reclassification of some plants as part of larger sites and some plant closures. This figure includes all sites where we have operational control Naty Barak and excludes joint ventures where we have 50% or less ownership. Director, Sustainability Safety data disclosed includes all facilities including manufacturing sites, offices, warehouses, distributions centers, and R&D labs. Nisrene Haddad Director, Environmental Responsibility Environmental and Safety data covers sites that were active and operational during the reporting year, from their date of acquisition or up to Cecilia Valdes their date of disposal. Manager, Sustainability This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option. The selection of content for Angelica Anzola this report was informed by a set of material topics developed through Manager, Environment a process described in this report, in the section entitled: Orbia’s 2019 Materiality Assessment. The report also serves as our annual Mary Lynch Communication on progress for the UN Global Compact and the CEO Specialist, Corporate Responsibility and Communications Water Mandate, and tables showing our disclosures against these important initiatives are provided in the following pages. In addition, for the Candelaria Maldonado first time, we have aligned our reporting with the Sustainability Accounting Engineer, Sustainability Standards Board (SASB) 2018 Standard for Chemicals, and a table of our SASB disclosures is also included in the Appendix. Miguel Mancera Specialist, Sustainability data Our Sustainability Report was assured by an independent third party, and the assurance statement can be found in the following pages of this report. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 64 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix UN Global Compact Commitment Orbia endorses the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations and condemns all forms of human rights abuse, as stated in our Human Rights Policy. Orbia became a signatory to the UNGC at the participant tier level in 2018, committing to uphold and promote UNGC principles within our spheres of influence. This is our second Communication on Progress and we will report annually. UN Global Compact Principles Our Position 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of At Orbia, we acknowledge, respect and uphold human rights. Our Code of Ethics binds all employees around the world to the highest ethical internationally proclaimed human rights. standards and we reinforce ethical practices with communication, training and immediate attention to ethical issues as they arise. We maintain a 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights policy confirming our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other universally accepted standards. We drive human rights abuses. similar standards throughout our supply chain. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We aim to maintain a collaborative, open and positive effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. relationship with employees and address issues relating to their rights in a positive manner. We drive similar standards throughout our supply chain. 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced We do not engage in any practice which could be construed as forced labor. All Orbia employees are legally employed and join our business of and compulsory labor. their own free will. We drive similar standards throughout our supply chain. 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. We respect and support the rights of all children, and we are committed to preventing harm and actively safeguarding their interests. We do not employ children in any part of our business. We drive similar standards throughout our supply chain. 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and enjoy a high level of diversity among our workforce around the world. A key Orbia value is respect of employment and occupation. embracing diversity. Recruitment and human resources policies are designed to nurture inclusive practices for new and current employees in all matters relating to their employment with Orbia. See also our Diversity and Inclusion Policy. 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Many of Orbia’s products are designed to minimize environmental impacts, and provide benefits to our consumers, and to support sustainable 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater construction, smart cities, sustainable agriculture, water conservation and waste reduction. Such products form part of our customers’ own environmental responsibility. greenhouse gas emission reduction programs as they enable carbon-efficient operations. In our own operations, we work to reduce our toxic emissions, drive down our carbon and water footprints and act as environmental stewards in all that we do. 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, We are committed to behaving with integrity and acting against all forms of corruption. Our Code of Ethics and our Integrity and Anticorruption including extortion and bribery. Handbook guide our actions binding all employees to uphold these policies. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 65 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix UN CEO Water Mandate GRI Content Index The CEO Water Mandate is a special initiative of the UN Secretary-General and the UN Global GRI Standard 102: General Disclosures 2016 Page Compact, providing a multi-stakeholder platform to advance corporate water sustainability 102-1 Name of the organization 4 policies and practices. Orbia became a signatory to the CEO Water Mandate in 2018, 102-2 Activities, products, and services 4 confirming our commitment to sustainable water management and practices. This is our first 102-3 Location of headquarters 4 progress report to the CEO Water Mandate, as part of our GRI-based sustainability disclosure. 102-4 Location of operations 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form 4 Water Mandate Principles Our progress 102-6 Markets served 4 102-7 Scale of the organization 4 Element 1 Direct operations See section: Reducing water stress. 102-8 Information on employees GRI Content Index, page 68 Element 2 Supply chain and watershed We are beginning the process of analyzing our 102-9 Supply chain 4 management supply chain impacts and assessing our suppliers. 102-10 Significant changes In 2019, Orbia changed its name and From 2020, we plan to include water performance business structure, but the report boundaries are the same as in 2018. as part of our EcoVadis-based screening of 102-11 Precautionary Principle 48 suppliers and take a risk-based approach to managing performance. 102-12 External initiatives 65-66 Element 3 Collective action See section on our support for Water Funds in 102-13 Membership of associations GRI Content Index, page 69 Latin America and other initiatives. Advancing 102-14 Statement from senior manager 9 access to water and hygiene. 102-16 Values, principles, standards 5 Element 4 Public policy We do not make political contributions. We support 102-18 Governance structure 41 public policy on water through our engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI Content Index, page 70 with industry associations and support for Water 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements GRI Content Index, page 69 Funds. See section: Advancing access to water and 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI Content Index, page 70 hygiene. 102-43 Stakeholder engagement GRI Content Index, page 70 Element 5 Community engagement See section: Advancing access to water and 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised GRI Content Index, page 70 hygiene. GRI Standard 102: General Disclosures 2016 Page Element 6 Transparency We report on our water consumption and other 102-45 Entities included 64 water impacts in line with GRI Standards and SASB standards. 102-46 Report content and topic Boundaries 64 102-47 List of material topics 20 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period 64 102-51 Date of most recent report 64 102-52 Reporting cycle 64 102-53 Contact point 64 102-54 Reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 64 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index, page 66 102-56 External assurance 79 Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 66 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI Content Index Material Topic Standard Item Description DMA Disclosure Omissions Solutions for resilience Non-GRI topic Advancing Sustainable Solutions, pp23-39 Innovation Non-GRI topic Innovation Investment, p167 Circular economy Non-GRI topic Reusing, Reducing and Recycling Waste p53 Quality and safety of products GRI 416: 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of products 47 100% of our products are assessed Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of 47 None products Greenhouse gas emissions GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 48 GRI Content Index, p 71 Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity 48 GRI Content Index, p 71 GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 48 GRI Content Index, p 72 Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 48 GRI Content Index, p 72 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 48 GRI Content Index, p 72 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other air emissions 48 GRI Content Index, p 73 Water use and discharge GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 48 GRI Content Index, p 72 Water 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 48 GRI Content Index, p 73 Waste management* GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 48 GRI Content Index, p 74 Effluents and Waste 2016 306-3 Significant spills 48 None 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 48 None Employee development, GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 43 GRI Content Index, p 74 engagement and retention Training and Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 43 43 Diversity and Equal GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 45 GRI Content Index, p 75 Opportunities* Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Health and Safety GRI 403: 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker 46 100% of employees are represented by Occupational Health and Safety 2016 health and safety committees Health and Safety Committees or equivalent 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury 46 GRI Content Index, Breakdown by p 76 gender not available Investments in local GRI 413: 413-1 Operations with local community engagement 57 77% communities Local Communities 2016 GRI 203: 203-1 Infrastructure investments 57 57 Indirect economic impacts 2016 Ethical Behavior and GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 42 42 Partial disclosure Compliance* Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 307: 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 42 None Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 42 None Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 * Other material topics, not in the top ten most material topics. About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI Data Tables GRI 102-8 Information on employees 2018 2019 Employees by region and gender Women Men Undeclared Total Women Men Undeclared Total U.S. & CANADA 242 1,459 48 1,749 266 1,488 55 1,809 LATAM 1,860 8,910 5 10,775 1,871 8,896 7 10,774 EUROPE 1,202 4,918 117 6,237 1,246 5,044 25 6,315 AMEA 385 2,749 5 3,139 446 2,748 31 3,225 TOTAL 3,689 18,036 175 21,900 3,829 18,176 118 22,123 2018 2019 Employees by contract Women Men Undeclared Total Women Men Undeclared Total Full time 3,468 17,834 173 21,475 3,599 17,985 118 21,702 Part time 221 202 2 425 230 191 0 421 Permanent 3,591 17,653 174 21,418 3,634 17,654 118 21,406 Temporary 98 383 1 482 195 522 0 717 Non-payroll workers U.S. & CANADA LATAM EUROPE AMEA TOTAL 2018 82 636 607 799 2,124 2019 97 1,141 273 1,138 2,649 % in 2019 5% 11% 4% 35% 12% Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 68 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 102-13 Membership of associations The following are key global or regional associations we are members of or significantly support. There are several additional memberships we maintain on a country by country basis. Business Group Name of the Organization Country Fluor Global Forum for Advanced Climate Technologies (FACT) U.S. Fluor Asociacion Nacional de la Industria Química AC (ANIQ) Mexico Building & Infrastructure British Plastics Federation (BPF) UK Building & Infrastructure Asociación Mexicana de Industrias Plásticas A.C. (Mexican Association of Plastic Industries A.C.) (AMITUP) Mexico Precision Agriculture Irrigation Association U.S. Precision Agriculture Israel Export Institute Israel Precision Agriculture Sustainable Agriculture Initiative (SAI) Platform Global Data Communication Fiber to the Home Council Europe (FTTH) Czech Republic Data Communication Plastic Pipe Institute (PPI) U.S. Polymer Solutions The Vinyl Institute (VI) U.S. Polymer Solutions European Council of Vinyl Manufacturers (ECVM) VinylPlus Europe GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Employees with collective U.S. & CANADA LATAM EUROPE AMEA TOTAL bargaining agreements 2018 21 4,083 1,896 186 6,186 2019 21 7,689 4,588 128 12,426 % in 2019 1% 71% 73% 4% 56% Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 69 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders GRI 102-43 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders are individuals or groups who are affected by and influence our business operations. We engage with representatives of a wide group of stakeholders in order to gain insight that will help us minimize risk to our business, understand and benefit from opportunities and address stakeholder concerns and expectations. Our ongoing consultations with stakeholders have influenced the development of our sustainability strategy and priority sustainability issues. We conducted specific engagement to define our material topics in 2019. Who What How Customers Thousands of customers around the Customer service, quality and compliance, • Client meetings world in different business sectors. competitive pricing, overall value chain • Industry meetings and conferences efficiency. • Joint projects including workshops, training and education programs, and field trials. Employees More than 22,000 direct employees Professional development, fair • Satisfaction surveys in our businesses around the world. compensation and benefits, a safe and • Performance reviews healthy workplace, and meaningful work. • Internal communications Investors Current shareholders and Return on investment through constant • Annual financial and sustainability reporting institutional investors, investment and sustainable growth, robust governance, • Investor meetings and roadshows analysts and stock exchange. transparency. • Notifications through the Mexican Stock Exchange and the National Securities Commission Communities, NGOs Local communities close to Contribution and partnership to deliver • Partnerships in programs for local impact and academia our factories and broader long-term value that benefits communities • Meetings with NGOs, community leaders and local governments to understand national, regional and global and societies in general, engagement needs and identify common interests NGOs with interests relating to to understand community needs and • Academic forums on innovation and sustainable development economic development, social or responsiveness, and upholding human • Engagement with Research Centers environmental needs. rights. Suppliers and A wide range of thousands of Long-term commercial partnerships, fair • Supplier evaluation systems Distributors suppliers across all our business dealing, opportunities for diverse suppliers, • Supplier meetings sectors in tens of countries. fair negotiations. • Conferences and tradeshows • Joint projects Regulators National governments, regional Trusting relationships based on compliant • Public-private partnerships for social benefit councils and local municipalities in all and ethical conduct and respect for Human • Industrial guilds and associations the countries in which we operate. Rights, transparency and timely reporting, • Discussion forums on sector and social policies collaboration to advance public policy. • Government reviews and audits • Reporting on corporate performance Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 70 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Direct energy (Scope1) Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Natural gas MWh 2,709,492 2,526,510 2,450,339 2,112,939 2,519,303 19% Gasoline MWh 9,911 7,821 12,394 12,874 10,324 -20% Diesel MWh 55,243 60,467 78,805 78,895 98,929 25% LPG MWh 119,105 113,434 112,891 123,464 117,155 -5% Bio LPG and Bio Diesel MWh 696 Butane MWh 11,710 10,620 -9% Propane MWh 1,567 2,404 53% Coal MWh 192,298 198,269 183,184 169,816 -7% Renewable electricity generated MWh 1,773 Scope 1 (fuel and gas) MWh 2,893,751 2,900,530 2,852,698 2,524,633 2,931,020 16% Purchased electricity (grid) MWh 2,680,079 2,445,311 2,457,173 2,668,162* 2,580,558 -5% Renewable electricity purchased MWh 55,737 81,890 47% Scope 2 (electricity) MWh 2,680,079 2,445,311 2,457,173 2,723,899 2,662,448 -2.3% Total energy consumption MWh 5,573,830 5,345,841 5,309,871 5,248,532 5,593,468 5% Notes We do not include any purchased heating, cooling or steam. However, we plan to integrate this in the future. Renewable energy generated is from solar arrays at three sites (Cartagena, Colombia, Fresno, U.S, and Hardenberg, Netherlands). Precision agriculture business group data was included for the first time in 2018. A dash means data was not available. It does not indicate zero consumption. Heating powers of fuels were updated to more recent values in 2019. * Renewable electricity data was not reported separately in 2018. This value was included in conventional purchased electricity. GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Energy intensity Units 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 (fuel and gas mix) MWh / ton 0.64* 0.54* 0.36 Scope 2 (purchased electricity) MWh / ton 0.55* 0.58* 0.32 Total energy intensity MWh / ton 1.19 1.12 0.68 Notes: In 2019, we moved to a new methodology for calculating intensities, as requested by key stakeholders. Figures for 2019 show intensities on the basis of tons CO2e per ton of product manufactured (including production of intermediate materials). In prior years, intensities were calculated mainly on the basis of tons sold. Therefore, in 2019, intensity figures are not directly comparable to prior years, although they are a closer reflection of our actual impact. *MWh/ton sold Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 71 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water withdrawal Units 2017 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Surface water 1,000 m3 8,670 8,262 9,843 19% Groundwater 1,000 m3 5,178 5,341 4,861 -9% Municipal Water 1,000 m 3 2,480 2,150 1,242 -42% Total water withdrawal 1,000 m 3 16,328 15,753 15,946 1% Water withdrawal intensity 1,000 m /ton 3 3.66* 3.35* 1.93 -42% Notes: In 2019, water withdrawal allocations by source from 2 important sites was reclassified from groundwater and municipal water to surface water, due to an improvement in standardization of definitions, therefore resulting in significant variations by source. See note to calculation of intensities in GRI 302-3. *m3/ton sold GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Greenhouse gas emissions Units 2017 2018 2019 Change in 2019 GHG emissions Scope 1 Tons CO2e 587,487 575,204 588,002 2% GHG emissions Scope 2 Tons CO2e 1,173,202 1,215,035 1,046,742 -14% Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Tons CO2e 1,760,689 1,790,239 1,634,744 -9% GHG emissions market vs location based (2019) Units Market based Location Based GHG emissions Scope 2 Tons CO2e 1,046,742 1,119,078 GHG emissions intensity Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton 0.127 0.136 Notes: Scope 2 emissions are market based in 2019 and 2018, but location based in all prior years. For our Scope 2 market-based inventory, we are making efforts to increase emission factors sourced directly from suppliers, where not possible we still use national energy grid factors by country (2019 edition). Scope 1 emission factors for fuels and gases use DEFRA 2019 and EPA 2018 emission factors. CO2e refers to greenhouse gases carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) expressed as having the equivalent global warming impact as carbon dioxide. GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG emissions intensity Units Units 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Tons CO2e/ton 0.13* 0.12* 0.07 Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton 0.26* 0.26* 0.13 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton 0.39* 0.38* 0.20 Notes: See note to calculation of intensities in GRI 302-3 *CO2e/ton sold Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 72 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other air emissions NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Units 2017 2018 2019 Change in 2019 NOx Tons 779 689 753 9% SOx Tons 1,257 1,355 1,181 -12.9% VOC Tons 83 108 92 -14.4% Total other air emissions Tons 2,119 2,152 2,027 -5.8% Notes: 80% of our SOx emissions are generated at our Fluor site in Matamoros (Mexico) and our Polymer Solutions plant in Henry, Illinois. Emissions reduced significantly in 2019 due to a planned maintenance one-month shutdown at Matamoros and lower overall energy requirements at our Illinois site. VOCs data does not include our Vestolit facility in Marl, Germany GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water discharge Units 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Wastewater to sewer 1,000 m3 2,277 2,481 9% Wastewater to nature (surface) 1,000 m 3 8,257 9,408 14% Wastewater to nature (underground) 1,000 m 3 6 14 126% Total water discharge 1,000 m 3 10,540 11,902 13% Water discharge quality Units 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Total Suspended Solids (TSS) Tons 117 131 12% Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Tons 384 378 -1% Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Tons 116 87 -25% Total Organic Carbon (TOC) Tons 136 120 -12% Total solids Tons 753 716 -5% Water balance Units 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Water withdrawn 1,000 m 3 15,753 15,946 1% Water discharged 1,000 m3 10,540 11,902 13% Water consumed 1,000 m3 5,213 4,044 -22% Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 73 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Non-hazardous waste Units 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Landfill (includes controlled cells) Tons 25,259 24,485 -3% Reuse (includes composting) Tons 7,825 6,064 -22% Recycling Tons 17,766 29,073 18% Recovery (including energy recovery) Tons 1,833 2,001 9% Incineration Tons 1,724 1,654 -4% Other 926 Total non-hazardous waste Tons 54,407 56,104 3% Hazardous waste Units 2018 2019 Change in 2019 Landfill (includes confinement) Tons 2,544 1,599 -37% Reuse Tons 319 303 -5% Recycling Tons 314 2,122 576% Recovery (including energy recovery) Tons 5,936 3,634 -39% Incineration Tons 2,334 1,284 -45% Treatment Tons 979 4,250 334% Other 59 Total hazardous waste Tons 12,426 13,251 7% Total Waste Tons 66,833 69,355 4% GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Employee training by category (hours) 2018 2019 Managers and professional employees professionals 196,063 211,826 Other employees 277,696 310,416 All training hours 473,759 522,243 Average hours per employee per year 21.63 23.61 Note: 2% of total training hours are estimated Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 74 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Employees by level and age Age 2018 2019 Managers <age 30 112 94 age 30-50 1,442 1,548 >age 50 675 732 Professional employees <age 30 1,860 1,636 age 30-50 4,925 4,702 >age 50 1,632 1,449 Other employees <age 30 2,520 2,649 age 30-50 6,126 6,271 >age 50 2,608 2,617 All employees <age 30 4,492 4,379 age 30-50 12,493 12,521 >age 50 4,915 4,798 All employees by age as a percentage of <age 30 21% 20% total employees age 30-50 57% 58% >age 50 22% 22% Employees by level and gender Level 2018 2019 Women Managers 388 452 Professional employees 2,294 2,301 Other employees 1,007 1,076 Men Managers 1,841 1,922 Professional employees 6,123 5,486 Other employees 10,247 10,461 % of women by level Managers 17% 19% Professional employees 27% 30% Other employees 9% 9% All employees 17% 18% Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 75 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix GRI 403-2 Injury rates All Orbia 2019 Employees Contractors Total Injuries (TRIR) 0.76 0.48 0.71 Lost day rate (severity) 6.67 5.14 6.62 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.36 0.20 0.33 Injury rates by region (TRIR) Injury rates by region (TRIR) Employees 2018 2019 Contractors 2018 2019 U.S. & CANADA 2.05 2.03 U.S. & CANADA 1.81 0.0 LATAM 0.89 0.52 LATAM 0.25 0.4 EUROPE 1.17 0.76 EUROPE 1.61 2.1 AMEA 0.90 0.85 AMEA 1.01 0.0 TOTAL 1.08 0.76 TOTAL 0.69 0.48 Lost time injury rates by region (LTIR) Lost time injury rates by region (LTIR) Employees 2018 2019 Contractors 2019 U.S. & CANADA 0.54 0.37 U.S. & CANADA 0.00 LATAM 0.34 0.26 LATAM 0.19 EUROPE 0.34 0.28 EUROPE 0.65 AMEA 0.59 0.77 AMEA 0.00 TOTAL 0.37 0.36 TOTAL 0.20 Lost day rates by region (severity) Lost day rates by region (severity) Employees 2018 2019 Contractors 2018 2019 U.S. & CANADA 17.08 6.24 U.S. & CANADA 0.00 0.0 LATAM 15.89 4.90 LATAM 0.71 3.6 EUROPE 16.77 5.78 EUROPE 9.82 23.4 AMEA 17.73 14.09 AMEA 14.13 0.0 TOTAL 16.44 6.67 TOTAL 5.01 5.14 Total fatalities by region Total fatalities by region Employees 2018 2019 Contractors 2018 2019 U.S. & CANADA 0 0 U.S. & CANADA 0 0 LATAM 0 0 LATAM 0 1 EUROPE 1 0 EUROPE 0 0 AMEA 0 0 AMEA 0 0 TOTAL 1 0 TOTAL 0 1 Notes: • Regrettably, we experienced a single contractor fatality at our site in Altamira, Mexico in 2019. During cleaning operations after the work was completed, the person was crushed by the machinery and died in hospital. We regret this loss and have fully investigated and taken measures to prevent recurrence. • Safety rates are calculated per 200,000 hours. • Employee LTIR rates in 2018 exclude Netafim Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 76 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix SASB Index: Chemicals Sustainability Accounting Standard INDUSTRY STANDARD | VERSION 2018-10 Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Location Greenhouse Gas Gross global Scope 1 emissions, percentage covered under emissions-limiting Quantitative RT-CH-110a.1 GRI 305. Operations covered under Emissions regulations emissions regulations not currently calculated. Discussion of long-term and short-term strategy or plan to manage Scope 1 Discussion and RT-CH-110a.2 See section: Bold steps for climate mitigation emissions, emissions reduction targets and an analysis of performance against Analysis those targets Air Quality Air emissions of the following pollutants: (1) NOX (excluding N2O), (2) SOX, (3) Quantitative RT-CH-120a.1 GRI 305-7 volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and (4) hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) Energy Management (1) Total energy consumed, (2) percentage grid electricity, (3) percentage Quantitative RT-CH-130a.1 GRI 302 renewable, (4) total self-generated energy Water Management (1) Total water withdrawn, (2) total water consumed, percentage of each in regions Quantitative RT-CH-140a.1 GRI 303-1 with high or extremely high baseline water stress See section Reducing water stress for details of consumption in water stress areas. Number of incidents of non-compliance associated with water quality permits, Quantitative RT-CH-140a.2 Not currently disclosed. standards and regulations Description of water management risks and discussion of strategies and practices Discussion and RT-CH-140a.3 See section: Reducing water stress. to mitigate those risks Analysis Hazardous Waste Amount of hazardous waste generated, percentage recycled Quantitative RT-CH-150a.1 GRI 306-2 Management Community Relations Discussion of engagement processes to manage risks and opportunities associated Discussion and RT-CH-210a.1 GRI 102-44 with community interests Analysis Workforce Health & (1) Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) and (2) fatality rate for (a) direct employees Quantitative RT-CH-320a.1 GRI 403-2 Safety and (b) contract employees Description of efforts to assess, monitor and reduce exposure of employees and Discussion and RT-CH-320a.2 See section: Improving health and safety. contract workers to long-term (chronic) health risks Analysis Product Design for UseRevenue from products designed for use-phase resource efficiency Quantitative RT-CH-410a.1 Not currently disclosed. phase Efficiency Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 77 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Topic Accounting Metric Category Code Location Safety & Environmental (1) Percentage of products that contain Globally Harmonized System of Quantitative RT-CH-410b.1 Not currently disclosed. Stewardship of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) Category 1 and 2 Health and Chemicals Environmental Hazardous Substances, (2) percentage of such products that have undergone a hazard assessment Discussion of strategy to (1) manage chemicals of concern and (2) develop Discussion and RT-CH-410b.2 See section: Working with safe materials: alternatives with reduced human and/or environmental impact Analysis In Improving health and safety. Genetically Modified Percentage of products by revenue that contain genetically modified organisms Quantitative RT-CH-410c.1 None Organisms (GMOs) Management of the Discussion of corporate positions related to government regulations and/or policy Discussion and RT-CH-530a.1 Not currently disclosed. Legal & Regulatory proposals that address environmental and social factors affecting the industry Analysis Environment Operational Process safety incidents count (PSIC), process safety total incident rate (PSTIR) and Quantitative RT-CH-540a.1 See section: Advances in process safety. Safety, Emergency process safety incident severity rate (PSISR) Partially reported. Preparedness & Response Number of transport incidents Quantitative RT-CH-540a.2 Not currently disclosed. Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 78 About Orbia Our Impact Advancing Sustainable Solutions Advancing Responsible Business Appendix Assurance Statement Orbia 2019 Sustainability Report 79
