Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Contents Editorial Policy Editorial Policy and Contents 1 The Mitsubishi Logistics Group (the “Group”) has issued Top Message 2 this Environmental and Social Report each year since fiscal 2007 to fulfill its accountability about the effects of its Introduction of Businesses 4 business activities on society and the environment. To disclose the goals, details and achievements of its Promotion of CSR CSR activities from the perspectives of the Group’s CSR Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business 6 management, this Report describes precisely and in an Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. easy-to-understand manner the promotion of CSR as well Promotion of CSR for every employee; Emphasis on communication 9 as each of the seven core subjects described in the Confirmation of major CSR activities 10 “Guidance on Social Responsibility” (JIS Z 26000, ISO 26000). This Guidance is a global standard for CSR Organizational Governance established by the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Corporate Governance; Promoting the realization of 12 the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). our corporate philosophy and strategies Review of goals, standards, etc.; Entrenchment of the compliance of 13 Boundary of the Report and Reporting Period standards, etc.; Confirmation of the implementation process of action plans Boundary of The Report covers Mitsubishi Logistics the Report: Corporation (the “Company”) and Group Respect for Human Rights companies. Improvement of awareness of human rights; 14 Respecting human rights through business activities Reporting This Report covers our business activities for the Period: period from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019. To Appropriate Working Environment ensure comprehensive disclosure, however, certain relevant information regarding events that Respect for labor-management relations; Employment and the importance 15 of the employment relationship; Rewarding and friendly working conditions occurred prior to and/or after this period have Ensuring the safety of workers 18 been included. Human resources development and training 19 Publication Date Environmental Conservation (Previous publication date: February 2019) Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for 22 February, 2020 reducing climate change (Next planned publication date: February 2021) Use of renewable resources; Contribution to the 25 recovery of the eco-system Reference Guidelines JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) ISO Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities 26000: 2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and 26 Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting promotion of fair and open competition Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Guidelines (GRI Standards) Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial high-quality services 27 Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions 29 Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the Environmental and Social Report Coordination with Local Communities and International Society CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Contribution to cultural activities; Contribution 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation through activities in local communities, etc. Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 Practice of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles 36 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Company Profile 37 You may view some of the relevant data and the reference table for Global Reporting Initiative Web (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Standards) on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site. “Extended version” https://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/extended_version.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version “GRI Guidelines reference table” https://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/griguideline.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>GRI Guidelines reference table Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 1 Top Message Mitsubishi Logistics Group focuses on friendly activities and engages in business activities, contributing to affluent and sustainable society. Introduction Mitsubishi Logistics continues to uphold its corporate philosophy, which states, “Engage in sincere and fair business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our stakeholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society.” To realize this corporate philosophy, the Group has stipulated the Code of Conduct. Our Group companies work in cooperation to carry out our logistics business both in Japan and around the world, organically and comprehensively managing each business area through our information network, starting with our core warehousing business, and including overland transportation, port and harbor operations, and international transportation. Our real estate business focuses on leased buildings constructed on company-owned property. Of especial note, the involvement of our logistics operations in every industry countrywide provides a key function in the economic foundation as a highly public social infrastructure not only under normal circumstances, but also in case of natural disasters or other emergencies. We continue to make the utmost effort to support the daily lives of people everywhere and the business activities of our customers at every level of product procurement, production and sales. First Year of the Management Plan (2019–2021) Masao Fujikura The current fiscal year is the first year of the Management Plan (2019-2021), which started in April President 2019. Overseas, the U.S. economy continued to steadily recover and a moderate recovery was seen in Europe. The economy in China also continued a pick-up trend. The Japanese economy recovered gradually as employment conditions, personal consumption as well as exports steadily improved, and investment in plant and equipment increased moderately. 2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 global environmentsincere and fair the realization of an In these circumstances, this plan is designed to for the UN Global Compact, which is a set of move forward with measures already under way, universally accepted CSR-related principles. The without changing the fundamental concept of Company considers complying with internationally pursuing the growth potential in overseas businesses accepted norms in the areas of human rights, labor, while ensuring profitability in the domestic the environment and anti-corruption as fulfilling its businesses. social responsibility in its business activities and With the establishment of this new management leading to an affluent and sustainable society. To plan, we have defined the ideal image of the firmly instill this stance throughout the entire Group, Mitsubishi Logistics Group, the “MLC2030 Vision,” we have clarified that we promote CSR activities as a that we ought to pursue towards the year 2030. specific strategy in the management plan, and have incorporated such initiatives in specific measures. Our logistics and real estate business activities are deeply connected to society. To earn recognition The MLC2030 Vision for the value of our existence as a member of society Contributing to the improvement of and continue to grow in the future, the Group needs customer’s value, we offer comprehensive to steadily implement the goals set forth in the plan. logistics solutions to the management of In particular, taking into account the increased customer’s supply chains, from procurement demand for reducing natural disaster risk stemming to distribution/sales, as their partner. from the global increase in natural disasters, we are promoting the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses equipped with reinforced The Group positions the new medium-term disaster-prevention functions and enhanced global management plan as the first stage to make a step environmental measures, as well as Disastertoward the achievement of the MLC2030 Vision, and Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings that have has chosen “Mitsubishi Logistics Group’s growth similar functions. As part of this initiative, in strategy to be achieved through Innovation” as the September 2014, the Nihonbashi Dia Building (of subtitle for the plan. We have already commenced which the lower floors are used as the Company’s initiatives directed towards 2030. Head Office and trunk rooms) was completed, followed by the Seishin Distribution Center in Kobe in March 2018, and the Ibaraki Distribution Center No.4 in Osaka in July 2018. We also intend to continue initiatives for global environmental measures from the Initiatives for CSR management perspective of biodiversity. With the establishment of our Code of Conduct in 1997, we have clearly demonstrated our stance and approach toward further enhancing our level of adherence to relevant laws and regulations, Conclusion disclosing appropriate corporate information, addressing and As the Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues, now resolving global environmental and in the future, to place top priority on sincerity and issues, and providing safe, fairness, supporting customers’ value creation based high-quality and socially useful on principles that give weight to the global services. In addition, the environment while fulfilling our responsibilities to Company approved and society with stable growth, we ask for your continued declared in May 2014 its support understanding and support. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 3 Introduction of Businesses Residences Office buildings The Mitsubishi Logistics Group provides high-quality services to Retail facilities support people’s affluent lives and corporate activities through the Logistics segment businesses centering on the warehousing and distribution business and the Real Estate segment businesses centering on the leasing of buildings. Real estate development and leasing Air transportation Warehouses and distribution centers Port and harbor transportation Domestic Ocean transportation Trunk room service Overland transportation Trucking and railway transportation Logistics information system Logistics services Warehousing and Distribution Business Overland Transportation Business We are able to meet a broad range of customized logistics needs through the In Japan, we extend and reinforce the optimal distribution system for each customer full integration of warehouses and distribution centers, which are located at through a tactical combination of our national, trunk-line transit network, which is major ports and key inland transportation areas nationwide; our transportation supported by Ryoso Transportation within the Group and excellent local counterparts, and delivery networks; and the logistics information systems that organically link and independent collection and delivery services linking local areas. We have them. In this business, fixed temperature storage and refrigerated warehouses expanded our transportation service for small-quantity, joint delivery needs especially for pharmaceuticals and fresh and processed foods are sufficiently offered in for foods and pharmaceuticals. In addition, we offer cargo feature-specific, diversified addition to ordinary warehouses for room temperature storage to ensure the transportation/delivery services including ocean freight container transportation for provision of safe and efficient storage/distribution processing/delivery services import and export cargo and the transportation of heavy goods such as plant facilities. using our original information technology and the latest facilities. Meanwhile, we Moreover, we endeavor to realize eco-friendly, safe and secure transportation services strive to reduce the environmental impact by by drawing on our information technology and promoting green management. promoting green management. Furthermore, we Furthermore, with the start of the “DP-Cool,” a high-quality pharmaceuticals delivery are active in the construction of advanced service with temperature control provided by Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., facilities that aim to coordinate with local our subsidiary that specializes in the delivery of pharmaceuticals, we strive to realize communities under the concept of Disasterthe further sophistication of transportation quality. Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse equipped with a solar power generation system and emergency power generators. One such model warehouse is the Seishin Distribution Center in Kobe, which was completed in March 2018, and another is the Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4 in Osaka, which was completed in July 2018. 4 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Real Estate Business We are involved in the real estate business in all six major cities of Japan—Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka. In addition to activities such as the redevelopment of properties based on the optimum application of each property’s features and the leasing of approximately 50 real estate facilities (offices, retail facilities and residences), totaling almost 900,000 m2 of total floor space, we are involved in the sales of condominiums. We are also active in developing Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which will help our customers enhance their business continuity and reduce their environmental burden. Air transportation Import/Export Overseas Shipping Agent and Customs clearance Ocean transportation Port and harbor transportation Overland transportation Shipping-related Trucking and operations railway transportation Port and Harbor Operation Business International Transportation Business We provide secure high-quality logistics services including In response to increasingly diversifying customers’ logistics container terminal operations for integrated port and harbor needs, we propose optimum transportation routes door-tooperations at all major Japanese ports, namely Tokyo, door worldwide tailored to every customer’s request by taking Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Hakata, to meet every advantage of our global network and a variety of transportation kind of customer need. We also offer a wide range of other means such as vessels, aircraft, railway and trucks. Meanwhile, marine shipping related services such as importing/exporting our overseas operating bases provide comprehensive logistics of vessels, ship registration, and agency operations for services such as cargo transportation, customs clearance and special ships such as oil-drilling rigs. storage of goods, as well as logistics related support services such as consulting on legal systems and procedures in the respective areas for customers who plan to launch into foreign markets. Furthermore, we will not limit ourselves only to transport operations, and will further promote worldwide our logistics know-how, which the Company has accumulated over its history of more than 130 years. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 5 Promotion of CSR The Mitsubishi Logistics Group utilizes the “Guidance on Social Responsibility,” complies with the “seven principles of social responsibility”* in the practice of its social responsibility and strengthens various activities categorized under the seven core subjects of social responsibility. Each core subject is of equal priority, and is equally important. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group streamlines an integrated mechanism (with components such as philosophy, principles, policies, systems, dialogue and confirmation) to ensure that a socially responsible corporate culture exists within the Group and is conducted through the practice of CSR-based activities, aiming to increase its corporate value. * See the chart on the right. April 2019 Employee Welcoming Ceremony Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. Mission, Vision, Sense of Values, Principles and the Code of Conduct The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy (“Sankoryo”) The Mitsubishi Sankoryo is a managerial creed articulated by the fourth president of the Mitsubishi organization, Koyata Iwasaki. The Sankoryo serves as a basic philosophy of an internally and externally open group being shared by the constituent Mitsubishi Group companies that are independent from each other. The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business Strive to enrich society, both materially and Maintain principles of transparency Expand business, based on an spiritually, while contributing toward the and openness, conducting business all-encompassing global preservation of the global environment. with integrity and fairness. perspective. Code of Conduct We have established the following Code of Conduct to realize our corporate philosophy ( see page 2: Top Message) based on the spirit of the Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy. Code of Conduct We engage in business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our employees and stockholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. 1. We shall comply with laws, ordinances and rules that enable us to honestly and fairly carry out business activities without deviating from social norms. 2. We shall appropriately disclose corporate information in a timely manner to enhance broad communications with society. 3. We shall continue to have no contact or relations with any antisocial forces that might pose a threat to the public order and safety of civil society. 4. We recognize the importance of environmental issues and shall actively cooperate with diverse activities for environmental preservation. 5. We shall provide people with safe, high-quality and socially valuable services, and endeavor to conduct social contribution projects as a “good corporate citizen” while taking into account coordination with local communities and international society. (Established on December 16, 1997, and revised on August 29, 2005) Each subsidiary shall establish its own Code of Conduct in compliance with this Code of Conduct. Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi Logistics Group Enhance our commitment to customer satisfaction, Provide ideal working environments while ensuring earning our customers’ trust through high-quality Customers Employees the safety and professional growth of the employee. logistics and real estate services. Aim to manage internal information strictly and Mitsubishi Shareholders Public Perform fair business activities by complying disclose information at the appropriate time and in & investors Logistics administration with laws, rules and social norms. the appropriate manner, in accordance with the law. Group Develop common interests with local Local Sincere and fair business activities Suppliers communities as a good corporate citizen. communities based on mutual trust. 6 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility Seven Core Subjects of Social Responsibility and Their Expressions in the Group An organization An organization should be Holistic Coordination with Respect for should respect human transparent in its decisions approach rights and recognize Respect for and activities that have Local Communities and Community Human Rights Transparency International Society both their importance human rights impact on society and the Involvement Human and their universality. environment. and Rights Development An organization Accountability Organizational Governance should respect Respect for An organization An organization Provision of Safe, Appropriate Consumer Labor international norms international should be Ethical should behave Observance of High-Quality and Issues Organization Practices Working of behavior, while accountable for its adhering to the norms of impacts on society behavior ethically at all these principles Useful Services Environment times. principle of respect behavior and the for the rule of law. environment. Fair Operating The Practices Environment An organization should Respect for An organization should accept that respect for Respect for respect, consider and Fulfillment of Sincere and stakeholder Fair Business Activities Environmental the rule of law is the rule of law respond to the interests of Interdependence Conservation mandatory. interests its stakeholders. (Source: Prepared with partial modification by the Company based (Source: Edited by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)”) on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)” chart) Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the Environmental Policy to clearly present its Group-wide stance on consideration of the global environment based on our “Code of Conduct.” Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes the importance of environmental issues, promoting activities for environmental preservation through corporate activities that are friendly to the environment while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1. We comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment. 2. We endeavor for the training and enlightenment to raise the awareness of executives and employees about the environment and positively commit ourselves to environmental preservation activities with the recognition that involvement in environmental issues is indispensable to our corporate activities. 3. We strive to restrict our environmental impact by efficiently utilizing the resources and energy that are essential to our business activities, implementing eco-friendly logistics equipment and facilities, purchasing eco-friendly goods and promoting the reduction of waste volume and recycling. 4. We regularly verify our initiatives regarding environmental issues to continually improve our involvement. 5. We make the Environmental Policy known to all parties affiliated with the Group and disclose it publicly. (Established on December 29, 2006) Environmental Voluntary Plan We have formulated the MLC-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan as a specific policy pertaining to the Environmental Policy to review and implement specific measures in view of “measures to address future strengthening of regulations” and “maintaining and ensuring the competitive edge of our businesses.” The specific measures of the guidelines include efforts related to facilities and equipment such as implementation of solar and wind power generators and greening of rooftops and walls, and efforts related to handling equipment and vehicle including enforcement of idling-stop practice and eco-driving, as well as selection of environment-conscious suppliers. Based on these measures, the Group promotes Group-wide environmental measures including appropriate responses to laws and regulations. Our Declaration of Quality Our Group has formulated “Our Declaration of Quality” to be an enterprise that grows by gaining the trust of stakeholders including customers in accordance with the “Code of Conduct.” Our Declaration of Quality Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation works hard to ensure that our corporate activities help to create an affluent and sustainable society. Providing services that are safe, high-quality and of benefit to society is one of the most important pillars supporting our corporate activities. It is with this in mind that we strive continuously for quality improvement. 1. We always think from the customer’s standpoint and listen to the customer with sincerity, working to provide quality services that will win the trust and satisfaction of all our customers. 2. We abide by the relevant laws and regulations, and by conducting periodic inspections and implementing improvement efforts daily in the areas of safety and quality, our Group-wide quest is to achieve constant quality improvement. 3. We value communication and endeavor to provide an energetic work environment in which each member of the Company can be motivated by sincerity and pride to strive for quality improvement. (Established on September 1, 2008) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 7 Promotion of CSR The MLC2030 Vision We have newly established the MLC2030 Vision as the The MLC2030 Vision ideal image of the Mitsubishi Logistics Group in 2030 Contributing to the improvement of ( see page 3: Top Message). customer’s value, we offer comprehensive Our growth strategies aimed at achieving this vision logistics solutions to the management of are as follows. customer’s supply chains, from procurement to distribution/sales, as their partner. 1. Establish a customer-oriented support system 3. Secure stable profits in the port and harbor The Group will establish a customer-oriented support system transportation and the real estate businesses with a focus on the medical/health care, food/beverage, and The Group will further enhance the competitiveness of the port machinery/electrical machine industries as priority areas, and will and harbor transportation business by leveraging its cargo take on comprehensive supply chain challenges as the handling services, which ranks the highest globally for efficiency, customer’s partner. Through these efforts, the Group will seek to while at the same time developing commercial complexes and expand its business domain and boost its market share. facilities and boosting its operational capability in the real estate 2. Expand overseas businesses business. By doing so, the Group will seek to secure stable The Group will move forward with system enhancements to profits. support customer supply chains in the medical/health care and 4. Improve operational processes and further food/beverage industries and strengthen its forwarding business utilization of new technologies with demand for high-quality cold chains*1 expected to grow in The Group will review the operational processes of all businesses a number of regions such as Southeast Asia (ASEAN). and facilitate efficient operations by utilizing new technologies *1 Services providing uninterrupted temperature-controlled such as IoT, AI and robotics. Through these efforts, it aims to transport and distribution for refrigerated goods. improve service quality and production efficiency. 5. Strengthen the Group management base The Group aims for growth by strengthening cost competitiveness through organizational management across the Company and its Group companies and securing/developing human resources, particularly in the priority areas. Management plan (2019–2021) The following is an outline of the plan. 1. Positioning of the New Medium-term 2. Financial targets Management Plan (2019-2021) Figures of consolidated business results (Unit: ¥billion) The Group has established the New Medium-term Operating Operating Ordinary Management Plan (2019-2021) as its first step in revenue income income achieving the MLC2030 Vision. We will implement the Actual results for following measures during the three fiscal years from FY2018 227.1 12.6 17.3 FY2019 to FY2021. Targets for 240.0 14.5 17.1 1. Strengthening the business foundations of FY2021 the priority areas Consolidated operating revenue Consolidated operating income 2. Establishing a system that leverages new (Unit: ¥billion) 300 (Unit: ¥billion) 20.0 technologies 240.0 227.1 14.5 15.0 12.6 3. Maintaining competitiveness in the port 200 and harbor transportation business 10.0 100 4. Developing commercial complexes and other 5.0 facilities for the real estate business and 0 0 improving the organizational structure thereof to FY2018 (results) FY2021 (targets) FY2018 (results) FY2021 (targets) strengthen operational capabilities 3. Financial strategy 5. Bolstering production efficiency through more With respect to the raising of funds for new investments, efficient operational processes and other means the Group seeks to boost its financial leverage through a range of measures such as borrowings and the issuance 6. Improving operational conditions to reform of corporate bonds, while following the principle of workstyles and create innovation maintaining financial soundness. 7. Increasing shareholder returns 4. Investment plan During the plan period, the Group plans to make investments totaling ¥100.0 billion (¥50.0 billion in 8. Promoting CSR-oriented management logistics and ¥50.0 billion in real estate). 8 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Web You may view the news releases on the actual performance data on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Promotion of CSR for every employee HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version CSR & Compliance Handbook Information disclosure The Group prepared the Mitsubishi Logistics Group We have an IR information page on the official Company website. CSR & Compliance Handbook (63 pages in A5 format) We use the information page to provide IR information, such to nurture the awareness of each as management planning and policy, stock information, an IR employee on CSR and compliance. calendar, financial data, and IR information such as flash report, The handbook was distributed to all securities report, English version of annual report, business executives and employees within the report, and consolidated results briefings. Group in January 2012 for their daily We also have an English version of the IR information page reference. available for overseas shareholders and investors, and are We position the handbook as a working towards more access to information disclosure for starting point to help them address overseas and international stakeholders. small questions and significant issues CSR & Compliance in their routine business operations. Handbook Dialogue between shareholders/ investors, analysts and top management CSR and Compliance Awareness Survey Easy-to-understand shareholders’ meetings When we hold a shareholders’ meeting, we strive to provide The Company and domestic Group companies provide easy-to-understand information for the convenience of attending Web-based surveys on awareness based on the shareholders by using video business reports with narration. Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Results briefing Handbook and the Environmental and Social Report to Company holds results disseminate the understanding of CSR and compliance. briefings twice a year (May The surveys aim to increase employees’ awareness by and November) for investors providing occasions in which every employee thinks of and analysts. In addition to familiar issues and finds the answers. the explanation of the settled accounting results, the top management of the Company Training on CSR and Compliance explains management policies Results briefing for analysts and the progress of As measures to address the status of compliance with the Code management plans, conducts Q&A and transmits a variety of of Conduct and any issues noted in the internal audit results, we management information. We are active in encouraging dialogue endeavor to establish good working environments by with market players not only through transmission of the disseminating and entrenching our corporate philosophy and information desired by investors and analysts but also by the Code of Conduct and promoting CSR. integrating the feedback of useful views therefrom in our actual As for compliance, we hold training sessions concerning business judgment. compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Web You may view the materials for the results briefing on Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors with an emphasis Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the IR Information page. on training and confirmation regarding the methods for HOME>INVESTOR RELATIONS>IR Information>Presentation managing and handling relevant documents, and the obligations and prohibitions of the main subcontracting enterprise. Internal reporting system Web Actual performance data on the CSR and compliance awareness survey and the training on CSR and compliance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” To ensure early detection of actions that violate legal HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social ordinances or corporate regulations, as well as actions that are Report>Extended version in danger of violating such rules, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group has established a corporate ethics help line (Contact: CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division) as an internal Emphasis on communication whistleblowing and consultation mechanism to reinforce compliance management. To raise the degree of recognition and encourage use of Timely and appropriate news releases the system, at the time of the “Check of the Compliance of the Code of Conduct” in December 2018 we checked whether all As the Group emphasizes the principles of social executives and regular employees of the Group were familiar responsibility such as accountability and transparency with our internal reporting system and whether they intended in organizational decision making, news releases on to use the system. Consequently, it was confirmed that almost business activities are disclosed at the appropriate time all the respondents expressed an affirmative opinion, and in the appropriate manner. suggesting widespread recognition of the system. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 9 Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major CSR activities The Group is committed to CSR activities so that socially responsible behavior will be disseminated among employees as part of a willing cooperate culture. Checklist for the confirmation of major CSR activities Core subjects Tasks Objectives/Goals Promoting the realization of our corporate Organizational philosophy and strategies Review of goals, Reinforce CSR and compliance Governance standards, etc. Respect for Human Improvement in the awareness of human rights Respect human rights Rights Demonstrate every employee’s personality and competence, Rewarding and friendly working conditions undertake necessary security procedures, and support the coexistence of employees’ working life and home life Appropriate Working Environment Ensuring the safety of workers Ensuring the safety of workers Develop competent human resources who meet the requirements Human resources development and training of global human resources and who can manage global operations Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for Further reinforce environmental countermeasures reducing climate change Environmental Preserve resources by reducing the environmental Conservation Use of renewable resources impact Implement global environmental measures from Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system biodiversity perspectives Fulfillment of Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and Reinforce CSR and compliance Sincere and Fair promotion of fair and open competition Upgrade information security management Business Activities Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial Improve service quality high-quality services Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service Maintain infrastructure in case of disasters functions Coordination with Contribution to cultural activities Contribute to cultures in local communities, etc. Local Communities and International Society Contribution through donations, etc. Support to victims of disasters 10 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 We summarize hereunder the setting of “Objectives/Goals,” the planning of “Activity process” and the confirmation of “Achievements/Results” with regard to major CSR activities that are categorized under the Seven Core Subjects in accordance with the “Guidance on Social Responsibility” guidelines. Division/Chamber/ Activity process (Plan) Achievements/Results Branch and/or Group companies in charge Review of the previous management plan and establishment of the new management plan General Affairs Division Disseminate the corporate philosophy and the management plan. Worksite meeting held every month (dissemination of our corporate philosophy Personnel Division Deliberate how to promote CSR at the CSR and Compliance Committee. and our Management Plan). Planning & Business Strive to improve the understanding of the Code of Conduct and the awareness Mar. 2019: Held the CSR and Compliance Committee meeting (for CSR promotion). Coordination Division of compliance. FY2018: Check for compliance with the Code of Conduct; Number of participants: 4,291. Other Divisions, Chambers FY2018: Compliance Awareness Survey; Number of participants: 3,399 (Web-based check). and Branches Strive to disseminate the awareness of respect for human rights among all employees by establishing a dedicated promotion system. FY2018 Human rights awareness training; held with 58 participants. Personnel Division Conduct education on human rights. Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit of creating worksites where Self-declaration once a year and interviews for appraisal conducted three times a employees can demonstrate their personality and competence. year. Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to maintain and Conducted “Health Promotion” seminars and annual health checkups. Personnel Division enhance employees’ health. FY2018 beneficiaries of the child-care leave system: 13 persons; beneficiaries of Promote a work-life balance to support the sound development of the next-generation children. the general care leave system: 34 persons. Work on industrial safety and health-related activities among operating bases Monthly convening of Industrial Safety and Health Committee. Personnel Division in an aim to prevent industrial accidents. Number of serious industrial accidents in the Port and Harbor Operation Business: Harbor Transportation Promote the prevention of industrial accidents and conduct periodic disaster zero. Business Division prevention drills and meetings in the Harbor Transportation Business Division. Branches Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to FY2018 logistic training with 229 participants. corporate growth but also to social development. Securing opportunities to take training programs through e-learning courses. Personnel Division Promote the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses and Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which focus on ensuring business FY2018: The existing lighting devices (around 790 units in total) at our warehouses Technical Division continuity in case of a disaster and considerations for the global environment. were changed to LED lighting. Branches Enhance the shift of existing lighting devices to LED lighting. We promote the implementation of large-scale solar power generation Started operation of solar power generation equipment at the Ibaraki Distribution Warehousing and Distribution equipment in existing equipment in line with the government’s policy of Center No. 4 in Osaka in July 2018, with a total output of 169 kW. Business Division enhancing the use of renewable energy. Since Mar. 2016: The Eitai Dia Building has been certified as a “Near-Top-Level Real Estate Division Expand the use of environmental-friendly vehicles for company vehicles. Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Technical Division Promote the reduction of waste. Branches Conduct reforestation through volunteer activities and donations as a partner Oct. 2018: Reforestation activities held with 32 participants. General Affairs Division Tokyo of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture. Branch Yokohama Branch Hold training sessions for the compliance of the Act against Delay in Payment FY2018: Lecture for compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of General Affairs of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and the prevention of insider trading. Subcontract Proceeds, etc.; Number of participants: 1,879 (Web-based check). Division Distribute information security questionnaires to disseminate the awareness FY2018: New employee training on Prevention of Insider Trading; Number of participants: 59. Information of security. Number of respondents to the FY2018 Information Securities Questionnaire: 3,431. Systems Division Held regular quality improvement conferences. Planning & Business Take specific initiatives for quality improvement at each of the operating sites, Quality education at monthly safety conferences and information exchanges at Coordination Division subsidiaries and affiliates. regular conferences with customers conducted. Personnel Division Reestablish our information systems for warehousing and distribution center Commendation system for improvement activities was carried out. Warehousing and Distribution operations to improve the quality of logistics. Following the implementation of a new warehousing and distribution center operations system Business Division Information (G-MIWS) was completed on offices during the first half of FY2017, we constructed support systems. Systems Division Branches Deepen people’s understanding of the logistics of relief supplies in case of Total number of designated support/relief goods logistics base facilities: 11. General Affairs large-scale disasters. Fire prevention inspection patrols in facilities of the Company and the Group were conducted (annually). Division Pursue additional designations of our facilities as support/relief goods logistics [Sapporo Distiribution Center, Tokyo Branch] Warehousing and base facilities, which is a concept primarily advocated by the Ministry of Land, Oct. 2018: Awarded the Logistics Grand Prize by the Japan Institute of Logistics Systems. Distribution Business Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Nov. 2018: Awarded the Excellent Green Logistics Commendation (Minister of Economy, Division Technical Thoroughly implement disaster prevention measures at facilities. Trade and Industry Commendation) by the Green Logistics Partnership Conference. Division Branches [Yokohama Bay Quarter] Aug. 2018: Held the “Charity Ennichi (Street Fair).” Aug. 2018: Held the “Radio Exercise.” Held running club events (monthly) Mar. 2019: Received the 9th Kanagawa Tourism Grand Prize Special Recognition Award for our involvement in the Minato Yokohama Yukata Festival. Real Estate [Nagoya Branch] Division Hold supporting events for reconstruction from the Great East Japan Installed flower beds in the greenbelt near Nagoya Station. Yokohama Dia Earthquake. [Osaka Branch] Building Hold activities that aim to coordinate with local communities and international Participated in blood donation activities together with customers. Management society. [Kobe Harborland] Corporation Harborland Cleanup Movement (monthly) Nagoya Branch [Kobe Harborland umie] Osaka Branch Feb. 2019: Engaged in a joint fire drill with the Kobe Chuo Ward Fire Station. Kobe Branch [Stream Sidewalk, Kobe Harborland umie] Sep. 2018: Received the President’s Award, Parks & Open Space Association of Japan at the 34th City Parks Contest. Dec. 2018: Received the Prefectural Governor’s Award at the 20th Human-sized Town Development Awards. Jul. 2018: Provided relief funds for local disaster victims of the July 2018 torrential General Affairs Division Raise and provide relief funds for disasters that happen in Japan and downpour disaster (West Japan). Other Divisions, Chambers overseas. Sep. 2018: Provided relief funds for local disaster victims of the Hokkaido Eastern and Branches Group Iburi Earthquake. companies Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 11 Organizational Governance To ensure socially responsible positive decision making, it is necessary to establish organizational processes to optimally utilize the Group’s philosophy, strategies and standards. As for organizational governance, the Group recognizes and strengthens such issues as “Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies,” “Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.,” “Confirmation of the processes of implementation for action plans” and “Review of goals and standards, etc.” May 2018: Group Management Meeting Corporate Governance Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies Basic stance Disseminating the corporate philosophy The Company recognizes the enhancement of and the management plan (Basic Strategy) corporate governance as a significant business issue The Group has expressed the goal of “contributing to that will enable us to carry out our social mission and the realization of an affluent and sustainable society” in responsibilities as a publicly listed company and to aim its corporate philosophy ( see page 2: Top Message) for sustainable growth and development. Accordingly, to make its intent of strengthening social responsibility we are endeavoring to boost corporate governance known to every party concerned within the Group. through multiple initiatives, such as: enhancing the To facilitate this goal and achieve the MLC2030 function of the board of directors and board of auditors Vision ( see page 8), the Company is engaged in the by appointing outside directors and auditors; following specific measures in its management plan, establishing an internal control system through drafting and endeavors to disseminate them at worksite the rules of conduct for our executives and employees, meetings and other occasions. setting up the Internal Control Committee, the CSR and Compliance Committee, and enhancing an internal audit system; instituting a risk management system via Specific Measures the Risk Management Committee; and, finally, by 1. Strengthening the business foundations of the priority areas reinforcing disclosure through the early publication of 2. Establishing a system that leverages new technologies financial statements. ( See the chart of corporate 3. Maintaining competitiveness in the port and harbor governance system below) transportation business 4. Developing complexes and other facilities for the real estate Chart of corporate governance system business and improving the organizational structure thereof to strengthen operational capabilities General Shareholders Meeting 5. Bolstering production efficiency through more efficient operational processes and other means Board of Corporate Board of Corporate Independent Directors Auditors Auditors Auditor 6. Improving operational conditions to reform workstyles and Corporate Auditors’ create innovation Chamber 7. Increasing shareholder returns 8. Promoting CSR-oriented management Executive Committee Chairman of the Board (Consultative body President consisting of directors Managing Directors with special titles) In executing the Specific Measures above, the Group General Managers’ Respective Divisions, and Chambers of the Head Office Internal Control Committee complies with the seven principles of social responsibility Meeting 6 branches under the Guidance on Social Responsibility. The Group Internal Audit CSR and Compliance Department Committee companies have stipulated the Code of Conduct in line Group Management Meeting 55 subsidiaries (including 21 overseas subsidiaries) Risk Management with the seven principles, and their employees strive to 15 affiliates Committee self-check and confirm their behavior by using the CSR & Compliance Handbook. Worksite meeting (Osaka Branch) Worksite meeting (Kobe Branch) 12 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Review of goals, standards, etc. The Audit Division keeps close contact with the corporate auditors and provides them with internal audit information to cooperate with the corporate auditors’ audits. Deliberating at the CSR and Compliance Committee (meetings held in March) To promote CSR activities in Confirmation of the implementation the Group, the CSR and process of action plans Compliance Committee was established in September 2006. Confirming the appropriateness of In fiscal 2018, the operations via internal control committee met in March and The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the “Basic CSR and Compliance Committee deliberated on the reports Policy on the Improvement of an Internal Control System” to and revisions regarding CSR ensure the appropriate execution of duties by executives and activities in accordance with the Guidance on Social regular employees and the appropriateness of corporate affairs. Responsibility, which is used as the basis for the Furthermore, the Company improves the systems necessary Environmental and Social Report, as well as on the for ensuring the appropriateness of financial reporting and improvement of compliance based on the self-check of the prepares and submits the Internal Control Report regarding the status of complying with the Code of Conduct. evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control relating to financial reporting in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc. Confirming the process for bonded operations, etc., under the Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program Disseminating the awareness of The Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program, one of the AEO compliance Systems (*1), is a system for certifying managers of bonded The Group endeavors to disseminate the awareness of warehouses and bonded factories as authorized warehouse compliance based on corporate ethics in every employee operators after they meet set conditions concerning compliance through the employee’s self-check on the status of complying and other regulations. These authorizations ensure preferential with the Code of Conduct, which was formulated as the social treatment such as simplified procedures and exemptions from norms for employees in executing their duties, as well as by permit fees, etc. and the Company received approval as an thoroughly promoting training on compliance. authorized warehouse operator and further enhanced The self-check on the status of compliance previously compliance activities in customs-related processes and all other targeted the Company and domestic Group companies. Effective import/export services. In April 2016, the authorization has been from fiscal 2013, the scope of the self-check has been extended renewed, and we will continue to strive to provide highly reliable to cover overseas Group companies using English texts. and dependable logistics services for our customers. Meanwhile, the Company, Group companies Monryo Web Actual performance data on the compliance situation of Transport Corporation, Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Ryoyo the Code of Conduct may be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Transportation Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., and Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd. acquired certification as Authorized Customs HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Brokers as of June 2017, September 2012, June 2014, April 2017, February 2018, and May 2018, respectively, under Business processes are confirmed via the AEO System. An authorized customs internal audit broker is a customs clearance operator subject to various preferential privileges, The internal audit of the Company is performed mainly by the which is authorized by the customs office Audit Division in accordance with the internal audit regulations to arrange for security management and and the internal audit plan. The audit operation is supported compliance regarding cargo. The by branch auditors and audit assistants positioned at Head Company strives to further improve the Certificate of AEO Customs Office and respective branches. The purpose of the internal quality of customer service going forward. Broker (The Company) audit is to precisely grasp the status of corporate affairs and the financial position so as to be of help for management’s *1. Systems that provide measures that ease and simplify customs prevention of fraud, errors and faults, and rationalization such procedures for business operators who have constructed cargo security management frameworks in compliance with laws and as improvement of business operations and raising operating regulations, aiming both to secure and smoothen international efficiency. The Audit Division reports the results of audits logistics security, as well as to enhance Japan’s international competitiveness. regarding the Company and subsidiaries to the management The policy for implementing and constructing AEO Systems is set team. The General Affairs Division supports the follow-up within the SAFE Framework of Standards to Secure and Facilitate Global Trade adopted by the WCO (World Customs Organization). checks on any issues noted in the audit results, if any, and Japan’s AEO Systems comply with said policy. reports the results to the management team. (Source: Japan Customs Web site) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 13 Respect for Human Rights Respecting human rights is the basis for complying with laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibility. Regarding the respect for human rights, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as improvement of employees’ awareness of human rights. Apr. 2019: New employee training (general employees) The Company considers that this outsourcing can Improvement in the awareness of help more people with disabilities to work on a human rights continuous basis and play active roles in society while having independent lives. Striving to disseminate the awareness of Slogan for human rights awareness (some of slogans respect for human rights with every employee Submitted to the Company) by establishing a dedicated promotion system Slogan for human rights awareness (Employees’ section) The Company is committed to educating employees on human rights issues with the aim of creating a “positive Think about the other person’s feelings worksite atmosphere in which every employee’s human rights Accept everyone’s individuality are respected and personal competence and personality can be fully demonstrated.” Specifically, every year the Company offers a human rights awareness course for 1–2 hours in the stratified training curriculum under the established human rights training VOICE promotion system. In fiscal 2018 a total of 58 employees participated in the Reflection on the Human training for new employees. Rights Awareness Training At the training sessions, participating employees not only Ayumi Watari listened lectures, but also exchanged views on diverse Tobishima Office, Nagoya Branch concrete examples to deepen their understanding. The Company endeavors to raise the awareness of In the human rights training, we divided into groups to human rights by inviting slogans for human rights awareness discuss our thoughts on how to respond to those with even to loaned or dispatched staff members. In parallel with disabilities, as well as differences in race and gender this approach, we have established a helpline dedicated to based on examples of from our everyday lives. For harassment issues that takes initiatives to prevent or resolve instance, in an example related to the human rights of various worksite harassment cases. people with disabilities, we learned that treating a person with disabilities with special care may be Web Actual performance data on human rights training can interpreted as either good or bad depending on the way be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the individual feels, even if the situation is the same. The “Extended version.” same is true in our own workplaces. At work, we HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social interact with a whole range of people, including coReport>Extended version workers, customers and employees of group companies. Things that seem obvious to one person Respecting human rights through may not be obvious to another, and the human rights training made me feel that being aware of our own fixed business activities ideas and stereotypes is very important. It may be difficult to get rid of these fixed ideas and stereotypes, Outsourcing works to a provider of continuous but I think it’s important that we try to reduce them even employment support service, where people if only a little. From now on, I would like to engage actively in with disabilities are working communication with others at my workplace, and The Company outsources the digitalization process for cooperate with those around me to build good in-house documents and data to Japan Church World relationships. It would be great if we could create a Service, Inc., Tokyo Itabashi Welfare Factory where better workplace environment with people having continuous employment support service is provided to diverse values each making the most of their own people with disabilities, who may have difficulties in individuality and abilities. conventional work settings. 14 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Appropriate Working Environment An appropriate working environment serves to stabilize employees’ living standards, is the source of meaning in employees’ lives and is indispensable for safety and health, productivity growth, human resource development and so forth. Regarding the appropriate working environment, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Respect of labor-management relations,” “Employment and the importance of the employment relationship,” “Rewarding and friendly working conditions,” “Ensuring the safety of workers” and “Human resource development and training.” Entry Hall, Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4, Osaka Branch employment of applicants from a long-term perspective to Respect for labor-management relations systematically and stably ensure human resources. We offer a wide range of opportunities to both new and Having close communications with the professional or experienced applicants by making the most labor union of the Company’s Web site and various kinds of PR media. The collective labor agreement entered into between the Status of employees (as of the end of March 2019) Company and the Mitsubishi Logistics Union stipulates the Status in fiscal 2018 responsibility of the Company and that of the union as follows Number of regular employees (consolidated) 4,466 on the stance of labor-management cooperation. Number of temporary employees (consolidated) 2,626 1. (Company’s Responsibility) *Group companies have no statistical data regarding employees’ The Company shall proactively strive to maintain and average age and years of service. improve the working conditions and promote the Number of regular employees welfare of employees to improve the status of (non-consolidated) 926 (597 men / 329 women) employees and ensure stable livelihoods. Average age (non-consolidated 40.0 years (men: 39.7 years; women: 40.5 years) 2. (Union’s Responsibility) Average years of service The labor union shall strive to maintain public order at (non-consolidated) 16.5 years (men: 15.8 years; women: 17.7 years) the worksite and promote the working capabilities of its Number of temporary employees (non-consolidated) 759 affiliated employees, as well as fully cooperate with the Company for the growth of the Company’s business Status of new graduate recruits Status of mid-career recruits based on democratic foundations. (joining the Company in April 2019) (joining the Company between April 2018 and March 2019) University graduates 42 University graduates 5 Male university Male university Labor-management consultations and negotiations are graduates 22 graduates 3 handled at the Management Conference, which is attended by Female university Female university 20 2 representatives of both parties. graduates graduates There are two types of Management Conference: the Central Postgraduate1 Junior college/Vocational 3 school graduate college graduates Management Conference, Female postgraduateHigh school which is held between Head school graduate 1 graduates/Others 6 Office and the union’s Junior college/Vocational Total 14 college graduates 0 headquarters, and the Operating Site Management High school graduates/Others 4 Conference, which is held Total 47 between each branch and each lodge. Each conference Operating Site Management Status of new graduate recruits retained meets once per month. Conference (Tokyo Branch) New graduate recruits joining No. of recruits retained as of the Company in April 2016 April 2019 (percentage) Men and women total 40 38 ( 95.0%) Men 22 20 ( 90.9%) Employment and the importance Women 18 18 (100.0%) of the employment relationship Endeavoring to ensure human resources systematically and stably Rewarding and friendly working conditions while respecting equal employment opportunities and diversity Strive to improve the environment in which both In recruiting employees, our basic policy is to respect equal employees and the Company can raise mutual values employment opportunities and diversity. In our recruiting activities, we have introduced an open The basic philosophy of the Company’s personnel policy is to entry system without making any distinction as regards the assist its employees to grow and improve their work-life school of graduation or faculty that takes into account the fair balance and to assert that both employees and the Company Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 15 Appropriate Working Environment can raise mutual values through the sustainable growth of the Involvement in mental health activities focusing on Company. precautionary measures and preventing recurrence To realize this philosophy, the Company endeavors to improve worksite environments so that employees can The Company considers it important to support every demonstrate their individuality and competence to the utmost employee in having a purposeful life by ensuring systematic extent with improved motivation and better workplace and constant care for his/her mental health. environments, through a variety of personnel and educational To promote mental health care in accordance with the systems. “Guidelines for maintenance and promotion of mental health for workers” of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, the Company has taken a variety of initiatives such as Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit reinforcement of in-house education and training, cultivation of creating worksites where employees can of dedicated staff in charge at operating sites, implementation demonstrate their individuality and competence of the stress check system following the Partial Revision of the Industrial Safety and Health Act and improvement of networks The Company strives to improve worksite environments in via collaborations with external professional organizations. which every employee can fully demonstrate his/her individuality and competence. Self-declaration system Promotion of Workstyle Reforms According to the self-declaration system, the Company’s employees declare their satisfaction rating with their current At the Company, we have constructed a mechanism to monitor duties and career plan among others, once a year. The and manage the appropriate number of working hours based on declaration includes the desired conditions of their next PC usage, where employees and their supervisors can check workplace, etc., so that the Company may pay attention not their working situation at any time. We also consider that a only to employees’ business duties but also to every change of attitude is necessary to bring about a decrease in employee’s life plan. The content of the declaration is actually overtime work, and held briefing sessions for managerial used for personnel transfers and the career development employees aimed at reducing overtime. This attitude was program. disseminated to employees through measures such as worksite Evaluation and treatment of employees meetings. In addition, the Company and labor union regularly The Company treats employees in accordance with fair, confirm the amount of overtime work and number of days of transparent and well-received appraisal systems. Direct leave taken by employees, and share information on effective interviews between managers and subordinates, which are initiatives such as flextime and no-overtime day, through forums held three times a year (at the time of target setting, midyear such as the Management Conference and the Committee on the retrospection and year-end retrospection), are especially Improvement of Working Hours, etc. emphasized, enabling managers and subordinates to deepen communication with each other. The evaluation results are Promoting the work-life balance to support the used for an appropriate division of labor within the business unit and advice on career planning. sound development of the next-generation children Pursuant to the implementation of the Act on Advancement of Execute industrial safety and health-related Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, the measures to enhance employees’ good health Company formulated the “Ordinary Business Owner Action Plan” and implemented a child-care leave system, a reduced working To effectively fulfill its obligation of safety, which is required of hours system, a nursing care leave system, a general care leave every corporation, the Company proactively takes initiatives to maintain and promote employees’ health. VOICE Regular medical checkup A medical checkup is conducted once a year that focuses on Having Taken Child-care Leave tests for lifestyle-related diseases. Although long working Mariko Emi hours have become a social problem in recent years, the International Forwarding Business Company has implemented a framework to minimize the Department, Yokohama Branch health risks of employees due to a heavy workload through I took child-care leave for about one year after enhanced interview guidance from industrial physicians to the birth of my first daughter. I was frantically busy every day those with long working hours. while I was preparing to take maternity leave, but the time Health promotion seemed to flow at a leisurely pace during child-care leave, and I Health promotion seminars are held for the purpose of felt calm and composed. I could also spend enough time to be maintaining good health and improving the lifestyle of in close contact with the laughs and cries of my child every day. employees. At these seminars, in addition to lectures (on I was relieved of my anxiety about raising a child for the first mental health and eating habit guidance) given by experts, time, and I was able to truly enjoy those irreplaceable moments simple aerobics dance programs are offered to encourage of motherhood. employees to engage in light physical exercise. I am deeply grateful for the kind care and support constantly given to me by everyone at my workplace, not only while I was on leave but also now, after I have returned to work. 16 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Acquisition results for various systems Results (number of beneficiaries) System Description FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period until a child Child-care leave 8 13 8 7 13 becomes 2 years old. Reduced working Service hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours per day for 18 17 22 25 28 hours nurturing a child. Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period within one Nursing care leave 0 0 0 0 0 year to take care of a family member in need of nursing care. General care leave Paid leave for nursing care of a child (up to 10 days per year). 27 27 29 38 34 Paid leave for nursing care of a family member in need of Family care leave 0 0 4 4 5 nursing care (up to 10 days per year). * The number of beneficiaries in the child-care leave and nursing care leave are calculated based on the year they started taking their leaves. system and a family care leave system to assist with the coexistence of employees’ working life and home life. Major welfare programs of the Company: Furthermore, the Company encourages the enhanced use of 1. Provision of security annual paid vacations to reduce working hours in a year and has Retirement benefits, corporate pensions, family introduced a systematic granting system (six days per year) of allowance, housing allowances, condolence money, annual paid vacations under labor-management collaboration. celebration of a birth, the ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan) association, group insurance, the reserve for pension and asset formation, multipurpose Promoting welfare measures to help accommodation loans and the granting of companyemployees cultivate the energy to work owned houses to employees via job transfers 2. Recreation A variety of systems are available in compliance with Recreation facilities, in-house sports events (baseball, the three catchphrases of “Provision of security,” tennis and futsal), the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts “Recreation” and “Promotion of residential house tournament, refresh leave (long-service and midlevel workers) acquisition” for the promotion of employees’ welfare. 3. Promotion of residential house acquisition Reserve for house acquisition and asset formation, in-house loans and tie-up loans VOIC E In-house recreation event (Tennis club) Holding an All-branch Tennis Tournament VOIC E Tetsushiro Miura Europe America Team, International Having Taken General Care Leave Transportation Business Division Jun Tsuyusaki The Company holds an annual all-branch tennis Air Freight Team, International tournament, where tennis club members from each branch Transportation Business Division participate in singles matches and friendly matches. The branches I have three children, and my wife has take turns hosting the tournament, and in fiscal 2018 it was jointly returned to work after childbirth, so our children go to hosted by the Head Office where I am stationed and the Tokyo childcare. When my children were between the ages of Branch over two days from October 27 (Saturday) to 28 (Sunday). one and two years old they would often get sick, and I There were around 50 participants from all of the branches, and we would be called up during the day by the childcare center, were busy with preparations for six months before the tournament: or the children would be too sick to go to childcare, and I arranging tennis courts and accommodation, chartering buses, and would have to stay home to look after them. I was really securing a venue for the post-tournament party. Managing grateful for the general care leave system then. everything during the actual tournament was challenging too, but My children are much stronger now, and get sick less tennis club members from the Head Office, Tokyo Branch worked than they did when they were just infants, but I may together and cooperated as one, and the tournament passed suddenly have to take care leave again someday. If that without mishaps. happens, I’ll be grateful to everyone at my workplace for The tournament is not simply about enjoying tennis, but also their support, and work hard to find ways to ensure that provides an excellent opportunity for participants to get to know the quality of work isn’t affected by my absence. other employees with whom they had no chance of meeting through In the future, somebody else in my workplace may their normal work. Our six months of hard work and preparations need to take care leave. If that happens, I will actively were fully repaid by seeing the happy faces of the participants, and follow-up on their work, and try to create a work it was a valuable experience for me personally, bringing a great environment where it’s easy to take care leave. sense of achievement that I was able to provide this forum. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 17 Appropriate Working Environment To ensure employment opportunities for the Ensuring the safety of workers elderly, motivated retiring employees are provided with places to demonstrate their competence Striving to conduct industrial safety and health In terms of employment opportunities for the elderly, the activities via collaborations among operating bases Company has strived to guarantee the employment of in the pursuit of prevention of industrial accidents employees up to 62 or 63 years old before the establishment of the related laws through measures such as a job Each branch has an “Industrial Safety and Health Committee” (and a placement service to help them with reemployment at Health Committee at Head Office) to share information with operating subsidiaries or affiliates and the reemployment of those with bases including operationexpertise in certain business fields. commission and cargo-handling In response to the establishment of the relevant laws, we companies where operations established our continuing employment system to ensure are outsourced. In addition, we that applicants can continue to work up to 65 years of age strive to prevent industrial under certain criteria, and the system has been applied to accidents by conducting safety around 90% of those applicable. and health education and safety patrols inside and outside the Industrial Safety and Health facilities. Committee (Fukuoka Branch) Improving access in the work environment to increase the employment of people with disabilities Overland transportation: Strengthen ensuring There are employees with disabilities who work in diverse safety with safety measures and the prevention operations of the Company. However, as of June 1, 2018, of accidents in the transportation field the Company’s employment rate of said employees was 1.80%, lower than its legally mandated 2.20% employment Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (a company that specializes in ratio. We will continue to steadily strengthen improvements of overland transportation that is in charge of the overland the worksite environment in which people with disabilities can transportation business of the Company), aims to increase the easily demonstrate their capabilities and competence, aiming security of transportation and ensure safety through concerted efforts to reach our legally mandated employment ratio as soon as with the recognition that ensuring the security of freight transportation possible. is the pillar of our business management. In addition, Ryoso Transportation engages in the internal audit of compliance with Employment ratio of employees with disabilities relevant laws and regulations such as the Motor Truck Transportation June June June June June June Business Act and the Road Traffic Act, and steps are taken to ensure 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the dissemination of information on compliance with these laws and Number of employees with 17 16 16 14 14 14 disabilities (actual) VOIC E Employment ratio (%) 2.15 2.05 2.05 1.86 1.83 1.80 Measures to Ensure Safety and Security Shingo Ohyama Manager, Business Coordination Department, Planning & Obtained a loan under the DBJ Employees’ Business Coordination Division, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. Health Management Rated Loan Program Here at Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., as part of In February 2019, the Company was rated by the our corporate social responsibility, we not only work to secure safety Development Bank of Japan Inc. (DBJ) under the DBJ and security through transport accident prevention, but are also Employees’ Health Management Rated Loan Program, and actively involved in compliance with laws and regulations of all kinds, obtained a loan based on this rating. Under the program, as a trucking business operator certified as an excellent safety (G DBJ evaluates corporate initiatives related to employee mark) enterprise by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. In addition, from January 2019 we have commenced health, and loans money under favorable conditions to “trucking business audits,” led by the Planning & Business outstanding companies in this area. Coordination Division, aiming for the standardization of business In addition to steady initiatives aimed at compliance with across all branches, as well as the further improvement of quality. health and safety laws and regulations, the Company was Furthermore, we strive to reduce the environmental burden, and also highly rated for actively implementing measures aim for logistics that are friendly to the global environment. contributing to the maintenance and improvement of While undertaking such initiatives, in response to the increasing employees’ mental and physical health, such as organizing diversification and sophistication of customers’ needs, we are implementing dutyand position-based education aimed at raising health seminars, as well as the continuous promotion of awareness of employees, and holding safety meetings and safety business improvement, through measures such as the patrols. Through these measures we are endeavoring to establish a commendation system for improvement activities. system for sharing and communicating information, as well as Going forward, we will continue to strive to improve the promote the maintenance and improvement of mental and physical health of employees through this system and other initiatives. health. We will continue to strive for safe transportation and the further improvement of transportation quality. (Group company of the Company) 18 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 regulations. Operations are checked at all times from a safety viewpoint, fully recognizing the public nature and importance of the freight trucking business. As initiatives for daily accident preventive activities, they also hold safety conferences, conduct safety patrols and hold head office and all-branches marketing staff conferences. Furthermore, they conduct thorough checks at all car-allocation bases using a high-performance alcohol detector unit to check at roll call whether any crew members have been drinking. Apart from the measures above, they implement initiatives for Safety patrol Harbor Transportation Department, Tokyo Branch industrial safety and health via appropriate instructions and education given to crew members based on the results of regular medical checkups, to which tests for lifestyle-related diseases have been added, and regular diagnosis of the driving competence of the truck Human resources development and training crews is conducted. Endeavor to develop human resources Harbor Transportation Business Division: Promote that can contribute not only to corporate the prevention of industrial accidents and conduct growth but also to social development periodic disaster prevention drills and meetings Concept image of ideal human resources The port and harbor operations inevitably involve a great variety of With the “Code of Conduct” in mind, every employee cargo handling work in association with various receipts and aims to undertake a role not only in corporate growth deliveries at ports. For smooth and safe cargo handling operations, but also in the development of society by conducting we implemented various activities based on the countermeasures himself/herself in the following manner. prepared by each operating site. Furthermore, we hold regular meetings before work and monthly safety and health meetings jointly 1. Keep faith in others, and conduct yourself with with relevant suppliers at which we analyze industrial accidents and integrity and a sense of fairness. cargo accident cases in order to raise awareness of safety and health 2. Conduct yourself autonomously. and share the intent with all workers. 3. Respond flexibly to environmental changes. We are making efforts to improve working environment and 4. Demonstrate expertise and act with a sense of creativity. grasp situations by taking measures for the ever-changing 5. Have a good teamwork spirit and cooperate with environment, including reviewing the format of regular safety patrols. your colleagues. In this manner, we will always look for new ways to improve safety and health, actively implement ordinary safety promotion activities and continue daily awareness Training system activities. We believe that those The Company focuses on developing human resources that efforts will help prevent can precisely respond to internal and external needs. industrial accidents and ensure The Company therefore strives to upgrade employees’ the safety of workers. business skills and the organization’s strength through Specific initiatives executed training by service year of employment. At the same time, the at the respective ports are Company offers several training programs to raise employees’ summarized in the following Safety and health meeting expertise such as management capabilities, readiness for table. Harbor Transportation Department, globalization and operational capability to enable employees Tokyo Branch to acquire professional skills in response to the content of Description of specific initiatives taken at the respective ports their business duties. and results/achievements Description Extending the Content of the Logistics We hold a briefing meeting before carrying out ship operations to confirm the Training content of the intended operation, check the work uniform including the fluorescent vests and call workers’ attention to safety (daily). At the logistics training, the lecturers are dispatched mainly A safety and health meeting is held jointly with the relevant suppliers (monthly). from among active employees so that employees assigned to We implemented safety patrols at operating sites jointly with the relevant suppliers posts at logistics sites can improve their necessary expertise (monthly). (Quarterly joint patrols are conducted with the participation of superiors.) and skills. We regularly confirm and replenish safety gear (safety belts for high-place In fiscal 2018, lectures regarding related laws, human operations, fluorescent safety armbands, emergency stretchers, etc.). error measures and warehousing facilities management, etc. Information such as cases of accidents is shared with other operators operating at were held with 229 participants coming from the Company the same harbor terminal at operators’ liaison meetings, etc., and the content is shared at safety conferences at our worksites and with suppliers. and also subsidiaries and affiliates. We promote the speed limit for dedicated, in-yard trucks, which are driven within Furthermore, the lectures were recorded on video to the container yards (via the successive installation of excessive speed lamps). develop an environment where they can be viewed as an We participate in outside workshops and training sessions (as needed). e-learning course in order to secure opportunities for Results/Achievements employees who are unable to attend the training to attend No serious industrial accidents were reported in fiscal 2018. these lectures. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 19 Appropriate Working Environment Conducting training for young employees Holding lectures on “Outline of office operation” before their overseas dispatches and “Outline of warehousing facilities (Overseas Operations Training) management” as part of the logistics training Targeting young employees who participate in the young Two new lectures were held as part of logistics training: “Outline of employee overseas dispatch program, we provided training office operation” and “Outline of warehousing facilities management.” to deepen their understanding of the international In “Outline of office operation,” an office manager gave a specific transportation business. With practical training contents explanation of income and expenditure management, labor including the explanation of the Company’s position and role management, and spatial organization at offices of the warehousing in the international transportation business, lecturers in-house business, based on actual business practices. and from outside build the training program to enable In “Outline of warehousing facilities management.” an employee participants a smoother start for their overseas OJTs. from the technical division explained the important points of a daily Furthermore, we proactively invite participants from the check that can be performed onsite at warehousing facilities, as well Group companies, including those overseas, and utilize this as the importance of fire prevention management. training program for the international transportation business Both lectures are directly applicable to our daily business training in the whole Mitsubishi Logistics Group. activities, and more lectures on practical topics are planned. Training for managerial employees Training at the 6th year The supervisor Grade 2 training Training on regional employees New employee training New employee training (regional employees) VOIC E VOIC E On attending the Logistics Training Reflection on the Training at the “Outline of Office Operation” 6th year (Regional Employees) Naohiro Horie Takafumi Fujiwara Sakurajima No. 2 Office, Osaka Branch Shinko Office, Kobe Branch We learned about customer management, income and In the training at the 6th year (regional employees), we received expenditure management, and labor management for office four lectures: “Problem-solving training,” “Management operation. I was deeply impressed by the example of an unused planning,” “Career design,” and “Mental toughness.” office basement that was cleared out and put to effective use. In “Problem-solving training,” we used a variety of methods From now on, I will always remember that “you don’t know until to analyze the problems presented to us. Through identifying you’ve tried,” and engage in my work with an awareness of causes and solutions in group discussions, I learned problemwhether there is any wasted space in the warehouse, whether solving techniques that I can utilize in my everyday work. In there is a way to use it, and how much profit can be made if it is “Mental toughness,” participants made use of a psychological used effectively. analysis that we had completed before the training. This allowed It was also very educational to hear about concrete me to grasp my own strengths and weaknesses, aptitudes and measures for “improving work efficiency” and “reducing inadequacies, and served as a good opportunity to understand overtime,” which are very big issues in the opreration of a myself objectively. distribution center. The lecture that described “overtime, if it Another aspect of the training that left an impression on me continues, can become the normal state of affairs, leading people was the exchange of information through group work, which to unconsciously plan their working day based on it” gave me a gave me the opportunity to learn about the work and initiatives good opportunity for self-reflection. From now on, I plan to take of some other sections of the Company with which I generally the initiative, constantly putting into practice the aim of “finishing had no contact. At the end of the training, I was also given work within working hours,” as well as coaching my colleagues. cordial advice on topics including everyday work and career by I now feel I have a stronger will to improve my own senior staff at my workplace. workplace, thanks to this training. I want to share what I have I gained a lot from this training, and I would like to continue learned with my colleagues, so that we can work together to to grow by utilizing what I learned in my future work and career create a good workplace. development. 20 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Human resources (training) systems General employee development course: Basic role: Engage in a wide variety of corporate operations as core executives who facilitate business growth and management in a variety of regions including overseas. Career ProblemCareer CSR and Health SelfCross-industrial Human skills Management Logistics Global stages solving development compliance promotion development exchange General Management Manager class Life plan strategy seminar Health promotion seminar Problem-solving Managerial practical training employee class Training for newly appointed managerial employees (Understand management skills, corporate ethics, etc.) Correspondence education Assistant Mitsubishi Marketing Association manager Management training by theme (Leadership (compulsory), labor management (compulsory), accounting Mitsubishi Shichikenkai Workshop class (compulsory), problem resolution, etc. (selective course)) Midlevel Logistics training *1 Supervisor Grade 2 training Overseas operations training *2 employees (Improve perspectives via action learning, acquire basic management skills) Young Training at the 6th year employee (Problem-solving, followership, career design, etc.) overseas Young dispatch employees Training at the 2nd year program English and (Logical thinking, global mindset, FKS, safety and health, etc. (take certain lectures in the Logistics training course)) Chinese New employees’ first-half training / New employees’ second-half training conversation (Business manners, basic knowledge on general corporate operations, courses visits to logistics facilities and real estate of the Company, etc.) Region-type employee development course: Basic role: Become familiar with and understand the characteristics or features and local business duties of a certain region in preparation for the smooth fulfillment of corporate operations. Career Health SelfHuman skills Career development CSR and compliance Logistics Global stages promotion development Senior leader Health promotion class of regional employees Life plan seminar Overseas operations training *2 seminar Leader class Correspondence education of regional Regional supervisor training employees (Confirm expected roles, leadership) Logistics training *1 Midlevel Training on regional employees employees (Discover one’s own strengths and weaknesses, improve communication capabilities) Training at the 6th year (Problem-solving, career design, etc.) Young employees Training at the 2nd year (CSR, FKS, safety and health, etc. (take certain lectures in the Logistics training course)) New employees’ first-half training / New employees’ second-half training (Business manners, basic knowledge on general corporate operations, visits to logistics facilities and real estate of the Company, etc.) *1: Major lectures for the Logistics training FKS (Fuji Logistics Kaizen System) Safety and health course Warehousing Business Act and contracting practices Laws and regulations related to trucking business and practices course Outline of warehousing storage operation Marketing for the service industry Business activities of warehousing business Outline of office operation Outline of warehousing facilities management Outline of harbor transportation business Our information system overview and information system trend in the logistic industry Points on compliance with laws and regulations in the warehousing and distribution business Improvement award case studies, etc. *2: Major lectures for the Overseas Operations Training Explanation of B/L and NVO business Import shipping agent business Export shipping agent business Overseas logistics proposals, etc. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 21 Environmental Conservation Environmental issues are not only local issues of the region where our business bases are located but are also globally interconnected. Environmental accountability is a global-level social responsibility that affects the future of humanity. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes and undertakes initiatives for such environmental issues as the reduction of CO2 emissions as a countermeasure for climate change, the use of renewable natural resources and contribution to recovery of the eco-system. Wall-mounted solar panels at the Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4 in Osaka Receipt of the Japan Institute of Logistics Systems (JILS) Reduction of CO2 emissions as a Grand Prize and Excellent Green Logistics Commendation measure for reducing climate change (Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Commendation) Certified under the Logistics Efficiency Six companies the Company, Asahi Unyu co., ltd., Astellas Pharma Improvement Act *1, we are integrating logistics Inc., Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Teva Takeda Pharma Ltd. and Teva Takeda Yakuhin Ltd. have been responsible for bases and reducing the environmental burden establishing a shared distribution center for pharmaceuticals in Obtaining the same certification under the following ten Hokkaido, standardizing each company’s operational procedures business plans, we made transportation and and temperature control, and implementing measures to increase distribution systems more efficient by integrating truck load factors and decrease the number of trucks. In recognition logistics bases for customers who used to employ of these efforts, the Company was awarded the Logistics Grand multiple logistics bases, thereby reducing the number Prize*3 by the Japan Institute of Logistics Systems (JILS) in October of delivery trucks. By collecting customers’ freight and 2018, followed by the Excellent Green Logistics Commendation implementing joint delivery, we reduce emissions of (Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Commendation)*4 by the greenhouse gases (CO2), contributing to a reduction of Green Logistics Partnership Conference in November 2018. the environmental burden. The Company had already received a degree of recognition, with certification under the Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act, but this time our efforts were also recognized by an external agency, leading 1. North Building, Sakurajima Distribution Center No. 2, to this prize and commendation. Osaka Branch (Started operation in November 2005) 2. Sakurajima Distribution Center No. 3, Osaka Branch (Started operation in April 2008) VOIC E 3. Tobishima Distribution Center, Nagoya Branch (Started operation in November 2008) On Initiatives at the Shared Distribution 4. Misato Distribution Center No. 1, Tokyo Branch Center for Pharmaceuticals in Hokkaido (Started operation in December 2008) Hiro Yamagishi 5. Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 3, Osaka Branch Sapporo Distiribution Center, Saitama No. 2 (Started operation in October 2012) Office, Tokyo Branch 6. Misato Distribution Center No. 2, Tokyo Branch (Started operation in March 2013) The shared distribution center for pharmaceuticals in Hokkaido (Sapporo Distribution Center) began operation in 7. The extended space of Tobishima Distribution Center, Nagoya Branch (Started operation in September 2015) January 2018, as a joint distribution center for four major Japanese pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Distribution 8. Sapporo Distribution Center, Tokyo Branch (Asahi Unyu co., ltd.) (Started operation in January 2018) *2 Center provides a high-quality and efficient logistics service every day, fulfilling our social responsibility of ensuring a stable 9. Seishin Distribution Center, Kobe Branch (Started operation in March 2018) supply of pharmaceuticals in Hokkaido. By merging the logistics centers of each pharmaceuticals manufacturer, which 10. Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4, Osaka Branch (Started operation in August 2018) were previously separate operations, we have also brought about a large reduction in the number of trucks and electricity usage, making a significant contribution to the reduction in *1. The Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act (Act on Advancement of Integration CO2 emissions. and Streamlining of Distribution Business, implemented on October 1, 2005) During the Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake in The purpose of this law is to promote operations conducive to efficient September 2018, the Distribution Center recorded a seismic logistics and reducing the environmental burden by integrating logistics bases intensity of 5 on the Japanese scale and experienced a power and conducting transportation, distribution, storage and logistics processing comprehensively. Business plans under this law are approved as a failure, but thanks to the high disaster prevention awareness comprehensive efficiency plan and supported by the authority. of our contractor Asahi Unyu co., ltd. and a swift response on In addition, the law has been amended in May 2016 in view of further the day of the earthquake, the Distribution Center experienced integrating and streamlining the logistics industry with the concern of labor no major damage, and resumed operations shortly afterwards. shortage. The law went into effect in October 2016, aiming to support measures such as modal shift and cooperative delivery that are conducted by There have recently been many cases where logistics chains cooperation of related parties including logistics companies and shippers. have been cut off by events such as earthquakes and *2. Distribution center operations using an Asahi Unyu co., ltd. facility; therefore, typhoons, but we will continue to operate of the Distribution the warehouse is certified under the names of both companies. Center with an awareness of our duty to contribute to the stable supply of pharmaceuticals. 22 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 These measures are not limited to the Company alone, but also Ensuring compliance with the Act on involve our customers and suppliers working together as one. We Rationalizing Energy Use, etc. have not only succeeded in improving operational efficiency, but have also achieved great results in decreasing the burden on the As a “Designated Business Operator” under the Act on environment. Rationalizing Energy Use, the Company is obliged to reduce We will continue to per-basic unit energy use more than 1% on an annual average contribute to reducing the on a mediumto long-term basis at facilities we own and rent. burden on the environment Moreover, we submit a regular report on energy conservation through these kinds of and a mediumto long-term energy-conservation plan to the initiatives. Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. The values we reported to the Ministry in fiscal 2018 (the actual results for Green Logistics Partnership Conference fiscal 2017) show that our energy-conservation measures Awards Ceremony resulted in about 6% reduction of per-basic unit energy use *3. Japan Institute of Logistics Systems Logistics Grand Prize compared with the base year fiscal 2013. We are also striving This prize is awarded by the Japan Institute of Logistics Systems (JILS), a public interest incorporated association, to companies making efforts and to reduce CO2 emissions at our real estate facilities subject to achieving outstanding results in the enhancement of corporate logistics. the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. *4. Green Logistics Partnership Conference Excellent Green Logistics Commendation Web The actual results of our environmental conservation efforts can be The Green Logistics Partnership Conference was established principally by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Ministry of Land, viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Infrastructure and Transport and the logistics industry. With the cooperation of shippers and logistics companies, it presents commendations from each of HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Ministry of Land, Report>Extended version Infrastructure and Transport, in recognition of measures that have achieved outstanding results in constructing sustainable logistics systems, such as reducing the burden on the environment in the field of sustainable logistics Conducting compliance with the Act on Rational and increasing productivity. Use and Appropriate Management of Fluorocarbons Through achievements such as obtaining the According to the Act on Rational Use and Appropriate Green Management Certification, we are Management of Fluorocarbons *6, companies are required to promoting environment-friendly business activities inspect commercial refrigerators and air conditioners etc. that use fluorocarbons (Class 1 specified products), or the report The Group obtained the Green Management Certification *5, which of the leakage amount of fluorocarbons from the pursues profitability and environmental conservation by promoting aforementioned products when it exceeds a specified level. environment-friendly business activities from the certification The Company is appropriately responding to the law by registration organization Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility preparing the systems and operational guidelines related to and Ecological Transportation (abbreviated as “Eco-Mo Foundation”). inspection and leakage control. In addition, in fiscal 2018, the Some of our business bases that are approaching their 10th year Company’s calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons was renewal in March 2017 were commended for their many years of 605.5 [t-CO2], which was below the level of 1,000 [t-CO2] certification. Under the Certification, as well as engaging in initiatives to that is subject to reporting leakage amount to the Minister of reduce energy consumption such as electricity saving in our everyday Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (the minister business and initiatives to reduce waste, we are also engaged in having jurisdiction over the warehouse industry). initiatives to reduce the amount of logistics materials used in packing, etc. and to reuse these materials. *6. Overview of the Act on Rational Use and Appropriate Management of Fluorocarbons (implemented in April 1, 2015) In addition to this Certification, in the logistics business, Fuji The Act requires users (owners, in general) of “Class 1 specified products” Logistics Co., Ltd. has obtained and maintained ISO14001 certification (commercial air-conditioners, refrigerators and freezers, etc.) to implement “simple inspection of all specified products” and “periodic inspection by a on environmental management at each of its bases around Japan, and person with specialized knowledge.” Furthermore, it also requires users to is working to reduce the burden on the environment. In the real estate report the calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons if the amount exceeds business, Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. obtained ISO14001 certification in the specified level of 1,000 [t-CO2] per year. June 2018, and is also working to reduce the burden on the Actual data of the calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons may Web environment in real estate management, etc. be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 1. Certification acquisition status of the Company Report>Extended version All offices of the Warehousing Business Division Harbor Transportation Business Division (Part of the container terminals of the Port of Aiming to obtain Rank A certification or Yokohama and the Port of Kobe) above with CASBEE 2. Certification acquisition status of the Group Truck transportation business (Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., and At the Company, we place great importance on care for the Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd.) and warehousing business global environment, and in order to objectively evaluate the (Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., and the environmental performance of our buildings, we are working Warehousing Business Division of Monryo Transport Corporation) to achieve a CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency) certification. *5. The Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation CASBEE is a method for evaluating the environmental is a public utility foundation that has been certifying and registering business performance of buildings with a system that comprehensively operators making efforts to reduce the environmental burden at a level exceeding the standards outlined in the Green Management Promotion evaluates the quality of buildings in addition to facility Manual since October 2003. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 23 Environmental conservation installations that consider nature environment, such as Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. obtained Green energy conservation and the use of equipment with a low Management Certification in its trucking business, environmental burden. This includes the degree of comfort for building users, as well as the consideration given to the striving for environmental conservation building’s appearance, and measures to reduce impact on Addressing environmental issues the building’s surroundings, such as the effect of light For trucking business operators, addressing pollution. environmental issues is one of the highest priorities. The results of CASBEE evaluation are given one of five Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (“Ryoso ranks from S (superior), through A (very good), B+ (good), B Transportation”) has obtained the Green Management (slightly poor) and C (poor). Under the Group’s specific policy Certification at all five of its branches (six operational pertaining to environmental policy ( see page 7: bases) starting in 2005, striving to reduce Environmental Voluntary Plan), the acquisition of a rank of A environmental burden. or above is targeted for all of our new facilities to be In fiscal 2018, Ryoso Transportation improved gas constructed, through the introduction of energy-saving mileage by 5.8% compared with fiscal 2006. equipment and initiatives including global warming Specifically, in their efforts to promote eco-driving to countermeasures. improve gas mileage and reduce emissions of air We aim to obtain Rank A certification or above with pollution substances, they are conducting vehicle CASBEE for facilities to be constructed going forward. inspections and maintenance with their own high Through this evaluation, we will continue to promote standards. They also adopt low-pollution vehicles that measures to reduce environmental burden. meet the latest restriction regulations for gas emissions. Web Actual data on our facilities that have obtained Rank A Web Fuel economy performance data from all branches of certification or above with CASBEE can be viewed on Ryoso Transportation can be viewed on Mitsubishi Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Logistics’ Web site in the “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Report>Extended version Promoting renewal of the existing We are promoting environmental lighting system to LED lighting to conservation not only at our operational achieve significant energy conservation sites but also at our offices To save energy and reduce CO2 emissions with regard Promotion of summertime and wintertime to the lighting systems inside the Company’s energy saving warehouses, we are promoting updating the existing We strove to save energy by participating as a Group lighting systems with high-efficiency lighting equipment in the Cool Biz campaign during the summertime (May when it is time for replacements. through October 2018), which calls for offices to set In fiscal 2018, a total of about 790 existing lighting their air-conditioning thermostats basically at 28°C, as units were updated with LED lighting at seven facilities, well as in the Warm Biz campaign during the wintertime including Aomi Distribution Center No. 1, Tokyo (November 2018 through March 2019), which calls for Branch, Niiza Distribution Center and Ohi Warehouse. offices to set their air-conditioning thermostats basically The Company expects a reduction of approximately at 20°C. 1,350 thousand kWh in electric energy, which In addition, as a year-round initiative, we strive to corresponds to approximately 2.6% of the annual save energy including by reducing the number of lights electric energy consumption at the Company’s in use within a scope that is not detrimental to warehousing facilities, by updating existing lighting to operation and switching off OA equipment when not in LED lighting (9,400 units in total). use. Promotion of Green Purchasing of stationery We are promoting solar power and other office supplies When the Group companies purchase office supplies, generation we not only consider quality and price but also choose In line with the governmental policy of enhancing the products and services with less environmental use of renewable energy to cope with global warming impact—Green Purchasing. and other issues, the Company is promoting the As one example, Ryoso Transportation is adoption of large-scale solar power generation aggressively purchasing retread tires *7. equipment at its warehousing facilities using the *7. A retread tire has new rubber pasted on a used base tire, thereby restoring Renewable Electric Energy Feed-In-Tariff (or fixed-price the tire’s original functionality. purchase system of electricity from renewable energy). In fiscal 2018, solar power generation equipment was installed and began operation at the Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4 in Osaka (started operation in July 2018) for a total output of 169 kW. 24 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 VOIC E Use of renewable resources Disaster-resistant and A Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse Eco-friendly Warehouse completed construction and started operation Takeya Shibue We completed and started operation of the Ibaraki Real Estate Department, Osaka Branch Distribution Center No. 4 in Osaka (5 floors above The Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4 in Osaka, for which I was ground, floor area: 24,000 m2), a Disaster-Resistant responsible, is a pharmaceuticals logistics warehouse based on the and Eco-Friendly Warehouse, in July 2018. A concept of a Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse. The pharmaceutical warehouse adapted for a range of products that the warehouse stores and distributes are different needs, this new warehouse functions as a pharmaceuticals, which means that we have a duty to ensure their refrigerated terminal providing uninterrupted cold-chain continued supply even during disasters, and so we implemented transport and distribution for refrigerated goods, as disaster countermeasures such as the installation of seismic isolation equipment and emergency power generators. well as separate dangerous goods storage for One month before the building was completed, the north of flammable products. Osaka Prefecture was struck by an earthquake with a seismic (1) Main Disaster Prevention Functions intensity of lower 6 on the Japanese scale. Since the seismic isolation a. Seismic performance equipment functioned effectively, the building did not sustain damage and building works were completed on schedule, demonstrating that We have created a seismic-isolated structure with the this is indeed an earthquake-resistant warehouse. installation of seismic isolation equipment (56 laminated rubber bearings composed of high damping rubber and 24 oil dampers) in the basement of the warehouse, to improve seismic performance. Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system b. Power outage countermeasures Emergency power generation equipment (340 kVA, Conducting reforestation through volunteer operates for 72 hours after outage) has been installed activities and donations as a partner of to prepare for a power outage. reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture c. Fuel for use during disasters The diesel fuel stored in the underground fuel tank To address the global environment from the perspective of (30,000L capacity) for the emergency power preservation of biodiversity, we participated in a partnership generators could be used as fuel for transport and program of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture and initiated delivery vehicles during a disaster. related activities in April 2011. (2) Main Environmental Performance and In September 2018, the seventh reforestation activity was Environmentally-Friendly Equipment held in the prefectural forest by Tanzawa Lake. Participants a. Solar power generation system included 32 executives and employees from Head Office, Tokyo The solar power generation equipment installed on the Branch and Yokohama Branch, and we performed tree thinning roof with an output of approximately 169 kW will activities and took a walk along the mountain trails with reduce annual CO2 emissions by around 90 tons. instructions from Kanagawa Prefecture certified-forest instructor b. LED lighting and a support from the Prefectural Water Source Environment In addition to installing Conservation Division. LED lighting Participants were divided into four groups, and in throughout the entire accordance to safety instructions, they thinned trees by hand. building, we use During lunch time, the instructor gave a talk on nature motion detectors for conservation, which helped participants increase the awareness common area lighting of environmental issues. to save energy. LED lighting c. Air conditioning load reduction We are giving consideration to energy conservation by adopting high-efficiency air conditioners for air conditioning equipment, and total heat exchangers for office ventilation equipment. d. Low-E glass We have adopted thermal-insulating, high heatParticipants Walking along the mountain trails insulating multi-layered glass (Low-E glass) that increases the reflectance of far infrared rays and achieves a high heat-insulation performance. e. CASBEE We have achieved Rank A certification with CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency) as the result of initiatives such as introducing an energy conservation system. Tree thinning activities Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 25 Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities We earn trust from society by fulfilling our responsibilities regarding ethical activities. By conducting fair and open competition in our activities, we can showcase our compliance to society. To fulfill our sincere and fair business activities, we recognize the issues of appropriate management of information and compliance with laws and regulations such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and the insider trading prevention law and strive to establish a foundation of trust from society. Nanko C9 Container Terminal in Osaka Furthermore, in fiscal 2018, as a measure against cyberProhibition of unfair advantage in competition attacks via e-mail (targeted e-mail virus attacks), we and promotion of fair and open competition conducted training and education on cyber-attacks for executives and all employees, and raised their awareness of We conduct training concerning compliance with information security in daily operations. the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Actual performance data on execution of questionnaire Web Proceeds, etc. and the prevention of insider trading with regard to Information Security can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” In March 2019, we conducted training concerning the Act HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., Report>Extended version covering the Company and its domestic Group companies. A total of 1,879 employees who are in charge of implementing the aforementioned Act and related associates from each Management of Information Security division attended the training and learned the purpose of the 1. Security of customer information (personal law, the scope of applications, responsibilities and prohibited information) matters using related questions online. In February 2019, we 2. Security of intellectual property rights conducted training related to the prevention of insider trading 3. Confidentiality obligation for a total of 59 new employees of the Company and verified 4. Compliance with laws and regulations, obligation their understanding using related questions online. of compliance with regulations and penalties 5. Management of information assets Web Actual performance data of the training concerning thorough 6. Formulation of security measure standards compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract (Development standard, management standard, Proceeds, etc. and prevention of insider trading can be viewed on outsourcing standard) Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” 7. Monitoring and supervision HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 8. Protecting systems from computer viruses Report>Extended version 9. Access authority control 10. Information security education We focus on information security to provide high-quality and secure services for customers Management of Network Security 1. Management of connection to ML-net (In-house To provide the best services for our customers, the Company network) formulated various rules related to information systems. We 2. Rules for e-mail use have disseminated our information security policy to all 3. Rules for dispatching information executives and employees. 4. Rules for connection with networks outside the To ensure the smooth business activities of the Company, Company we formulated specific compliance matters as to the use and management of our in-house network. Also, we appoint a LAN manager from each branch’s information system section Also, part of the operations of the Tokyo Branch trunk and OA promotion staff from the relevant section of each room office, Dia Systems Corporation (our subsidiary to division that uses the network, ensuring safety and the develop and manage our information system) and Fuji effective use of our in-house network. Logistics Co., Ltd. (our logistics subsidiary responsible for the In fiscal 2018, we conducted a web-based questionnaire main part of the Warehousing Business Division) all acquired with regard to information security in September 2018, ISO27001 certification, an international information security answered by a total of 3,431 persons, including 1,800 management system standard, and receive periodic persons from the Company and 1,631 persons from Group evaluation by a certifying organization-approved third-party companies, thereby raising the awareness of information organization, thereby attesting to our efforts to improve our security. information security. 26 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services To fulfill our mission as a logistics and real estate business operator relied on by society, we intend to promote measures to focus on disasters to continue to provide socially and environmentally beneficial and high-quality services and promotion of measures to maintain service functions during disasters. 1st floor entry and exit pass of the Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4 in Osaka The Warehousing Business Division has Provision of socially and environmentally quality management groups. beneficial high-quality services At the Warehousing Business Division, for the purposes We will continue to promote the improvement of of maintaining and improving the quality of business activities of the entire Division, the Head Office and all quality, aiming to be a company that enhances branches have a quality management group. We the quality of our customers’ products complete operational documents and share information The Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to promote on various measures. We will continue to aim to its various efforts tenaciously to improve the quality of enhance customer satisfaction. services to get acknowledged by customers as a constantly reliable partner. Cooperating in the research and development We aim for high quality from the customers’ of cutting-edge medical technologies perspective. To become a corporation that is continuously chosen At the Company, we have utilized our know-how in the by customers, we conduct business activities based field of pharmaceutical transport and distribution to on ideas and actions from the customers’ perspective. participate, together with the University of Tokyo To achieve customer satisfaction, we have broadened Hospital, in “forward-looking observational research on the framework of quality enhancement to include the the transport of stem cells derived from human adipose quality of operations, business duties and the tissue for use in regenerative medicine,” for three years corporation itself. Moreover, to ensure trust from starting in 2016. In this research, we used speciallycustomers, we will build on our efforts at ensuring designed and developed temperature-controlled good quality to become a corporation that can boast containers to transport stem cells derived from adipose “quality” as its strength. tissue from clinics to the University of Tokyo Hospital at Dissemination of “Our Declaration of Quality” four different temperature ranges. We then analyzed We put up an “Our Declaration of Quality” notice at data including stem cell survival rates after each worksite, distributed the “Our Declaration of transportation for each temperate range. Quality” cards to all employees of the Mitsubishi The results of this analysis and consideration were Logistics Group and explained about it during stratified announced by the University of Tokyo Hospital at the trainings, etc., to further disseminate the information. Congress of the Japanese Society for Regenerative ( See page P7: Our Declaration of Quality) Medicine held in March 2018, but it has been decided We connect employee satisfaction to customer to continue the research past April 2019, with the satisfaction. current focus being the transportation of auricular To offer high-quality services to customers, we regard cartilage (cartilage in the part of the ear that sticks out Employee Satisfaction (ES) as an indispensable from the head). Using the techniques attained through element. We strive to enhance the motivation of each our participation in the research and development of employee. regenerative medicine, a cutting-edge medical We believe that creating a good work environment technology, we aim to further enhance the quality of where employees can engage in business activities our transportation and distribution services. with confidence and contact customers with a smile will eventually lead to Customer Satisfaction (CS). Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 27 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Each operating site and affiliated company We commend improvement activities that conducts specific quality improvement measures will lead to service quality improvement To offer high-quality services, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group and streamlining of business processes conducts daily efforts to improve the quality at each operating The Company introduced a commendation system for site and affiliated company. The content and results of such improvement activities with an aim to vitalize the voluntary efforts are horizontally developed across the Group. Some of improvement activities in July 2016. Under this system, each these measures are as follows. group sets its own theme, performs improvement activities Measures taken by Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd. (heatstroke based thereon, and the award is given once a year to the countermeasures) group that particularly contributed to the service quality improvement and streamlining of business processes. In addition, as the system is open to anyone who engages in the Company’s business including suppliers, it is designed to enable each worksite and team to come together and join the improvement activities. In fiscal 2018, the third year of the commendation system, we expanded the scope to include affiliated Measures taken at divisions or branches and Group companies companies. As a result, a record-high 63 groups (401 people) joined the activities, making a cumulative total of around Divisions or Branches Content of measures 1,000 participants. Their wide-ranging themes included not and Group companies only the activities within warehouses such as review on the Warehousing and Held meetings attended by managers from all of the Distribution operating bases to share information on improvement operation flow lines and improving storage efficiency, but also Business Division of quality. business improvement and streamlining of clerical work in Tokyo Branch Determined issues on operational procedures by offices. monitoring the interior of warehousing facilities. The administrative side of this system provided support Yokohama The 4S Activities Promotion Committee patrolled the warehousing as needed to help each group thoroughly analyze problems, Branch facilities and made evaluations on each checklist item. Promoted 4S activities in all work places. The Promotion Kobe Branch Committee checked the status of implementation every month and conducts commendation. Sairyo Service Compilation of a forklift operating manual, instruction using Co., Ltd. the manual, and information sharing of near-miss cases, etc. Improving quality through obtaining and maintaining ISO9001 Fuji Logistics certification, forklift competitions, improvement team Co.,Ltd. activities, internal company training, and 5S activities, etc. Kyokuryo Implemented measures to prevent heatstroke in Warehouse Co., Ltd. summer and influenza in winter Shinryo Koun Provided technical training to improve workers’ Co., Ltd. technical capability. Mitsubishi Logistics Improved and implemented the human resources China Co., Ltd. development system at all the Group companies in China. Shanghai Collected accident-related information at each Improvement activities (Tokyo Branch) Linghua Logistics division and department, analyzed the tendencies Co., Ltd. and gave feedback to all managerial employees. Yokohama Dia Building Collected information on complaints from customers Management through outsourced companies and shared the VOIC E Corporation information at meetings with the tenants. Dia Buil-Tech Improving service quality and strengthening measures for On Measures for Improvement Activities Co., Ltd. environmental issues by obtaining ISO9001 certification Keihin Naigai Yasufumi Shimizu Held internal company lectures on customs clearance Business Coordination Team, Planning & Forwarding Co.,Ltd. Business Coordination Division Measures taken by Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd. I am involved in the commendation system for improvement activities in an administrative capacity. It has been almost three years since the system was introduced, but I am still reminded daily of the many groups that are earnestly engaged in improvement activities. Last year, I myself participated in improvement activities as a team leader. It was a very fulfilling time, and I am now supporting improvement activities as a member of the administrative team, based on my experience. I would like to continue to communicate the necessity and pleasure of improvement activities, so that it’s easy for everyone to participate. 28 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 identify the causes and perform efficient improvement We will promote better service quality and activities. more efficient operational processes Although being small, by continuing company-wide through the utilization of new technologies efforts, the activity may produce great results. To have the improvement activities ingrained in our corporate culture, we In recent years, operations have become increasingly will operate the system while sharing activity examples in the complicated due to the diversification in customer needs. We Group with the use of an internal database and in-house are also facing a predicted increase in labor shortages. journal. In order to respond to these challenges, we aim to save labor through the agile use of new technologies. At the same time, in order to achieve both high quality and high efficiency, To further improve the quality of logistics operations, we in April 2019 the Company established a new organization in adopted the G-MIWS (a new information system related to the head office to promote the introduction and utilization of warehouse storage operation and delivery center operation) new technologies. The Company has already introduced technologies such With the aim of providing a high-quality logistics service as multi-tier automated warehouses, unmanned forklifts and integrating nationwide and overseas logistics, the Company robot arms, but this new organization will be central in has developed G-MIWS (Global Mitsubishi Intelligent promoting the introduction and utilization of technologies Warehouse System), a new warehousing and distribution such as AI (artificial intelligence), robots and unmanned center system, and installed it at all domestic locations. transport vehicles. The “G” of “G-MIWS” signifies “global,” aiming to expand the Company’s logistics business to integrate nationwide and overseas logistics. Our system is available in English and Chinese for overseas use and is designed to be effective in Promotion of disaster measures standardizing operations, improving service quality and to maintain service functions reducing costs. By exporting various types of logistics-related data, we will analyze operations, formulate sales strategies, Working on crisis-preventive measures provide useful information for customers’ decision making in and measures to focus on crises a timely manner and provide even higher-quality logistics services than ever to fully support customers’ business promptly and effectively as they occur development from the aspect of logistics. The basic purpose of our crisis management measures is to predict various crises that can seriously affect corporate management, prevent such crises and, if a crisis does happen, focus on the crisis quickly and effectively to minimize human and material damage that would impact corporate VOIC E management and restore the normal operational structure as Measures for the Promotion of Digitalization early as possible. In particular, we roll out “Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Akito Kotera Warehouses” and “DisasterDigital Transformation Team, Information System Division Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings” and aim to The Digital Transformation Team was newly be resilient against disasters established under the Information Systems Division in April from both soft and hard 2019, to promote the introduction and utilization of new aspects. technologies, with the aim of achieving the MLC2030 Vision. New technologies such as IoT, AI and robots are being Seismic isolation equipment of the developed, and greater efficiency and an enhanced level of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse (Ibaraki Distribution service can be expected from their introduction in business. Center No. 4 in Osaka) However, it is said that at present only a small percentage of companies have actually managed to introduce these technologies into their actual business activities. Given this situation, in order to keep up with the times To fulfill our corporate social responsibility, we intend to: and ensure that we can respond flexibly to future advances and changes in technology, we will gather information and 1. Ensure the safety of employees, their families and engage in research on new technologies, constantly aware of related people; developments all around, and open to new challenges. 2. Preserve corporate facilities (e.g., the Company’s warehouses, As well as engaging in reviews of business processes buildings and facilities) and the freight received; and together with staff at each office, I will consider how to realize 3. Strive to quickly restore and continue operation. more efficient operations through the utilization of new technologies, without being anchored to existing approaches. To respond to trust in our corporation from society, we will: In this way, by realizing improvements in service quality and 1. Strive to avoid adverse effects to stakeholders productivity, I would like to help to strengthen the Company’s (customers, shareholders and business partners), and competitiveness and ability to make proposals. 2. Contribute to the quick stabilization of local communities. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 29 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Conducted training for earthquake Reinforcing the emergency and disaster measures measures system During February and March 2019, we conducted As an emergency measure, we implemented largetraining for earthquake measures at the Tokyo, scale disaster measure training with mandatory Yokohama and Kobe branches. The training was employee participation. The training involved the use of based on a scenario reflecting the characteristics of a a mobile phone safety confirmation system, going or large-scale earthquake expected to cause major coming to a work site by walking and checking damage to the locations of each branch. It considered restoration procedures from disaster damage, etc. the initial response, mainly during the period from the In addition, communication training on the use of occurrence of the earthquake until the following day, transceivers was conducted monthly in the Group and confirmed aspects such as the timely and companies to acquire the knowledge of its use, so as appropriate verification and reporting of the status of to strengthen the disaster measures system. damage, communication between branches and Moreover, by increasing the number of offices offices, the role of each branch and office, and the implementing the Earthquake Early Warning system, centralization of information. we strive to promptly collect information needed to ensure employees’ safety. Web Implementation performance data from the training for earthquake measures can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Training for earthquake measures Transceiver (MCA radio) Earthquake Early Warning System Taking measures to prevent fire and respond to the occurrence of fire Tokyo Branch Yokohama Branch In February 2017, a fire took place at the warehouse of a major mail order company. The warehouse was for in-house use, and was not a commercial warehouse as stipulated in the Warehousing Business Act. However, all the commercial warehouses received a heads-up from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism that governs the warehousing industry. The Kobe Branch Company, even before this incident, had been conducting thorough employee education, VOIC E enhancing security, and taking Reflection on the Training for fire preventive measures from the aspects of structure and Large-scale Earthquake Measures facility when constructing Hiroyuki Ito warehouses. In addition, we Minamihonmoku No. 1 Office, Yokohama Branch have established a constant communication system with I participated in the training so that I would be able to local fire stations and conduct make an appropriate response in the event of a largeperiodic fire drills every year in scale earthquake. preparation for the occurrence Fire prevention patrol During the training, I experienced just how difficult it is to organize and share necessary information under constantly changing conditions, such as the state of casualties and the suspension of lifeline functions. I also realized the importance of effectively utilizing limited resources such as time and means of communication. From now on, I would like to approach my daily work with an awareness of disaster prevention. Fire drill 30 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 of fire. Through continuing such measures and warehousing business operator so that each of the initiatives, we will strive to provide highly reliable designated facilities of the Company can function well services for our customers. during a future large-scale disaster. Data on our 11 facilities designated as support/relief We are strengthening our information Web goods logistics base facilities can be viewed on system crisis management structure to Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” focus on disasters and other crises HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version To ensure continuous use of the information system even during an emergency, we established a disaster countermeasures center in the Kansai region to back up data and implemented a duplicate information system for our in-house network and internet environment. In addition, the Company has formulated a manual focused on information system disasters and other measures as countermeasures Aomi Distribution Center No. 1, Sakurajima Distribution Center No. taken during operation of such Tokyo Branch 1, Osaka Branch systems against information system accidents and failure. We have introduced the Disaster Information Disaster countermeasure center in the Kansai region Communication System (D-DICS) Until now, emergency communication between the 11 Company facilities designated as support leased building management offices in the Tokyo and relief goods logistics bases by the metropolitan area and the Company, and emergency communication between those offices and Dia BuilMinistry of Land, Infrastructure, and Tourism Tech Co., Ltd. head office, which is a management The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and company for the Company’s leased buildings, utilized a Tourism, learning from its reflection on the Great East telephone communication network. However, based on Japan Earthquake, held an advisory conference from the assumption that telephone lines would become September to December 2011, attended by experts, overloaded during large-scale emergencies, we logistics business operators and people related to introduced the Disaster Information Communication industry organizations, among others, to compile the System (D-DICS) jointly with Dia Buil-Tech, using “Basic concept on the support/relief goods logistics Internet networks that are not prone to overloading system,” which aims for the efficient and smooth even during emergencies. In this way, we have ensured delivery of support/relief goods to afflicted areas at the secure information transfer and sharing in times of time of a disaster. disaster. (Started operation in September 2017, The General Manager of the Warehousing and covering 22 leased buildings in the Tokyo metropolitan Distribution Business Division of the Company area.) assumed a position as a committee member The D-DICS system enables real-time sharing of representing warehousing business operators, information on the status of damage among relevant requested by the Ministry, and actively commented parties when entered into the system at each building, from the perspective of a warehousing business and can also carry instructions regarding the damage operator. These discussions concluded with the shared or other communications. recognition that for the delivery of support/relief goods The introduction of this system brings about the at the time of a disaster, it is essential to fully utilize the centralization of information, enabling a swift and expertise and facilities of private logistics operators. accurate initial response in times of disaster. In fiscal 2011, 395 private facilities nationwide, We will continue to work to ensure that the tenants mainly in the Kanto, Tokai and Tonankai regions, where of our buildings can use them with confidence, through a large-scale earthquake is foreseen in the near future, the utilization of this kind of system. were designated as support/relief goods logistics bases, including the Company’s seven facilities located in the Kanto, Tokai and Hanshin regions. In fiscal 2012, two other facilities of the Company (in Fukuoka and Saga) were newly designated as relief supplies and material facilities. In fiscal 2013, two other facilities of the Company (both in Aichi Prefecture) were newly designated as relief supplies and material facilities which brought the number of the Company’s facilities to 11. We will thoroughly prepare to fulfill our public role as a Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 31 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society To contribute to the development of local communities and international society, we must focus not only on the site where our business base is located but also understand our relationship with society and recognize our common interests with society. To maintain harmonious relationships with local and international societies, we will contribute to cultural activities and health services and make donations. An event at Kobe Harborland umie Cooperating with the local community Contribution to cultural activities through sports We conducted a charity auction and a Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s facility, is charity fair positioned right in front of the starting point of “Yokohama Marathon,” a public marathon, therefore we At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s have hosted a monthly running club event there since commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, we held September 2014 with the aim of contributing to the local our charity fair on Sunday, August 19, 2018. On this community and bringing excitement to the marathon ninth charity fair, popular traditional fair games such as event. 2018 marked the fifth year of this event, and not shooting games and yo-yo fishing were enjoyed by only the training sessions, which welcome the three generations of people. participation of those new to running, but also the “lunch The event has become a regular occurrence in the club,” where all of the participants eat lunch together at school summer vacation season, and attracted a total the restaurant in the facility of 331 groups in 2018. Revenues from the event were after the training session, as donated to the relief fund for victims of the July 2018 well as the summer event to torrential downpour disaster in West Japan, via the enjoy the beer garden, also Japanese Red Cross Society. We will continue to hold proved popular. About 40 civic the events that can entertain visitors, aiming to make a runners participate in the event facility indispensable to the regional community. every month. We aim for our facilities to coexist with local communities through such communitybuilding initiatives in the future as well. Running club event Contribution through activities in local communities, etc. We conducted tree planting events in Charity fair China and Thailand. As part of our CSR activities in China, a tree planting event like last year was conducted on Saturday, March 16, 2019, in 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 collaboration among Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., We conduct social contribution activities as a Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shenzhen member of the Mitsubishi Group and participate in Lingyang Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch, the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Liaison Council Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., and Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd. As a social contribution activity within the Mitsubishi As part of our CSR activities in Thailand, tree planting Group, we donate to academic and charitable activities were conducted on Sunday, September 16, 2018, enterprises and conduct various volunteer activities. as part of the program for the annual company trip hosted by Also, as a member of the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd. A total of 128 Liaison Council made up of the companies within the employees of the company joined the activities. Mitsubishi Group, we report on our related activities These events helped the employees and their families in and exchange information. each country to understand the significance of making a social contribution and enhance their environmental awareness, and provided an opportunity outside work for We support the activities of The Dia them to interact with each other to build friendships. Foundation for Research on Ageing Societies The Dia Foundation for Research on Ageing Societies is engaged in activities aimed at contributing to solving issues faced by aging societies, in fields such as insurance, medical care and welfare, through investigation and research into these issues. Interest is growing in social participation by the elderly, in the context of a declining birthrate and aging population. The Company is collaborating with The Dia Foundation for Research on Ageing Societies in the VOIC E Reflection on Mangrove Tree Planting Activities Satanat Astakulrekha BPI & Privilege Division, Mitsubishi Logistics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. On September 16, 2018, we undertook mangrove tree planting activities in Laemmaenokkaew, Chanthaburi Province as part of our annual company trip. For the past two decades, the ecosystem in Thailand has Tree planting in China been deteriorating rapidly, and the pace of regeneration is lagging behind the rate of destruction. Mangrove trees are known to absorb large amounts of CO2, and also contribute to a rich coastal ecosystem. When they are grown, mangroves provide a place for sea life to grow, improving harvests of marine products in the area. Their forests also provide a place for birds and animals to gather. For these reasons, we decided to use this opportunity to plant mangroves, to assist in the regeneration of the ecosystem. On the day of the tree planting, we only arrived at the planting site after walking for a long time through marshy coastal terrain under a hot sun. When it came to planting the trees however, everyone was smiling. We all shared the feeling that our actions were contributing to the future. I was able to share this valuable experience with 128 of my co-workers. In addition, on the way back from planting the trees, almost all of the participants took the initiative to quietly collect the plastics and other garbage that had drifted into the shore. Seeing this, I became aware of the positive changes that occurred in all of us. I sincerely hope that we will be able to continue our tree planting activities, and that we will be able to help society in some way. (Group company of the Company) Tree planting in Thailand Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 33 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society utilization of diverse human resources, including the water features, flowers and greenery, its design and elderly. In this way we aim to realize an affluent and construction, with a relaxing gathering space and other sustainable society. features where both local residents and tourists can enjoy. We are cosponsoring Diamond Cup Golf The Human-sized Urban Development Awards are as a community contribution. awarded to groups and organizations that have made outstanding contributions to urban development Participating companies within the Mitsubishi Group activities, as well as outstanding buildings that cosponsored a notable golf tournament, Diamond Cup contribute to human-sized urban development, based Golf, which contributes to local communities and helps on the Basic Ordinance on Urban Development nurture junior golfers through charitable activities. established by Hyogo Prefecture, which reflects the Valuing the underlying concept and purposes of this experience and lessons learned from the Great Hanshin tournament, the Company cosponsored this event as Earthquake. The stream sidewalk, born from the one of the participating companies. redevelopment of the Mosaic canal, brings together an attractive combination of shops, terraces, waterside, Installed flower beds in the greenbelt flowers and greenery. It received the award in near the Nagoya Station recognition of its contribution to the revitalization of the surrounding region. Our Nagoya Branch responded to the request from the Meieki Development Council, made up of landowners Collaborating with the local community around Nagoya Station, to install flower beds to liven up and bring color to the front of the Nagoya Station to promote tourism owned by Nagoya City. Yokohama Bay Quarter participates in the Minato Since fiscal 2011, we have been contributing to the Yokohama Yukata Festival, a joint summer promotion beautification of the environment in front of the Nagoya by the Yokohama harbor area, as a member of the Station by planting flowers two times a year in spring executive committee. The catchphrase of the festival is and autumn. “a yukata is your passport to summer in Yokohama,” and features special offers including invitation to events for participants who come dressed in yukatas. It began in 2015, as a joint initiative by local shops, department stores, hotels, and food and beverage outlets. 2018 marked the fourth year of the Festival, and it was awarded the Special Recognition Award at the 9th Kanagawa Tourism Grand Prize, presented by Kanagawa Prefecture to businesses that contribute to The flower bed in spring/autumn regional revitalization, in recognition of its promotion of the revitalization of the whole region. <Contents on the signboard of the flower bed of hospitality> This flower belt is managed by the help of flower supporters with the aim of creating a community with lots of flowery colors. The flower bed of hospitality Receiving awards for the stream sidewalk at Kobe Harborland umie The stream sidewalk at Kobe Harborland umie, one of the Company’s commercial real estate facilities in Kobe, received the Parks & Open Space Association of Japan President’s Award at the 34th City Parks Contest, and the Governor’s Award at the 20th Human-sized Urban Development Awards held by the Hyogo Prefecture Gardening and Parks Association. The City Parks Contest is held with the aim of contributing to the creation of city parks. The stream sidewalk received the award after being evaluated on its expansiveness and safety, along with the use of The Minato Yokohama Yukata Festival 2018 34 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 We will continue to contribute to revitalization of the We hold radio exercise events at local community, through activities such as those of Yokohama Bay Quarter Yokohama Bay Quarter and the design initiatives of the stream sidewalk, Kobe Harborland umie. At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, for seven days during the school summer vacation season in August, radio exercises were held at the main plaza. 2018 marks the fifth year of organizing this event, all managed by employees of Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation. Despite the record summer heat in 2018, more than 200 people attended the event, including senior couples living close by and small children with their parents before work. In the future, we would like to bring further excitement to the region as a shopping mall close to the community. Awards ceremony for Special Recognition Award, the 9th Kanagawa Tourism Grand Prize We engaged in joint fire drills with the fire station at Kobe Harborland umie At Kobe Harborland umie, we engaged in a joint fire drill with the Kobe Chuo Ward Fire Station on Wednesday, February 27, 2019, in combination with the spring fire prevention campaign. About 90 employees working at Kobe Harborland Radio exercises umie and 40 firefighters participated in the fire drill. Based on a simulated situation where an earthquake had caused a fire inside the building, participants We participate in local cleanup engaged in escape training and initial fire extinguishment activities. training using imitation fire extinguishers, as well as Our operating bases nationwide also participated in local casualty rescue training led by the rescue team and full cleanup activities voluntarily. In addition, our Osaka water discharge (spraying at once) training. Branch participated in the local blood donation activities A display and photo session featuring fire engines together with our customers in spring and autumn. We and ambulances was held in the building after the fire will strive to contribute to the local communities by drill, as well as education activities for local citizens. continuing these activities. Kobe Harborland umie welcomes many customers every day, and it is important to ensure a swift initial response by employees and cooperation with firefighters in the event of a disaster or fire. We aim for our facilities to make customers feel secure, through raising our everyday disaster prevention awareness. Cleanup activities at the Head Office Cleanup activities in the Harborland area Cleanup activities at Fuji Logistics Blood donation activities at Osaka Co., Ltd. Branch Fire drill Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 35 Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact The Group promotes its CSR activities pursuant to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Practice of the UN Global UNGC’s 10 principles Compact’s 10 principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of The Group agreed to adhere to the UN Global internationally proclaimed human Human Compact (hereinafter “UNGC”) and endorsed approval rights; and Rights in May 2014. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not The UNGC is a voluntary complicit in human rights abuses. corporate responsibility initiative for businesses that Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the are aiming for sustainable freedom of association and the growth as a responsible effective recognition of the right to member of society. The UNGC collective bargaining; asks companies to voluntarily Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of participate in creating a global forced and compulsory labor; framework to take creative Labor leadership. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child At the World Economic Forum in Davos, labor; and Switzerland, in 1999, Kofi Annan, then SecretaryPrinciple 6: The elimination of discrimination in General of the United Nations, proposed that respect of employment and companies should observe the 10 principles in the occupation. areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption to solve various problems that could Principle 7: Businesses should support a occur due to internationalization and the global precautionary approach to expansion of businesses. In July 2000, the UNGC was environmental challenges; launched at the UN Headquarters in New York. As of Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote June 2019, approximately 13,500 companies and greater environmental Environment organizations around the world were members of responsibility; and UNGC. Principle 9: Encourage the development and Based on its “Code of Conduct,” the Group will diffusion of environmentally strive to practice the UNGC’s 10 principles as a good friendly technologies. member of international society. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Web Global Compact Network Japan’s Web site http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html 36 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2019) Company name Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Head Office Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Establishment April 15, 1887 Capital ¥22,393 million Revenue (fiscal 2018) Consolidated: ¥227.1 billion Non-consolidated: ¥157.4 billion The number of employees 4,466 of the Mitsubishi Logistics (excluding 49 workers on leave to work outside the Group, 1,419 temporary staff and 1,207 Group employees on loan/dispatched from outside the Group) The number of 926 employees of the (excluding 125 employees on leave to work for other companies, 132 temporary staff and 627 Company employees on loan/dispatched from inside and outside the Group) Branches Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Fukuoka Major Businesses Logistics Warehousing; trucking; port and harbor operation; international transportation; marine freight transportation; customs clearance; development, sales, management and administration of logistics information systems; etc. Real Estate Buying, selling, leasing and management of real estate; contracting of construction work, its design and supervision; operation of parking lots; etc. Companies in the Consolidated subsidiaries (51 companies) scope of Tohoku Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Sairyo Service Co., Ltd., Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., consolidation Tokyo Dia Service Co., Ltd., Dia Systems Corporation, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Unitrans Ltd., Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd., Tokyo Juki Transport Co., Ltd., SII Logistics Inc., Fuji Logistics Support Co., Ltd., Kinko Service Co., Ltd., Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Meiryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd., Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd., Hanryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Shinryo Koun Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Monryo Transport Corporation, Hakuryo Koun Co., Ltd., Seiho Kaiun Kaisha, Ltd., Saryo Service Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics America Corporation, Mitsubishi Warehouse California Corporation, Mitsubishi Logistics Europe B.V., Fuji Logistics Europe B.V., Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Qingke Warehouse Management Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Qingsheng Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd. Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Dalian F.T.Z.) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Hong Kong Ltd., Fuji Logistics (H.K.) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd., P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia, P.T. Dia-Jaya Forwarding Indonesia, Fuji Logistics Malaysia SDN.BHD., Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation, Chubo Kaihatsu Co., Ltd., Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Osaka Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd., T’ACT Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Accounted for by the Equity Method (3 companies) MY Terminals Holdings, Limited, Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., Jupiter Global Limited Financial Data Business results (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Assets (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Operating revenue Operating income Ordinary income Total assets Net assets 250 15 20 600 400 227.1 215.4 17.3 12.4 12.6 482.5 16.1 462.0 *1 200 12 294.5 299.1 15 300 400 150 9 10 200 100 6 200 5 100 50 3 0 0 0 0 0 2017 2018 (fiscal year) 2017 2018 (fiscal year) 2017 2018 (fiscal year) 2017 2018(fiscal year) 2017 2018(fiscal year) *1 The Company has applied “Partial Amendments to ‘Accounting Standard for Tax Effect Accounting’” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan Statement No. 28, February 16, 2018) beginning from fiscal 2018. The amount of total assets shown for fiscal 2017 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the application of the Standard, etc. CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division Nihonbashi Dia Building 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Extended version The following are some data related to the Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019, which was collected at the end of fiscal 2018. Environmental conservation Environmental conservation activity data (by business) *Basic unit denominator (figures from Act on Rationalizing Energy Use, etc.) uses figure that have strong correlations with each business. Unit Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Warehousing Basic unit denominator Thousand m2 <Floor area> 1,439 1,444 1,555 and distribution CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 35.0 33.9 32.6 business CO2 emissions basic unit kg-CO2/m2 24.3 23.5 21 Port and Harbor Basic unit denominator Thousand tons <Handling tons> 18 44 55 Operation CO2 emissions t-CO2 8 9 7 Business CO2 emissions basic unit kg-CO2/thousand tons 440.3 203.2 127.8 Overland Basic unit denominator Million km <Total transportation distance> 4.4 4.1 3.9 transportation CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 3.8 3.6 3.5 business CO2 emissions basic unit kg-CO2/thousand km 861.5 881.4 898.2 Basic unit denominator Thousand m2 <Operational area> 710 681 686 Real estate CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 40.4 38.4 37.1 business CO2 emissions basic unit kg-CO2/m2 56.9 56.3 54 CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 79.2 75.9 73.2 Environmental conservation data (by usage, by emission type) Water use (water supply, sewage) Electricity use Fuel use (City gas, LP (Liquefied Petroleum) gas, kerosene, heavy oil, diesel oil, gasoline) Heat use (Heated water, cold water, vapor) (Thousand m3) (Million kWh) (Thousand GJ) (Thousand GJ) 1,000 919 200 200 100 851 823 137 136 73.7 69.5 72.4 750 150 134 150 75 104.0 100.2 94.3 500 100 100 50 250 50 50 25 0 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions Waste emissions (tons) Waste emissions (m ) 3 (Thousand t-CO2) (Thousand tons) (Thousand m3) 100 4 8 79.2 75.9 73.2 75 3 6 2.1 2.0 50 2 1.7 4 2.3 2.6 1.9 25 1 2 0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) *Calculation standard Volume related to electricity, fuel and heat uses, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator from the warehousing and distribution business, the port and harbor operation business and the real estate business are based on the reported values in the Company’s report based on the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use. The international transportation business is included in the warehouse and distribution business, given the small number of operating sites. Although the overland transportation business is not under the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use, fuel, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator were calculated for one of the Company’s major trucking subsidiaries based on the standard in the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use. Business sites for the port and harbor operation business were restricted to three places where the Company is in charge of transportation referenced to the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use. For electricity usage and CO2 emissions, the reported amounts for the Company’s subsidiary in the logistics business (the one company under the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use) were added. The CO2 emission volume was calculated based on the electricity, fuel and heat volume used under the standard of the Act on Rationalizing Energy Use. For water use, the volume of water used by the Company is indicated. The waste emission shows the volume of waste emitted by part of the Company (excluding the real estate business, etc.) and by some of the Group companies. Calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons Unit:t-CO2 The Company’s facilities that have obtained CASBEE Rank A certification or above Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Completion Rank Number Name of facility Branch CASBEE name, etc. Notes month obtained Leakage 1,027 468 910 605 1 Sakurajima Distribution Center No. 3 Osaka March 2008 CASBEE Osaka A Osaka City amount Institute for Building Environment and 2 Tobishima Distribution Center (Phase 1) Nagoya October 2008 CASBEE construction (new) A Energy Conservation (IBEC) 3 Yokohama Dia Building Yokohama December 2009 CASBEE Yokohama S 4 Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 3 Osaka October 2012 CASBEE Osaka Prefecture A Osaka Prefecture 5 Daito Distribution Center Osaka December 2012 CASBEE Osaka Prefecture A Osaka Prefecture 6 Misato Distribution Center No. 2 Tokyo March 2013 CASBEE Saitama Prefecture A Saitama Prefecture 7 DIACREST MUSASHI-NAKAHARA Head Office October 2013 CASBEE Kawasaki A 8 Nihonbashi Dia Building Head Office September 2014 CASBEE new construction S ERI Co., Ltd. 9 Tobishima Distribution Center (Phase 2) Nagoya September 2015 CASBEE Aichi A 10 DIACREST KYODAI-KUMANO Osaka February 2017 CASBEE Kyoto A Kyoto City 11 Seishin Distribution Center Kobe March 2018 CASBEE Kobe A 12 Ibaraki Distribution Center No. 4 Osaka July 2018 CASBEE Osaka Prefecture A Osaka Prefecture 13 DIACREST KOKUJUN-KENTO Osaka March 2019 CASBEE Osaka Prefecture A Osaka Prefecture, carpark building is Rank B Change of total gas mileage at all operational sites of Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2018) (Unit: km/L) 114 Fiscal year 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 112 110.3 Vehicles for 2.45 2.59 2.63 2.58 2.59 2.52 110 108.2 107.5 107.0 business use (100.0) (105.6) (107.5) (105.5) (105.7) (102.9) 108 105.6 105.5 105.7 105.8 106 102.9 103.4 104 Fiscal year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 101.3 102 100.0 Vehicles for 2.48 2.53 2.62 2.65 2.70 2.60 100 business use (101.3) (103.4) (107.0) (108.2) (110.3) (105.8) 98 96 Parentheses indicate index numbers setting the mileage for fiscal 2006 as 100.0. 94 2006 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal year) Promotion of CSR Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities Number of news releases Unit: case Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 prevention of insider trading Unit: persons achievements achievements achievements Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Logistics 2 6 7 achievements achievements achievements Real Estate 0 1 3 In-house 49 50 59 IR 5 8 6 CSR 3 2 2 Number of respondents to information security questionnaire Other 5 3 7 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Total 15 20 25 achievements achievements achievements Number of questionnaires conducted Twice Twice Once Number of persons participated in awareness surveys aimed at Number of respondents 2,887 3,271 3,431 disseminating the corporate philosophy and better understanding Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for the Act of CSR and compliance. Unit: persons against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Unit: persons Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 achievements achievements achievements Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 achievements achievements achievements Awareness surveys concerning CSR and compliance In-house 757 801 846 In-house 1,458 1,426 1,517 Domestic Group companies 1,047 1,019 1,033 Domestic Group companies 1,807 1,869 1,882 Total 1,804 1,820 1,879 Total 3,265 3,295 3,399 Organizational Governance Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Number of persons participated in check aimed at dissemination Number of persons participated in training for earthquake measures of awareness of compliance Unit: persons Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements February, February, Execution period — Check on status of compliance March 2018 March 2019 with Code of Conduct Nagoya Branch, Tokyo Branch, In-house 1,421 1,499 1,565 Place — Osaka Branch, Yokohama Branch, Domestic Group companies 2,745 2,671 2,646 Fukuoka Branch Kobe Branch Overseas Group companies 81 74 80 Total of Total of Number of participants — around 70 around 110 Total 4,247 4,244 4,291 Support/relief goods logistics base facilities Respect for Human Rights Year/month of Area used for Block Branch Facility name transportation of construction Number of persons participated in human rights awareness course support/relief goods to spread awareness for human rights Unit: persons Tokyo Aomi Distribution Center No. 1 1997.6 1,000m2 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Kanto Daikoku Warehouse B 1988.1 1,000m2 Yokohama achievements achievements achievements Daikoku Warehouse C 1994.4 1,000m2 Human rights awareness course 49 53 58 Kinjoh Warehouse 1994.5 1,000m2 Tokai Nagoya Tobishima Distribution Center 2008.11 1,000m2 Honjoh Warehouse 1992.1 1,000m2 Osaka Sakurajima Distribution Center No. 1 1998.3 1,000m2 Kinki Rokko Warehouse D 1988.1 1,000m2 Kobe Rokko Warehouse E 1993.10 1,000m2 Chuo Futo Warehouse 1995.10 1,000m2 Kyushu Fukuoka Tosu Distribution Center 2003.4 1,000m2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2019 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Environmental and Social Report 2019 GRI Standards reference table (Lists mainly “Core” options) General Disclosures Disclosure Reference Disclosure contents Contents number page number 1. Organizational Profile 102-1 a. Name of the organization. P. 37 Company Profile a. A description of the organization’s activities. Introduction of 102-2 b. Primary brands, products and services, including an explanation of any products or services P. 4-5 Businesses that are banned in certain markets. 102-3 a. Location of the organization’s headquarters. P. 37 Company Profile a. Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has 102-4 P. 37 Company Profile significant operations. 102-5 a. Nature of ownership and legal form. P. 37 Company Profile a. Markets served, including: i. geographic locations where products and services are offered; 102-6 P. 37 Company Profile ii. sectors served; iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. a. Scale of the organization, including: i. total number of employees; ii. total number of operations; Company Profile 102-7 iii. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); P. 37 Financial Data iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. quantity of products or services provided. a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are P. 15 Status of employees 102-8 not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by P. 37 Company Profile workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a 102-8-b and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f . An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the Introduction of 102-9 P. 4-5 organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. Businesses a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; Opening of Ibaraki P. 11 102-10 ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and Distribution Center No. P. 25 alteration operations (for private sector organizations); 4 in Osaka iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. P. 12-13 Organizational Governance 102-11 a. Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. P. 27-31 Provision of Safe, HighQuality and Useful Services a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other P. 36 Statement Supporting 102-12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. the UN Global Compact a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international 102-13 — — advocacy organizations. 2. Strategy a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or 102-14 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its P. 2-3 Top Message strategy for addressing sustainability. 3. Ethics and integrity P. 6-8 Promotion of CSR, 102-16 a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. MLC2030 Vision 4. Governance P. 12 Organizational a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance governance 102-18 body. P. 13 CSR and Compliance b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. Committee Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Environmental and Social Report 2019 GRI Standards reference table (lists mainly “Core” options) Disclosure Reference Disclosure contents Contents number page number 5. Stakeholder engagement 102-40 a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. — — 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. — — P. 6 Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi 102-42 a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. Logistics Group P. 7 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 102-43 type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was — — undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its 102-44 — — reporting; ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 6. Reporting practice a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 102-45 P. 37 Company Profile b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. An explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries. 102-46 b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining P. 1 Editorial Policy report content. 102-47 a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. — — a. The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such 102-48 — — restatements. a. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic 102-49 — — Boundaries. 102-50 a. Reporting period for the information provided. P. 1 Editorial Policy 102-51 a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. P. 1 Editorial Policy 102-52 a. Reporting cycle. P. 1 Editorial Policy 102-53 a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. P. 1 Editorial Policy a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: 102-54 i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards; Core option’; — — ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option.’ a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report. b. F or each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); 102-55 — — ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. a. A description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If the report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what 102-56 — — has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Management Approach Disclosure Reference Disclosure contents Contents number page number General requirements for reporting the management approach a. An explanation of why the topic is material. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: i. where the impacts occur; 103-1 ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has — — caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business relationships. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary.
