Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 02 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Sustainability highlights 2019 Contents Our 2019 achievements 03 This report provides information on some of Zurich’s key Our 2019 highlights 04 sustainability highlights from 2019, including our continued Acting with urgency 05 The role of insurance 06 commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and Our material issues 07 to the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Our sustainability commitment 09 Sustainability governance 10 Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). External commitments and indices 11 Our role as insurer 12 About Zurich Solutions with sustainable impact 12 Zurich Insurance Group (Zurich) is a Sustainability risks in underwriting 14 leading multi-line insurer that serves its Anti-bribery and anti-corruption 15 customers in global and local markets. Our data commitment 15 With about 55,000 employees, it provides a wide range of property and Our role as investor 16 casualty, and life insurance products and Our role as employer 20 services in more than 215 countries and Diversity and inclusion 21 territories. Zurich’s customers include individuals, small businesses, and Our commitment to work sustainability 23 mid-sized and large companies, as well Health, safety and well-being in as multinational corporations. The Group our office buildings 24 is headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Our role in society 27 where it was founded in 1872. Enhancing community flood resilience 27 Redefining the Z Zurich Foundation 31 Minimizing our environmental footprint 35 Sourcing and procurement 37 United Nations Global Compact 38 Principles for Sustainable Insurance 39 Independent assurance report 40 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 42 Our cover Further information Managing the impacts of climate change: Please visit www.zurich.com risk management responses. Email: sustainability@zurich.com 03 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Shedding light on our 2019 achievements The world is transforming at an unprecedented pace. At Zurich we believe we can have a positive impact in our role as insurer, investor, employer and in society. We have the knowledge, skills and capabilities and spirit to make a difference. Our role as Our role Our role as an insurer as investor Our role in society employer Enhanced thermal coal, oil sands and 2050 142,200 Sustainable operations UN WEPs Group CEO, Mario Greco signed the oil shale position As a founding member of the UN Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance hours Aim to reduce UN Woman’s Empowerment Principles Engaging with customers and we’re committing to a Business hours internal paper investee companies about their zero-emissions portfolio of volunteered by usage by 80% plans to reduce the use of investments by 2050 Zurich employees carbon-intensive fossil fuels Eliminated 89% of our single-use plastic Climate risk globally and we awareness training continue to push Launched to employees worldwide for 100% Climate Risk Use only renewable Advisory Services energy as power Providing insight, protection by 2022 Work sustainability and transparency USD 4.6 billion Committed to a set of principles Invested in our impact for our own workforce investment portfolio Industry-leading data commitment 225,000 1.5°C Our global data commitment DJSI people Pledge Build talent strategy pledges to protect the personal have benefited from Signed up as the Implemented several initiatives to Ranked second in the data of customers and never Zurich’s Flood first insurer to the improve our female promotion rates insurance industry group sell it, not share it without Resilience Alliance Business Ambition being fully transparent for 1.5°C Pledge 04 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our 2019 highlights We want to become one of the most responsible and impactful businesses in the world. Through our commitment to sustainability, we aim to produce sustainable value for our customers, employees, shareholders and the communities where we live and work. We are proud of what we achieved in 2019. This report will provide some of our highlights. Zurich’s approach to Our role as insurer proactively address Zurich signed up as the first insurer to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge. More on environmental, social and page 12 governance (ESG) factors Zurich announced an industry-leading global data commitment. as part of our day-to-day Zurich updated its position on some of the most carbon-intense fossil fuels. business activity supports several of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As part of being a responsible and Our role as investor sustainable business, Zurich committed to a fully decarbonized investment portfolio by 2050. More on we are focusing on page 16 highlighting those SDGs Our impact investment portfolio grew from USD 3.8 billion in 2018 to USD 4.6 billion in 2019, helping to avoid where we can have the 2.8 million tons of CO2-equivalent emissions and, separately, improve the lives of 4.2 million people annually, biggest impact through as of December 2019. our business activities, Zurich became founding signatory to the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Operating Principles for investments and Impact Management. community programs. Our role as employer Zurich committed to a set of principles for our own workforce called work sustainability. More on page 20 12 Zurich business units in 11 countries are EDGE certified with four certified at EDGE ‘Move’ level. Our employee net promoter score (NPS) increased by 19 points compared to 2018. Our role in society Zurich’s Flood Resilience Alliance, funded by the Z Zurich Foundation, continued to support the generation of More on USD 1 billion in additional funding for flood resilience. page 27 Zurich’s total full year charitable cash contributions to Z Zurich Foundation was USD 40.3 million. Zurich announced that it will use only renewable energy as power by 2022, and as such formally joined the RE100. 05 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Acting with urgency When we reset our sustainability ambition That is why we set a work sustainability to become one of the most responsible and commitment that establishes a sense of security impactful businesses in the world, we knew we and trust in the workplace and clarifies our role set the bar high. The unprecedented changes in giving our people the skills they need to build happening in our society called for a unifying a path for their futures. And lastly, we believe purpose and the concerted will to achieve it. that trust serves as the core of the promise of Protecting us and the next generation demands protection we make to our customers. That is we act with real urgency. why we issued a new data commitment that goes beyond legal requirements and ensures That is why in 2019 we issued three respect and transparency around personal data fundamental belief statements – backed by and information. public commitments – that will shape our sustainability impact for generations to come. I’m proud of the great progress we made in First, we believe that curbing the rise of global 2019, as outlined in this report. However, I’m temperatures is our only future. That is why we even more proud of overwhelming support our were the first insurer to sign the UN Business people have shown for these commitments. Ambition for 1.5˚C Pledge committing us to With this much talent focused on the greatest set science-based targets across everything challenges we face, I am confident that Zurich we do and to work with others to create the will create value for all our stakeholders for necessary methodologies. generations to come. Second, we also believe that we must accompany our employees through the Mario Greco transformation of work where non-traditional Group Chief Executive Officer, ways of working are becoming the norm. Zurich Insurance Group 6 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 The role of insurance Insurance creates value for society. It allows people and businesses integrated into our strategy. For us this means using our to protect themselves from risk and helps them become – and remain role as society’s risk experts to encourage more long-term – prosperous and resilient. Risks are becoming more complex and thinking; to develop risk-focused solutions that help society interconnected as a result of climate change, globalization, adapt to transformation with confidence; and to ensure urbanization and technological development. Insurers are increasingly we harness the full potential of each of our employees. expected to use their core capabilities to help communities and society By doing this, we aim to create sustainable value for all our become more resilient to these interconnected risks. The premiums stakeholders in reflection of our purpose, values and our we invest in capital markets also help to finance businesses and Code of Conduct. projects that are important for society. At Zurich, sustainability is 7 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our material issues Stakeholder map A critical part of developing our sustainability ambition is to identify and prioritize issues of material importance to the company and Legend its stakeholders. In 2018, Zurich launched an evidence-based data-driven materiality assessment leveraging our internal risk Internal expertise, deep engagement with stakeholders, and insights Senior Industry associations generated from state-of-the-art big data tools to identify and External management prioritize our most material ESG issues. Our approach is based on international best practice standards including leading sustainability indices and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Through combining these three sources of internal and external feedback, our materiality assessment follows these five steps: NGOs Employees 1. Identify key stakeholders groups to engage Zurich identified 10 key stakeholder groups to include in our data-driven materiality assessment. 2. Consulting stakeholders to identify ESG issues of concern Zurich Insurance Sustainability Media • Engaged with stakeholders through interviews, meetings and Group champions surveys to identify which ESG issues affected them the most and those which they thought were most important for Zurich to address; • Carried out research and benchmarking; Policymakers and Investors • Identified 21 ESG issues of concern for the insurance sector regulators in general and to Zurich specifically. 3. Evidence-based and data-driven prioritization of most material ESG issues • Rigorous evidence-based approach was used to prioritize Zurich’s most material issues using artificial intelligence and big Key suppliers Key customers data through a specialized business intelligence software tool called Datamaran®; • Various sources used as individual inputs into a custom-made model to build an evidence-based materiality matrix. 4. Validation of material issues by risk management specialists and our Sustainability Leaders Council Formal verification by Zurich’s internal team of risk management specialists and our Sustainability Leaders Council. 5. Ongoing monitoring, measurement and adjustment Each of our top material issues will have impact targets and specific management approaches that contribute to our overall sustainability ambition. 8 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our materiality matrix Our materiality analysis identifies three transformational Zurich’s materiality assessment process evaluates the themes key to our future success perceived importance of each environmental, social and governance (ESG) issue to Zurich’s future success and 1 then maps the results onto a materiality matrix. The High Climate y-axis indicates the perceived importance to our external change 3 stakeholders, while the x-axis indicates the perceived Ethics and Fair & importance to Zurich. The issues in the top right, which Governance inclusive compliance are important to both our stakeholders and our business, workplace constitute Zurich’s strategic sustainability focus areas. Fair Transparency and inclusive workforce and workforce development are addressed by our ’work sustainability’ pillar. Issues such as digitalization and innovation, and data privacy and security Data privacy Customer & security Natural satisfaction are addressed via our ‘confidence in a digital society’ disasters pillar. And climate change and natural disasters issues 2 1 Importance to our external stakeholders are addressed by our ‘changing climate’ pillar. Read more Innovation & about these three pillars in the section about sustainability digitalization commitment on page 9. Responsible 2 investment Well-being & health Workforce development 3 Waste management Local community support Water Responsible Human rights supply chain Energy efficiency Product responsibility Pollution Natural capital Medium Medium High Importance to our employees Monitor trends Many issues are material to Zurich. In our matrix we have chosen to Proactively manage only highlight those which are from medium to high importance. Strategic priorities 9 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our sustainability Changing climate Confidence in a digital society Work sustainability commitment Providing insight, ...navigating the impact of the changing protection Making people nature of work through: We have identified three and and organizations Re-training and transformational themes that we transparency more resilient 100010100111010111011001011010110100101101 101110101010110100101101100101101101110101 education for changing skill believe are material for Zurich’s future. 101001011010101101110101101100101101010110 by enabling and 100101101001011010010111010100101101001011 010100101110100101101010101010101010101101 001010101011000101001110101110110010110101 set needs inspiring confidence 101001011011011101010101101001011011001011 011011101011010010110101011011001011011001 ...to support 011010101101001011010010110100101110101001 Wellbeing in a digital society 011010010110101001011101001011010101010101 the transition 010101011010010101010110001010011101011101 100101101011010010110110111010101011010010 110110010110110111010110100101101010110110 to a low 010110110010110101011010010110100101101001 011101010010110100101101010010111010010110 Insights and 101010101010101010110100101010101100010100 carbon economy 111010111011001011010110100111101101110101 010110100101101100101101101110101101001011 solutions to close 010101101100101101100101101010110100101101 001011010010111010100101101001011010100101 protection 110100101101010101010101010101101001010101 gaps Addressing the impacts of Inspiring confidence in an Supporting our employees and What matters most a changing climate increasingly digital society customers in times of great Why we do it 1. Changing climate Actively tackling climate Climate change is perhaps the most complex The digital transformation is well advanced, and change and transformation change as a risk and opportunity Society is transforming. No single 2. Confidence in a digital society risk facing society today. It is intergenerational, it is affecting people worldwide. Today, there are The world of work is changing dramatically. actor can solve complex societal issues like globalization, digitalization Making people and organizations international, and interdependent. Zurich strives more mobile phone licenses on the planet than With work sustainability as a priority, Zurich more resilient by enabling and or climate change alone. To help inspiring confidence in a digital society to be a leader in helping the world better there are people. Devices are connected and is helping to support these trends while manage the risks and benefit from the opportunities they present, 3. Work sustainability manage climate risk and improve resilience ‘smart.’ This offers enormous possibilities but protecting individuals. Supporting our employees and we must take bold action. customers navigating the impact against it: we aim to help prevent risks before also new risks. It requires being responsible in of the changing nature of work they can have an impact. In June 2019, as the the way we work with and handle data. Zurich In 2019, Zurich committed to a set of principles first insurance company, Zurich signed up to is also seeking ways to complement and support for our own workforce, aiming to create a the Business Ambition 1.5˚C Pledge. As part of digital trends with a new generation of products sense of security and trust in the workplace, Zurich’s Pledge, it has also updated its position and services. as we continue to grow. These principles How will we do it 1. Sharpen our focus on innovative on some of the most carbon-intense fossil fuels. include a commitment to prioritize employee sustainable solutions, investments In addition, Zurich has expanded its specialized In our global data commitment, Zurich pledges development and up-skilling over external hires and operations Natural Hazard Risk Engineering capabilities. to protect the personal data of customers and or outsourcing; to reject unsustainable behavior, 2. Develop clear positions on sustainability issues and stand We are a founding member of the Net-Zero never sell it, nor share it without being fully including seeking cheaper employment merely up for what is right Asset Owner Alliance, committing to align our transparent. The commitment launched in for financial gain: and to offer career choices 3. Manage our own exposure to sustainability risks investments portfolios with a 1.5°C scenario. September 2019 exceeds legal requirements that match talents and ambitions, as much as And the Zurich Flood Resilience Alliance (see and promises to only use data to do what is current and future market needs. page 27) has proven that it can be a positive best for our customers. And we continue to force to help others to lessen risk through our work to contribute to increased cyber security We also do so by providing innovative and agile award-winning, collaborative approach to through risk awareness, mitigation and protection solutions to companies going through helping make 2 million people more resilient insurance programs. similar transformations and to individuals whose to flooding. needs may change throughout their lifetimes. It is Zurich’s purpose to protect, to inspire confidence, and to help everyone reach their full potential. By being innovative and caring, Zurich passionately believes we can make our world a more sustainable place to live and work. 10 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Sustainability governance Zurich’s Code of Conduct, purpose and values The Board and the Executive Committee take an active role in Our Group’s Code of Conduct, is fundamental to our success. It ensures that all we do – overseeing and implementing our approach to sustainability. The as a business and as individuals – meets the highest ethical, legal and professional standards. Governance, Nominations and Sustainability Committee (GNSC), a standing committee of the Board, reviews and approves the Group’s sustainability strategy and objectives. The GNSC also reviews and proposes to the Board for approval targets on matters related to ESG that have a material impact on business strategy, Why underwriting or business performance. Our purpose A key aim is to embed responsible and sustainable decision-making and actions into everything we do. To ensure To protect you To inspire To help you reach accountability, our Executive Committee ensures that our confidence your full potential sustainability strategy gets integrated into the business. The Sustainability Leaders Council, set up by the Executive Committee, ensures that we achieve our sustainability objectives. The Council comprises senior executives from across the business and is chaired by the Group Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability. How The relevant business units and Group functions determine the Our values approach and method for delivering the agreed objectives. They We are one team and value We embrace new ideas to We deliver on our are supported by local sustainability champions and a central the diversity and potential exceed our customers; promises and stand up sustainability team at the Group’s headquarters. of every individual. expectations. for what is right. BOARD What EXECUTIVE Our strategy COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY LEADERS COUNCIL COUNTRY CHAMPIONS NETWORK Focus on customers Simplify Innovate Improve service quality and More agile and responsive Better products, services customer experience. organization. and customer care. GROUP SUSTAINABILITY TEAM 11 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 External indices to monitor * Zurich’s commitment to help our progress and improve society understand and protect our sustainability performance itself from climate risks In the 2019 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Zurich formally committed to the UN Global Review, Zurich outperformed 99 percent of other Compact in July 2011, to the Principles for companies in the insurance industry group, receiving ** Responsible Investment (PRI) in July 2012 and to Bronze Class distinction. Zurich is a member of the the UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance DJSI World and DJSI Europe Indices. Zurich has since (PSI) in October 2017. In June 2019, Zurich signed 2004 annually submitted a Climate Change up as the first insurer to the Business Ambition for response to CDP, a not-for-profit charity that runs 1.5°C Pledge aimed at limiting average global the global disclosure system that enables companies, temperature increases to 1.5°C above pre-industrial cities, states and regions to measure and manage levels. In September 2019, Zurich increased its their environmental impacts. Zurich’s 2019 commitment to help society understand and submission score increased to ‘A-’ leadership level. protect itself from climate risks by joining the Zurich has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good UN Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance as a founding Index Series since the index was introduced in 2001. member. The members of this Alliance commit to Our ESG Rating Absolute Score in December 2019 transitioning their investment portfolios to net-zero was 4.4 compared with the highest possible score of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050 5. Zurich is also a constituent of the MSCI ESG Select consistent with a maximum temperature rise of Leaders Index. MSCI is an independent provider of 1.5°C above pre-industrial temperatures. This is an research-driven insights and tools for institutional important milestone on its journey to becoming investors. As of July 2019, Zurich Insurance Group a 1.5°C degreecompliant business. We aim to AG received an MSCI ESG Rating of ‘AA.’ As of achieve this through setting science-based targets September 2019, Zurich was rated in the 98th and making changes within our business portfolios percentile among insurance companies assessed and operations. by Sustainalytics. Zurich has adopted the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task force on Climate Change-related Financial Disclosure (FSB-TCFD) and is reporting on progress made in implementing its commitments. * THE USE BY Zurich Insurance Group Ltd OF ANY MSCI ESG RESEARCH LLC OR ITS AFFILIATES (“MSCI”) DATA, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT, RECOMMENDATION, OR PROMOTION OF Zurich Insurance Group Ltd BY MSCI. MSCI SERVICES AND DATA ARE THE PROPERTY OF MSCI OR ITS INFORMATION PROVIDERS, AND ARE PROVIDED ‘AS-IS’ AND WITHOUT WARRANTY. MSCI NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI. **THE INCLUSION OF Zurich Insurance Group Ltd IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Zurich Insurance Group Ltd BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 12 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our role as Delivering sustainable value Climate change Natural Hazard Risk Engineering Assessment an insurer to our key stakeholders Across the globe, homes, businesses and whole communities are frequently devastated by windstorms, wildfires, earthquakes, floods and other perils. The impact In 2019 Zurich: and likelihood of these natural hazards is increasing, often • Announced the launch of a new Climate Risk Advisory due to human development and now exacerbated by Service to support customers to understand how their climate change. Recognizing these increasing trends, Zurich business operations, strategy, and financial position has expanded its specialized Natural Hazard Risk Engineering might be affected by ever-increasing climate risks in capabilities to meet increasing demands from our the coming years and decades. commercial customers to meet the increasing demand of customers for these specialized natural hazard services and • Launched an innovative ecosystem approach that take action to mitigate the risks. Since the 2011 Thailand brings together a collaboration of specialized capability flood event (which triggered the demand for these services), providers that strengthens the typical insurance coverage Zurich’s customers have already invested tens of millions of included in cyber policies. dollars into risk mitigation efforts, already saving millions • Launched a second edition of the Zurich Innovation and proving that Zurich’s value-adding risk engineering Championship with a redoubled emphasis on sustainability, capabilities are making a real impact. As part of this effort, resilience and protecting the next generation. Zurich has also announced the launch of a new Climate Risk Advisory Service to support customers to understand how • Signed up to the Business Ambition for 1.5˚C Pledge. their business operations, strategy, and financial position • Updated its position on some of the most carbon-intense might be affected by ever-increasing climate risks in the fossil fuels. coming years and decades. • Announced an industry-leading global data commitment. One Tree for One Policy – connecting customers with reforestation Zurich launched the One Tree for One Policy initiative, where we plant a tree for each travel or life insurance Solutions with sustainable impact policy that is purchased by a customer online. Beyond We are living in a changing world that requires innovation. integrating this positive environmental benefit within This is now transforming the way we protect customers, our products, the aim is also to build broader public turning insurance from an industry that pays compensation awareness around the importance of reforestation when harm is done, to one that keeps people out of harm’s and nature-based solutions to address climate change – way. We realize that the next generation is facing many new something that is explicitly communicated to all risks, related to health and well-being, climate change, cyber customers who purchase insurance products within the security, automation, and more. Therefore, our aim as an scope of our expanding One Tree for One Policy initiative. insurer is to offer our customers risk-focused solutions that help society adapt to transformation with confidence and https://tree-nation.com/profile/zurich support the future we want all want to be a part of. 13 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Natural Hazards Radar Second Edition of the Zurich Innovation Zurich Switzerland developed a user-friendly online tool Championship launched with focus to allow people to detect risks to property from floods, landslides, mud and rockslides. In 2019, an updated on sustainability Zurich launched a second edition of the Zurich version of the Radar was launched, including perils such as Innovation Championship with a redoubled floods from surface water, storms, earthquakes and radon. emphasis on sustainability, resilience and protecting Insuring renewables to support transition to the next generation. This championship aims to find low-carbon solutions innovative startups that have the same aspirations The deployment of renewable technologies across the that we have: to make the world a better and more globe is picking up speed and becoming the energy source sustainable place. In the second edition, we have of choice for both business, individuals, and governments. received over 1300 applications from some of the The climate benefits are clear and the costs are declining, world’s most innovative impact-driven startups setting up their adoption for extraordinary growth. Zurich who will build on the successes of our first edition’s continues to support this green growth opportunity 2019 winners: through scaling a suite of insurance options to help • Chisel AI: Uses machine learning to turn customers make it easy to bring zero-carbon energy “As an insurer, our business is to manage risk: we help unstructured data into insights and simpler sources in their homes, offices, and factories. For example customer experiences; in Switzerland, Zurich insures an ever increasing number customers protect themselves against the consequences of rooftop solar installations on peoples’ homes and • Zesty.ai: Property and climate risk analytics businesses, as well as other zero-carbon solutions like of climate-related events including advising them on risk powered by artificial intelligence; geothermal installations, heat pumps, and electric prevention and mitigation so they can adapt and be more vehicles. And for larger customers, Zurich also supports resilient in the future. Managing the climate crisis requires • LifeNome: Digital healthcare startup creating numerous solar and wind farms around the world. personalized wellness approaches; us all to do much more. In 2019, we made some bold Automation commitments to do that and will share our progress annually.” • Soldier.ly: Stress detection and intervention app that pairs with a smart watch; Intelligent Automation of Claims – faster claims processes enables better climate resilience Alison Martin • Shayp: Intelligent monitoring system for leaks Across the insurance industry, the increased severity of CEO EMEA and Bank Distribution in buildings. natural disasters has driven an increase in damage and insurance claims. Extreme weather events are predicted to be more frequent and widespread, and by supporting Cyber security our customers with speed and scale enables Zurich to contribute to supporting local economies and strengthen Cyber Resilience – an ecosystem approach for the climate resilience of the communities we serve. Every supporting customers day that we can accelerate our claims service is a day We work with companies to help them become as cyber quicker that homeowners and businesses can get back resilient as possible. This is partly about helping them to to rebuild their lives and livelihoods. protect their data and their networks as best they can. But it is also about ensuring that they are fully prepared in the event of a cyber incident and have embraced cyber resilience at all levels of the organization, and continue to improve and build their resilience over time. To do so, we launched an innovative ecosystem approach that brings together a collaboration of specialized capability providers that strengthens the typical insurance coverage included in cyber policies by wrapping a suite of cyber resilience and engineering services around these products – whether that is pre-breach mitigation or post-breach response. 14 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Blue Marble Microinsurance Sustainability risks in underwriting A company of Zurich’s size and influence can make a significant positive contribution to society by proactively working with our customers, regulators, civil society, investors and other stakeholders to identify, assess and mitigate environmental, social and governance risks. We have used our proprietary risk-profiling methodology since 2012 to prioritize five key sustainability risks to be monitored across all our business transactions. These included: • Respect for human rights, in particular avoiding business involving child labor, forced labor, poor health and safety conditions or unfair remuneration; • Banned weapons, avoiding business involving the manufacture, sale, distribution or stockpiling of cluster weapons or anti-personnel mines; • Dam construction, avoiding unacceptable social, political or environmental risks of specific dam construction projects; Blue Marble’s CaféSeguro program in Colombia • Oil and gas operations, and mining operations, Zurich Insurance Company Ltd is a founding member Colombia. The majority of the farmers received insurance avoiding risks involving damage to protected areas or critical of Blue Marble Microinsurance, an organization with a payouts in the first year after a severe drought affected their natural habitats, corruption and human rights abuses. mission of providing socially meaningful, commercially crops. Blue Marble will continue to expand the CaféSeguro Since then we have developed a more sophisticated viable insurance protection to the underserved. A UK program in Colombia through the coffee cooperative model. sustainability issues framework. This is a systematic and corporation owned by eight insurance entities, Blue It will also explore new business models to serve additional fully integrated approach to identifying, assessing and Marble incubates and implements micro insurance smallholder farmers, while advancing plans to scale the recommending action on potential risk and opportunity areas ventures that support the economic advancement of program to other crops and countries. from a sustainability perspective across all our activities, but underserved populations. particularly in investment management and underwriting. Also in 2019, Blue Marble Microinsurance was awarded a In 2019, the Blue Marble team renewed and significantly long-term agreement from the United Nations World Food This is a three-step process: expanded the coverage of its weather index insurance Programme (WFP), to become a provider of weather index 1. Issue identification: filter issues from various sources program for smallholder coffee farmers in Colombia. The insurance solutions for the organization across the African (ESG research, social and traditional media, NGOs, CaféSeguro program, originally launched in 2018, provides continent. The goal of the collaboration between Blue businesses) and identify those select issues to go through tailor-made insurance coverage for severe rainfall and Marble and WFP is to improve the financial security of our risk assessment process. drought during the coffee crop’s developmental stages smallholder farmers by delivering meaningful, affordable when it is most vulnerable to weather shocks. Through insurance solutions. Blue Marble and WFP have been 2. Risk assessment: risk assessment by filtering issue through this program, Blue Marble serves about 3,275 smallholder working together in Zimbabwe in the R4 Rural Resilience public commitments, role of insurance, underwriting risk farmers, representing a 46 percent increase over 2018. Initiative since 2018, protecting smallholder farmers against assessment, market exposure assessment, etc. Our Executive Supported by new government subsidies for crop drought through designing and implementing risk transfer Committee approves a position statement on the issue, insurance, smallholder farmers have seen their insurance solutions. The R4 initiative supports smallholder farmers recommends business actions and takes reputational coverage triple and their costs decrease substantially. Blue across Africa by facilitating access to financial services management considerations into account. Marble had a 100 percent renewal rate among existing involving risk management. Blue Marble has developed an 3. Implementation: Businesses locally implement mitigation cooperatives and added a new cooperative, Alto insurance offering that is customizable to soil types, crops, actions and reputational management plans. Support Occidente, to the program. In its first year, CaféSeguro seed varieties and farming practices. It uses satellite available from experts across the Group and escalation protected 2,250 farmers belonging to the Aguadas, Norte technology to monitor parameters that trigger payouts, follows normal governance procedures. de Caldas and Andes coffee cooperatives in Caldas, eliminating the need for costly infield assessment. 15 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 New position on thermal coal, oil sands and oil shale Zurich’s data commitment Building on Zurich’s 2017 position on thermal coal and aligned with the announcement that Zurich signed up to In 2019, Zurich announced an industry-leading global the Business Ambition for 1.5˚C Pledge, Zurich updated data commitment. Going beyond legal requirements, its position on some of the most carbon-intense fossil Zurich’s data commitment includes a promise never fuels in June 2019. The updated position outlines that to sell customers’ personal data nor to share personal Zurich generally will no longer underwrite or invest in data without being fully transparent, meaning customers companies that: will always be notified if their personal data is shared, and with whom. Further, any third party with whom • generate more than 30 percent of their revenue from Zurich does share personal data is bound by an mining thermal coal, or produce more than 20 million enforceable contract, which sets out how that personal tons of thermal coal per year; data can be used. • generate more than 30 percent of their electricity This new commitment is part of our objective to inspire from coal; confidence in a digital society. To help achieve this goal, • are in the process of developing any new coal mining Zurich also pledges to use data to do what is best for or coal power infrastructure; customers. For example, insights from the data will enable Zurich to provide innovative services that help to “We’ve been collecting data from our customers for • generate at least 30 percent of their revenue directly prevent incidents, expanding the traditional protection almost 150 years, but it comes with a big responsibility to from the extraction of oil from oil sands; offered by insurance. These include smart services for home protection, and to improve health and well-being, keep it secure and only use it in an ethical and transparent • are purpose-built (or ‘dedicated’) transportation manner. At Zurich, we take this responsibility very as well as travel that keeps customers out of harm’s way. infrastructure operators for oil sands products, including pipelines and railway transportation; seriously and our data commitment represents a major milestone in this new digital era and a unique promise • generate more than 30 percent of their revenue from The four promises made to our mining oil shale, or within the insurance industry.” customers in Zurich’s data pledge • generate more than 30 percent of their electricity are to: Kristof Terryn from oil shale. Group Chief Operating Officer • Keep their data safe; For clients and investee companies that exceed these thresholds, Zurich will engage in an in-depth dialogue • Never sell their personal data; for a maximum period of two years on credible mid to • Not share their personal data without long-term transition plans. being transparent about it; Anti-bribery and anti-corruption • Put their data to work so Zurich can Zurich is committed to fair and responsible business better protect them, and so they can and prohibits all forms of bribery and corruption, and get the most out of life. any business conduct that could create the appearance of improper influence. Zurich’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption Group policy sets out our global framework addressing the common areas of risk and includes the requirement for local compliance functions to appoint an anti-bribery and anti-corruption officer; complete a focused anti-bribery and anti-corruption risk assessment; identify and record appropriate mitigating processes within the business; and embed appropriate management information, key performance indicators, reporting and monitoring processes. 16 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our role In 2019, Zurich: to net-zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2050 consistent with a maximum temperature rise of 1.5°C as investor • Committed to a fully decarbonized investment portfolio by 2050. above pre-industrial temperatures. This is an important milestone on its journey to becoming a 1.5°C-compliant • Enhanced its thermal coal policy by lowering target business. We aim to achieve this through setting thresholds and introduced a new policy on oil sands science-based targets and making changes within our and oil shale. business portfolios and its operations. • Became founding signatory to the International Zurich recognizes the vital role science-based targets play to Finance Corporation (IFC) Operating Principles for meet the Paris Agreement’s targets by specifying how much Impact Management. and how quickly companies need to reduce emissions. Currently, in the insurance sector, science-based targets do • Won two awards for our multi-class impact not typically exist for neither underwriting nor investment investment and measurement approach. portfolios. However, as part of Zurich’s pledge, we commit to playing an active role in developing such methodologies. Zurich joined the Stakeholder Advisory Group of the Science Investing our Group assets responsibly Based Target initiative (SBTi), a project to help financial institutions align their lending and investment portfolios Responsible investment can mean different things to with the Paris Agreement ambition in 2019. different people. Zurich has primarily chosen to pursue it in three ways: We are supporting collaborative initiatives and working together with other industry participants to advance • ESG integration: Besides examining financial responsible investment practices and will keep advocating performance, we also assess the environmental, social for public policies that support the transition of economic and governance (ESG) ‘performance’ when analyzing sectors to a climate-neutral economy – in line with science individual investments and investment managers. We and while taking into account social impacts. As a first step, consider these assessments when we decide whether we enhanced our thermal coal policy by lowering target to buy or sell assets. thresholds and introduced a new policy on oil sands and oil shale. Within the two-year time window that the policy • Impact investing: We fund institutions or projects provides, Zurich will engage with investee companies and that, besides generating a safe, adequate return, have clients in order to identify where they stand in their a targeted and measurable positive impact on the transitioning process. The target of our engagement is environment or society. to move these companies below the 30 percent coal/oil • Advancing together: Responsible investing is a story sands/oil shale threshold or get them to commit to set that is still being written. We are helping to write it, science-based targets within a reasonable timeframe and together with a broad group of stakeholders. show credible progress toward these targets. See page 15 for more details. Shaping a more resilient tomorrow Moreover, as part of driving ESG integration with regard to Our recent commitments on climate change mitigation climate risk, we developed a methodology to indicate the Supporting the Group’s ambition to be one of the most ‘transition readiness’ of a company. A simple score ranks responsible and impactful businesses in the world, Zurich companies according to their exposure to climate change is continuously reviewing and enhancing its positions and transition risk, indicating their relative position in being part processes as a responsible investor. of the climate change ‘problem’ or ‘solution.’ The data are available to all our portfolio managers through our in-house In September 2019, Zurich joined the UN Net-Zero Asset data warehouse system. In addition, we are asking our Owner Alliance as a founding member. The members of this external asset managers to fully integrate transition risks Alliance commit to transitioning their investment portfolios in their investment decisions. 17 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Leadership in impact investments Our impact investment portfolio grew from USD 3.8 billion in 2018 to USD 4.6 billion in 2019, helping to avoid “2019 was a year of bold commitments, and 2.8 million tons of CO2-equivalent emissions and, strong progress against existing ones. We increased separately, improve the lives of 4.2 million people annually, our impact investing portfolio to USD 4.6bn, as of December 2019. The portfolio includes not only green, social and sustainability bonds, but also our commitments introduced an open source methodology to to 7 private equity funds that are active in fields such measure the social and environmental impact of as financial inclusion or clean tech, as well as private our impact investments, and committed to move debt impact infrastructure investments such as wind or solar farms. towards fully climate-neutral portfolios by 2050 – in line with keeping global warming at under 1.5°.” The targets we set ourselves in 2017 were to achieve total impact investments of USD 5 billion that would result in Urban Angehrn avoiding 5 million tons of CO2-equivalent emissions while Group Chief Investment Officer improving the lives of 5 million people each year. In 2019, we published a methodology paper for our innovative impact measurement framework, to share how we developed the measurement framework for these targets and about what was learned with the market. The framework is the first of its kind to measure CO2-equivalent emissions avoided and the number of people who benefited Shaping a more resilient tomorrow from its investments and aggregate these two metrics across asset classes and investment instruments. We are aware of $ the shortcomings the framework brings, and therefore see our methodology as an important starting point. We hope $ Our annual targets others will benefit from our experience and also measure As leaders in $ their impact, and we would be interested to learn from their sustainability, to help avoid and benefit experiences and share ideas for improvements. In turn, the we aim to double our impact investments to CO2 5million 5 million investment community can help to make reporting and tons of CO2 people measurement more effective by providing readily accessible USD 5billion equivalent emissions data, reporting according to the International Financial Institution’s harmonized framework and developing a Notes: common framework for the concept of ‘people benefited.’ IMPACT MEASUREMENT AS OF YEAR-END 2019 1) Based on information reported by the issuers of impact investing instruments, ‘people benefited’ might include In April 2019, Zurich became founding signatory to the full target audience for some projects. International Finance Corporation (IFC) Operating 4.6 billion CO2 2) Scope: 80 percent green bond portfolio, 80 percent Principles for Impact Management, a framework for USD 2.8 million 4.2 million social/sustainability bond portfolio, impact private equity, investors ensuring that impact considerations are integrated tons of CO2 people benefited impact infrastructure private debt, Swiss real estate. impact investments throughout the investment lifecycle. We have been elected equivalent by positive contribution to 3) Pro-rata: only the share of Zurich financed impact taken to serve on the first board of the IFC Principles. Furthermore, $ emissions the lives and livelihoods into account. we have been re-elected to the Steering committee of the $ avoided 4) Timing: report and extrapolated data as of December Green, Social and Sustainability Bond Principles. 2019 for green and social bonds and impact infrastructure private debt; reported data December 2018 for private equity funds and Swiss real estate. 18 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 European Investment Bank – case study Green, social and 49% ofESGassets in-scope for integration* sustainability bonds *includes assets in scope for ESG integration and/or proxy voting only USD 3,645m Impact infrastructure 96% ofpeople in-scope assets managed by who received responsible investment training private debt USD 747m 100% of in-scope assets managed by people with access to ESG data, analysis and research Impact private equity USD 163m 98% of in-scope assets managed with a clear and structured process for ESG integration in place Reducing CO2 footprint CO2 for our Swiss real ©Rentel, a major North Sea offshore wind farm 97% ofadiscuss in-scope assets managed with clear and structured process to ESG issues directly with estate portfolio –16%* the companies *compared to 2010 As of December 31, Zurich held USD 160 million of European Investment Bank (EIB) green bonds the largest supranational issuer of such bonds. One of the projects that received allocations from the 94% ofin-scope externally managed assets covered by formal legal agreements proceeds raised by EIB’s green bonds is Rentel Offshore Wind, a major that require our manager North Sea wind farm. Located 42 kilometers off the coast of Ostend, to incorporate ESG Belgium, it was developed with an estimated investment of EUR 1.1 billion. With an installed capacity of 294 MW, the project is one of Participated actively in Spoke about responsible the biggest offshore wind farms in Belgium. 18 membership organizations investment at 46 conferences and other industry events Data as of 31 December 2019 Market recognition During 2019, we achieved various award nominations for One award judge said “Zurich has been a pioneer in green bond our responsible investment, demonstrating our active and investment” and that Zurich’s Group Head of Responsible leading approach in responsible investment. In March 2019, Investment, Johanna Köb “has worked hard on the GBP (Green Zurich was awarded with the first ever ’Investor of the Year’ Bond Principles) executive committee.” In November 2019, the recognition in the 2019 Environmental Finance Bond Awards. Global Steering Group for Impact Investment (GSG) awarded the The judges of Environmental Finance’s bond awards saluted ‘Impact Asset Owner Award‘ to Zurich, recognizing our work on Zurich Insurance Group’s pioneering work on green, social impact measurement and the contributions we have made and sustainability bonds. toward expanding this market. 19 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Responsible investment key performance indicators Impact of real estate investment Energy consumption1 (kWh per sqm) 2010 baseline 2019 2018 Change 2017 2016 2015 Target: -20% by 2020 (vs. baseline) External asset managers who are signatories to PRI (%)1 81.3% 74.2% 7.1 pts 71.0% 74.1% 70.4% 2010 127 Group assets managed by 2015 -4.8%* 121 PRI signatories (%)2 97.5% 97.2% 0.3 pts 97.2% 97.7% 98.1% Total amount of impact 2016 -7.8%* 117 investments (USD millions)3 4,555 3,790 20.2% 2,830 1,704 1,031 Investment portfolio 2017 -9.7%* 114 (USD millions)4 204,803 195,472 4.8% 207,261 195,852 191,238 20182 -10.7%* 113 1 The United-Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). *Total change vs baseline 2 Including assets managed by Zurich. ³ Impact investments in 2019 consisted of: green bonds (USD 3.1 billion), social and sustainability bonds (USD 539 million), investments committed to private equity funds (USD 163 million, thereof 36 percent drawn down) and impact infrastructure Impact of real estate investment private debt (USD 747 million). CO2e emissions1 (kg per sqm) 4 Investment portfolio is calculated on a market basis, and is different from the total Group investments reported in the 2010 baseline Consolidated Financial Statements, which is calculated on an accounting basis and doesn’t include cash and cash equivalents. Target: -20% by 2020 (vs. baseline) 2010 32 2015 -6.2%* 30 2016 -10.9%* 29 2017 -13.9%* 28 20182 -16.3%* 27 *Total change vs baseline 1 Scope includes Real Estate Investments in Switzerland (40% of global direct real estate investment value). Buildings in the real estate investment portfolio are largely not used by Zurich. The environmental footprint of Zurich’s own-use real estate is reported in Zurich’s environmental section. The data are based on meter readings and energy supplier information and are heating degree adjusted. 2 Impact of real estate investment data 2019 will be available in Q1 2021. 20 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our role as In 2019, Zurich: • In the UK is tackling the gender pay gap head-on with a employer new, first-of-its-kind initiative to advertise every vacancy as a potential part-time, job-share or full-time working opportunity, alongside agile working. • In Spain launched its ‘Brave’ program, with the aim of enhancing gender balance across all career levels. • Kicked off NEXT a group of ‘next generation’ (i.e. millennials and Generation Z) colleagues, aiming to give a voice to newer generations, shape Zurich’s legacy and future-proof our company globally. • Signed up to the United Nations’ Standards of Conduct for Business to tackle discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans and intersex people. Chicago Pride Parade June 30, 2019 • Signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. We are facing rapid and drastic changes in society, which • Has implemented several initiatives to improve our also affect the economic, social and work environment. female promotion rates, as we move from a ‘buy talent’ People are affected in different ways, so new, agile to ‘build talent’ strategy. approaches are required to address and manage diversity in the best way. All employees are equal and everyone is different. Diversity encompasses different points of view Overview of diversity, inclusion and work and competencies. A truly diverse organization is one that promotes interactions across all levels, and is open everyone sustainability at Zurich regardless of characteristics such as race, age, sex, gender A diverse and inclusive workplace is key to driving innovation identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, and engagement for our people, customers, suppliers, religion, disability, pregnancy and veteran status. If we can investors and our communities around the world, and ensure that everyone contributes according to their succeeding as a company to deliver on our ambitions: to strengths and potential, this will create possibilities for protect people, to inspire their confidence, to help them everyone and enable everybody to achieve more in the reach their full potential, to attract, select and retain diverse future. Understanding and actively managing diversity talent. We want everyone to feel included and empowered. represents an opportunity for every individual, and Zurich as a whole. We aim to create a workplace where our people thrive and experience an environment that is diverse and inclusive, Our Group-wide Code of Conduct states that we maintain where everyone’s voice is important to us. We embrace the an environment that is respectful of all employees and free diversity of our employees and we capitalize on the different from all forms of discrimination and harassment. experiences, skills and perspectives that they have. 21 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Diversity and inclusion actions from around the Group after it was introduced in 2019 there was a 25 percent We are acting to further embed diversity and inclusion in the increase in the number of females applying for jobs across way we do business, by focusing specifically on achieving all levels of the business. The rise is particularly prominent more rapid results, while building an open and supportive among senior management roles, which has seen an culture. Our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) framework increase of 45 percent. provides global direction while empowering local action. In 2019, Zurich Spain launched its ‘Brave’ program, with Our many global initiatives include: equal pay for equivalent the aim of enhancing gender balance across all career levels. work or similar analysis, improving access to parental leave, The program includes a review of talent management offering flexible and virtual teamwork, and work-life balance practices to ensure representation of female external and practices, celebration of Pride month across the world, internal candidates as welling as in succession planning. helping to maintain the performance and health of our In addition, training programs have been developed for all employees, thus contributing to our company’s profitability people managers on inclusion (starting with an assessment and competitive positioning. Moving from awareness to of unconscious bias and its impact on decision making), action is a key organizational priority. a career acceleration program for the top 26 female employees, and a brand new family program, which In 2019, Zurich was a global sponsor of the Dive In Festival, includes a gender-neutral enhanced parental leave offering. a worldwide movement in the insurance sector that supports Employees can now take the lead in recommending to their the development of inclusive workplace cultures. Some of managers how they want their role to be covered whilst they our leaders took part in workshops and panels, and we are taking parental leave and how they will stay in touch encouraged employees to attend local events. with Zurich during their absence. Under this new policy, all Zurich UK is tackling the gender pay gap head-on with a parents are strongly encouraged to take their entire leave. new, first-of-its-kind initiative to advertise every vacancy Since implementing these changes, Zurich Spain has seen as a potential part-time, job-share or full-time working 50:50 gender balance in all new management roles, opportunity, alongside agile working. This initiative has promotions and external hires. already generated significant change. Just three months 22 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Employee Resource Groups Awards Zurich North America‘s (ZNA’s) employee resource groups In 2019, Zurich was recognized by leading organizations for (ERGs) have grown from six to nine with approximately our ongoing efforts to foster an environment that provides 30 percent of the employee population engaged. The ERGs equal opportunities for all our employees regardless of provide spaces for employees to connect, grow, develop gender, race, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation or identity, or and engage with peers that share similar traits and other aspects of perceived differences. For example, Zurich experiences. They provide opportunities for connection Insurance Group was selected for the 2019 Bloomberg around different affinities, such as gender, race or ethnicity, Gender-Equality Index (GEI) and included on Forbes’ 2019 ability, sexual orientation, military affiliation, faith and list of America’s Best Employers for Diversity. more. A recent ERG Pulse Check Survey found that 84 percent of respondents reported ERGs help them feel more connected to Zurich (22 percent that ERGs help them feel extremely connected to Zurich). The impact of the ERGs allows Zurich to attract, develop and retain top talent that is diverse and committed. NEXT In 2019, a group of ‘next generation’ (i.e. millennials and Generation Z) colleagues at Zurich kicked off NEXT, a global movement aiming to give a voice to newer generations, shape Zurich’s legacy and future-proof our company globally. Changing world demographics alter expectations toward companies like Zurich. Not only as insurance or Furthermore, Zurich had 8 business units certified at EDGE service providers, but also as employers and corporate Assess status, with four entities certified at EDGE Move citizens in our communities. Zurich wants to ensure that status in 2019. Zurich is the first company to be certified in we are prepared to meet the changing expectations of Chile and Argentina. Zurich Spain, Brazil, Mexico and our younger generations. While NEXT is focused on creating Swiss business unit are among 25 companies to be a Zurich that addresses the expectations of millennials and recognized at EDGE Move level for demonstrating progress Generation Z, it really needs the support of all employees. in improving gender equality. As of December 2019, This a ‘movement’ where all employees, regardless of their 12 Zurich business units in 11 countries are EDGE certified age, are involved in shaping the future of Zurich. with four certified at EDGE ‘Move’ level. 23 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our commitment to work sustainability The impact of our industry’s transformation on how we work is a hot topic. At Zurich, we are taking a proactive approach to ensuring we are all ready for the future of work, in order to serve our changing customers and provide great jobs for our employees – both now and in the future. We are making work sustainability one of our top priorities by empowering our people to become fit for the future and take ownership of a life-long approach to learning. In 2019, we put in place shared commitments with our employees, LGBT+ rights are human rights. Zurich has signed up to the framework to help companies empower women in order to create a sense of security and trust in the United Nations’ Standards of Conduct for Business to tackle in the workplace, marketplace and community. workplace, as we continue to grow. These commitments discrimination against lesbian, gay, bi, trans and intersex include the following principles: to support and develop the people. In doing this, Zurich aims to contribute to a positive These commitments and certifications are a strong skills our employees need for the future; to prioritize social change in the communities where we do business. testament to Zurich’s commitment to diversity, gender development of current employees over hiring externally; equality and fostering inclusiveness in the workplace. to work to keep all possible jobs within the company; and In October 2019, Group CEO, Mario Greco, signed the UN Recruiting and retaining diverse talent is crucial in an to offer career choices that match our employees’ talents Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs), which provide a ever-competitive marketplace and is a priority for Zurich. and ambitions as much as current and future market needs. We have already made good progress in learning and development initiatives around the Group. In addition, we remain proud of our innovative work-based learning to prepare young people across our business for a career in insurance, and we are expanding apprenticeships and opportunities for work-based learning across our business. For example, in 2016 we introduced an apprenticeship program in the U.S. allowing participants to attend college courses while getting on-the-job work experience. Run in conjunction with Harper College near our North America headquarters in Schaumburg, Illinois, in 2018 the program won an innovation award. As of 2019, Zurich has hired 85 participants into their US-based program. In fact, the program has been so successful that we helped establish the Chicago Apprenticeship Network, which has now collectively sponsored over 600 apprentices in the Chicagoland area, and are now considering how to expand that sharing approach to drive a national movement for apprenticeships across the insurance sector. 24 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 The nature of work is being redefined by technology, Health, safety and well-being in our including artificial intelligence, machine learning, virtual reality and robotics. We must prepare ourselves well for the office buildings challenges and opportunities ahead, providing learning for Zurich is committed to improving employee well-being. new skills and an environment where we can thrive. Across We strive to create working conditions that promote the Group Zurich is developing and re-skilling employees to work-life balance and employee well-being. We believe ensure its people have the skills needed to take advantage employees who are healthy, happy and motivated are of new technology. For example, some of the Zurich North more productive. We support measures that allow America Human Resources team undertook training in employees to grow in four dimensions of well-being – Robotic Process Automation (RPA) to design and implement physical, social, mental and financial – all linked to our robots in a “learning while working and working while purpose as a company. Our goal is to provide individuals learning” fashion. The team was able to automate repetitive with the awareness and tools they need to take action to back-office processes, freeing up team members to work on improve their own well-being. Furthermore, we foster the more value-added tasks. development of health awareness programs across Zurich As we move from a ‘buy talent’ to ‘build talent’ strategy, to help reduce the stigma of the impact of stress and to we have implemented several initiatives to improve our foster a health-promoting work environment. female promotion rates. This includes a holistic approach In our office buildings, we ensure safe and healthy to development and career acceleration. Examples include working environments, support professional improving access to development programs, sponsoring advancement and safeguard basic rights on the job female talent and reducing unconscious bias in our for all employees. Our mission is to provide Zurich assessment and selection processes. We are making employees, customers and visitors with a modern and demonstrable progress and are tracking selection and inspiring environment that fosters creativity. Zurich promotion rates among other key performance indicators supports new ways of working and a people-centric (KPI’s) on a semiannual basis at the highest levels of the culture with purpose-built spaces for collaboration, organization. Identifying, planning and implementing innovation and customer insights. actions to accelerate the careers of women across the business is having a positive impact. For example, since 2016, female representation has improved across senior career levels in our organization. In 2019, 50 percent of promotions into our global leadership team have been female. In addition, over the last 12 months we have seen an improvement in the percentage of female talent hired and promoted across all levels of the organization. 25 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Well-being initiatives Zurich is committed to providing an energizing and motivating work environment, where employees feel they can thrive, talents can develop, people feel valued, and where a balance between work and life is achievable. In 2015, a holistic framework was developed and applied across the Group with global direction and local implementation to meet the different needs of our people. It is the foundation of all work that is done in relation to employee well-being, based on four pillars: mental, social, physical and financial well-being. that are healthy, happy and ASPIRATION Employees motivated in their work. Physical well-being Social well-being Mental well-being Financial well-being Fitness, nutrition, Relationships, networks, Stress, trauma, Debt, budgeting, hydration, teamwork, community emotional health, savings, income musculoskeletal, work engagement relaxation, sleep protection WELL-BEING PILLARS environment LINK TO OUR PURPOSE To protect you To inspire confidence To help you reach your full potential Improve service quality and More agile and responsible Better products, services LINK TO OUR STRATEGY customer experience organization and customer care 26 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Flexible working People key performance indicators We also support flexible working arrangements. Flexwork@Zurich is a way of working, which allows people 2019 2018 Change 2017 2016 2015 to work where, when and how they choose with maximum flexibility and minimum constraints. This framework Total number of 55,369 53,535 3.4% 53,146 53,894 55,732 encourages Zurich employees to seek ways to achieve employees headcount the best results, while responding to changing customer Total number of 54,030 52,267 3.4% 51,633 52,473 54,335 demands. We encourage collaboration within teams to find employees – FTE (full the best solutions to achieve results that will differ across time equivalents) Zurich. With Flexwork@Zurich, we want to increase the ability to respond to changing customer and stakeholder Employee 13.6% 14.1% (0.5 pts) 14.7% 16.5% 12.9% needs, engage teams to collaborate effectively and ensure turnover rate (%)1 maximum productivity and creativity, empower employees Average tenure (years) 9.7 9.7 n.m. 9.8 9.9 9.6 (which helps to reduce turnover), and encourage managers to support a healthy work-life balance. To enable that, Group voluntary 7.2% 7.5% (0.3 pts) 7.5% 8.2% Flexwork@Zurich has evolved into Flexwork 2.0. turnover1 Flexwork 2.0 was developed as a result of employee Technical functions 6.5% 7.0% ( 0.5 pts) 7.1% 8.7% feedback and external best practices and is deployed within voluntary turnover 1,2 Zurich in various ways. Business units within Zurich may Female workforce 51.1% 50.7% 0.4 pts 50.6% 51.1% 51.9% focus on IT investment and connectivity, or our managers’ participation (%) ability to focus more on results. Lack of senior roles available on a part-time basis is also a focus within Flexwork 2.0, as Female participation in 22.6% 22.3% 0.3 pts 21.0% 16.2% 13.7% this was identified as a major barrier to career progression. Leadership Team (%) Employee participation in 76.0% 70.0% 6.0 pts Key performance indicators Group-wide feedback As a Group, we are tracking progress on a regular basis channels (%) 3 to ensure that we are focusing on the right initiatives to Employee net promoter +26 +7 19.0 pts foster a diverse and inclusive environment (for example, score (ENPS) 4 the number of women at senior levels, the number of female hires and promotions, our gender pay gap and an Notes: The ‘active learners’ key performance indicator is not reported for 2019 due to a change in equal pay for equivalent work analysis.) We will continue reporting systems. Bolivia and the Farmers Exchanges are not in scope of any above key performance to focus on achieving external recognition for the work that indicators (KPIs). The Farmers Exchanges are owned by their policyholders. Farmers Group, Inc., a wholly we do and build on the feedback that these indexes and owned subsidiary of the Zurich Insurance Group, provides certain non-claims services and ancillary services to the Farmers Exchanges as attorney-in-fact and receives fees for its services. certifications provide. 1 Turnover figures only consider regular and inpatriate employees. 2 Technical functions include Claims, Underwriting and Risk Engineering. 3 Group-wide feedback channels include organization health surveys, employee net promoter scores (ENPS) and any other Group-wide feedback channels. This KPI refers to the average participation rate in the two occurrences of the employee net promoter score survey. 4 ENPS is calculated as the average of the two surveys carried out during the year, measuring employee loyalty through the likelihood to recommend the company as a place to work. 27 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Our role In 2019: • The Z Zurich Foundation (Foundation), a private The Alliance is comprised of nine organizations from the private, international development, humanitarian, and in society foundation funded by various members of the Zurich Insurance Group, continued to support Zurich’s business research sectors. Successful collaboration across these organizations has required consistent relationship building to harness the diverse strengths and skills of the members of units worldwide in tackling local social challenges and the Alliance. This enables us to work toward a set of common needs through the approval of new local grants and the goals that are broader and more impactful than those we renewal of existing commitments. could or would take on individually. • Zurich in Ireland and Rugby Players Ireland, with the support of the Z Zurich Foundation, launched the second phase of this national campaign to bring ‘Tackle Your “The Alliance is the biggest consortium Feelings’ to schools and businesses, giving more people the resources to be mentally fit. I’ve been a part of and the way we’re working as a real team – across so many organizations, • Zurich’s Flood Resilience Alliance (Alliance), funded by the Z Zurich Foundation, continued to support the generation geographies and institutional agendas – is of USD 1 billion in additional funding for flood resilience. unusual and a real achievement.” • The Alliance scaled up its work in climate action, to help Lucile Robinson make 2 million people more resilient to flooding. Alliance Knowledge Manager Investing in our local communities In partnership with: Enhancing community flood resilience The Zurich Flood Resilience Alliance (the Alliance) is a multi-sector, global partnership focused on finding practical ways to help communities strengthen their resilience to floods globally and save lives. Phase I of the Alliance was launched in 2013 with the goal of shifting focus from flood response and recovery to pre-event risk reduction. In the first phase of the program, we reached over 225,000 direct beneficiaries across our 13 programs in nine countries. In light of the significant successes achieved in Phase I and recognition that systemically building flood resilience necessitates longer-term funding cycles, the Z Zurich Foundation extended an additional CHF 20.3 million in funding for a second five-year phase starting in 2018. In Phase II, the Alliance has been broadened to include new members in more countries, and more ambitious goals have been set, including increasing the investment from others going into pre-event resilience by USD 1 billion and scaling up its work in climate action, to help make 2 million people more resilient to flooding. 28 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 The Alliance’s approach to building flood resilience is defined by the Flood Resilience Measurement for Communities (FRMC), a holistic framework that promotes systems thinking to understand the resilience context of a community. Alliance communities and Alliance members work together to use knowledge gained from application of the FRMC to identify critical flood resilience interventions that generate benefits across a broad range of issues and areas. This deep analysis of the community, conducted prior to considering how to intervene, is critically different from more traditional approaches, which often conduct only minimal analysis and rely on off-the-shelf solutions that do not always reflect the local context or needs. This difference in its fundamental approach makes the Alliance quite unusual. “The Alliance looks at resilience from a different perspective. Looking from just one angle can result in gains in one place, collateral damage in another. The FRMC requires looking across multiple areas and thinking where strengths can be utilized.” Madhab Uprety Practical Action, Nepal A Mexican Red Cross team visits the pristine upstream area of a river in Chiapas, Mexico, upstream of the communities with whom the Alliance is working. The pristine The Alliance has applied the considerable value of what we natural state of the river is one of the key assets the community has, but the community is becoming increasingly afraid of floods and has the perception that only ‘construction’ can ‘fight’ the river. We want to include more natural, ecosystems-based approaches to flood resilience building. learned from our initial work in Phase I to Phase II. As well as engaging with communities, we spent time in 2018 considering how we are going to achieve impact and have developed a ‘theory of change’ that outlines the changes we believe we need to see. This is tracked through a monitoring and reporting system enabling all members of the Alliance to focus on delivering our broader objectives. Resilient leaders network in Peru, Evacuation in progress during a flood drill in Nepal. Evacuation in progress during a flood drill in Nepal. 2019 © Practical Action Photo: Practical Action © Practical Action 29 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 • Zurich provided technical support to enable the Phase II’s broader objectives application of the FRMC in a CHF 1 million project • Supporting the generation of USD 1 billion in Nepal and India by the Lutheran World Relief; in additional funding for flood resilience; • In Nepal, a USAID supported Office of U.S. Foreign • Encouraging effective public policy in support Disaster Assistance (OFDA) project is using the of flood resilience; FRMC for baseline data collection and plan to use the results to guide them in designing early warning • Developing sound practices and policy support system-related interventions; for flood resilience; • During this year, the Alliance has made progress towards • Measurably enhance flood resilience in vulnerable its key target, to influence USD 1 billion in additional communities across the world. funding from third parties. The Alliance has influenced around CHF 13.3 million so far including: Progress in the first year of Phase II of the Alliance – support from the Peruvian National Disaster Fund for Inhabitant in Las Nieves community explains the river flooding to Red Cross • Integrating Alliance messaging into high-profile rainfall and weather monitoring using approaches and Zurich Mexico members of the Alliance in Tabasco, Mexico globaland national-level government policy created by the Alliance; recommendations. For example, the Alliance policy – the replication of the PERC methodology in the messaging was integrated into the Swiss government’s U.S. to study wildfire resilience working with a official statement for the 2019 Global Platform for Zurich customer; Disaster Risk Reduction, and the benefits of resilience concept has been adopted by the Global Commission – funding for Alliance work on feasibility studies for on Adaptation in its call for action on adaptation and environmental impact bond replication by the resilience investment; InsuResilience Global Partnership’s Secretariat; • Zurich is increasingly recognized as an expert in climate – match funding from the German Society for change and resilience, and has been active in International Cooperation (GIZ) to support Alliance government-led consultations on the EU Floods Directive efforts in Montenegro. fitness check, and UK and Scotland’s consultations on climate and flood resilience in the UK, where it advises the Awards the Alliance have won government and the UK Environment Agency on climate • The Outstanding Achievement Award from the 2019 and flood resilience; National Hurricane Conference in the U.S. Zurich, as part of the Alliance, earned this honor for its work in • Successfully influencing national level flood resilience developing and implementing its Post Event Review Mock drill in Chosica, Peru © Practical Action policy and spending by leveraging successes from Phase I; Capability (PERC) approach, an open-source methodology • Influencing external replication and scaling of designed to evaluate how natural hazard events turn the FRMC and Phase I best practices, including new into community disasters, and provide practical community-engagement in the UK and Germany recommendations to promote community resilience; to implement the FRMC in collaboration with • The Business Insurance Innovation Award for the local authorities; Alliance’s PERC reports and methodology, designed to • In Nepal, the Alliance is working with sub-national learn from wildfires, floods and other severe through national governments to institutionalize the flood weather-related disasters; early warning system piloted by Practical Action Nepal in • The Mexican Red Cross received the Mexican the Karnali Basin in Phase I; President’s 2019 Civil Protection Prize (Premio Nacional de Protección Civil 2019) for the Flood Resilience program’s work in Tabasco. 30 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 The Water Window Challenge Over the course of 2016-2019, the Z Zurich Foundation invested USD 10 million in the Global Resilience Partnership’s (GRP) Water Window challenge, which provides grants for innovative solutions to flood-related issues. The Foundation aims to accelerate the impact that the Zurich Flood Resilience Program can achieve. In 2015, Zurich and the Foundation entered discussions with GRP on the idea of a flood-focused resilience challenge, which led to the Water Window challenge, funded by the Foundation. It has had two aims – to support innovative and experimental ideas, and help to expand tested ideas to new areas or new dimensions. A call for projects in May 2016 attracted 290 applications. Through a rigorous selection process, 11 consortia were chosen to implement 12 projects in South and Southeast Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa. Five of the projects received around USD 1 million each to scale up existing ideas, while the other seven projects received up to USD 250,000 to test new ideas. Work started in early 2017 and ran to mid-2019. Project support to beneficiaries included strengthening early warning systems and disaster risk reduction strategies; developing innovations in flood-resilient housing; installing new culverts (structures that direct water under roads) to relieve drainage issues; tackling crop resilience in flood-prone Bangladesh; training on ecosystems’ adaption, flood resilience and disaster risk reduction; and coastal and mangrove protection. Read more in the summary report on https://www.zurich.com/en/sustainability/ our-role-in-society/flood-resilience 31 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Redefining the Z Zurich Foundation strategy The Foundation is the main vehicle by which the Group delivers on its global community investment strategy. It plays a pivotal role in Z Zurich Foundation’s strategy supporting a fairer, more open and sustainable society. In 2019, the Foundation embarked on a journey to redefine its strategy and make it more relevant to today’s challenges and Zurich’s employees. The Z Zurich Foundation’s new mission is to empower vulnerable people within its communities to better protect themselves from risk, and to adapt and thrive in a rapidly changing world. The Foundation now focuses its efforts on two powerful and relevant topics. It has identified its biggest opportunities: consolidating its existing health and youth “Our Foundation focuses on tackling some empowerment initiatives into a more holistic of societies’ most pressing issues, to create well-being and inclusion platform; and a fairer, more sustainable world, increasing expanding its focus on flood resilience to include other climate-related hazards. In independence, choice and opportunities for addition, the Foundation’s local grant program the vulnerable and excluded in society. Our initiative provides practical support and funding aims include supporting those not protected to help Zurich business units initiate long-term, strategic relationships with local community by traditional insurance products, giving more organizations. The Foundation will also people the protection they need.” continue to develop Zurich employee engagement initiatives. Through the different Gary Shaughnessy components of its work, the Foundation aims Chair of the Board of Trustees to transform the lives of more than 1 million of the Z Zurich Foundation vulnerable people and have a positive impact on the lives of 10 million others by 2024. 32 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 2019 One Young World Summit Photo credit: Aprilya Lestari Photo credit: Zurich In October 2019, NEXT participated in the 2019 Working with NEXT, these 12 individuals will collaborate One Young World Summit in London. NEXT is a with Zurich to find ways to encourage more of our global Zurich employee group representing the next employees to contribute to a more sustainable future. generations (born after 1981) that aims to shape Zurich’s legacy and future-proof our organization Z Zurich Foundation makes a difference with by giving a voice to newer generations across our Zurich employees business. Action needs to be taken to address In February 2019, the Foundation piloted a school-building changing expectations not only in the workforce initiative in collaboration with buildOn, a global non-profit but also from customers and society as a whole. organization that has partnered with villages for nearly This annual event connects over 2,000 young 30 years to build more than 1,600 primary schools in leaders who are working to create a better world Nicaragua, Guatemala, Haiti, Malawi, Nepal, Mali, Burkina and accelerate social impact. Delegates from more Faso and Senegal. than 190 countries, from social entrepreneurs, Thirty-five Zurich employees from 25 different countries corporations to influential political, business and and more than 20 different business units met in Nepal. humanitarian leaders met to discuss how we can Over five days, the Zurich employees worked together work together to solve today’s major challenges. with communities from two underprivileged villages in the The Z Zurich Foundation offered scholarships to Terai region: Khajuwa and Pabitra Basti and stayed with 12 inspiring young leaders to attend the 2019 host families who volunteered to welcome strangers into Photo credit: buildOn summit. These scholars do not work for Zurich, their homes, giving employees a chance to experience a but they are leading impressive efforts in their different culture. Participants gained more appreciation communities to make an impact around the topics about the value of volunteering and collaborating to of climate resilience, and well-being & inclusion – create a fairer, more equal society. Many described the closely in line with the Foundation’s focus areas. experience as life-changing, and also valued the bonds formed with colleagues from all over the world. 33 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Z Zurich Foundation creates a long-lasting impact with local business units worldwide In 2019, the Z Zurich Foundation continued to support Zurich’s business units worldwide in tackling local social challenges and needs through the approval of new local grants and the renewal of existing commitments. Focusing on better outcomes for Bermuda’s young people After a three-year grant from the Foundation to support people living with Alzheimer’s and dementia, the Zurich branch in Bermuda* secured funding from the Z Zurich Foundation for a new grant to support a different part of the population: young people. Through a new three-year grant of USD 300,000, the Z Zurich Foundation will support the Family Centre’s Beyond Rugby program. Despite the perceived wealth in Bermuda, it remains a divided island, with many students in the education system coming from disadvantaged backgrounds; in many cases Photo credit: Beyond Empathy consistent support for their educational and mental well-being is not always available. With this grant, Zurich in Krakow, CPK and the Z Zurich is firmly supported in its culture with employees committed The Beyond Rugby program supports and inspires young Foundation will take a stand for women in need in Krakow, to the Raise in-school mentoring program, and an art people to reach their full potential on and off the rugby and seed-fund a sustainable first-of-its-kind service to program to support young people’s well-being and field. It combines the coaching expertise of the Bermuda empower women (and their children) who are victims of empowerment with Beyond Empathy. Rugby Football Union (BRFU) with the therapeutic and domestic violence by providing counselling, mental health services, and legal, life and career advice. During the Raise set an ambitious target – having their program counseling skills of the Family Centre staff to attract some available in every public high school in the country by 2025. of the highest-risk young people to the program. Through five-year grant period, the shelter and CPK will build their operations to help up to 500 women per year, based on The renewed collaboration between the Foundation and the grant, employees from the local Zurich* branch will be Raise will allow Raise to support an additional 920 young involved in the development and expansion of the program, successful models in other cities, and create the basis to become self-funding in the future. people from 62 schools across seven Australian states. The volunteering with the Beyond Rugby homework academy Foundation’s investment covers the costs of running the and delivering some life-skills sessions. Renewing our commitment to support mental program, as well as training for mentors who will support *Zurich Insurance Company Ltd, Bermuda Branch with Zurich Investment well-being and empowerment in Australia approximately 180 students each year. Services Limited Over the next five years, the Z Zurich Foundation will continue to support two Australian charities, RAISE Beyond Empathy’s new project will focus on grief and loss, Fighting violence against women in Poland using audio, storytelling, multimedia and live performance Foundation (Raise) and Beyond Empathy, through the In 2019, the Z Zurich Foundation committed a five-year to tell stories about death and dying; two important themes renewal of the well-being and empowerment programs grant of more than CHF 1.2 million to support Zurich in for young people from marginalized communities. The started in 2017 in collaboration with Zurich Australia. Krakow to tackle the issue of violence against women in project aims to engage around 150 young people and their collaboration with the Center for Women’s Rights (CPK). Mental health remains a pressing concern. The World families, delivering around 200 workshops across the two Health Organization predicts that depression will be the years. In addition, the Foundation’s investment will also help According to the European Union Agency for Fundamental leading cause of disability globally by 2030. In Australia, Beyond Empathy to build its capacities to grow and Rights, a significant number of Polish women and girls suicide is the leading cause of death for Australians aged approach potential new funders. have experienced physical or sexual abuse from the age 15-44. The topic of mental well-being is at the core of of 15 onwards. The exact numbers are unknown as victims Zurich Australia’s community investment program and do not always ask for help. 34 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 ‘Tackle Your Feelings’ – launch of second Community investment key performance indicators phase in Ireland ‘Tackle Your Feelings’ is Z Zurich Foundation’s flagship 2019 2018 Change mental well-being program, which currently operates in Fundraising and donations collaboration with Zurich’s local offices in Ireland and 2.3 2.3 n.m. (USD millions) Australia. These programs involve Irish rugby players and Australian football players, and coaches who serve as role of which from Zurich models to break down the social stigma and give support 1.4 1.4 n.m. employees (USD millions) to individuals to look after their mental well-being. of which matching by Zurich At the end of September 2019, Zurich in Ireland and 0.9 0.9 n.m. business units (USD millions) 1 Rugby Players Ireland, with the support of the Z Zurich Foundation, launched the second phase of this national Total time volunteered by campaign to bring ‘Tackle Your Feelings’ to schools and 142,200 121,290 17.2% workforce (business hours) businesses, giving more people the resources to be mentally fit. of which skills-based hours 31,807 29,619 7.4% Workforce actively volunteering 20.3% n/a n/a (% of total headcount) 2 Total full year charitable cash contributions by Zurich business 11.9 10.1 17.8% Photo credit: Dan Sheridan, Inpho Photography units (USD millions) 1, 3 Total full year charitable cash contributions by Zurich 40.3 n/a to Z Zurich Foundation (USD millions) 4 Notes: Zurich Insurance Group and its employees are contributing through fundraising, volunteering and cash contributions apart from the community investment activities carried out by the Z Zurich Foundation. 1  Excluded are corporate donations made by the Farmers Exchanges. Zurich Insurance Group has no ownership interest in the Farmers Exchanges. Farmers Group, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, provides certain non-claims services and ancillary services to the Farmers Exchanges as attorney-in-fact and receives fees for its services. 2  In 2019, we reinstated our KPI for measuring the number of unique Zurich employees who participated in one or more volunteering events throughout the year. 3  This includes the matching by Zurich business units amount in the fundraising and donations. 4  Previously, charitable contributions of the Z Zurich Foundation were valued on a cash-out basis for the purposes of the key performance indicators. Starting from 2019, contributions cover the total charitable donations made by various legal entities of the Zurich Insurance Group to the Z Zurich Foundation on a cash-out basis. The previously reported 2018 figures have been restated based on that new approach. 35 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Sustainable operations In 2019, Zurich: • Announced that it will use only renewable energy as In June 2019, Zurich announced that it will use only renewable energy as power by 2022, and as such formally power by 2022, and as such formally joined the RE100. joined the RE100, a global leadership initiative bringing together influential businesses committed to 100 percent • Announced it would seek to eliminate single-use plastics renewable electricity. from our operations. Reducing single-use plastics • Set an ambitious target to reduce internal paper usage In 2019, Zurich announced it would seek to eliminate by 80 percent. single-use plastics from our operations. We are making a global effort across our businesses to stop using unnecessary • Launched the Green Week program for employees and polluting plastics, such as straws, cups, lids, stirrers, to learn more about the impacts they have on the PET bottles and takeaway products. As part of this goal, environment and encouraging them to adopt a more Zurich is eliminating all waste bins under desks, and sustainable lifestyle both at home and in the office. therefore will no longer use millions of waste bin liners every year. By the end of 2019, 16 countries confirmed that they have eliminated single-use plastics from their operations, Minimizing our environmental footprint and plans are in place for the remaining countries to achieve Sustainable leadership begins at home. Zurich wants to the same. demonstrate responsible and innovative practices in our own operations in a transparent and accountable way. In 2018, Zurich met the target to reduce CO2-equivalent (CO2e) emissions by 20 percent compared with a 2015 baseline. Our achievements were led by a focus on providing sustainable offices and taking a responsible approach to business travel. Zurich plans to announce new emissions reduction targets in 2020, in line with our commitment to the Business Ambition for 1.5°C Pledge aimed at limiting average global temperature increases to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. 20 percent reduction in emissions per employee achieved in 2018 compared to 2015 baseline 3.00 Reusable bag and coffee cup distributed to Zurich employees in our 2.43 Nordic countries 2.08 2.06 1.94 2.00 Reducing paper usage Zurich also set an ambitious target to reduce internal paper 1.00 usage by 80 percent. We are working with employees to move to less paper-intensive processes and behaviors and 0.00 toward digital solutions. 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total emissions metric tons CO2e per employee 36 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Sustainable Information Technology Green Week Green Week at the Group’s headquarters in Zurich, In addition to using less paper, Zurich is learning new In 2019, Zurich launched the Green Week program. coincided with Climate Week held in New York City, which ways to use technology to support other goals including Designed to be fun, educational and engaging for our brought together leaders from across the world, from both reducing travel, being more energy efficient, and employees, it also lets them learn more about the impacts the public and private sectors, with the objective to address minimizing electronic waste. This means keeping devices they have on the environment, encouraging them to adopt the most challenging climate problems facing society today. for as long as possible before recycling, minimizing the a more sustainable lifestyle both at home and in the office. Zurich’s Group CEO Mario Greco attended Climate Week. number of devices used and recycling responsibly. Events were hosted in Mexico, Bermuda and at our headquarters in Zurich and included activities such as a forest restoration event held in Nevado de Toluca, in the State of Mexico, educational sessions on climate change and fundraising events for tree planting. During Climate Week, employees at the headquarters in Zurich were greeted with a surprise forest to get in the spirit Employee engagement of Green Week. Employee engagement remains an integral part of our approach to sustainable operations. Raising awareness 2,325 around environmental sustainability and encouraging employees to be involved is critical to providing a real and lasting impact across our company and society as a whole. Trees planted as a result of employee participation in #ClimateWeek2019 activities. That is 4.5 football pitches packed with trees! 37 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Plastic free July Responsible sourcing and procurement Zurich’s office in Australia hosted a Plastic Free July CO2 emissions per employee (tons per FTE) campaign, offering many activities and events for Zurich is committed to the highest possible standards of employees. They provided lunch and learn sessions with social, environmental and ethical responsibility in all the Environmental 2018 2017 2016 Change vs 2015 3 Target various guest speakers, encouraging employees to think services we provide to both our customers and internal key performance baseline baseline about their current environmental behaviors and introduced stakeholders. We recognize that our purchasing decisions indicators ideas on how to make small changes with big impacts. have an impact on society and the environment. With that Aligned with “Stress less day” – a mental health and CO2 emissions 1.94 2.06 2.08 (20%) 2.43 -20% in mind, we are committed to ensuring that we deal with well-being initiative employees were offered an ECO per employee by 2025 suppliers who also recognize their responsibilities to the Master Class and launched an herb garden at their head (tons per FTE) (vs baseline) people they employ, the communities they affect and their office in Sydney. of which CO2 0.95 1.09 1.08 (20%) 1.18 impact on the local and global environment. We aim emissions related through our procurement practices to drive positive social, Reducing food wastage environmental and ethical outcomes. Food is a major source of global emissions, and we have to facilities focused on reducing food waste. Zurich’s hotel and training (tons per FTE) 1 Zurich remains committed to foster spending through social center in Switzerland has been tackling food waste by of which CO2 0.99 0.97 1.00 (21%) 1.24 enterprises and organizations that commit to donating a improving meal planning and assessing the volume of food emissions related portion of profits to achieve social impact. In 2019, Zurich prepared. It is also measuring, weighing and keeping track to travel worked with Ninety Consulting in the UK to set up an of the amount food wasted. Meals that are not consumed (tons per FTE) 2 award-winning innovation project. The money Zurich spent immediately are sold at a discount in the neighboring with this supplier on this project entirely funded the setup 1 Includes emissions from own-use real estate (electricity and heat) community. Any leftovers not fit for consumption are of a new clinic in Nairobi delivering medical care to those in 2 Includes emissions from air travel, rail and cars (rental cars and car fleet) composted and converted into biogas for energy. 3 2019 data will be available in Q2 2020 need. Our spending in the UK with our stationery supplier, Wildhearts Group, has helped transform over 1,000 lives Read more about Zurich’s environmental key performance indicators at around the world through programs addressing gender https://www.zurich.com/sustainability/our-role-in-society/ inequality and social mobility. Examples include business climate-change/environmental-key-performance-indicators micro loans to women in developing countries and the provision of free training and education for disadvantaged school children and marginalized groups in the UK and abroad. Zurich has also started to work with a new employee gift supplier in the UK, Tordoffs, which supports numerous social organizations within the UK and around the world. In addition, the packaging it uses is fully recyclable, such as ribbons made from recycled plastic bottles which can also be recycled afterwards. During 2019, Zurich launched its global sustainable sourcing framework based on three core pillars that incorporate social, environmental and ethical values. This framework is being rolled out via a new engagement platform to spread awareness, drive best practice and to share successes. Through 2020, we will work to further embed sustainable sourcing around the Group and within country practices, focusing on social, environmental and ethical risks and opportunities throughout the procurement cycle. Our ambition across the Group is to make a positive impact on society whilst doing business. 38 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 UN Global Statement of continuing support the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The principles of the is expressed in this report. We are committed to embracing, supporting and enacting these Zurich became a signatory of the UN Global Compact Compact in July 2011, because we believe that Global Compact complement our purpose, principles within our sphere of influence, and being a responsible company is fundamental to values and Code of Conduct, and all Zurich we will regularly communicate our progress. our long-term sustainability. As a signatory, we employees are expected to live up to them. Mario Greco are committed to aligning our strategy, culture Our continued commitment to the Global Group Chief Executive Officer, and day-to-day operations with the Global Compact’s principles on human and labor Zurich Insurance Group Compact’s 10 universally-accepted principles in rights, the environment and anti-corruption Links to relevant information on our website Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Principle 7: Businesses should support a Principle 10: Businesses should work against respect the protection of internationally freedom of association and the effective precautionary approach to environmental corruption in all its forms, including extortion proclaimed human rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; challenges; and bribery. Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Principle 9: encourage the development labour; and and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment Our commitment Respecting human rights Diversity, inclusion and well-being Group environmental policy Anti-bribery and anti-corruption ESG integration into insurance Employee development Environmental performance ESG integration into insurance Z  Zurich Foundation Board composition Assurance statement Respecting human rights Annual Report 2018 (Annual Report 2019) Flood resilience program G  lobal Risks Report 2020 Employees speaking up and reporting concerns Climate change: Zurich’s position S  ustainable products and solutions Health and safety management C  arbon neutral E  mployees speaking up and Suppliers Responsible investment reporting concerns Environmental risks S  uppliers Sustainable products and services H  ealth and safety management ESG integration into insurance 39 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable Insurance The United Nations Environment Programme At Zurich, we are proud of the steps we on those efforts by being part of the Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) Principles for have taken to incorporate environmental, broader dialogue on the role insurance Sustainable Insurance (PSI) serve as a global social and governance (ESG) considerations plays in shaping a more resilient tomorrow. framework for the insurance industry to into our core activities of investment and address environmental, social and governance underwriting. Signing the UNEP FI Principles Mario Greco risks and opportunities. Zurich became a for Sustainable Insurance allows us to build Group Chief Executive Officer signatory in 2017. Zurich Insurance Group Links to relevant information on our website Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 Principle 4 We will embed ESG issues relevant to our We will work together with our clients and We will work together with governments, We will demonstrate accountability and insurance business into our decision-making. business partners to raise awareness of ESG regulators and other key stakeholders to transparency in regularly disclosing publicly issues, manage risk and develop solutions. promote widespread action across society our progress in implementing the Principles. on ESG issues. O ur governance and approach Working with customers – P olicy engagement Sustainability highlights annual ESG integration in insurance report includes the UN Global O ur strategic priorities C DP submission 2019 section 12.3 Compact communication on Respecting human rights progress G overnance, Nominations T he Zurich Flood Resilience & Sustainability Committee Our responsibility as an investor: Alliance Annual Report doing well and doing good Our Code guides everything we do F inding new ways of improving RI Transparency report Responsible sourcing and flood resilience W  orking with customers – procurement Z Zurich Foundation annual report ESG integration in insurance C ollaborating to advance The Zurich Flood Resilience responsible investment Industry knowledge R  especting human rights Alliance T he Z Zurich Foundation’s Local External monitoring and indices E  SG in insurance – solutions Supporting initiatives to improve Programs initiative with sustainable impact road safety Zurich.com/sustainability T he World Economic Forum S  erving our customers our Industry knowledge claims philosophy L earning and insurance O  ur responsibility as an investor: doing well and doing good 40 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Independent Assurance Report on Zurich’s Sustainability reporting 2019 To the Executive Committee of Criteria Our responsibility Our independence and quality controls Zurich Insurance Group AG, Zurich The reporting criteria used by ZIG are described Our responsibility is to form an independent We have complied with the independence and in the internal reporting guidelines and define conclusion based on our limited assurance other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics We have been engaged to perform assurance those procedures, by which the sustainability procedures on whether anything has come to for Professional Accountants issued by the procedures to provide limited assurance on the indicators are internally gathered, collated our attention to indicate that the sustainability International Ethics Standards Board for sustainability reporting of Zurich Insurance and aggregated. indicators are not stated, in all material respects, Accountants, which is founded on fundamental Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with the reporting criteria. principles of integrity, objectivity, professional (‘ZIG‘) for the year ended December 31, 2019. Inherent limitations competence and due care, confidentiality and The accuracy and completeness of sustainability We planned and performed our procedures in professional behaviour. Scope and subject matter indicators are subject to inherent limitations accordance with the International Standard on Our limited assurance engagement focused given their nature and methods for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised) Our firm applies International Standard on on selected sustainability indicators published determining, calculating and estimating such ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains in the Sustainability Highlights 2019 Report data. Our assurance report should therefore reviews of historical financial information’ and a comprehensive system of quality control of ZIG: be read in connection with ZIG’s internal with ISAE 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on including documented policies and procedures a) The 2019 “Responsible investment” KPIs guidelines, definitions and procedures on Greenhouse Gas Statements’. These standards regarding compliance with ethical on pages 17, 18 and 19, the 2018 “Impact sustainability reporting. Further, the greenhouse require that we plan and perform the assurance requirements, professional standards and of real estate investment” KPIs on page 19, gas quantification is subject to inherent engagement to obtain limited assurance the applicable legal and regulatory requirements. the 2019 “People” KPIs on page 26, the uncertainty because of incomplete scientific identified sustainability indicators. 2019 “Community investment” KPIs on knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of A limited assurance engagement is substantially page 34 and the 2018 “CO2 emissions less in scope than a reasonable assurance per employee” KPIs on page 37 (“the different gases. engagement in relation to both the risk sustainability indicators”); and ZIG’s responsibility assessment procedures, including an b) The management and reporting processes The Executive Committee of ZIG is responsible understanding of internal control, and the with respect to the selected sustainability for both the subject matter and the criteria as procedures performed in response to the indicators as well as the control environment well as for selection, preparation and assessed risks. Consequently, the nature, timing in relation to the data aggregation of these presentation of the information in accordance and extent of procedures for gathering sustainability indicators. with the criteria. This responsibility includes the sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately design, implementation and maintenance of limited relative to a reason-able assurance related internal control relevant to this reporting engagement and therefore less assurance is process that is free from material misstatement, obtained with a limited assurance engagement whether due to fraud or error. than for a reasonable assurance engagement. 41 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Summary of the work performed Limited assurance conclusion Our limited assurance procedures included, Based on the procedures we performed, but were not limited to the following work: nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that • Reviewing the application of ZIG’s internal guidelines using a sample of affiliates in a) The sustainability indicators of ZIG as Switzerland, UK, USA, Germany, Spain, described in the scope and subject matter Ireland, Isle of Man and Hong Kong. section are not prepared and disclosed in all material respects in accordance with ZIG’s • Interviewing ZIG representatives at Group internal guidelines and procedures; and level responsible for the data collection and reporting. b) The management and reporting processes to collect and aggregate the sustainability • Performing tests on a sample basis of indicators as well as the control environment evidence supporting the sustainability in relation to the data aggregation are not indicators as outlined in the scope and functioning as designed. subject matter section concerning completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG • Inspecting the relevant documentation on a sample basis. • Reviewing and assessing the management reporting processes for sustainability Peter Eberli Raphael Rutishauser reporting and consolidation and their related controls. We have not carried out any work on data Zurich, February 20, 2020 other than outlined in the scope and subject matter section as defined above. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. 42 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 GRI Index Key: AR: Annual Report 2019 SR: Sustainability highlights 2019* GRI is an international independent organization that helps businesses, governments and other organizations understand and communicate the impact of business on critical sustainability issues such as climate change, CDP: CDP submission 2019 : Link to www.zurich.com human rights, corruption and many others. We have used references to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as an index below to help our stakeholders find the information relevant to them without adhering to the *The Sustainability highlights 2019 report includes the United Nations Global Compact communication on progress and our progress in implementing the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative standards listed in the index in its entirety. Principles for Sustainable Insurance. This index lists the organization’s reports and web pages and their reference to the following GRI Standards. Number Disclosure name Reference and page number Number Disclosure name Reference and page number General Disclosures 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics SR 7 to 8 102-1 Name of the organization AR inside front cover (ifc) 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services its committees AR 46 to 63 AR ifc, 11 to 15 and 18 to 21; 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body SR 12 to 15 AR 2 to 3, 38 to 39 and 48; SR 10 102-3 Location of headquarters AR ifc 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body AR 48 102-4 Location of operations 102-25 Conflicts of interest AR 54 and 74 to 78 AR 10 to 15, 270 and 283 to 287 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, AR 62 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 188 and 299 values, and strategy 102-6 Markets served 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body AR 62 102-7 Scale of the organization AR ifc 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance AR 56 to 58 102-8 Information on employees and other workers AR 16 to 17, 22 to 23 and 30 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, 102-9 Supply chain and social impacts SR 37; CDP AR 57 to 58 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and AR 5 to 7, 10 to 17, 175 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes AR 155 its supply chain and 205 to 207 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach AR inside back cover AR 38 to 39 102-12 External initiatives  102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability AR 20 to 28; reporting SR 11 and 38 to 39 AR 57; CDP 102-13 Membership of associations 102-33 Communicating critical concerns CDP AR 69; CDP 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 97 to 100 AR 2 to 7, 38 to 39, 90 to 91, 126 to 127, 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR 100 to 106 164 to 165 and 176 to 177; SR 5 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR 104 and 106 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  102-40 List of stakeholder groups AR 10 to 17 and 126 to 127; CDP; SR 7 to 9 and 14 to 15 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior AR 4 to 8; SR 10 AR 18; SR 7; CDP 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders AR 78 SR 7 102-18 Governance structure  102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement AR 41 to 43; SR 10; CDP AR 18 to 19; SR 7 102-19 Delegating authority 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 10; CDP SR 7 to 8 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial AR 283 to 287 environmental, and social topics statements AR 58; SR 10 43 Zurich Insurance Group Sustainability highlights 2019 Number Disclosure name Reference and page number Number Disclosure name Reference and page number General Disclosures (continued) Emissions 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries AR 188 to 193 and 299 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 102-47 List of material topics AR 1 and 31; SR 37; CDP SR 7 to 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions CDP 102-49 Changes in reporting AR 190 to 193 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 102-50 Reporting period AR 188 to 189 and 299 CDP 102-51 Date of most recent report 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CDP SR 1; CDP 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 102-52 Reporting cycle AR 179; SR 4; CDP SR 35; CDP 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report AR 313 Supplier Environmental Assessment 102-55 GRI content index 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using CDP AR 32 to 33; SR 42 to 43 environmental criteria 102-56 External assurance AR 34 to 35, 75 to 76, 122, 290 to 295 Employment and 306 to 309; SR 40 to 41 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Management Approach AR 30; SR 26 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary SR 7 to 9 Occupational Health and Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system AR 62 to 63; SR 7 to 9 SR 24 403-6 Promotion of worker health Economic Performance SR 24 to 25 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 179 to 187 Training and Education 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities AR 157 to 160; CDP due to climate change 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement AR 242 to 249 Diversity and Equal Opportunity plans 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 201-4 Financial assistance received from government AR 234 AR 30 and 49 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Public Policy SR 17 to 18 and 27 to 30; CDP 415-1 Political contributions 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts SR 14, 28 to 30 and 32 to 34; CDP Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Energy Key: AR: Annual Report 2019 SR: Sustainability highlights 2019* 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization : Link to www.zurich.com CDP: CDP submission 2019 CDP 302-3 Energy intensity CDP *The Sustainability highlights 2019 report includes the United Nations Global Compact communication 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption on progress and our progress in implementing the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative SR 35 to 37; CDP Principles for Sustainable Insurance. Disclaimer and cautionary statement Certain statements in this document are global economic downturn; (iii) performance attorneys-in-fact for the Farmers Exchanges THIS COMMUNICATION DOES NOT CONTAIN forward-looking statements, including, but of financial markets; (iv) levels of interest rates and in that capacity provide certain non-claims AN OFFER OF SECURITIES FOR SALE IN THE not limited to, statements that are predictions and currency exchange rates; (v) frequency, services and ancillary services to the Farmers UNITED STATES; SECURITIES MAY NOT BE of or indicate future events, trends, plans or severity and development of insured claims Exchanges. Neither Farmers Group, Inc., nor its OFFERED OR SOLD IN THE UNITED STATES objectives of Zurich Insurance Group Ltd events; (vi) mortality and morbidity experience; parent companies, Zurich Insurance Company ABSENT REGISTRATION OR EXEMPTION FROM or the Zurich Insurance Group (the Group). (vii) policy renewal and lapse rates; and (viii) Ltd and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd, have any REGISTRATION, AND ANY PUBLIC OFFERING Forward-looking statements include changes in laws and regulations and in the ownership interest in the Farmers Exchanges. OF SECURITIES TO BE MADE IN THE UNITED statements regarding the Group’s targeted policies of regulators may have a direct Financial information about the Farmers STATES WILL BE MADE BY MEANS OF A profit, return on equity targets, expenses, bearing on the results of operations of Zurich Exchanges is proprietary to the Farmers PROSPECTUS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM pricing conditions, dividend policy and Insurance Group Ltd and its Group and on Exchanges, but is provided to support an THE ISSUER AND THAT WILL CONTAIN underwriting and claims results, as well whether the targets will be achieved. Zurich understanding of the performance of Farmers DETAILED INFORMATION ABOUT THE as statements regarding the Group’s Insurance Group Ltd undertakes no obligation Group, Inc. and Farmers Reinsurance Company. COMPANY AND MANAGEMENT, AS WELL understanding of general economic, financial to publicly update or revise any of these AS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. and insurance market conditions and expected forward-looking statements, whether to It should be noted that past performance is not developments. Undue reliance should not be reflect new information, future events or a guide to future performance. Please also note placed on such statements because, by their circumstances or otherwise. that interim results are not necessarily indicative nature, they are subject to known and of full year results. unknown risks and uncertainties and can be All references to ‘Farmers Exchanges’ mean Farmers Insurance Exchange, Fire Insurance Persons requiring advice should consult an affected by other factors that could cause independent advisor. actual results and plans and objectives of Exchange, Truck Insurance Exchange and their Zurich Insurance Group Ltd or the Group subsidiaries and affiliates. The three Exchanges This communication does not constitute an to differ materially from those expressed or are California domiciled interinsurance offer or an invitation for the sale or purchase implied in the forward-looking statements (or exchanges owned by their policyholders with of securities in any jurisdiction. from past results). Factors such as (i) general governance oversight by their Boards of economic conditions and competitive factors, Governors. Farmers Group, Inc. and its particularly in key markets; (ii) the risk of a subsidiaries are appointed as the Zurich Insurance Group Ltd Mythenquai 2 8002 Zurich, Switzerland Phone: +41 (0) 44 625 25 25 www.zurich.com 173006403 (03/20) TCL
